-- 
Clegg to Do More for Growth as U.K. Policy Makers Mull Stimulus

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-21T14:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/clegg-to-do-more-for-growth-as-u-k-policy-makers-mull-stimulus.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
said the U.K. government can and will “do more” to create
growth as Cabinet members and Bank of  England  policy makers
discussed options to stimulate the economy.  Bank of England officials said this month an expansion of
their 200 billion-pound ($314 billion) bond-purchase program is
“increasingly probable,” minutes showed today. At the annual
conference of Clegg’s Liberal Democrat party in Birmingham,
central England, Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  said the
government should speed up  capital spending  and Business
Secretary Vince Cable repeated a call for the central bank to
expand quantitative easing beyond purchases of government debt.  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered U.K. growth
forecasts yesterday and said the government may need to consider
delaying some of its measures to narrow the  budget deficit .
Britain is facing the fifth-largest fiscal squeeze among
advanced economies to 2015, according to IMF data analysed by
the London-based Institute for Fiscal Studies. Only  Greece ,
Ireland,  Portugal  and Iceland are on course to see deeper cuts.  “It is clearer now than ever that deficit reduction was
essential to protect the economy, to protect homes and jobs,”
Clegg said in his closing speech to the Liberal Democrat
conference. “But the outlook for the global economy has got
worse. So we need to do more, we can do more, and we will do
more for growth and for jobs.”  ‘Foot on the Accelerator’  Clegg said Sept. 14 the government was going to “unblock”
40 infrastructure projects in an effort to spur growth. He said
the coalition wanted to “put its foot on the accelerator.”  The Treasury denied a BBC television report yesterday
evening that ministers were  discussing increasing spending on
projects  such as roads, rail and broadband by as much as 5
billion pounds ($8 billion). Government figures today showed the
deficit between April and July was 4.6 billion pounds less than
previously estimated, giving Osborne room for maneuver should he
wish to add stimulus.  While comments yesterday from Huhne that “we’ve got to be
creative and imaginative about bringing forward more spending”
gave substance to the BBC story, other Liberal Democrats in the
Cabinet dismissed it.  “I don’t know where that figure of 5 billion came from,
we’re not discussing changes of that kind,” Cable told Sky News
television. The chief secretary to the Treasury,  Danny Alexander , said he didn’t “recognize the numbers involved or
the process as described.” He told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show
this morning: “We’re not changing our spending plans.”  Confidence Falls  U.K. gross domestic product will rise 1.1 percent this year
and 1.6 percent in 2012, the Washington-based IMF said in its
World Economic Outlook, cutting previous projections of 1.5
percent and 2.3 percent respectively. U.K. consumer confidence
fell to a four-month low in August as Britons grew more
pessimistic about the outlook for the economy,  Nationwide
Building Society  said today.  Minutes of the  Bank of England ’s Sept. 7-8 Monetary Policy
Committee meeting showed the panel voted 8-1 to maintain the
current size of its bond plan and were unanimous in keeping the
benchmark rate at a record low of 0.5 percent. Even so, most
policy makers said it was “increasingly probable that further
asset purchases to loosen monetary conditions would become
warranted at some point,” according to the minutes.  Britain had its biggest budget deficit for any August since
modern records began in 1993, the Office for National Statistics
said in  London  today, as  government spending  jumped and income-
tax receipts declined. The shortfall of 15.9 billion pounds,
which excludes government support for banks, compared with 14
billion pounds a year earlier.  ‘Not Easy’  The Liberal Democrats have seen their poll ratings slump
since they joined the coalition government in May 2010, helping
 David Cameron ’s Conservatives to set in train the biggest fiscal
squeeze since World War II, and breaking pledges made during the
election, including one not to vote for increased university
fees. Attempting to rally his supporters, Clegg told them that
the costs had been worth it for the opportunity of being in
government for the first time in decades. He repeated the
refrain that the decisions had been “not easy, but right.”  Clegg referred to an idea he first floated in June of
sharing with taxpayers any windfall from the sale of banks
nationalized during 2008, when the government injected more than
20 billion pounds into Lloyds Banking Group Plc and 45.5 billion
pounds in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)  Without giving any
detail, he said that “when we come to sell those shares, I want
to see a payback to British citizens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Birmingham, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Birmingham, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 