-- 
Clinton Donor Helps Christie Raise Millions Outside New Jersey

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/clinton-donor-helps-christie-raise-millions-outside-new-jersey.html
Billionaire John Catsimatidis, one
of  Bill Clinton ’s biggest fundraisers in the 1990s, is the face
of New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s success drawing out-of-
state cash for November’s legislative elections.  Catsimatidis, 63, said he gave $25,000 to the New Jersey
Republican State Committee in June, personally and through Red
Apple Group, his  New York  investment company. Donors from
 Florida  to Colorado helped drive a 12-fold increase in funds
from other states for the party this year, when all 120 members
of the Democratic-controlled Legislature face re-election.  “Whether you agree with him on everything he expounds is
irrelevant,” Catsimatidis, a Democrat-turned-Republican, said
of Christie in a telephone interview. “He’s an honest guy,
number one. And number two, he’s on the taxpayers’ side. It’s
been a long time since we’ve had a combination of the two.”  Republicans last led  New Jersey ’s Senate and Assembly in
2001. While Christie has said he may not regain control this
year in a state where Democrats outnumber Republicans, the extra
money may help keep the majority party from winning enough seats
to override his proposals, said Patrick Murray, polling director
at Monmouth University in West Long Branch.  Langone, Fireman  Individuals, corporations and political action committees
outside New Jersey gave at least $529,000 to the Republican
State Committee in the first half of 2011, out of $1.7 million
raised, according to campaign finance  records . In the same
period of 2007, the last time the full Legislature faced re-
election, non-residents donated $42,366 of $544,424 gathered.  In  California , non-resident donations to the state
Republican party totaled $253,223 so far this year out of $1
million raised, according to finance documents. Republicans are
the minority in both legislative houses and Governor  Jerry Brown 
is a Democrat.  Since taking office, Christie has headlined Republican
fundraisers in states including New York and  Pennsylvania , and
built up a wellspring of support within his party as he
campaigns for Republicans from  Massachusetts  to  New Mexico .  Contributors to the New Jersey Republican party this year
include New York’s Kenneth Langone, co-founder of  Home Depot
Inc. (HD) , who gave $10,000 in June; and Paul Fireman, founder of
Reebok International Ltd., with $25,000 in May. Christie has
said Langone urged him to run for president during a meeting in
June.  Jim McCarthy , a Langone spokesman in  Washington , declined
to make him available for comment. A call to Fireman’s office in
West Palm Beach, Florida, wasn’t returned.  Presidential Election  Christie has become a national Republican star after he cut
$10 billion in spending on schools, pensions and towns in his
first budget. He has said repeatedly that he has no plans to run
for president next year.  The governor campaigned across the nation for his party’s
candidates in the November 2010 elections, when Republicans
captured  control  of 11 legislatures.  In February, he met with billionaire oilman David Koch, and
in June he gave a speech to about 400 people at a private
conference in  Colorado  sponsored by the Tea-Party-backing Koch
and his brother Charles.  Christie also gave a speech in February to the  American
Enterprise Institute , a Washington-based public-policy center
that favors limited government and free markets, and in July he
traveled to  Iowa  to talk at an education summit.  “He does have a national reputation that gets him into the
right rooms and gets a reaction that most governors wouldn’t,”
said  Jennifer Duffy , editor of the Washington-based Cook
Political Report. “When people believe you have a bright
future, it makes it a lot easier to raise money.”  Forced to Compromise  Democrats in New Jersey control the Senate 24-16 and the
Assembly 47-33. They need a two-thirds majority, or 27 members
in the Senate and 54 in the Assembly, to override Christie
vetoes, and three-fifths to send proposals directly to voters.  Democratic control has forced Christie, New Jersey’s first
Republican elected governor in 12 years, to compromise on a
local property-tax cap and an overhaul of public employee
pensions and benefits. He was unable to enact some education
proposals, including basing teacher pay on student performance.  Jon Lubert, of IL Hedge Investments in Philadelphia, said
he supports Christie’s efforts to change teacher tenure, enact
merit pay and jettison “your parents’ entitlement programs.”  State Politics  Lubert, who grew up in New Jersey and lives in
Philadelphia, said it’s a “shame” Christie isn’t running for
president in 2012. He gave the Republican State Committee $2,000
in May.  “It has become clear that state politics affect Congress
and that winning governorships and other local offices will
influence national politics,” Lubert said in an e-mail.  Christie, 49, told reporters yesterday that out-of-state
donors “like the policies we’re pursing here in New Jersey and
they support that because they think I’m setting a good example
for other states and leaders across the country.”  The governor said the donations don’t buy those people
extra access to his administration, and that he’s never met most
of them.  The Democratic State Committee raised $377,254 through June
30, down from $1.2 million four years earlier, largely because
former Governor  Jon Corzine , an ex-Goldman, Sachs & Co. co-
chairman and major political contributor, scaled back donations
after losing his 2009 re-election bid to Christie. Democrats
still hold a two-to-one edge in fundraising by individual
candidates, with $9.5 million in reserves, compared with $4.2
million for Republicans, according to the state  Election Law
Enforcement Commission .  Campaign Money  The New Jersey Education Association, which typically
endorses Democrats and has battled with Christie over his
proposals, spent $6.9 million in 2010, more than any other
lobbying organization, according to an annual  report . The group
has 200,000 members and raises as much as $100 million a year
through dues.  The group will begin contributing to 69 endorsed individual
candidates this month in blocks ranging from $3,500 to $8,200,
including those who opposed Christie’s pension and benefit
changes, rather than giving to the state committee, said Steve
Baker, a spokesman. He declined to say how much the group has on
hand to spend, or to confirm a Record of Hackensack  report  that
it had spent $1.4 million on elections over the past five years.  ‘National Stage’  John Wisniewski, chairman of the Democratic State
Committee, said his party has been tracking Christie’s out-of-
state fundraising and is concerned those donors hold too much
sway on decisions including cuts to women’s health funding.  “He is a commodity in right-wing, conservative circles and
that spells dollars,” Wisniewski, 49, an assemblyman from
Sayreville, said in an interview. “His entire playbook has
become about getting onto the Republican national stage, raising
money and flirting with presidential ambitions. That has nothing
to do with what’s best for the people of New Jersey.”  During town-hall meetings earlier this year, Christie urged
voters to send him a Republican majority to speed up passage of
his agenda. In April, his party lost a battle over the state’s
legislative boundaries, when a panel approved an electoral map
that assures Democrats will remain in control of the
Legislature, said  Monmouth University ’s Murray.  Christie, during his radio show this month, said he hoped
to “make some progress” this year toward winning seats.  “Moving toward a Republican majority in the Senate and
Assembly is a process, it might not happen in this election --it
might take two,” he said.  Christie, who faces re-election in 2013, may be better off
politically with the status quo, said  Brigid Harrison , who
teaches law and politics at Montclair State University.  “This is a governor who is best served by having a
Democratic Legislature -- it allows him to blame any of the
inadequacies on that,” Harrison said. “I think his chances at
re-election are even better with a Democratic majority in the
statehouse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  