-- 
Clinton Urges Al-Shabaab Militants to Let Food Aid Into Somalia

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-21T07:32:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/clinton-urges-al-shabaab-militants-to-let-food-aid-into-somalia.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged al-Shabaab, the Islamist militant group that
controls parts of drought-stricken Somalia, to allow food aid
into the south, where 300,000 children may starve to death.  “I don’t understand what possible political or ideological
benefit comes from allowing women and children to starve in
areas you’re responsible for,” Clinton told a United Nations
 meeting  in  New York  yesterday.  Aid agencies are mostly barred from operating in areas held
by the al-Qaeda-inspired rebel group that has been fighting to
oust the Western-backed administration led by President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed for the past four years. Much of south and
central Somalia is under the control of al-Shabaab, which
withdrew from Mogadishu last month, allowing the government to
take back power in the capital.  The most devastating drought in six decades in the Horn of
 Africa  has hit Somalia the hardest, with famine in six southern
regions putting 750,000 people at risk of death in the next four
months, according to an e-mailed statement from the UN Office
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs today.  The crisis has left 1.5 million Somalis internally
displaced and forced 917,000 to flee to neighboring nations
including Kenya, Ethiopia, Djibouti and Yemen, the UN said.
About 13.3 million people in East Africa need aid, it said.  Aid agencies are unable to reach about 300,000 children in
southern Somalia, Anthony Lake, executive director of the UN
Children’s Fund, said at the same UN meeting yesterday.  “Their suffering may be receding from our front pages and
our television screens and their suffering may be off camera,
but each one of those 300,000 could soon be dead,” he said.  The situation in Somalia will probably get worse before it
improves as the effects of drought and famine spread in the
region,  Josette Sheeran , executive director of the UN World Food
Programme, said in an interview in New York yesterday.  “The Horn of Africa is the biggest humanitarian crisis in
the world still and we’re not out of the woods,” Sheeran said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Gale in New York at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  