-- 
Comcast, BT, Dr. Pepper, Microsoft: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-21T15:51:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/comcast-dr-pepper-microsoft-vietnam-intellectual-property.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S.
cable-television provider, sued a unit of  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the
U.K.’s biggest fixed-line phone company, seeking a ruling that
it doesn’t infringe eight BT patents.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, asked for a jury trial and
an award of legal fees from London-based BT Telecommunications
Plc in a complaint filed Sept. 19 in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware.  “There is substantial controversy of sufficient immediacy
and reality” between the companies “to warrant the issuance of
a declaratory judgment,” Comcast said in court papers. The
company also wants the BT patents ruled invalid.  Comcast, with revenue of $37.9 billion last year, operates
cable-TV systems and provides high-speed Internet and phone
services to homes and businesses. BT Group, with revenue of
about $31 billion last fiscal year, offers fixed and mobile
communications services in more than 170 countries.  The patents cover network-traffic management, pricing
methods, fault monitoring and other functions, according to
court papers.  The lawsuit was filed in response to a motion by BT to
amend another patent lawsuit in the same court filed last year
against Cox Communications Inc. and Cable One Inc. asking for
unspecified treble damages. The amendment would add Comcast as a
defendant, according to a Sept. 1 filing.  “BT’s constant investment in innovation has seen it develop
a large portfolio of patents which are corporate assets, so it
is only right that we are seeking to protect that investment,”
Kris Kozamchak, a BT spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Comcast lawyers said in a Sept. 19 letter to U.S. District
Judge Sue L. Robinson that adding Comcast would “expand many
times over” the process of document gathering, confuse the
issues and “strain the patience” of jurors.  The new case is Comcast Cable v. British
Telecommunications, 1:11-CV-00843, U.S. District Court, District
of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Dr. Pepper,  Texas  Bottler Square Off Over Beverage Trademark  Dr. Pepper Snapple Group Inc. and one of its regional
bottlers are locked in a trademark battle related to the
beverage’s history and the use of cane sugar in its formula.  The beverage company, based in Plano, Texas, sued in June
in federal court in Sherman, Texas, accusing Dr. Pepper Bottling
Co. of Dublin of infringing Dr. Pepper trademarks by using a
bottle with an unauthorized modified label.  The public is confused by the different label, and other
bottlers’ sales are negatively affected by the Dublin bottler’s
actions, according to the complaint.  The product is a soft drink first made 116 years ago in
Waco, Texas. The defendant, based in Dublin, Texas, is the first
bottler of the product, according to court papers.  The regional bottler, unlike many others, refused to switch
to high-fructose corn syrup as a sweetener, and also doesn’t use
beet sugar. According to the response it filed Sept. 12, Dublin
Dr. Pepper has always used only cane sugar, and as a result its
product is sought out by Dr. Pepper aficionados worldwide.  A comparable battle was fought in federal court in  Dallas 
between PepsiCo Inc. and a Texas company that imported made-in-
Mexico Pepsi manufactured with cane sugar. That case ended with
an order barring the Texas company from importing and selling
products made in other countries bearing the Pepsi marks.  That case was PepsiCo Inc., v. Marroko USA LLC, 3:09-cv-
00338-B, I.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  In the case brought by Dr. Pepper Snapple, the regional
bottler claims that the beverage company tacitly approved its
actions, including the special label indicating its product is
“Dublin Dr. Pepper.” Dr. Pepper Snapple has “reveled and
openly welcomed the free exposure and increased name recognition
provided by Dublin Dr. Pepper,” the bottler said in court
papers.  The bottler asked the court to declare it’s not infringing
the Dr. Pepper trademarks or for an award of money damages. It
also seeks litigation costs and attorney fees.  Dr. Pepper Snapple asked for an order barring the use of
“Dublin Dr. Pepper” by the regional bottler and a declaration
that the contract between the companies is terminated or
terminable.  Dr. Pepper Snapple is represented by  Van Harold Beckwith 
and  Jonathan Robert Mureen  of Houston’s Baker Botts LLP,
together with  Clyde Moody Siebman  and  Lawrence Augustine
Phillips  of  Siebman Reynolds Burg & Phillips LLP  of Sherman,
Texas.  Dublin Dr. Pepper is represented by  Richter Darryl Burke ,
 Samuel Franklin Baxter  and  Steven D. Wolens  of McKool Smith PC
of Dallas.  The case is Dr. Pepper/Seven Up Inc. v. Dr. Pepper Bottling
Co., 4:11-cv-00398-MHS-ALM, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Texas (Sherman).  Microsoft Applies to Register ‘Charm’ as Software Trademark  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software maker, is
seeking to register “charm” as a trademark, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  The application, filed Sept. 12, is for use of the
trademark with computer programs, graphical user interface
software and operating system programs.  The Redmond, Washington-based company has asked the
International Trade Commission to block entry of mobile
telephones using the Android system and made by Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. This included Motorola’s Charm phone.  An initial ruling on that dispute, which is over patented
technology, is expected in November.  Motorola’s “charm” trademark was registered April 19.
Other “charm” trademarks include registration in June 2006 by
Charm Sciences of Lawrence, Massachusetts, for diagnostic kits
and scientific instruments; a June 2008 registration by a
resident of Newport Coast,  California , for use with cosmetics;
and a December 1992 registration by a Willowbrook, Illinois,
mattress company for use with beds, mattresses, box springs and
sofabeds.  At a developers’ conference last week, Microsoft identified
“charms” as icons for commands that can be swiped in from the
side of the screen in the Windows 8 user interface, the  Seattle
Times reported .  Vietnam Has ‘Room to Improve’ on WTO Commitments, U.S. Says  Vietnam needs to reduce support for state companies,
clarify contract procedures and improve intellectual property-
rights enforcement to move toward a market-based economy, a U.S.
government official said.  “There’s always room to improve, and that continues to be
the case,” Assistant U.S. Commerce Secretary Suresh Kumar said
in an interview in Ho Chi Minh City when asked about Vietnam’s
adherence to its World Trade Organization commitments. “There
needs to be greater transparency for rules and regulations,
greater transparency in public procurement tender awards.”  Vietnam joined the WTO in 2007 and is one of nine countries
negotiating the U.S.-led Trans-Pacific Partnership trade accord.  U.S. President Barack Obama has identified Vietnam as a
priority market to fulfill a pledge to double American shipments
abroad by 2015. Still, a move in May by the Vietnamese
government to restrict some imports to three seaports is an
example of changing rules “mid-stream” that damages business
confidence, Kumar said.  “That’s the type of thing which doesn’t make for an open
market,” Kumar said yesterday during a visit to the city
formerly known as Saigon.  The measures took effect in June and limit the entry of
mobile phones, some types of alcohol, and cosmetics to the ports
of Haiphong, Danang and Ho Chi Minh City. Previously the goods
could enter through any port, land crossing or airport.
Vietnam’s government has said the restrictions are designed to
prevent the entry of counterfeit and low-quality goods.  Vietnam’s participation in the TPP talks is a “positive
step” that demonstrates a desire to boost trade, Kumar said.
The other countries involved in the talks include  Australia ,
Brunei, Chile,  Malaysia , New Zealand, Peru and  Singapore .  The U.S. will propose rules for state-owned companies as
part of the TPP negotiations, Barbara Weisel, an assistant U.S.
Trade Representative, told reporters on Sept. 15 after a round
of discussions in  Chicago . Investment rules and intellectual-
property protections also need more work, she said.  Kumar noted the sale of “rip-off” apparel using U.S.
brands at the airport in the central Vietnamese city of Danang
during his visit to the country.  “That’s a violation” of Vietnam’s WTO commitments, Kumar
said. “Of course it is going to be raised.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  University of Michigan Says It Made ‘Errors’ in Digitization  The University of Michigan responded to a copyright-
infringement lawsuit by the Authors Guild by issuing a statement
in which the school said it made “a number of errors, some of
them serious.”  The school had planned to release 27 works by French,
Russian and American authors that it deems “orphans” for free
downloads to about 250,000 students and faculty, according to
the lawsuit filed Sept. 12 in  Manhattan .  The Authors Guild, the Australian Society of Authors and
the Quebec Writers Union were among the plaintiffs in the suit
claiming the school obtained unauthorized scans of copyright-
protected books that  Google Inc. (GOOG)  performed.  The school’s statement, published on the university
library’s website, acknowledged that “our pilot process is
flawed.” Instead, the school said it will create “a more
robust, transparent and fully documented process” for access to
the so-called orphan works.  It claimed that the widespread dissemination of the list of
scanned works “has had the intended effect: rights holders have
been identified.” The school’s mistake “have not resulted in
the exposure of even one page of in-copyright material,”
according to the university statement.  The other schools that are co-defendants in the suit are
 University of California , University of Wisconsin, Indiana
University and Cornell University.  The case is Authors Guild Inc. v. Hathitrust, 1:11-cv-
06351-HB. U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Oto Melara Loses Korean Trade Secrets Case Over Naval Gun  Oto Melara SpA’s trade-secrets claim against Hyundai Wia
Corp. was rejected by a court in  Seoul , the Korea Herald
 reported.   Oto Melara, based in La Spezia,  Italy , sued in 2010
claiming a naval gun sold by Hyundai Wia was made by reverse-
engineering a sample of its own, according to the newspaper.  Although the South Korean military had been buying the
Italian company’s gun since 1975, Hyundai drew up the plan for
its version in 2001, before the country’s Defense Ministry
loaned Hyundai a sample of the Oto Melara product, according to
the Korea Herald.  The court found there were significant technological
improvements in the South Korean company’s gun and that some of
the technology used to produce it wasn’t secret, being available
in engineering texts and on the Internet, the Korea Herald
reported.  Mitsubishi Heavy Computer in Cyber Attack, Possible Data Theft  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) ,  Japan ’s largest maker of
heavy machinery, was struck by hackers, had its computers
infected and is believed to have had confidential data stolen,
the  Daily Yomiuri reported .  About 80 servers and computers at factories where
submarines, missiles and nuclear power plants are built were
targeted, the newspaper reported. Some viruses could have
allowed hackers to eavesdrop on conversations near the computers
or even to operate webcams, according to Yomiuri.  Mitsubishi Heavy made the discovery that some of its
computers were infected in mid-August and brought in an Internet
security company to investigate the breach, according to the
newspaper.  IP Moves  Kramer Levin Comes to Menlo Park With King & Spalding Hires  Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP hired Paul J. Andre and
Lisa Kobialka for its newly opened Menlo Park, California,
office, the New York-based firm said in a  statement .  The two new hires, both intellectual-property litigators,
join from Atlanta’s King & Spalding LLP.  Andre  has litigated patent cases for clients whose
technologies include life sciences, computer science and
electrical arts.  He has an undergraduate degree in biology and a master’s
degree in immunology from Middle Tennessee State University, and
a law degree from Fordham University. He was a candidate for a
doctorate in cellular and molecular biology at Mt. Sinai School
of Medicine.  Kobialka  has done trade secret, false advertising and
unfair competition, and patent litigation for technology
clients.  She has an undergraduate degree from the University of
California at Davis, a master’s degree in music from the  San
Francisco  Conservatory of Music and a law degree from the
University of San Francisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 