-- 
Wheat Climbs for Second Day as Adverse U.S. Weather May Reduce Crop Yields

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-09-21T10:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/corn-soybeans-wheat-futures-gain-on-unfavorable-u-s-weather-conditions.html
Wheat rose for a second day in
 Chicago  on speculation that adverse weather in the U.S., the
biggest exporter, may hurt yields for the grain as well as corn
and soybeans.  Rain and cool conditions may be unfavorable for corn and
soybean crops in parts of the U.S. Midwest, while planting of
some wheat may be delayed due to dry soil in the southern
Plains, Telvent DTN Inc. said yesterday. U.S. corn and soybean
conditions deteriorated last week, the Department of Agriculture
said in a report.  “There are some concerns about unfavorable weather in the
main growing areas of the U.S.,” said Kieran Walsh, a broker at
GFI Securities in London. “The fundamentals are still
bullish.”  Wheat for December delivery rose 2.75 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $6.775 a bushel by 10:49 a.m.  London  time on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Prices slid for a third week last week
and have slumped 14 percent this month.  “Given the heavy selloff we’ve seen over the past week,
you’ve got to start thinking that prices are looking a little
oversold at the moment and could potentially be susceptible to a
rebound,” Victor Thianpiriya, an agricultural commodity analyst
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said by phone
from  Melbourne  today. “Crop conditions haven’t been good
either, so that’s also price-supportive.”  Corn, Soybeans  Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris climbed 25 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 196.25 euros (268.41)
a metric ton.  Corn for December delivery rose 1.5 cents, or 0.2 percent,
to $6.9175 a bushel in Chicago. The grain slid 6 percent last
week, the biggest drop since June.  Soybeans for November delivery gained 1.5 cents, or 0.1
percent, to $13.395 a bushel. The oilseed declined 5 percent
last week, the biggest retreat since March.  About 53 percent of the soybean crop was in good or
excellent condition as of Sept. 18, down from 56 percent the
previous week and 63 percent a year earlier, the USDA said.
About 51 percent of corn was rated good or excellent, against 53
percent a week earlier and 68 percent a year earlier, it said.  Corn may advance to a record as “nervousness” about
global supply returns to the market and harvest yields in the
U.S. may be less than expected, Newedge USA LLC said today.  Futures may resume their rally after the U.S. harvest in
October, jumping to $7.75 to $8 a bushel, as importers fight for
supply and the market contends with a third year of global
deficit, said  Dan Cekander , director for grain research at
Newedge, the world’s top futures broker by customer accounts.
Prices reached this year’s high of $7.93 on June 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  