-- 
Oil Falls as Fed Says There Are ‘Significant’ Risks to Economy

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-21T20:29:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/crude-oil-futures-decline-in-new-york-before-review-of-greece-s-economy.html
Crude oil dropped after the  Federal
Reserve  announced plans to buy $400 billion of long-term debt
and said there are “significant downside risks” to the
economic outlook.  Futures fell 1.2 percent as the Fed plans to replace some
bonds in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries to cut
borrowing costs and keep the economy from relapsing into a
recession. Prices began to move lower after Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded the debt rating of Bank of America Corp. and
Wells Fargo & Co.  “The Fed’s downbeat assessment of the economy leaves
little room for better demand,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president
of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “The Fed announcement was
already priced in and came on top of bad news about the banks.”  Crude oil for November delivery fell $1 to settle at $85.92
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract
climbed as high as $87.99 and dropped to $85.08 today. Futures
have increased 19 percent over the past year.  Brent oil for November settlement dropped 18 cents to end
the session at $110.36 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe Exchange. The European benchmark contract was at premium
of $24.44 to U.S. futures, compared with a record $26.87 on
Sept. 6, based on November settlement prices.  The U.S. government is “more likely now than during the
financial crisis to allow a large bank to fail should it become
financially troubled, as the risks of contagion become less
acute,” Moody’s analysts wrote in the report downgrading the
Bank of America today.  Monetary Tools  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  expanded use of
unconventional monetary tools for a second straight meeting
after job gains stalled and the government lowered its estimate
of second-quarter growth.  Commodities and equities extended losses on the Fed
announcement, which confirmed market speculation that the
central bank was planning an “Operation Twist” similar to a
program in the 1960s.  Fed policy makers pledged at their Aug. 9 meeting to keep
the benchmark  interest rate  near zero at least through mid-2013,
substituting it for the less-specific “extended period”
commitment that had been in their statements since March 2009.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 2.9 percent to
1,166.76  and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 2.5 percent
to 11,124.84.  “Oil is trading as a cyclical asset,” said Bill O’Grady,
chief market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in
 St. Louis . “Concerns about the economy aren’t good for the oil
demand outlook. Oil is tracking the stock market now.”  Supply Decline  Futures climbed earlier when an Energy Department report
showed crude oil supplies fell 7.34 million barrels to 339
million last week, the lowest level since January. It was the
biggest drop since December. Stockpiles were projected to
decline 1.3 million barrels, according to the median of 15
analyst responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  “That big drop in crude oil just surprised everybody,”
said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG
in  Washington .  U.S. crude oil production surged 13 percent to 5.75 million
barrels a day last week, the highest level since 2003, the
report showed.  Imports of crude oil dropped 2.2 percent to 8.35 million
barrels a day last week, the lowest level since April, the
report showed. Fuel imports rose 9 percent to 2.1 million
barrels a day.  “Imports fell last week and refinery operating rates
picked up, so there is an explanation for much of the drop,”
said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in
 New York . “There’s no evidence that there is a global shortage
of supply.”  Fuel Inventories  Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, declined 874,000 barrels to 157.6
million in the week ended Sept. 16, the Energy Department report
shows. They were forecast to increase 1 million barrels,
according to the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Gasoline inventories surged 3.3 million barrels to 214.1
million barrels last week, the biggest one-week gain since May
and the highest level since July, the report showed. Analysts
estimated that supplies would increase 1.35 million barrels.  “There’s an overwhelming sense of doom about the
economy,” said Sean Brodrick, a natural resource analyst with
 Weiss Research  in Jupiter,  Florida . “What the Fed does is going
to be a lot more important for the market than any change in the
weekly inventory data.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 475,764
contracts as of 3:52 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 484,182
contracts yesterday, the lowest level since Aug. 29. Open
interest was 1.37 million contracts, the least since Dec. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 