-- 
Oil Drops to Four-Week Low on Fed Outlook

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-09-22T12:28:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/crude-declines-for-second-day-after-fed-sees-downside-risks-to-economy.html
Oil fell to the lowest price in
more than four weeks in  New York  after the U.S. Federal Reserve
cited “significant downside risks” to the economic outlook in
the world’s biggest crude-consuming nation.  Futures slipped as much as 5.5 percent, declining with
other commodities and European equities markets. The Fed said it
will buy $400 billion of long-term debt in an attempt to keep
the economy from relapsing into a recession. U.S. gasoline
stockpiles climbed more than forecast last week and the nation’s
oil production rose to the highest in eight years, Energy
Department reports showed.  “We’ve seen equities come down, we’ve seen the euro-dollar
being hit, and that’s feeding through to commodities,” said
Christin Tuxen, a senior analyst at Danske Bank A/S in
Copenhagen, who expects North Sea Brent crude to drop to near
$100 a barrel in the next month. The Fed’s decision not to
implement an outright third round of so-called quantitative
easing “leads investors to take their money out of the risky
assets like oil,” she said.  Crude for November delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  dropped as much as $4.72 to $81.20 a barrel, the lowest
intraday price since Aug. 22. It was at $81.58 at 1:27 p.m.
London time, up 9.2 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for November settlement fell $3.92, or 3.6
percent, to $106.44 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $24.86 to U.S. futures, compared with a record $26.87
on Sept. 6, based on front-month settlement prices.  Global Weakness  “The oil market is on downside momentum with serious lack
of risk appetite,” Myrto Sokou, an analyst at Sucden Financial
Ltd. in London, said. “In addition to the weak macroeconomic
data, we have to acknowledge the lack of oil demand from the
U.S. and emerging markets, amid ongoing concerns about growth.”
Sucden expects WTI crude to test $80 a barrel, while Brent’s
drop will be limited to $105 a barrel.  The Stoxx Europe 600 index was down 4.1 percent at 1:15
p.m.  London  time and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 4.1
percent, while the dollar gained 1 percent to trade at $1.3438
against the euro. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 2.9
percent in New York yesterday after the Fed said it would
replace short-term debt it holds with longer-term Treasuries to
further reduce borrowing costs.  “Commodity prices are very weak as the markets become more
and more concerned about the prospects for global weakness
rather than even modest global growth,”  Dennis Gartman , the
economist and editor of the Gartman Letter, said in his daily
report. “Weak equity markets along with a strong  U.S. dollar 
are, and shall be, weighing upon prices.”  Gasoline Supplies Surge  U.S. gasoline inventories surged 3.3 million barrels to
214.1 million barrels, the biggest one-week gain since May and
the highest level since July, a report from the Energy
Department shows. They were forecast to increase 1.35 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Crude-oil stockpiles decreased 7.34 million barrels to 339
million in the week ended Sept. 16, the lowest level since
January, the report showed. They were forecast to decline 1.3
million barrels, according to the Bloomberg News survey.
Supplies are 3.4 percent higher than the five-year average.  U.S. oil output rose 13 percent to 5.75 million barrels a
day last week, the highest since August 2003, the Energy
Department said. Supply has climbed as drillers take advantage
of technology developed for gas production, particularly from
shale-rock formations, to pump crude and liquids from previously
impenetrable sites.  World oil output averaged 89.8 million barrels a day in
August, according to Energy Intelligence Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  