-- 
Cucinelli Says Europe Debt Crisis Won’t Thwart Share Sale Plan

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-09-21T13:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/cucinelli-says-europe-debt-crisis-won-t-thwart-share-sale-plan.html
Brunello Cucinelli, founder of the
namesake Italian cashmere brand, said  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis is unlikely to derail his plan for an initial public
offering.  “I think it will be a good year for the entire luxury
sector,” the chief executive officer of Brunello Cucinelli SpA
said today in an interview at the Solomeo, Italy-based company’s
showroom in Milan. “Obviously, if in February, March, the
market is impossible, OK, but I don’t believe it.”  Cucinelli, 58, outlined plans in June for an IPO in  Italy 
in the spring of 2012, with Bank of America Corp. and Mediobanca
managing the sale. The company, which makes 2,350-euro ($3,200)
cashmere sweaters, would follow Prada SpA and Salvatore
Ferragamo SpA in offering stock to the public as demand in Asia
fuels earnings growth and draws investors.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for full-
year global economic growth yesterday and predicted “severe”
repercussions if Europe fails to contain its debt crisis or if
U.S. policy makers reach an impasse over a fiscal plan. Even so,
Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s
largest maker of  luxury goods , and rival  PPR (PP)  SA said this month
that demand isn’t abating.  “I don’t see industry in difficulty like the market,”
Cucinelli said. “I’m not worried.”  Moncler SpA, a manufacturer of luxury skiwear headquartered
in Milan, canceled an IPO in June because of stock-market
conditions, opting instead to sell a stake to Paris-based
investment firm  Eurazeo. (RF)   ‘Profit With Dignity’  Cucinelli, who owns 100 percent of the clothier, said he’s
been courted by funds seeking to buy shares privately, though he
prefers to sell a stake of as much as a third to the public
because it makes it easier to retain the company’s “soul.”  Cucinelli said his biggest task after the sale would be
“to make sure the market doesn’t kill luxury” by stifling
creativity or focusing too much on short-term results.  He also said he hoped investors would understand the
company’s culture of directing some profit to fund projects such
as a theater, library and a hospital. “We have to make a profit
but with dignity,” he said.  Cucinelli said he plans to use the IPO’s proceeds to expand
distribution without overexposing the brand or compromising its
identity. He would be “very happy” with annual sales growth of
10 percent to 15 percent, he said.  Some of that investment will go to greater  China , where
Cucinelli gets 2.3 percent of sales, the CEO said, citing “very
many openings” over five years, without being more specific.  Revenue may reach 246 million euros in 2011 after climbing
28 percent to 203.1 million euros in 2010, Cucinelli said.
Pretax profit will probably increase 65 percent to 30 million
euros, according to the Italian executive.  The company sells clothing and accessories in about 60
boutiques bearing its name, online and in about 1,000 “multi-
brand” stores, including Nieman Marcus Group Inc. and Saks
Inc.’s  Saks Fifth Avenue .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  