-- 
Czech Policy Makers Leave Interest Rates Unchanged on Euro-Debt Crisis

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-09-22T13:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/czech-policy-makers-to-keep-interest-rates-unchanged-on-euro-debt-crisis.html
The Czech central bank kept
borrowing costs unchanged for an 11th meeting and signaled it
may ease monetary policy as the euro-area sovereign-debt crisis
worsens the economic outlook and intensifies downside inflation
risks.  The Ceska Narodni Banka’s board voted 7-0 to leave the two-
week repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent, half of the
 European Central Bank ’s main rate, maintaining stable borrowing
costs since May 2010. The decision was in line with forecasts of
all 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  A future move in Czech interest rates may be “in any
direction” and “I can imagine a scenario in which our next
move will not be upward,” Governor Miroslav Singer told
reporters after the decision. “At this moment, when we look at
risks to our forecast, which are principally driven by external
environment, they are quite markedly in the direction of lower
rates, and less markedly in the direction of lower inflation.”  Czech policy makers have bucked monetary tightening this
year as central banks across  Europe  increased credit costs to
fend off inflation pressures. An economic slowdown in the euro
area, the main market for Czech exports, and a lower outlook for
borrowing costs than previously thought in the currency bloc,
have postponed raising Czech rates until around the end of this
year, according to a central bank forecast from August.  Reduced Forecasts  “Forecasts of economic growth are being reduced and growth
in the  Czech Republic  will probably be very weak, below 1
percent next year,”  Michal Brozka , an analyst at Raiffeisenbank
AS in Prague. “We don’t expect a change in the main  interest
rate  within 12 months,” while a lowering of borrowing costs
“can’t be ruled out if pessimistic forecasts materialize.”  Europe’s economy is cooling as governments struggle to
restore investor confidence in their ability to prevent a Greek
default and stop the crisis from spreading. Spanish and Italian
government bond yields have surged to euro-era records and
economic confidence in the currency bloc slumped in August.  Changing Expectations  Investors have scaled back bets on an increase in Czech
interest rates. Forward-rate agreements locking-in three month
interest rates in six-months fell to 1.085 percent today,
according to mid-prices compiled by Bloomberg, from 1.330
percent at the time of the last monetary meeting on Aug. 4. The
three-month Prague interbank offered rate, or Pribor, was 1.18
percent today.  The koruna traded 0.3 percent weaker at 24.904 to the euro
as of 1:27 p.m. in Prague. The koruna has gained 0.5 percent to
the euro since the start of the year, the best performance among
currencies of the three largest eastern economies in the EU,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank’s monetary-policy inflation rate is expected to
hold close to its target, while headline inflation will be
influenced by an increase in the value-added tax in January and
rise for a period of more than 3 percent, the central bank said
in a statement today.  Main inflationary risks are a weakening of the koruna while
the main anti-inflationary risks are a lower outlook for foreign
interest rates and the state of the financial industry and
public finances in developed countries, the statement said.  Slowing Growth  Czech economic growth eased in the second quarter for the
first time since a 2009 recession as a slowdown in the EU dented
demand for exports and government austerity measures curbed
domestic spending. The inflation rate has been below the central
bank’s target for three months, while industrial output growth
has slowed and retail sales have fallen.  GDP rose 2.2 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, after growing 2.8 percent in the first three months.
August’s inflation rate was 1.7 percent, unchanged from July and
less than the central bank’s 2 percent target. July retail sales
fell 1.7 percent from a year earlier, while industrial-output
growth slowed to 4.4 percent, the worst reading in 19 months.  The economic recovery is dependent on EU demand for its
products, which include Skoda Auto AS vehicles and car parts.
The bloc purchases about 80 percent of Czech exports, with
Germany alone accounting for a third.  Czech Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek said on Aug. 21
the ministry will probably cut its 2.5 percent forecast for 2012
economic growth because of the slowdown in the euro area. The
 International Monetary Fund  lowered its 2011 GDP estimate to 2.3
percent on Sept. 20 from a June forecast of 2.9 percent.  The euro-area’s economy may fail to gather strength in the
current quarter, expanding 0.2 percent from the previous three
months, before cooling to 0.1 percent in the final quarter, the
European Commission in Brussels forecast last week. It had
previously projected a rise of 0.4 percent for both periods.  Growth could come to a “virtual standstill” by the end of
the year, European Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn
said on Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  