-- 
Dale Says Inflation Risks Must Inform BOE Stimulus Decision

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-21T11:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/dale-says-inflation-risks-must-inform-boe-stimulus-decision.html
Bank of England  Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said policy makers must take “high inflation”
into account in any decision to add more stimulus as the
economic recovery weakens.  “If the economic situation continues to deteriorate, some
additional loosening in monetary policy might be needed,” Dale
said in a speech today in South Shields,  England . “But that
decision will need to be weighed against the backdrop of
continuing high inflation, with inflation set to climb higher.”  Bank of England policy makers voted 8-1 to keep their bond-
purchase program at 200 billion pounds ($313 billion) this month
and were unanimous in holding the benchmark rate at a record-low
0.5 percent. Still, a majority said it was “increasingly
probable” that further asset purchases would be needed. Dale,
who ended a push for a rate increase in August, said today that
he reversed his vote because the outlook for demand “weakened
materially.”  The debt turmoil in  Europe  and weaker growth there and in
the U.S., along with concerns on the “resilience” of the
global banking system, are weighing on the U.K. outlook, he
said. He also said growth faces headwinds from diminished
confidence in officials’ ability to counter those headwinds.  “The U.K. has been caught in the fallout from these
external developments,” and they have created a “pronounced
downward spiral,” he said. Domestic concerns arise from a
“worrying” increase in unemployment.  Officials should also consider the outlook for the supply
elements in the economy when assessing the need for further
stimulus, according to the Bank of England chief economist. The
recent weakness in productivity has been “surprising.”  “When faced with a period of weak output growth, it is
tempting to conclude policy should be eased in order to boost
the pace of growth and so stop the output gap widening,” Dale
said. “And that may well be the right policy prescription. But
just how much demand should be boosted depends on the extent to
which the weak demand growth is matched by sluggish growth in
potential supply.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  