-- 
David Jones Affirms Forecast After Second-Half Profit Slumps

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-09-21T06:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/david-jones-affirms-earnings-forecast-after-second-half-profit-slumps-11-.html
David Jones Ltd. (DJS) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest department store chain, affirmed its forecast for
lower profit after second-half earnings dropped 11 percent amid
a continuing slide in sales.  Net income will fall as much as 20 percent in the first
half ending January, Sydney-based  David Jones  said in a
statement today. The chain reported earnings dropped to A$62.4
million ($64 million) in the six months ended July after sales
dropped 9.2 percent.  David Jones said sales in the first quarter of the current
year will fall about 10 percent, with the pace of decline to
ease on Christmas demand and the impact of clearance sales early
in the new year. Households have curbed spending on
discretionary items such as clothing and furniture amid a slide
in  consumer confidence  in five of the past six months and
concerns about the global economy,  home prices  and employment.  “Trading conditions remain difficult,” Chief Executive
Officer Paul Zahra said in the statement. David Jones is “well
positioned to trade through the current challenging
environment,” he said.  David Jones shares rose 2.2 percent to A$2.76 at the 4:10
p.m. close in Sydney, paring this year’s decline to 38 percent.  Earnings before interest and tax from its department stores
fell 14 percent to A$67.9 million in the second half and profit
margins dropped as sales fell.  Zahra is trying to turn around the sales decline with store
refurbishments, an upgraded website and new brands exclusive to
its stores.  Management will release a strategic plan next year for the
four years ending 2016, the company said.  Earnings from financial services, which includes its store
credit card, rose 7.5 percent to A$24.9 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  