-- 
Debt Collectors Lobby to Block Tougher Rules

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/debt-collectors-lobby-to-block-tougher-state-rules.html
A wave of U.S. state laws that
require debt collectors to document exactly who owes what has
triggered a state-by-state lobbying battle over rules of
evidence that the industry says could slice into profitability.  A 2009 law in  North Carolina  requiring collectors to
provide original contracts and imposing penalties for erroneous
litigation has slowed the industry’s work in that state. Other
states, including  Massachusetts ,  Florida , California and Oregon,
have followed North Carolina’s law with similar proposals.
Consumer advocates say the laws are necessary to curb abuses.  Though a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, will have jurisdiction over debt collectors,
the industry is ramping up its lobbying primarily at the state
level, hiring former Georgia attorney general Thurbert Baker to
spearhead an effort to modify the state bills.  “We don’t have lobbyists in 50 states but we do have
internal resources that are talking, certainly, to all the large
states,” Steven Fredrickson, chief executive officer of
Portfolio Recovery Associates, Inc., the largest publicly traded
debt collector, said in a May 11 conference call.  New state legislation is typically aimed at debt buyers,
who acquire and service portfolios of debt from the original
creditors, often for pennies on the dollar. Debt buyers have
stepped up the number of lawsuits they have filed in recent
years to obtain payment.  Pattern of Misconduct  Consumer groups see a pattern of misconduct. Al Ripley,
director of consumer affairs for the North Carolina Justice
Center, an advocacy group, said state legislators passed the new
law in part because “they have friends and family members with
experience” with collectors.  Tougher state laws could erode revenue at Portfolio
Recovery and other major firms, such as Encore Capital Group
Inc.,  Asta Funding Inc. (ASFI) , and the largest player by revenue, NCO
Group, a unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s private equity arm, One
Equity Partners.  “We are becoming much more regulated in this industry than
in the past,” said Phillip Duff, president of  Lighthouse
Consulting Inc. , a research firm whose focus includes debt
buying. “Part of the problem is the reputation of the
industry.”  The accounts-receivable industry had revenues of $17
billion in 2010, according to  Kaulkin Ginsberg , a Rockville,
Maryland-based consulting firm. It includes debt buyers, who
purchase written-off portfolios of debt from the original
creditors, mainly credit-card issuers. Debt collectors, who try
to get debtors to pay and often work with buyers, and law firms
who sue debtors, are also part of the industry.  Tighter Laws  Consumer groups and some state officials have pushed for
tighter laws on the debt-collection industry, citing what they
call its record of using bad documentation in litigation.  “It’s like Napster: They said, ‘What copyright law?’ and
debt buyers say, ‘What evidence?’” said Robert Hobbs, deputy
director of the  National Consumer Law Center .  In one recent case in  New Mexico , a woman named Lucinda
Yazzie won $1.26 million in a lawsuit against a collector that
changed a Social Security number in its own database to match
hers on a bill owed by a woman of the same name. According to a
court document, the collector acknowledged that its records were
changed, saying that its effort to seek payment from the wrong
Yazzie was a “bona fide error.”  In another case, a debt collector tried to garnish the
wages of the wrong Lou Correa, a man who happened to be a
California state senator, according to media  reports . Correa’s
office did not return calls requesting comment.  Mistakes ‘Rampant’  “When you have no control of the paper, and none on how
the data is changed, you have a system where mistakes are
rampant,” Rob Treinen, Yazzie’s lawyer, said in an interview.  The lobbying power of the big debt buyers could produce
regulations that are too expensive for smaller firms, Paul Grinberg, Encore’s chief financial officer, said.  “Companies of size and scale will be able to work with
regulators to create meaningful legislation that, unfortunately,
will probably drive out smaller players,” Grinberg said in a
June 15 conference call.  DBA International, the debt-buying industry’s trade
association, hired Baker, the former Georgia attorney general,
to cultivate relationships with key regulators in advance of
state legislative sessions in early 2013. That way, Baker said
in an interview, the industry will be “at the table to help
draft legislation, if it comes to that.”  The wake-up call for the industry was the North Carolina
rules, signed into law on Sept. 9, 2009, that imposed the
state’s first explicit requirements for evidence.  Under North Carolina’s new rules, collectors must produce
the original signed contract for the account and the full
account history. The law also allowed penalties of about $10,000
against litigants who bring unsubstantiated claims.  ‘Screeched to a Halt’  “In the first year, you could hear the brakes as the train
screeched to a halt,” said Pedro Zabala, a Raleigh, North
Carolina-based attorney. “Little-by-little, the lawyers are
trying to get the train going again.”  Portfolio Recovery Associates filed 6,709 lawsuits in 2009,
before the law went into effect. In 2010, it filed 819,
according to the company. Fredrickson, the firm’s chief
executive, said that in addition to raising documentation
requirements, the law limits flexibility in offering settlements
to consumers who can pay a percentage of the debt.  “We have an extremely high standard to achieve before we
can make a phone call, and it’s a standard unlike any other
state,” Fredrickson said in an interview.  The industry has complained that the North Carolina law
requires information about a debt that the original lender,
often a credit card company, does not provide.  More Research  “You can’t require that of a debt buyer or debt collector
that which a creditor does not collect,” Barbara Sinsley,
general counsel for DBA International, said in an interview.
Sinsley said the industry does additional research, like
matching Social Security numbers or common given names, before
trying to collect.  The law’s effect in North Carolina emboldened consumer
groups and their legislative allies to push ahead in other
states, and mobilized industry opposition as well. In December
2010, a similar bill in  Oregon  faced organized industry
opposition at a hearing, and died in committee.  “I was surprised at the degree of lobbying to stop this,”
said Angela Martin, executive director of Economic Fairness
Oregon, a consumer group. “We thought we had a consensus
bill.”  Three months later, Alice Vickers, a lawyer for the non-
profit Florida Legal Services, walked into a hearing of the
Florida Senate on a similar bill. In addition to representatives
of the debt-buying industry, the Florida Bankers Association and
the Florida Retail Association were already in the room. The
bill stalled in committee.  “The industry came out of the woodwork in opposition,”
Vickers said in an interview.  Senator Mark Leno, a Democrat, pushed a similar bill
through committee in  California  before the session ended. Under
the legislature’s rules, he can bring it up in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 