-- 
EU Crisis Won’t Slow China IPOs: Deutsche Boerse

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/debt-crisis-won-t-slow-china-ipos-deutsche-boerse.html
Chinese companies are holding
initial public offerings in  Germany  at a record pace and
Europe’s debt crisis is unlikely to derail that trend, according
to  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , Europe’s largest securities exchange.  “This year is already the best and we always hope to do
better,” Barbara Georg, head of listing & issuer services of
the Frankfurt-based exchange, said in a Sept. 20 interview at a
Shanghai forum. “I don’t think that will change much. Some
Chinese companies IPOs are already in the pipeline.”  Ten Chinese companies have listed on the Frankfurt-based
exchange this year, Georg said, declining to say how many more
are seeking to sell shares. Chinese companies benefit from
“high liquidity, fair valuation and very favorable capital
costs” in Germany, she said in a statement. There are 34
Chinese companies listed in Frankfurt, Georg said.  “The listing requirements in  Europe  are less stringent
than other overseas markets such as the U.S. as they are trying
to attract high-quality companies amid the current debt
crisis,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West  China  Securities Co.
in Shanghai. “That’s why we see a number of companies have gone
to Europe for listing.”  Powerland AG, a Chinese manufacturer of bags and travel
cases, has plunged 27 percent since its listing in Frankfurt in
April. Power equipment maker United Power Technology AG has also
fallen 27 percent since its debut in June.  Europe Debt  European leaders are struggling to contain a sovereign-debt
crisis in the 17-nation region that started in  Greece  and is
threatening to engulf Spain and Italy, which on Sept 19 had its
 credit rating  cut by  Standard & Poor’s . Germany’s top credit
rating was affirmed by  Fitch Ratings  Sept. 20 after the
government agreed on “ambitious” fiscal plans to reduce its
debt load.  Germany’s stock market has a market capitalization of $1.26
trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s
market value is $3.53 trillion, the world’s biggest after the
U.S. and  Japan , the data showed. Germany’s benchmark DAX Index
is valued at 8.6 times estimated profit, compared with 12.1
times for the  S&P 500 Index , the data showed.  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index has dropped 11
percent this year on concern tight monetary policies and
stalling global growth will hurt the world’s second-largest
economy. Chinese companies have raised 204 billion yuan ($32
billion) from domestic IPOs this year, according to Bloomberg
data. They raised 488 billion yuan last year, the most annually
since Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1999.  China IPOs  China’s stocks have also fallen before Sinohydro Group
Ltd.’s IPO, possibly the biggest in more than year. The nation’s
biggest builder of dams will start selling as many as 3.5
billion shares in Shanghai on Sept. 26, according to a statement
to the city’s stock exchange.  Deutsche Boerse  is seeking to combine with NYSE Euronext to
create the world’s biggest exchange operator. The merger is
awaiting regulatory approvals.  “Many Chinese companies currently have firm intentions of
an IPO in Frankfurt but have had to postpone their plans as a
result of market turbulence,” Georg said in the statement. “We
expect more Chinese IPOs by next year at the latest.”  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Ravil Shirodkar  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  