-- 
Default Swaps Reach Record on Bonds Still Beloved by Banks: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-09-22T06:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/default-swaps-reach-record-on-bonds-still-beloved-by-banks-japan-credit.html
The cost of insuring  Japan ’s debt
against default has risen to a record amid concern that  Europe ’s
debt crisis will spread beyond the region.  Credit-default swaps tied to the nation’s bonds for five
years surged 12 basis points to 136 basis points as of 10:53
a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices showed. That’s on course
for the highest on record in CMA data going back to October
2004. The increase in protection costs has come even as demand
for Japan’s debt remained resilient, with benchmark 10-year
yields touching 0.965 percent today, the least since Nov. 9.  While Japan’s debt burden is the biggest in the world, its
borrowing costs are among the lowest globally. The divergence of
prices on default swaps and cash bonds reflects the differing
objectives of domestic investors holding 95 percent of Japan’s
debt and overseas money managers, according to Toru Suehiro, a
market analyst at Mizuho Securities Co.  “Banks are continuing to receive yen deposits and have no
choice but to buy  government bonds  in the hope that the debt
situation will be resolved somehow,” said Suehiro, whose Tokyo-
based company is a unit of Japan’s third-biggest lender by
market value. “Overseas investors have no such necessity, and
if they think Japan’s debt situation will deteriorate, they can
take a position along with that view.”  Credit-default swaps, which pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, fall as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve and rise as they deteriorate. A basis
point is equivalent to $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of bonds and loans.  Credit Ratings  The yield difference between five-year default swaps and
the bonds themselves reached 0.944 percentage point on Sept. 20,
the widest ever according to prices from CME Group Inc.’s CMA
and Bloomberg data. The gap for U.S. swaps and bonds was
negative 0.29 percentage point.  Japan was the biggest sovereign mover today, based on a
Bloomberg gauge of relative changes in government bonds, short-
and long-term yields and credit-default swaps.
Concern about the ability of governments to repay creditors has
risen after the U.S. lost its AAA rating from  Standard & Poor’s 
last month and  Italy  was downgraded by the company this week.
Five-year credit-default swaps for Germany, rated AAA by S&P,
soared to an unprecedented level yesterday.  S&P, which reduced Japan’s rating in January, cut its
forecast for the country’s economic growth last week and said
the rebound from the March 11 earthquake is likely to be “less
robust” than expected. Moody’s Investors Service, which has
affirmed its top rating for the U.S., cut Japan’s ranking on
Aug. 24 by one level to Aa3.  Earthquake Spending  The nation’s overseas shipments increased 2.8 percent in
August from a year earlier, the Ministry of Finance said
yesterday. While it’s the first gain since February, export
growth was short of the 8 percent pace estimated by economists.  Japan plans total spending of 19 trillion yen ($248
billion) over five years for reconstruction after the magnitude-
9 temblor and tsunami devastated the northeast coast. A
government tax panel suggested on Sept. 16 securing 10.4
trillion yen in funding over five to 10 years through a
combination of increasing corporate, income or sales taxes.  “Creditworthiness typically worsens at an accelerated pace
unless proper measures are taken swiftly,” said Akane Enatsu, a
senior credit analyst at  Barclays Capital  in Tokyo. “I can’t
see any reason to sell Japan’s default swaps at this moment.”  S&P rates Japan’s AA-, the fourth-highest grade, with a
negative outlook.  Fitch Ratings  also has a negative outlook for
its AA- rating on the Asian nation. Enatsu said S&P and Fitch
may downgrade Japan’s debt.  Pressure of Deposits  Mounting customer deposits have prompted Japan’s banks to
continue purchasing government bonds, cushioning effects from
rating companies’ warnings. Japan’s 10-year bond yields were at
0.980 percent as of 3:36 p.m. in Tokyo after earlier reaching
the least all year.  Japan’s is the second-lowest 10-year rate after
 Switzerland ’s among developed markets tracked by Bloomberg. The
10-year U.S. yield reached a record low 1.8081 percent today,
while the yen slipped 0.3 percent to 76.72 per dollar.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, the extra yield
investors demand to hold corporate bonds, excluding the debt of
power companies and banks, was unchanged at 22 basis points
yesterday, after reaching a post-quake high of 27 basis points
on May 11, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Japan
Industrial Index.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 10 basis points to
194 as of 9:43 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show.  Spreads on Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s 4.5 percent euro-
denominated notes due in 2014 widened 199.8 basis points this
month to 1,168.2 over the euro swap rate, the highest since June
9, BNP Paribas SA prices show.  Credit-Linked Notes  The increase in credit-default swaps prices has prompted
Japanese investors to scoop up so-called credit-linked notes,
according Takayuki Atake, the Tokyo-based chief credit analyst
at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., one of the 25 primary dealers
obliged to bid at government debt sales.  Credit-linked notes are securities backed by payments from
credit-default swaps. Investors typically purchase the notes for
higher yields or get tailored maturities that may not be
available in the  bond market .  The rising default swaps are “favorable for credit-linked
notes,” Atake said. Domestic investors are buying such
securities because “they don’t really care about the sovereign
credit risk of Japan.”  Fifty-six percent of Japan’s household assets were bank
deposits and cash, according to a Sept. 20  report  from the
nation’s central bank. Savings totaled 829 trillion yen, or more
than the combined annual economic output of China and  Germany .  Biggest Investors  Domestic banks are the biggest investors in Japan’s bonds,
accounting for 45 percent of the total ownership as of March,
 data  from the Ministry of Finance report showed.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week reduced its
growth forecast for Japan’s economy in 2012, predicting an
expansion of 2.3 percent compared with the 2.9 percent pace
projected in June.  “Bond yields reflect a nation’s growth and inflation
prospects, so a worsening of Japan’s economic fundamentals will
drive down yields even if bond investors have a similar view”
to that of default-swap holders, said Mizuho’s Suehiro. “For
domestic banks, the safest investment is yen-denominated
assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  