-- 
Democrats Back Bill Ending Discrimination for Jobless

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-09-21T16:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/democrats-back-measure-to-end-job-discrimination-for-unemployed.html
(Corrects Gohmert’s state to Texas in seventh paragraph.)  U.S. companies must be stopped from
rejecting applications from the unemployed, Democratic lawmakers
said as they urged Congress to pass legislation to help protect
those without a job.  The laws would prevent employers and hiring agencies from
refusing to consider or hire applicants who are out of work,
Representative Hank Johnson, a Georgia Democrat, said today.
Bills also would bar language in job ads that would disqualify
the unemployed.  “The legislation levels the playing field for the
unemployed,” Johnson said at a news conference attended by
Representative Rosa DeLauro and Senator  Richard Blumenthal , both
from  Connecticut . “All they want is a fair shake.”  Democrats say legislation is vital to curb long-term
unemployment. Business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce say few employers balk at hiring those without a
current job and legislation isn’t necessary. Provisions of the
bills are included in President Barack Obama’s jobs bill,
submitted to Congress on Sept. 12.  Congress today received a petition with 250,000 names in
support of ending discrimination against the unemployed, said
David Elliot, a spokesman with the Washington-based USAction, a
federation of 22 state affiliates that advocates for human-
service programs and support for public education.  U.S. unemployment has been at or above 9 percent for 26 of
the past 28 months, according to a Sept. 2 report from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. The average length of unemployment,
seasonally adjusted, rose to 40 weeks in August from 34 weeks in
the year-earlier month.  Unemployed Excluded  The proposed law might lead employers to exclude the
unemployed from a pool of applicants, to avoid lawsuits from an
jobless candidate who isn’t hired, Representative Louie Gohmert,
a  Texas  Republican, said in an interview.  “If you have an opening, you may then be more likely to
look for someone who’s already employed,” Gohmert said.  A study of hiring sites Careerbuilder.com, Monster.com and
Indeed.com in March and April by the New York-based National
Employment Law Project found more than 150 postings that said
applicants needed a job. The study didn’t include the total ads
reviewed.  Blumenthal said he’s seen advertisements for a paralegal
and in insurance and hospitality industries that required the
applicant to be employed.  “They add to the quicksand of unemployment,” he said.
Such practices hurt minorities and younger workers, including
recent college graduates, Blumenthal said.  Indeed, Monster  Indeed Inc.’s Indeed.com, a website backed by companies
including the New York Times Co. and Allen & Co., on Aug. 25
began adopting measures to block such ads that discriminate
against the unemployed from search results, spokesman Michael
Werch said in an e-mail. Indeed is based in  Stamford ,
Connecticut.  Matthew Henson, a spokesman for New York-based  Monster
Worldwide Inc. (MWW) ’s Monster.com jobs website, and Jennifer Grasz, a
spokeswoman for the Chicago-based CareerBuilder job site owned
by Gannett Co., Tribune Co. and  McClatchy Co. (MNI) , didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  Legislation isn’t needed because discrimination isn’t
widespread,  Michael Eastman , executive director of labor law
policy at the Washington-based U.S. Chamber, the largest U.S.
business group, said in an e-mail.  “I am only aware of a tiny handful of examples of this
occurring in the real world, and no one has made the case of how
current law is failing,” Eastman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  