-- 
German Stocks Fall as Fed Signals ‘Downside Risks’; BMW Drops

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-22T15:53:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/deutsche-telekom-metro-ag-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated the most in
two weeks as the  Federal Reserve  signaled “significant downside
risks” to the  U.S. economy  and Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded three American banks.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s biggest
lenders, sank more than 6 percent.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and
 Salzgitter AG (SZG)  fell with metal prices.  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  led a selloff in European carmakers, both
declining more than 5 percent.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 5 percent to 5,164.21 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, as all the index’s members
retreated. The gauge has fallen 31 percent from this year’s high
on May 2 amid concern that the global economic recovery is at
risk from Europe’s debt crisis. The broader HDAX Index also
dropped 5 percent today.  “The market doesn’t like uncertainty and it will remain
volatile as long as nobody is coming up with a political
solution in Europe,” said  Markus Wallner , a senior equity
strategist at Commerzbank in  Frankfurt . “Nobody is interested
in company fundamentals or valuations at the moment. Everyone is
only looking at macro-economic issues.”  The Fed will replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce
borrowing costs further and counter rising risks of a recession.  Downside Risks  The central bank will buy securities with maturities of 6
to 30 years through June while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less, the Federal Open Market
Committee said late yesterday after a two-day meeting.  The action “should put downward pressure on longer-term
 interest rates  and help make broader financial conditions more
accommodative,” the FOMC said, adding that “there are
significant downside risks to the economic outlook, including
strains in global financial markets.”  China ’s manufacturing may shrink for a third month in
September, the longest contraction since 2009, after a
preliminary index of purchasing managers showed measures of
export orders and output declined. The reading of 49.4 for the
index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
compares with a final 49.9 for August and 49.3 for July. The
gauge was below 50, the level that separates expansion from
contraction, for eight months through March 2009.  Europe  Concerns  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted for
the first time in more than two years in September. A composite
index based on a survey of purchasing managers in both
industries fell below 50 for the first time since July 2009,
Markit Economics said in an initial estimate today. The index
declined to 49.2 this month from 50.7 in August. Economists had
forecast a drop to 49.8, according to the median of 17 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  World Bank President Robert Zoellick said the global
economy has entered a critical phase, with developing countries
facing growing challenges and the temptation to consider
protectionist trade policies.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank tumbled 8.4 percent to 21.90
euros and 6.4 percent to 1.56 euros, respectively. Moody’s
downgraded the long-term credit ratings of Bank of America Corp.
and  Wells Fargo & Co ., along with Citigroup Inc.’s short-term
rating, saying U.S. support has become less likely if lenders
get into financial trouble.  Steelmakers Slip  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s largest steelmaker, slid 7.9
percent to 18.74 euros, while Salzgitter, the second-biggest,
lost 7.6 percent to 34.72 euros. Aluminum, copper, lead, nickel
and zinc all retreated on the London Metal Exchange today.  BMW and Daimler, the world’s largest makers of luxury cars,
slid 5.5 percent to 52.99 euros and 7.5 percent to 32.74 euros,
respectively. European carmakers, as a group, have lost 10
percent over the last four days, headed for the biggest weekly
drop in a month.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  sank 5.8 percent to 9.16 euros after FedEx
Corp., operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline, cut its
full-year profit forecast amid declining demand in the U.S. and
Asia.  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ)  fell 9.5 percent to 17.01 euros, the
lowest in two years, after Bankhaus Metzler cut the shares to
“sell” from “buy.” The stock plunged 19 percent yesterday
after the company said it will have a one-time charge of about
97 million euros ($131 million) in the third quarter because of
unpaid bills from Serbian drug wholesalers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  