-- 
Deutsche Bank Plans Return to Brazil Asset-Management Business

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-09-21T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/deutsche-bank-plans-return-to-brazil-asset-management-business.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the German bank
that left the Brazilian asset-management industry in 2003, plans
to return to that business as part of an expansion in  Latin
America .  “Latin America is definitely the place where the growth is
coming from,” Bernardo Parnes, head of the company’s Brazilian
operations and chief executive officer for a new Latin America
division, said in an interview last week in Sao Paulo. “We are
thinking of using the help of the bigger Brazilian banks to
distribute our funds.”  Acquisitions weren’t an option after rivals purchased the
last big independent asset-management firms, Parnes, 51, said.
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  bought a controlling stake in Hedging-
Griffo in 2006, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  bought 55 percent of
Gavea Investimentos Ltda last year. Brazil’s asset-management
industry has about 1.8 trillion reais ($1 trillion) in assets,
according to  Anbima , the local investment bank and capital
markets association.  Buying companies with less than 1 billion reais in funds
wouldn’t be worth the trouble, because of the costs associated
with making their systems and compliance policies conform to
Deutsche Bank’s, Parnes said.  Deutsche Bank sold one of two former asset-management
divisions to  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  in 2002. The second, Max Blue
Investimentos Distribuidora de Titulos e Valores Mobiliarios,
was Deutsche Bank’s asset-management unit for wealthy clients.
Banco do Brasil bought the 50.1 percent of Max Blue it didn’t
already own in 2003.  ‘Difficult Industry’  “It is a very difficult industry,” Parnes said. “The fees
tend to be zero on the institutional side, and you have to be a
big bank with a lot of branches to have distribution power on a
retail operation in a country as big as  Brazil .”  Parnes, who left Bradesco in August 2008 to become
president of Deutsche Bank in Brazil, said his priority has been
to build the corporate and investment bank. Deutsche Bank has
420 employees in Brazil, including workers from outsourcing
services. That’s 23 percent more than in August of 2010 and 60
percent higher than in December 2009. The bank works with more
than 600 clients.  Deutsche Bank operations in Brazil include debt and
equities sales and trading, corporate finance and mergers and
acquisitions. It also offers global transaction banking, which
comprises commercial-banking products and services including
cross-border payments, risk mitigation for international trade
and the provision of trust agency and custody for investors.  Independent Division  The creation of an independent division for Latin America
will give more autonomy to the region, according to Parnes.
Latin America was previously a region within the Americas for
Deutsche Bank. The bank’s other independent regions are  North
America , Germany,  Europe , United Kingdom, Mena (Middle East and
North Africa), Asia and  Japan .  “This comes to me as no surprise,” he said. “When I was
interviewed to become Deutsche’s Brazil president, Josef Ackermann, the global chief executive officer, said: ‘Fix Brazil
and if it goes right, you will get Latin America.’”  The main focus of the new region will be Brazil and  Mexico ,
he said. Deutsche Bank has 730 full-time employees dedicated to
Latin America, including 200 in  New York . The bank also has a
local presence in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Peru and Mexico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  