-- 
Dollar Strengthens Before Federal Reserve’s Decision; Franc, Kiwi Decline

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-21T15:57:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/dollar-index-rises-before-federal-reserve-meeting-yen-advances.html
The dollar strengthened against the
majority of its most-traded counterparts amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will announce further stimulus for the world’s
biggest economy that won’t debase the currency.  The yen traded at almost its postwar high versus the dollar
as concern the global economy is slowing stoked haven demand.
New Zealand’s dollar weakened after the nation’s current account
deficit widened more than forecast. The Swiss franc slid as an
adviser to the central bank told Tages-Anzeiger it’s possible
policy makers will tighten the cap on the currency’s strength.  “Everyone’s waiting to see what happens with the Fed,”
said  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist in New York at BNP
Paribas SA. “What remains key is going to be what they signal
for the future, if they leave the door open to more easing. It
looks like a risk-off day and as a result you’re seeing the
dollar do well and the yen do well.”  The U.S. currency rose versus 13 of its 16 most-traded
peers. The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against
the currencies of six U.S. trading partners, gained as much as
0.5 percent before trading at 77.077 at 11:43 a.m. in  New York ,
less than one percentage point below an almost seven-month high
reached Sept. 12.  The yen rose 0.1 percent to 76.40 per dollar, after earlier
reaching 76.12, the strongest since Aug. 19, when it reached a
post World War II record of 75.95. The euro erased its loss
against the dollar and rose as much as 0.2 percent to $1.3724.  ‘Very Cautious’  “People are very cautious in not wanting to have too much
long dollar exposure into the Fed decision,” said  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy in New York
at Deutsche Bank AG. “I don’t think any impact is likely to be
longstanding because events in  Europe  absolutely trump anything
the Fed is likely to do.”  Analysts are forecasting the Fed will buy longer-maturity
debt and sell shorter-dated securities in its portfolio,
mimicking a 1961 policy known as “Operation Twist,” in a bid
to lower the cost of long-term mortgages and spark a rebound in
the U.S. housing market.  “Operation Twist” would lengthen the average duration of
bonds in the Fed’s portfolio while not expanding the size of its
balance sheet. That differs from quantitative easing, a program
in which the Fed bought $2.35 trillion since 2008 in an effort
to stimulate the economy. That balance sheet expansion caused an
increase of dollar supply in the market, debasing the currency.  Fed Actions  “The dollar has been undermined by quantitative easing
because it has caused a huge drop in short-term yields,” said
Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research in London at
Societe Generale SA. “This time round it could drive shorter-
dated yields higher, which at the margin is likely to be dollar
positive.”  The Dollar Index fell 3.9 percent from November through
June, during the Fed’s last round of quantitative easing.  The Swiss franc fell versus the euro as Ernst Baltensperger, an adviser to the  Swiss National Bank , said he
considers it possible that policy makers will soon increase the
franc ceiling versus the euro to 1.25, the newspaper reported,
citing an interview.  The franc lost 0.8 percent to 1.2262 per euro after
reaching 1.2327, the weakest since July 5. It fell 0.7 percent
to 89.36 centimes per dollar, after touching 89.87 centimes, the
weakest level since April 20.  Franc Watch  Swiss central bank spokesman Walter Meier in Zurich
declined yesterday to comment when asked about speculation that
policy makers may adjust the franc ceiling against the euro.  Brazil ’s real fell the most among the 16 major currencies
and reached its lowest level in 15 months. The currency dropped
1.9 percent to 1.8375 per dollar and touched 1.8275, the weakest
level since June 2010.  New Zealand ’s dollar dropped for a third straight day
against the dollar after a report showed the nation’s current-
account deficit was NZ$921 million ($757 million) in the second
quarter, wider than the median estimate of a NZ$671 million
shortfall forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The kiwi, as the currency is known, dropped 1.2 percent to
81.40 U.S. cents.  Canada ’s currency fell to parity with its U.S. counterpart
as concern economic growth is slowing damped demand for riskier
assets. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said yesterday he
may keep  interest rates  low beyond when full output is restored
as the domestic recovery is hobbled by a weak economy in the
U.S., the nation’s biggest trade partner.  The Canadian dollar weakened 0.5 percent to 99.80 cents per
 U.S. dollar  and touched C$1.0001, the first time it traded
beyond parity since Sept. 12.  Greek Update  The European Union said a second round of talks with Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos and the  International
Monetary Fund  aimed at staving off default made “good
progress.” The statement said a “full mission” will return to
 Athens  next week.  “The fact that the negotiations are ongoing and, torturous
though they may be, they probably will get their 8 billion to
keep them funded in October,” said  Sean Callow , a senior
currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp.,
 Australia ’s second-largest lender. “That’s making it difficult
for the euro to move sharply lower near term.”  Callow advised that investors sell the currency if it gains
above $1.38.  The euro has depreciated 1.4 percent in the past month
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has appreciated 4.4
percent while the yen has gained 4.5 percent.  ‘Old Safe-Haven’  The yen rose to as high as 76.12 per dollar after breaking
through so-called resistance near 76.35, according to Junichi Ishikawa, a Tokyo-based market analyst at IG Markets Securities
Ltd.  Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi told reporters in  Tokyo 
today he’s closely watching markets and will take “bold”
action on currencies if needed.  The pound slid versus most of its major peers after minutes
of the Bank of England’s most-recent meeting showed policy
makers said growth in the second half of 2011 may be
“materially weaker” than projected in August. The central bank
kept its key rate at a record low of 0.5 percent in September
and left bond purchases at 200 billion pounds ($314 billion).  The pound fell 0.7 percent to $1.5626 after reaching
$1.5614, the weakest since Jan. 12. It was 0.9 percent weaker at
87.84 pence per euro, snapping a three-day advance.  Norway’s krone weakened versus all but one of its 16 major
peers as Norges Bank kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 2.25
percent for a third consecutive meeting, saying the rate is
likely to remain low for a longer period than previously
expected. The krone lost 0.7 percent to 5.6669 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  