-- 
Dollar Climbs as Fed Stimulus Fuels Economic Concern, Refuge Bid

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-21T21:11:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/dollar-climbs-as-federal-reserve-says-it-will-buy-longer-maturity-debt.html
The dollar rose against all of its
major counterparts after the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to shift
holdings of Treasuries to keep the economy from falling into
recession increased the refuge appeal of the currency.  Brazil ’s real and South Africa’s rand were the biggest
losers against the greenback as stocks and commodities tumbled.
The U.S. currency rallied as the  Federal Open Market Committee 
acted to increase holdings of longer-maturity Treasuries and
reinvest in mortgage securities in a bid to limit borrowing
costs and boost economic growth and jobs. Canada’s dollar traded
above parity for the first time in more than a week the euro
fell to a 10-year low against the yen.  “This is a safe-haven currency and their worry about the
significant risks to the downside for the economy are dollar
bullish,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a New York-based analyst at
the futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd. “The economic
backdrop is still negative and there is still confusion over
what is going to happen in  Europe .”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 1 percent to 77.803 at 5 p.m. in New
York.  The dollar rose 0.9 percent to $1.3573 per euro. The 17-
nation currency weakened 1 percent to 103.76, the lowest level
since 2001. The greenback was little changed at 76.46 yen.  Fed Twist  The Fed said it will buy $400 billion of bonds with
maturities of six to 30 years through June while selling an
equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less. About 32
percent of the purchases will be in Treasuries maturing from
six- to eight-years. The Fed will also reinvest maturing
mortgage debt into mortgage-backed securities instead of
Treasuries.  “The markets were looking for some easing and they got it
in the form of this operation to extend the duration of the
Fed’s Treasury holdings.” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency
strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “Since we didn’t
get QE3, it should not damage the dollar significantly and we’re
seeing a modest bounce in the greenback.”  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed statement said.  The action is intended to “put downward pressure on
longer-term  interest rates  and help make broader financial
conditions more accommodative,” the FOMC said in a statement.
Three officials dissented, the same as at the prior meeting in
August.  Helping Out  “The Fed believes the economy really needs some help, even
though inflation is not zero,” said  Andy Richman , who oversees
$10 billion as a strategist in  Palm Beach , Florida for SunTrust
Bank’s private wealth management division. “Some of the
language in the statement was disconcerting to some people, and
that’s why we are seeing some of the selling in equities. The
message is the Fed really things the economy needs help, and
that is not comforting.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.9 percent. The S&P
GSCI Index of raw materials declined 0.8 percent.  The Canadian currency traded above parity with the  U.S.
dollar  for the first time since Sept. 12.  Canada ’s dollar fell
1.6 percent to 1.0081 per dollar, from 99.27 cents yesterday.  South Africa’s rand fell 6.7 percent to 8.2521 per dollar,
from 7.7371. Brazil’s real slumped 5.1 percent to 1.8756, from
1.7855.  Economic Downgrade  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday that the
world’s largest economy will expand 1.5 percent this year, down
from the 2.5 percent projected in June and lowered its forecast
for 2012, citing unresolved debt-reduction concerns and waning
confidence among consumers and businesses.  The yen rose to as high as 76.12 per dollar before the
statement after breaking through so-called resistance near
76.35, according to Junichi Ishikawa, a Tokyo-based market
analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd.  Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi told reporters in  Tokyo 
today he’s closely watching markets and will take “bold”
action on currencies if needed.  The Swiss franc fell versus the euro as Ernst Baltensperger, an adviser to the  Swiss National Bank , said he
considers it possible that policy makers will soon increase the
franc ceiling versus the euro to 1.25, the newspaper reported,
citing an interview.  The franc lost 0.5 percent to 1.2215 per euro after
reaching 1.2327, the weakest since July 5. It fell 1.4 percent
to 90 centimes per dollar, after touching 89.87 centimes, the
weakest level since April 20.  Swiss central bank spokesman Walter Meier in Zurich
declined yesterday to comment when asked about speculation that
policy makers may adjust the franc ceiling against the euro.  The dollar had declined 1.2 percent this year against the
nine developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes before the statement. The euro has
increased 0.3 percent and the yen has gained 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  