-- 
Dominion Presses Reluctant U.S. on Starting Quake-Hit Plant

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-09-21T21:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/dominion-presses-reluctant-u-s-on-starting-quake-hit-plant.html
Dominion Resources Inc. says the
nuclear plant shaken by an earthquake in  Virginia  last month is
just about ready to resume operations. The U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission’s response: Not so fast.  Dominion expects to have one of its two North Anna reactors
shut down during the temblor set to start generating electricity
by the end of this month, pending regulatory approval, spokesman
Richard Zuercher said yesterday in an interview.  “The NRC will take the appropriate amount of time
necessary to be satisfied” that resuming operations doesn’t
endanger public health and safety, agency spokesman Scott Burnell said in an e-mail.  Regulators are using the 33-year-old Dominion plant as a
model to re-evaluate earthquake risks because seismic hazards
for some nuclear plants in the eastern and central U.S. may be
greater than anticipated, Bloomberg Government reported. Of the
104 commercial U.S. reactors, only eight are  located  west of the
 Rocky Mountains , where quake hazards are better known, and 52
are at least 30 years old.  “North Anna certainly represents the first ‘real-world’
experience in comparing the earlier seismic analyses with what
can be accomplished with today’s methods,” Burnell said
yesterday. Larry Lane, Dominion’s site vice president for the
Virginia plant, told reporters on a Sept. 2 tour that “North
Anna is the test case.”  While the NRC began its earthquake survey in 2005, it
didn’t gather public attention until after the March disaster at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in
 Japan , caused by an earthquake and tsunami.  Tests by Dominion  Dominion, owner of Virginia’s largest electric utility,
filed on Sept. 17 for permission to start the North Anna
reactors as soon as the company completes a list of tests and
examinations.  The NRC staff will discuss its inspectors’ preliminary
findings during a public meeting on Oct. 3 at the plant, about
40 miles (64 kilometers) northwest of Dominion’s Richmond
headquarters. A final report should be released by the end of
October, although North Anna’s restart isn’t tied to the report,
Burnell said.  The 5.8-magnitude temblor on Aug. 23, Virginia’s worst in
more than a century, exceeded the plant’s design limits,
Dominion officials have said. North Anna’s twin reactors, which
together can power about 450,000 homes, have been shut since the
quake struck about 11 miles from the plant.  NRC Audit  “The NRC has to review all of the actions that we have
taken,” Jim Norvelle, a Dominion spokesman, said in an e-mail.
The agency this week is auditing information the company
provided in its inspections at the plant, he said.  The earthquake caused no significant damage at North Anna,
Dominion has said. A transformer was damaged and cosmetic cracks
opened in non-safety related structures, according to the
utility. Steel containers of nuclear waste that weigh more than
100 tons shifted as much as 4.5 inches.  “If North Anna says they’re going to be ready by the end
of this month, I would hope that the NRC would be ready by the
end of next month,”  Dale Klein , a former commission chairman
who is associate vice chancellor for research at the University
of Texas System in Austin, said in a telephone interview.  By the end of the year, the agency plans to develop an
earthquake probability model for reactor owners to use, Burnell
said in an interview. The NRC will require all U.S. plants to
review seismic risks within the next two years, he said. The NRC
may determine whether “there is a need to take additional
action,” the agency said in a Sept. 1 Federal Register notice.  ‘Not Realistic’  The schedule for the work is “not realistic,” Tony
Pietrangelo, the  Nuclear Energy Institute ’s senior vice
president and chief nuclear officer, said today at a meeting
with NRC staff. “It is going to take longer than the one to two
years” to obtain new seismic information, analyze it and
determine whether changes need to be made, he said.  Dominion may receive a license to add a third reactor by
2013, and the NRC has evaluated that proposal under more modern
earthquake predictions.  “If you use the updated seismic analysis, a new plant
there would be perfectly fine,” NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko 
said in a Sept. 7 interview. “What do we do with those plants
that are out there, and how do we get them to the same
standard?”  An NRC task force set up after the Fukushima crisis to
study U.S. reactor safety proposed in July that plant owners
review earthquake and flooding risks every 10 years and upgrade
as needed. Jaczko supports the every-decade review.  Reactor owners favor reviewing seismic information “as it
emerges” rather than on a set schedule, the Washington-based
Nuclear Energy Institute industry group, said in comments sent
to the NRC on Sept. 2.  27 Reactors  The NRC identified 27 reactors in the central and eastern
U.S., including North Anna, that may have a greater-than-
expected seismic risk. Among them are  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s  Indian
Point , about 24 miles north of  New York City ;  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK) ’s Oconee close to Greenville,  South Carolina ; and  Exelon
Corp. (EXC) ’s Dresden near Joliet,  Illinois .  Indian Point is close to the intersection of two seismic
zones where a 7-magnitude earthquake is possible, identified in
2008 by scientists at  Columbia University ’s Lamont-Doherty Earth
Observatory.  The reactors are designed to withstand a 6.5-magnitude
earthquake, and company engineers think it can handle 7.0 or
greater,  Jerry Nappi , a spokesman for the plant, said in an
interview. Indian Point’s seismic monitoring instruments were
replaced last year, he said.  Field Monitors  After the Virginia quake, Dominion installed “free-field”
monitors to get a better reading of future seismic activity. The
1970s-era instruments inside the plant were “probably not
accurate within 10 percent” and possibly as much as 20 percent,
William Leith, earthquake hazards program coordinator at the
 U.S. Geological Survey , said at an NRC meeting Sept. 14.  “Utilities across the nation will be watching” what the
NRC requires of Dominion following the Virginia temblor, Sam Blakeslee, a California state legislator who has called for more
stringent seismic reviews of  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s Diablo Canyon plant in
his district. “If the NRC loses its nerve now, it’s unlikely
that the utilities will prioritize their seismic, flooding and
fire analyses” more than they have done previously, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  