-- 
Bearish Bets on Health-care Companies Rise

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-09-21T20:32:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/drug-etf-puts-at-three-year-high-as-pfizer-bears-climb-options.html
Bearish options on U.S. health-care
companies have climbed higher than those in any other U.S.
industry, with prices reaching the most since 2008, as American
and European budget cuts threaten sales.  Puts to sell the  Health Care Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLV)  cost
56 percent more than calls to buy the exchange-traded fund, the
highest level among U.S. ETF options with average daily volume
of at least 1,000 contracts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fund, which tracks Pfizer Inc., Johnson &
Johnson, Merck & Co. and 49 other companies, gained 4.8 percent
this year through yesterday, versus a 4.4 percent loss for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  President Barack Obama’s deficit proposal would cut $320
billion from U.S. health programs, reducing the amount the
government pays for drugs and increasing individuals’ payments
for Medicare coverage, according to the plan released Sept. 19.
Austerity measures in  Germany ,  France , Spain and other European
nations will lower payments for pharmaceuticals by as much as 25
percent and substitute generic drugs over branded names,
reducing profit margins.  “If the budget cuts come down pretty hard on this area,
that would be tough,”  Mark Demos , who helps oversee $18 billion
at Fifth Third Asset Management in  Minneapolis , said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Investors are very sensitive to
 government spending . Investors will start asking the companies,
‘How much are you exposed to the cut to this program or that
program?’ and that should provide a lot of uncertainty.”  Implied Volatility  Implied volatility, the key gauge of options prices, for
three-month options 10 percent below the ETF’s price is 30.38,
or 56 percent higher than the 19.42 level for calls 10 percent
above. The spread of 10.96 points exceeds the 7.61 average over
the past five years and compares with the Sept. 16 level of
14.87, the widest since October 2008.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the VIX, rose 4.5 percent to 37.32 at 4:15 p.m.  New York  time
after the  Federal Reserve  announced plans to buy $400 billion of
long-term debt and said there are “significant downside risks”
to the economic outlook. The gauge of  S&P 500  contracts dropped
32 percent from a 29-month high on Aug. 8 through yesterday.  Europe’s VStoxx Index, which measures the price of options
to protect against Euro Stoxx 50 Index losses, rose 3.2 percent
to 44.14 today.  Government programs face cuts after the 2012 elections as
policy makers confront forecasts showing health-care spending
will consume 20 percent of the economy in 2020, according to
data compiled by the Office of the Actuary at the U.S. Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The potential for less
spending on Medicare and Medicaid may translate into lower
payments to hospitals, insurers and drug companies.  $3 Trillion Plan  The health-care proposals are part of a $3 trillion package
of spending cuts and tax increases to trim the  U.S. budget
deficit . Republican leaders in Congress, such as House Speaker
 John Boehner  of  Ohio , said they wouldn’t accept tax increases
and urged a congressional debt panel to scale back entitlement
programs such as Medicare, the U.S. health program for the
elderly and disabled.  “No country is going to be able to afford to increase the
percentage of GDP spent on health care,” Roche Diagnostics
Chief Operating Officer Daniel O’Day said in an Aug. 23
interview. “What they’re all looking for is how we can take
this certain pie we have for health care and better leverage it
for society.”  Debt Crisis  The sovereign-debt crisis in Europe has added to concern
about the industry.  Spain  adopted measures including cuts to
health spending on Aug. 19 in an effort to save an additional 5
billion euros ($6.9 billion).  Greece ’s unpaid hospital bills
forced drugmakers including  Australia ’s largest, Parkville-based
CSL Ltd., and  Roche Holding AG  of Basel,  Switzerland , to write
down the value of bonds from the cash-strapped government’s
health-care system.  “There’s a large amount of uncertainty as to what the
downside is,” William Hillegass, head of health-care equity
derivatives trading for the Americas at Barclays Plc in New
York, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We don’t know
what’s finally going to get through in the U.S. as far as
entitlement reforms. In Europe, branded pharmaceuticals have
really been impacted by the austerity programs.”  Steven Campanini, a spokesman for Merck, and Al Wasilewski,
a spokesman for  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , declined to comment on the
options trading. Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, didn’t
return a phone call seeking comment.  Health Valuation  Health-care stocks in the S&P 500 trade for 12 times
reported earnings, or 9 percent below the valuation for the
entire index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Only two
out of 10 industries, financials and energy, are cheaper in
relation to the S&P 500, even after the group rallied 4.8
percent in 2011 for the second-biggest advance. Before this
year, health-care stocks on average had a valuation 7.5 percent
higher than the index, according to data since 1993.  The stocks have fallen enough to reflect lost business from
changes in regulations, and the group will benefit from aging
populations in the U.S. and  Europe , according to  David James ,
who helps oversee $2.5 billion including 600,000 Pfizer shares
as a senior vice president of James Investment Research Inc. in
Alpha, Ohio.  “There’s more opportunity than people think,” James said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  Merck’s bearish options trade at 1.46 times the level for
bullish ones, near the four-year high of 1.49 on July 25 that
preceded a 17 percent slide to a two-year low on Aug. 10.
Pfizer, Abbott Laboratories and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., three
of the ETF’s top six holdings, also have skew levels that are
near the highest in the past five years.  Biggest Increase  Seven of the 10 contracts linked to the ETF with the
biggest increase in ownership over the past 14 days were puts,
Bloomberg data show. The March $28 puts, 15 percent below the
ETF’s price at yesterday’s close, had the largest gain in open
interest, adding 10,000 options to 10,228, followed by March $24
puts and October $32 puts. The January $30 puts had the most
outstanding contracts, the data show.  “The headline risk to health care is all about cost-
cutting,” Lillian Seidman Davis, an options strategist with a
concentration in health care at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The market is telling
you that there’s risk to the downside. When skew is priced this
high, it’s a cautionary signal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  