-- 
The Parisian Roots of Marx’s Economic Theories: Mary Gabriel

-- B y   M a r y   G a b r i e l
-- 
2011-09-21T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/the-parisian-roots-of-marx-s-economic-theories-commentary-by-mary-gabriel.html
Throughout history there have been
moments when Paris was the center of the creative universe --and
1843 was one of them.  Everyone, whether of real or imagined import, was there,
and everyone was politicized. French, German, Russian, Polish,
Hungarian and Italian reformers mingled with painters, poets,
novelists, composers and philosophers who had begun to celebrate
the real rather than the ideal in their works.  Dr.  Karl Marx  and his wife, Jenny, mingled easily with
Parisian radical and democratic circles where, for the first
time, they were introduced to society as a married couple. Marx
was proud of Jenny -- not only of her beauty, which even amid
the celebrated women of Paris was remarked upon, but also of her
intelligence.  From the earliest days of their marriage, he regarded Jenny
as an intellectual equal, and that was no mere token sentiment:
Marx was ruthless when it came to things of the mind, and he
would not have relied on Jenny’s judgment if he did not think
she was in fact brilliant. Indeed, throughout his life Marx held
only one other person in a position of such high esteem and
trust, and that was his alter ego and collaborator,  Friedrich
Engels . But where Engels understood and supported Marx
intellectually, Jenny also humanized him.  Public Brawling  In private Marx was warm, loving, kind and generally
described as excellent company when he was not plagued by
sleepless nights or stricken by disease, both due to anxiety
over his work. In public, however, he was most often fiercely
argumentative, intellectually arrogant and notoriously impatient
with anyone who disagreed with him. His frequent drinking
episodes with colleagues throughout the years in Bonn, Berlin
and Cologne often devolved into verbal if not physical fights.
And while the arguments may have invigorated him, they also
distracted him. He was happiest buried in his books (which he
called his “slaves”).  Jenny was 29 and Marx 25 when they arrived in Paris. Marx
had been hired to work for an emigre newspaper, the  Deutsche-
Franzosische Jahrbucher , or German-French Yearbook. The monthly
publication was funded by  Arnold Ruge , a Prussian political
writer who had spent six years in jail because of his liberal
ideas, and Julius Froebel, a Zurich-based professor who ran an
important publishing company.  Arrest Order  The paper, however, did not find a readership in Paris and
was so radical that it was blocked at the German border. Ruge
and  Froebel  cut the funding, and Jenny’s fears that her husband
would not be allowed to return home were realized: Prussian
governors were instructed to arrest Marx and Ruge -- as well as
two contributors to the Deutsche-Franzosische Jahrbucher, the
poet Heinrich Heine and a former newspaper editor expelled from
Bavaria named F.C. Bernays -- as soon as they stepped onto
Prussian soil, the charge against them high treason.  Among the articles the Prussians found offensive were two
that Marx had begun during his honeymoon. One was a critique of
 Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel , and the other was titled “ On the
Jewish Question .” Both incorporated lessons learned during his
years as a student in Berlin and as a journalist in Cologne but
also displayed a new French influence, especially his discussion
of the as-yet barely recognized proletariat.  Derived from the Latin word proletarius, which meant the
lowest class or those without property, the term as applied by
Marx referred to victims of social change. These were not people
who were historically poor; the proletariat of the 19th century
had once been able to support themselves but had become
casualties of so-called economic and industrial advances that,
among other things, replaced men with machines and the cheaper
labor of women and children, or cut their wages by either
reducing the time they worked or increasing their hours without
raising their pay.  Emancipated Proletariat  In his critique of Hegel, Marx posited that theory alone
could not create a revolution, but the proletariat, powered by
the brute strength born of injustice and armed with philosophy,
could. “The head of this emancipation is philosophy,” he said,
“its heart is the proletariat.”  In tackling the “Jewish Question,” Marx looked at
religion not as a theological issue but as a social and
political one. The Jew in early 19th-century  Germany  functioned
largely within the mercantile and financial trades, the unspoken
but sanctioned areas allotted to him by the state that had
helped shape how Jews were viewed by society and each other.
Since 1816, when Marx’s own father chose to enter society as a
Christian, Jews in Prussia had not had equal rights. In the
early 1840s, however, the rights and role of Jews in society
were being examined anew.  ‘Jewish Question’  In his  treatise  Marx considered how religion was used in
day-to-day affairs in Germany, whether that be Christianity in
the political arena or the Jewish dominance of the marketplace,
and what freedom from religion would mean in nontheological
terms. He argued that in the case of Jews, their main activity,
finance, had become integral to the state’s very existence and
concluded that liberating Jews from the confines of that
commercial activity (which had, he felt, become the essence of
Judaism), and thereby depriving the state of its benefit, would
precipitate the German social revolution he sought. The state
could not stand if one of its pillars -- in this case finance --
crumbled; the government Marx and his fellows despised would
collapse.  Pushing Boundaries  Marx’s two Jahrbucher articles addressed entirely different
subjects, but both concerned the future of the German
Confederation and both ended with its dissolution. With them,
Marx had gone well beyond anything he had written while gently
jousting with censors during a brief tenure as a writer in
Cologne a year earlier. In Paris the restrictions on his writing
had been lifted, and through this French prism the tendency of
his writing bent toward revolution.  By the time the Jahrbucher folded, Jenny was seven months
pregnant and the couple’s financial situation was precarious.
The first Marx child was born on May 1, 1844. Little Jenny, or
Jennychen, was named after her mother but had the black eyes and
hair of her father. Neither Jenny nor Karl had any real
experience with infants. Jenny, the daughter of an  aristocrat ,
had been raised in a house full of servants, where children were
handed over to nurses as soon as they were born. And Karl was so
disengaged from his family that he had long behaved as though he
were an only child, despite having seven siblings. Their
bohemian friends in Paris, who rose at 5 p.m. and stayed awake
until 5 a.m. at cafes, salons and restaurants, were no help
either, so Jenny and Karl struggled along with Jennychen as best
they could until, at one point, the infant appeared gravely ill.  Help From Heine  Help arrived from an unlikely source:  Heine . The 46-year-
old poet, still coping with partial paralysis, who had never had
a child himself, climbed the stairs to the Marx apartment to
find the young parents frantic because their daughter was having
convulsions. Heine took charge, ordered hot water and gave the
baby a bath. Jennychen recovered, but her traumatized parents
did not: They decided Jenny should take the child back to her
parents’ home in Trier, where her mother could help guide
Jennychen through her dangerous first months.  Jenny reluctantly boarded a coach for the Rhineland in
early June, leaving Karl alone in Paris. As mother and child
headed east, Jenny worried. They had not been married a year,
and she feared Karl would fall victim to “the real menace of
unfaithfulness, the seductions and attractions of a capital
city.”  She needn’t have worried. Marx was indeed preoccupied
during her absence, but it was not with other women. While she
was away he descended into the subterranean world of secret
societies, and began his first real exploration of economics.  (Mary Gabriel is the author of the biographies “Notorious
Victoria” and “The Art of Acquiring.” This is the first in a
five-part series excerpted from her new book, “Love and
Capital: Karl and Jenny Marx and the Birth of a Revolution,”
published in September by Little, Brown & Co. Read  Part 2 ,
 Part 3 ,  Part 4  and  Part 5 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mary Gabriel at  mgabriel1883@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berleyt . 