-- 
The Twist and Shout Should Be the Fed’s Next Maneuver: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-21T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/the-twist-and-shout-should-be-the-fed-s-maneuver-to-rescue-economy-view.html
Markets today are expecting the
 Federal Reserve  to announce Operation Twist, a financial
maneuver aimed at rescuing the U.S. recovery.  Like the Chubby Checker song, the twist will involve some
gyrations. The idea is to flip the maturities of the Fed’s $1.65
trillion bond portfolio by selling short-term Treasuries and
buying longer-term ones. The move would aim to bend down the
 interest rates  charged on home mortgages,  car loans  and other
big-ticket items in the hope of inducing more consumer borrowing
and spending, and greater business investment. The Fed may also
lower the interest rate it pays banks on the reserves they keep
at the central bank, encouraging them to lend rather than hoard
the money.  Unfortunately, the twist probably won’t have much effect.
The last time the Fed tried something similar -- in 1961, when
“The Twist” was actually atop the hit parade -- it managed to
lower long-term rates by a mere 0.15 percentage point,
economists estimate. In a 2004 paper, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  himself pooh-poohed the move. Now, with unemployment
high, many households still deep in debt and with mortgages
tough to get, such a small step is unlikely to generate much
spending.  So how can Bernanke make a difference? More aggressive
action is a tough sell, given the need to navigate between the
minority, but very vocal, camp of Fed policy makers who worry
about inflation, and the majority -- including him -- who fear a
double-dip recession. In this instance, then, it won’t come down
to policy so much as words of explanation, something Fed
chairmen have been fairly stingy with over the decades.  Muted Effect  Words, however, seem to be the only way to quell the
criticism leveled from the campaign trail -- criticism that has
confused the public and muted the effect of the Fed’s easing
efforts.  It would be helpful, for instance, if Bernanke explained
why he thinks inflation, which at 2 percent is now at the upper
limit of the Fed’s preferred range, is not a problem. Which
indicator should the Fed care about most in the current
environment: unemployment, growth or inflation? What would it
take to justify a third round of bond-buying, or quantitative
easing?  At last month’s meeting, the Fed pledged to keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero until at least mid-2013, more
clearly defining what it meant by an “extended period.” It
could further influence expectations by promising to stay near
zero until unemployment falls to, say, 7 percent -- assuming
inflation remains in check.  Job Creation   Still, the Fed can achieve only so much. The federal
government’s ability to spur job creation is greater -- by
spending on roads, bridges and schools, and by giving tax
incentives to business. So Bernanke must also be clear that the
Fed’s actions could have limited effect, and that the real
solution lies with Congress and President  Barack Obama  agreeing
on fiscal policy.  The politicization of the Fed is not the chairman’s doing,
but it behooves him to push back against those who denounce the
Fed for using unconventional methods to rescue an economy that
can’t seem to get its groove back. Instead of just twisting,
Bernanke needs to twist -- and shout.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 