-- 
Eagles’ Vick Has No Concussion Symptoms, May Go Against Giants on Sunday

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-21T16:48:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/eagles-vick-has-no-concussion-symptoms-may-go-against-giants-on-sunday.html
Philadelphia Eagles quarterback
 Michael Vick  has no concussion symptoms, three days after
suffering a neck and head injury, and may be able to play
against the  New York  Giants this weekend.  Vick participated in the Eagles’ non-contact walkthrough
today, coach  Andy Reid  said. Team trainer Rick Burkholder said
Vick is “progressing” and his only symptoms after the injury
are soreness in his neck and jaw.  Vick must pass concussion tests, including one from an
independent neurologist, before he’s cleared to play, according
to National Football League protocol. The testing likely will
take place over the next several days, Burkholder said. The
Eagles host the Giants on Sept. 25.  “He’s right where we expected him to be,” Burkholder said
in a news conference. “Everything is progressing and we’re not
going to push him ahead. Michael will continue to do the process
and he’s doing fine.”  Vince Young  or Mike Kafka will start against the Giants if
Vick isn’t able to play. Young was inactive the first two weeks
because of a hamstring injury.  “I’m going to get them all ready,” Reid said at the news
conference. “We’ll go with the one who’s the healthiest. That’s
the way I’m looking at it.”  Giants linebacker  Mathias Kiwanuka  said yesterday the team
has been preparing for Vick or a backup at quarterback.  “Vick is a one-of-a-kind quarterback,” Kiwanuka said.
“It’s prepare for a regular football team or prepare for Vick.
As long as you have preparation for Vick, you can go back to
playing what you could consider a regular quarterback.”  Injury Against Falcons  Vick was injured during the third quarter of last week’s
35-31 loss to the  Atlanta Falcons , when he was spun by Falcons
safety William Moore and slammed face-first into the chest of
Eagles lineman Todd Herremans. Vick’s head snapped back and he
bit his tongue because he wasn’t wearing a mouthpiece.  Vick was kept out of the game after failing a baseline
concussion test. The Eagles turned to Kafka, a third-string
quarterback making his NFL debut, and gave up 14 points in the
fourth quarter to blow a 31-21 lead.  The Eagles had an 8-2 record in games Vick started and
finished last season. Philadelphia was 2-4 when Vick didn’t play
or left with an injury, as he did in a Week 4 loss to  Washington 
when he sustained cartilage damage in his ribs.  “As long as Michael continues through his process, he’ll
have a chance to get himself right for this game,” Reid said.  Vick took over as the Eagles’ starter last season, just
over a year being released from a 23-month sentence for helping
run a dogfighting ring. He was voted the NFL’s Comeback Player
of the Year and last month signed a six-year contract that may
be worth up to $100 million.  Eagles Comeback  The Eagles and Giants played one of last season’s most
memorable games, with Philadelphia winning 38-31 on Dec. 19.  The Eagles scored 28 fourth-quarter points to erase a 31-10
deficit and won on DeSean Jackson’s 65-yard punt return for a
touchdown on the final play. Vick threw two touchdown passes and
ran for another score in the fourth quarter.  “I think that if Michael Vick can play, he will play,”
Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said on a conference call yesterday.  The Eagles have won six straight games against New York
dating back to 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  