-- 
ECB to Increase Collateral Pool of Assets

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-09-21T16:31:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ecb-tightens-rules-on-banks-pledging-own-bonds-as-collateral.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
will increase the pool of assets it accepts as collateral
against loans next year, repeating a measure it last used after
the collapse of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. in 2008.  The ECB “has abolished the eligibility requirement that
debt instruments issued by  credit institutions , other than
covered bank bonds, are only eligible if they are admitted to
trading on a regulated market,” the Frankfurt-based central
bank said in a  statement  today. At the same time, to improve
risk control, the ECB said it will tighten its rules on banks
using their own unsecured bonds as collateral. The changes take
effect on Jan. 1 next year.  Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the ECB in
October 2008 widened the pool of assets eligible as collateral
in its refinancing operations as part of a raft of measures to
ensure banks had sufficient cash. The pool was narrowed again on
Dec. 31, 2010.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis has increased
tensions in money markets, prompting the ECB to step up its
liquidity provision to banks.  “The ECB is deploying the armory of measures it took after
Lehman Brothers to avoid a liquidity crisis,” said  Nick Kounis ,
head of macro research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “They are
allowing banks to pledge non-listed bonds, but on the other hand
they are ensuring that banks don’t flood the central bank with
their own paper. On balance, they are avoiding a credit crunch
while controlling the risks.”  Rule Tightened  The ECB said it will limit the use of bank-issued unsecured
bonds as collateral. “Such assets may only be used as
collateral to the extent that the value assigned does not exceed
5 percent of the total value of collateral submitted instead of
10 percent previously,” it said.  Marco Valli, chief euro-area economist at UniCredit Global
Research in Milan, said the net effect of the rule changes “is
not that clear.”  While increasing the pool of assets eligible as collateral
is “a move that provides more breathing room for banks,” the
ECB is also “clearly making a move to safeguard the risk
profile of the balance sheet,” he said.  The introduction of a common, minimum-size threshold
applicable to all eligible credit claims throughout the 17-
nation euro area has been postponed to 2013, the ECB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  