-- 
ECB Lends $500 Million to One Euro Bank Amid Market Tensions

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-21T09:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ecb-lends-500-million-to-one-euro-area-bank-amid-market-tension.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
will lend dollars to one euro-area bank tomorrow, a sign it
remains difficult to borrow the currency in markets.  The ECB today allotted $500 million to one bidder in a
regular seven-day liquidity-providing operation at a fixed rate
of 1.07 percent. Last week, the Frankfurt-based ECB lent $575
million to two euro-area banks, the first time financial
institutions had requested the currency since Aug. 17. The ECB
doesn’t identify the banks it lends to.  The spreading sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  has
heightened concerns about banks’ balance sheets, causing
financial institutions to become reluctant to lend to each
other. Last week, global equity markets rallied after the ECB
said it will coordinate with the  Federal Reserve  to offer a
series of three-month dollar loans to euro-area banks to ensure
they have enough of the currency for the rest of the year.  Today’s loan “is the rolling-over of previous lending of
dollars and isn’t very significant,” said  Christoph Rieger ,
head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“The three-month dollar lending offered by the central banks is
taking the edge off this problem to some degree.”  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars through
the swaps market is close to the highest level in almost three
years. The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars,
as measured by the one-year cross-currency basis swap, was 95.6
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor,
at 11:13 a.m. in  Frankfurt , indicating a premium to buy the
greenback. It widened to as much as 112.5 basis points earlier
this month, the most since Dec. 2, 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  European banks need dollars to fund their own lending in
the U.S. as well as to clients elsewhere doing business in the
world’s leading reserve currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  