-- 
Economic Forecasts for Canada Don’t Point to Second Recession, Harper Says

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-21T19:46:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/economic-forecasts-for-canada-don-t-point-to-second-recession-harper-says.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said he hasn’t seen any forecast that the economy will
shrink again this quarter and trigger a new recession.  “Clearly there have been economic data that has downgraded
our forecast,” Harper, 52, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
New York headquarters today. “I’m not aware of any data that’s
forecasting a recession, but it is forecasting slower growth.”  The International Monetary Fund yesterday slashed its
 Canada  growth forecast for this year and next citing the drag
from the U.S., and said Harper can afford new spending or tax
measures to revive growth. The world’s 10th-largest economy
shrank in the second quarter, two years after its last
recession, on disrupted exports.  “The trajectory of the Canadian economy will be determined
by the global economy,” Harper said. “If there are big
material changes we will shift our fiscal policy accordingly.”  In an earlier interview on Bloomberg Television, Harper
said that policy makers from other major countries should be
able to avoid another recession even amid the most immediate
threat posed by  Europe ’s fiscal crisis.  “We need to see some real solutions that are going to last
and move us forward,” Harper said in reference to Europe. “I
still think there is every opportunity for governments to muddle
through and keep the recovery going, although admittedly we are
looking at a period of very low growth.”  Harper won his first majority government in May elections
promising to balance Canada’s budget by the fiscal year that
begins April 2014. The  Conservative Party  led by Harper had been
in government with a minority of seats in the legislature since
2006.  Economic Drag  The rise in Canada’s dollar against the U.S. dollar in
recent years has been another drag on Canada’s economy, Harper
said in the television interview.  “There are some clouds and one of them is the upward
pressure on the dollar creates some practical problems for
Canadian producers,” he said.  The Canadian currency, known as the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 1.3 percent to
1.0056 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 3:46 p.m. in Toronto.  Canada doesn’t have an official arbiter of recessions like
the U.S. Many economists in the country consider two or more
consecutive quarters of a drop in gross domestic product to
herald a recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 