-- 
Mediobanca Swings to Quarterly Loss on Higher Writedowns

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-09-21T16:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/mediobanca-swings-to-fourth-quarter-loss-on-higher-writedowns.html
Mediobanca SpA (MB) , Italy’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, reported a quarterly loss after
writing down the value of Greek bonds and its stake in Telco
SpA, the largest investor in Telecom Italia SpA.  The bank had a net loss of 50 million euros ($69 million)
in the fiscal fourth quarter ended June 30, compared with net
income of 46 million euros a year earlier, the Milan-based
company said in a statement today. That’s wider than the 38
million-euro loss estimated by 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The bank proposed an unchanged dividend of 17 cents
per share.  Mediobanca, which makes most of its money from equity
holdings, selling loans and advising businesses, is expanding
outside  Italy  and broadening the bank’s retail division to boost
profitability.  Extraordinary losses in the quarter included 120 million
euros of writedowns for the bank’s Telco stake and 109 million
euros on Greek bonds. The lender also wrote down 38 million
euros related to its stake in insurer Assicurazioni Generali
SpA, taking into account the losses on Telco and Greek bonds
reported by the insurer.  Greek Debt  Mediobanca cut by half its Greek holdings to 200 million
euros at the end of June, Chief Executive Officer  Alberto Nagel 
said during a conference call today. The lender held 3.4 billion
euros of Italian sovereign debt at the end of June, he said.  The company’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of
financial strength, rose to 11.2 percent as of June 30 from 11.1
percent a year earlier, making Mediobanca one of the best-
capitalized lenders in the country. Net interest income rose 6
percent to 271 million euros, while trading income swung to a
profit of 11 million euros.  The bank is controlled by an investor group that today
proposed a new board that must be approved by shareholders at
their annual meeting on Oct. 28. Nagel was confirmed as CEO and
Renato Pagliaro as chairman. The proposed 22-member board
includes Pierre Lefevre, Elisabetta Magistretti and Anne Marie
Idrac.  Commerzbank AG, Sal Oppenheim, and Santusa Holding will
exit the investor group when its agreement expires in December.
French insurer Groupama SA will add a 1.8 percent holding to the
pool of stakes owned by the group, according to the statement.
Diego Della Valle may buy as much as a 1.4 percent interest.  Mediobanca fell 3.3 percent to 5.51 euros in Milan trading
today, giving the bank a market value of 4.7 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  