-- 
Edwards Indictment Should Be Dismissed, Advocacy Group Says

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-21T17:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/edwards-indictment-should-be-dismissed-advocacy-group-says-1-.html
John Edwards ’s indictment should be
dismissed, advocacy group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics
in  Washington  said, seeking to file court papers in support of
Edwards.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  is “improperly and
unconstitutionally” applying federal election laws to seek a
criminal conviction of Edwards, the group said in a proposed
brief to be filed in federal court in Greensboro, North
Carolina.  The group, known as CREW, cited the unique nature of the
case as the reason for its departure from generally supporting
the  Justice Department  against politicians charged with
corruption, according to an e-mailed statement.  “In the U.S., we don’t prosecute people for being
loathsome, we prosecute them for violating the law,” CREW
Executive Director  Melanie Sloan  said in the statement. “This
case suggests some in the Department of Justice may have lost
sight of this principle.”  Edwards, the former U.S. presidential candidate, is accused
of accepting illegal campaign contributions to hide an
extramarital affair. Lawyers for the former North Carolina
senator filed papers earlier this month seeking to dismiss the
charges, saying prosecutors abused their authority and that the
indictment failed to state an actual crime.  Disputed Payments  Federal law prohibits the use of campaign funds for
personal use such as rent and vacations, the group said in its
statement. In contrast, the disputed payments were made on
behalf of Edwards because of his pre-existing friendships with
multi-millionaire heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon and Dallas-
based trial lawyer Fred Baron, the group said in its proposed
filing. Payments to a candidate that would have been made
regardless of the candidacy aren’t subject to federal election
campaign laws, the
group said.  Filing of the group’s papers in support of Edwards is
subject to court approval.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of  North Carolina  (Greensboro).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 