-- 
German Panel Backs Euro Rescue Fund in Boost for Sept. 29 Vote

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-21T12:02:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/efsf-won-big-majority-in-german-committee-koschyk-says.html
The German parliament’s finance
panel backed proposed changes to the euro rescue fund, clearing
the path to the bill’s passage in an endorsement of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s crisis-fighting strategy.  The draft, which gives the European Financial Stability
Facility sovereign bond-buying powers, was supported by a “big
majority” at the cross-party hearing in Berlin today, Deputy
Finance Minister Hartmut Koschyk said. The Budget Committee is
due to deliberate the bill later today before it goes to a full
lower-house vote on Sept. 29.  “It’s a good sign,” Koschyk said in an interview after
the 37-member Finance Committee met. While the bill won support
from the  Social Democrats  and Greens, the three parties in
Merkel’s coalition had enough votes to pass the legislation
without opposition help, he said.  The enhanced rescue fund is being put to all 17 euro-area
parliaments after being agreed on by European leaders at a July
summit to fight the debt crisis.  Merkel will host Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  for
dinner and talks in Berlin on Sept. 27, the German government
said today. Papandreou is pressing for accelerated budget cuts
to ensure the next tranche of an international rescue package is
delivered next month to stave off default.  ‘Irrational’ Markets  Ending  Greece ’s debt crisis is the key to easing turmoil in
financial markets and “irrational” speculation against Italian
and Spanish sovereign bonds, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an interview published in today’s Berliner
Zeitung newspaper.  “Greece certainly is the core of the speculation,”
Schaeuble said, according to the interview text posted on the
 Finance Ministry ’s  website . “As soon as the markets are
convinced that the Greek problem is sustainably solved, the
threat of contagion for the other states is sharply reduced.”  With the EFSF vote looming in  Germany ’s lower house of
parliament, the Bundestag, Schaeuble said “it is only natural
that there are colleagues who have severe stomachaches” over
granting the fund more powers. Even so, the bill has at least 80
percent support among lawmakers, ensuring it will pass, he said.  European leaders empowered the EFSF to buy bonds in the
primary and secondary market, offer precautionary credit lines
and create a bank-recapitalization facility.  Rebellion Quelled  Merkel’s government adjusted its bill to accommodate a
Sept. 7 constitutional court ruling that upheld the Bundestag’s
primacy in budgetary aspects of rescue finance. The changes also
helped to quell a rebellion over the EFSF’s new scope brewing
among ruling lawmakers, in particular Merkel’s Free Democratic
Party coalition partner.  Lawmakers will now be asked to vote on all new petitions
for aid as well as on any changes to the fund, a draft shows. In
the past, Schaeuble need only consult the Budget Committee.  “In cases of particular urgency and confidentiality,”
parliament must nominate a small, all-party group of lawmakers
to decide whether Germany supports intervention by the fund such
as in secondary bond markets, according to the draft.  Rainer Bruederle, the former economy minister who is now
the FDP’s floor leader, signaled today that the Merkel-backed
changes were enough to win his party’s support in the Sept. 29
vote to amend the EFSF.  “Of course she can rely on us,” he said in an interview
with ZDF television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  