-- 
Lehman Will Abandon its Appeal of Ruling in $11 Billion Barclays Lawsuit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-21T16:48:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/lehman-to-drop-appeal-of-ruling-in-11-billion-barclays-lawsuit-over-sale.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
which is gathering creditor support for a $65 billion
liquidation plan before a November vote, said it will drop its
attempt to collect $11 billion from  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in a dispute
over the sale of Lehman operations in 2008.  Lehman also won’t appeal a Sept. 14 ruling by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in Manhattan rejecting its claim
that Barclays owed about $500 million for allegedly unpaid
bonuses. Peck previously ruled against Lehman in the larger suit
against London-based Barclays.  “While there are aspects of the decisions with which we do
not agree, we are also cognizant of the burdens that continued
litigation of these issues would place on the court and the
assets of the estate,” the defunct firm said in a statement
today.  After appealing Peck’s ruling in the bigger suit, Lehman
said today it “respects the time and effort the court has
devoted to the serious issues raised by the estate.” Because of
the cost of continuing the litigation, Lehman said, “we have
determined that we will not pursue these issues through appeals,
believing that the resources of the court and the estate will be
better employed at this point to move the bankruptcy toward a
conclusion.”  Most Expensive  Lehman, once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank,
has spent about $1.4 billion on lawyers and managers since its
2008 bankruptcy filing, the largest in U.S. history, with assets
of $639 billion.  The New York-based firm’s bankruptcy became the most
expensive in U.S. history in April 2010, when it topped the $757
million cost of energy trader Enron Corp.’s three-year
liquidation, according to data compiled by  Lynn LoPucki , a
bankruptcy-law professor at the University of  California ,  Los
Angeles .  Lehman’s creditors range from banks and  hedge funds  to the
 New York  Giants and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, as well as
individuals who hold Lehman bonds. Lehman filed for bankruptcy
on Sept. 15, 2008.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 