-- 
Bankrupt Lehman Brothers Backs Off Busted Bid for Barclay’s $11 Billion

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/lehman-drops-litigation-to-collect-11-billion-from-barclays-over-08-sale.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
dropped its attempt to collect $11 billion from  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
after a long-running dispute over the sale of Lehman operations
in 2008, giving up its largest potential gain from litigation.  Once the fourth-largest investment bank, defunct Lehman
under Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal  mounted lawsuits
seeking tens of billions of dollars from banks including
Barclays,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank of America Corp. Any
gain from London-based Barclays would have fattened the $65
billion pot of assets that Marsal has said he aims to fill for
creditors holding estimated claims of more than $300 billion.  Lehman said it will drop an appeal contesting a
judge’s ruling that Barclays owed Lehman nothing. Lehman, which
is gathering creditor support for a liquidation plan before a
November vote, said it also won’t appeal a Sept. 14 ruling by
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan  rejecting its
claim that Barclays owed about $500 million for allegedly unpaid
bonuses.  “This is the start of them winding down the litigation,”
said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum Doll &
McDonald PLLC in Louisville, Kentucky, who has written articles
about Lehman’s case. “They’re backing off of the cutting edge
litigation that they were using to try to bring in more money
for creditors.”  No ‘Willful Misconduct’  Lehman, which accused Barclays of making an $11 billion
“windfall” when it bought the brokerage in the 2008 financial
crisis, tried in court to persuade Peck that he had grounds for
overturning his own order approving the sale. Ruling in
February, Peck told Lehman he found no “willful misconduct” as
Barclays bought defunct Lehman’s brokerage in the credit crisis.
He awarded Lehman no money, concluding after more than 30 days
of court testimony that the sale was fair.  Explaining its decision to stop fighting with Peck and
Barclays, Lehman said in a statement yesterday that it was
“cognizant of the burdens that continued litigation of these
issues would place on the court and the assets of the estate.”  Because of the cost of continuing the litigation, Lehman
said, “we have determined that we will not pursue these issues
through appeals, believing that the resources of the court and
the estate will be better employed at this point to move the
bankruptcy toward a conclusion.”  Lehman creditors also dropped their appeal of Peck’s ruling
on the Barclays suit, said James Tecce, a lawyer for the
creditors
committee.  Most Expensive  Lehman, once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank,
has spent about $1.4 billion on lawyers and managers since its
2008 bankruptcy filing, the largest in U.S. history, with assets
of $639 billion.  Jones Day , Lehman’s law firm for the Barclays
litigation, was paid $55.6 million through July by Lehman for
work in the U.S. and  Asia , according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “The Lehman estate wasted tens of millions of dollars in a
flawed and inappropriate effort to re-trade the terms of the
Barclays sale and wrongfully challenged that fact that, as the
court correctly found, Barclays took a massive risk in acquiring
Lehman’s business,” Barclays’ litigation lawyer Jonathan Schiller of Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP said in an e-mail.  Lehman still has a large suit against JPMorgan, from whom
it is demanding $8.6 billion plus damages, saying the bank
helped to cause its downfall. Bank of America has appealed
Peck’s ruling that it return to Lehman $500 million in allegedly
seized deposits and pay interest.  Companies using litigation to raise money have to make sure
the odds of succeeding remain decent, said Nancy Rapoport, a
bankruptcy-law professor at the University of  Nevada ,  Las Vegas .  ‘A Certain Point’  “Once the odds fall below a certain point, it’s important
for the lawyers and the client to consider dropping the
litigation,” she said.  The New York-based firm’s bankruptcy became the most
expensive in U.S. history in April 2010, when it topped the $757
million cost of energy trader Enron Corp.’s three-year
liquidation, according to data compiled by  Lynn LoPucki , a
bankruptcy-law professor at the University of  California ,  Los
Angeles .  Lehman’s creditors range from banks and  hedge funds  to the
 New York  Giants and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, as well as
individuals who hold Lehman bonds. Lehman filed for bankruptcy
on Sept. 15, 2008.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 