-- 
Election Spending to Exceed $6 Billion Thanks Partly to Jim Bopp

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/election-spending-to-exceed-6-billion-thanks-partly-to-jim-bopp.html
Attorney James Bopp Jr. has spent
30 years fighting limits on campaign spending, and next year’s
political landscape could be transformed by his labor: An
election season in which at least $6 billion is likely to be
spent, more than $700 million higher than 2008.  “The presumption is the gloves will be off in 2012,” said
 Sheila Krumholz , a campaign finance analyst who developed the
spending estimate for next year’s presidential and congressional
races independently of her Center for Responsive Politics.
“It’s safe to say that groups on the left and right have Jim
Bopp to thank for their new-found freedom.”  Of 31 lawsuits challenging campaign finance regulations
tracked by the Washington-based Campaign Legal Center, Bopp
filed 21, including a case that led to creation of independent
groups that raise unlimited sums of money to run political ads.
Today, the Republican National Committee member will argue a
case in a U.S. appeals court in  St. Louis  to overturn a
Minnesota state law banning corporations from donating to
candidates and political committees.  During an interview at his Terre Haute, Indiana, office,
the white-haired, 63-year-old lawyer was unapologetic about his
defense of free speech. The founding fathers “didn’t trust the
government to write the laws because the government would write
the laws to protect itself from the citizens criticizing it,”
said Bopp, seated behind a two-foot-high stack of successful
case files yet to be stored in office cabinets.  Citizens United   Bopp in 2007 introduced the Citizens United v. Federal
Election Commission case, which three years later resulted in
the repeal of restrictions on the roles of corporations and
labor unions in political campaigns, then leading to an
explosion of spending by independent, outside groups.  The Center for Responsive Politics, the Washington-based
group led by Krumholz that tracks political money, said spending
by independent groups for the 2010 midterms was $305 million,
compared with $69 million in 2006. She estimates that figure
will reach $450 million in the 2012 presidential cycle.  Scott Thomas, a former Democratic FEC chairman now with
Dickstein Shapiro LLP in Washington, said Bopp’s cases have
almost gutted the 2002 campaign finance act intended to rein in
outside groups and the influence of wealthy donors.  “We should now call the statute, ‘The Federal Election
Campaign Act paid for and authorized by Jim Bopp,’” Thomas said
in an interview.  An Indiana native, Bopp’s tenacity in attacking campaign
finance laws is matched by his loyalty to his home state.  Hoosier Fan  He earned his bachelor’s degree from  Indiana University .
After getting his law degree from the University of  Florida , he
returned home and has never considered relocating -- even when a
Chicago firm offered him a job. A photo of the Hoosiers’ game-
winning shot against  Syracuse University  to win the 1987 NCAA
basketball title adorns his wall alongside an autographed
photograph with former President  George W. Bush .  Clad in a green polo shirt and sipping coffee from an
American flag-emblazoned mug, the father of three daughters said
“we thought it was a more culturally conservative area to raise
our children, and we weren’t forced to move because clients were
willing to come to me in Terre Haute even though they were in
D.C. or other places.”  To help pay his legal fees, Bopp set up the James Madison
Center for Free Speech in 1997 with the help of Senate
Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky .  Legal Fees  The center, also based in Terre Haute, reported donations
of $579,935 from 2008 to 2010, of which $578,091 went to Bopp
for legal fees, according to Internal Revenue Service filings.
Donors have included an arm of the  Susan B. Anthony List , a
Washington-based anti-abortion organization, and the  American
Justice Partnership , created by the  National Association of
Manufacturers  to lobby for state limits on civil lawsuits.  Board members include David Norcross, former Republican
National Committee general counsel; Wanda Franz, former
president of the  National Right to Life Committee ; and Betsy
DeVos, who raised at least $100,000 for Bush’s 2004 re-election
and, with her husband, donated $2 million to outside groups that
ran ads attacking Democratic nominee  John Kerry .  Bopp’s rise as a leading opponent of campaign finance laws
was a two-step process. In 1976, the then-28-year-old attorney
was offered a job at the Indiana Right to Life Committee. Two
years later, he was hired as general counsel for the National
Right to Life Committee. From that position, he helped the anti-
abortion community incrementally challenge abortion rights -- a
tactic he adapted to the field of campaign finance law.  First Case  His first challenge of campaign regulations was a case in
1983 that overturned FEC limits on voter guides, including
fliers the National Right to Life Committee distributed in
churches before the 1980 presidential election.  Since then, his advocacy has repealed state laws that
provide additional funds to candidates whose opponents spend
more, tossed out state restrictions on judicial elections and
overturned limits on interest group advertising in the weeks
running up to an election.  His cases laid the groundwork for creation of so-called
“Super PACs,” political committees that take unlimited
donations and operate independently of candidates and which were
fueled last year by new labor and corporate cash.  “It’s so complicated to win big victories that you have to
go after these cases piecemeal,” said David Bossie, president
of Citizens United, the Washington-based advocacy group that
hired Bopp to bring the case that bears its name.  Bittersweet Victory  The victory was somewhat bittersweet. When the case reached
the  Supreme Court , Citizens United hired former U.S. Solicitor
General  Theodore Olson  to argue the case rather than Bopp. While
“disappointed” by that decision, Bopp said, he thought “we
certainly accomplished a lot in the case.”  Bossie, who made the switch, said he did so after learning
of Olson’s record of winning more than 75 percent of his cases
before the Supreme Court.  In today’s case, Bopp will argue against laws banning
corporate donations to candidates before the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Eighth Circuit. A federal judge in  Virginia  in
May threw out a federal ban in a separate case now on appeal in
the Fourth Circuit.  Bopp is also challenging requirements that
interest groups running political ads disclose donors and
expenditures.  “He’s been financed by people who don’t like these
rules,” said  Trevor Potter , a Republican former FEC chairman
who is president of the Campaign Legal Center, which supports
campaign finance limits. “There are plenty of people who
evidently would like money in politics to be secret.”  Not About Money  Bopp said his mission isn’t about money; it’s about free
speech and inclusion in the political process. “We have the
First Amendment,” he said. “The whole idea of that was to
ensure robust participation by citizens in our democracy.”  Bopp’s successful advocacy has led others to join the
mission, said Bradley Smith, another Republican former FEC
chairman who founded the Alexandria, Virginia-based Center for
Competitive Politics to dismantle campaign regulations.  “Jim had been a lonely guy out there, litigating and
litigating,” Smith said. “People started putting money into
it. I don’t think Jim is as lonely as he used to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  