-- 
Treasury Bonds Drop Before Fed Announcement, Snap Three-Day Gain

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-21T11:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ten-year-treasuries-fall-yield-rises-two-basis-points-to-1-96-.html
Treasury 30-year bonds fell for the
first time in four days on speculation investors who bet the
 Federal Reserve  would buy longer-maturity debt to boost the
economy are poised to exit those trades for a profit.  Ten-year yields climbed from within seven basis points of a
record low before the Fed releases its policy statement at the
end of a two-day meeting today. The central bank is likely to
say it will buy longer-term debt to spur investment in riskier
assets in a move dubbed Operation Twist, said Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Tony Crescenzi . Treasuries fell 0.7 percent in
November 2010 after the Fed last expanded its asset-purchase
program, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes show,  “For a couple of weeks, Operation Twist has been getting
priced in,” said  Peter Chatwell , a bond strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “If and when it
gets announced, a significant proportion of investors will take
that trade off and that will push long-end yields higher.”  The yield on the 30-year bond climbed four basis points to
3.24 percent at 6:56 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 3.75 percent security due in August 2041
fell 3/4, or $7.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 109 21/32.  The 10-year rate rose two basis points to 1.96 percent,
after falling to 1.94 percent today, approaching the record low
of 1.877 percent set Sept. 12.  The Fed will decide to replace short-term Treasuries in its
$1.65 trillion portfolio with longer-maturity bonds, according
to 71 percent of 42 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Operation Twist is among policy tools that Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the Fed could use as risks to the U.S.
recovery increase.  ‘Leap of Faith’  Bernanke will aim “to spur investors to take a leap of
faith and believe that the U.S. economy will avoid a double-dip
and instead achieve sustainable growth,” Pimco’s Crescenzi, who
is based in  Newport Beach ,  California , wrote in an e-mail
yesterday. “The Fed’s menu of options for stimulating economic
growth is shrinking,” so it will opt to extend the average
maturity of its debt holdings, he said.  Fed policy makers said on Nov. 3 the central bank would
expand asset purchases through its so-called quantitative-easing
program to about $75 billion a month until June. The 10-year
yield rose to 3.29 percent on Dec. 31 from 2.57 percent on Nov.
3 on optimism the measures would boost economic growth.  “If the QE is successful, yields go up and steepen, which
is what we saw in previous rounds,” said Alessandro Mercuri, an
interest-rate strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in
London. “The market seems to expect bold action.”  Spread Widens  The difference in yield, or spread, between two- and 30-
year securities widened five basis points to 309 basis points,
or 3.09 percentage points. It shrank to 299 basis points on
Sept. 6, the narrowest since August 2010.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
growth yesterday and predicted repercussions if  Europe  fails to
contain its debt crisis or U.S. politicians become deadlocked
over fiscal plans. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is
pressing for accelerated budget cuts to ensure the next tranche
of an international rescue package is delivered next month to
stave off default. U.S. President Barack Obama is asking
Congress to approve a $447 billion job-creation plan.  Republican lawmakers urged Bernanke to refrain from
additional monetary easing in a letter signed by Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker  John Boehner , Senator Jon Kyl and House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor .  “We have serious concerns that further intervention by the
Federal Reserve could exacerbate current problems or further
harm the  U.S. economy ,” they wrote in the Sept. 19 letter.  ‘Heavy Handed’  Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from New York, called
the note “a heavy-handed attempt to meddle in the Fed’s
independent stewardship of monetary policy” and said it should
be “ignored by Chairman Bernanke and the Fed’s policy makers.”  The 10-year yield will advance to 2.96 percent by the end
of September 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  Treasuries have returned 8.5 percent this year, headed for
the best return since 2008 during the last U.S. recession, the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  