-- 
Herding Cows Helps Swiss Executives Ease Boardroom Pressure

-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T09:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/herding-cows-helps-swiss-executives-relieve-boardroom-pressure.html
Jean-Claude Biver skipped a work
event this past weekend. Instead of herding watchbuyers in
 Monaco , the Hublot chief executive led Marguerite and the rest
of his cows down to their winter quarters from Alpine meadows.  “I always give priority to my home, to where I come
from,” Biver, 62, said in an interview at his farm near
 Montreux ,  Switzerland , where his heifers were adorned with a
traditional costume of pine boughs, bells and flower bouquets.
“From here I get the strength to do my job.”  CEOs with hobbies make better executives, according to
 Robert Stebbins , a professor emeritus at the University of
Calgary who has written books on the value of maintaining a life
outside the office. He coined the term “serious leisure” to
describe the diverse pastimes used by executives to provide
relief from workplace stress.  For seven years, Biver has carved out time to move his
cows, which produce five tons of Gruyere-style cheese annually,
about 16 kilometers (10 miles) down from the mountains where
they graze to his farm.  Biver, who helped turn Blancpain, Omega and Hublot around
during a 37-year watchmaking career, keeps cows while Heinrich
Villiger, who owns the cigar maker Villiger Soehne AG, has
hunted animals in adventurous locales for four decades.  They have their hobbies and  Nestle SA (NESN)  Chairman Peter Brabeck-Letmathe has his: Brabeck flies a ski-equipped airplane
that lands on glaciers in the Alps.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brady Dougan , 52, is a marathoner who says his
passion for long-distance running energizes him for work. Marc Hayek, 40, the CEO of Blancpain, the maker of watches that sell
for $100,000 or more, races a Lamborghini professionally.  ‘Colorful Hobbies’  “It’s a wealthy place so people can afford colorful
hobbies,” said Richard Laube, 55, former head of Nestle’s
Nutrition unit and now CEO of  Nobel Biocare Holding AG. (NOBN)   Biver’s barnyard and surrounding grounds were the scene on
Sept. 17 for goat-drawn carts, locals playing long Alpine horns
and herdsmen in traditional Swiss outfits. About 1,000 visitors
were on hand with guests sampling this year’s cheese, which
Biver described as tasting like wildflowers.  “The biggest problem of a successful CEO is that sometimes
he doesn’t know anymore where he comes from,” Biver said.
“This keeps my two feet on earth.”  In his day job, Biver runs Nyon-based Hublot, a unit of
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  that’s known for its Big
Bang watches that combine materials such as gold, ceramic,
magnesium and titanium.  Wealth Ranking  Switzerland ranks as the world’s fourth-wealthiest nation
after Luxembourg, Norway and  Qatar , according to International
Monetary Fund data. One in 10 households in Switzerland is worth
at least $1 million, the  Boston Consulting Group  says.  On a per capita basis, the country hosts about nine times
more of the world’s 500 largest publicly traded companies than
 Germany , the region’s biggest economy, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Whether there’s something about the country that spurs CEOs
toward unusual pastimes or it’s hard to keep hobbies private in
a nation of 7.9 million people is an open question, said Laube
of Nobel Biocare. He participates in Iron Man competitions and
three years ago ran the Zurich marathon in 3 hours, 31 minutes.  Swiss cities, including Zurich, Geneva and Bern, the
capital, consistently rank in the top 10 worldwide for quality
of life. Switzerland’s fresh air makes it the second-cleanest
country worldwide, according to  Yale University .  America’s Cup  Biotech billionaire Ernesto Bertarelli, 46, who sold his
family’s share of Serono SA to  Merck KGaA (MRK)  five years ago, set up
the  Alinghi  sailing team in Geneva that won two straight
America’s Cup titles, the nation’s first ever.  Bertarelli is one of Switzerland’s 135 billionaires,
according to the magazine Bilan. Nicolas Hayek, the late tycoon
who saved the Swiss watch industry, once warned the nation to
avoid the “disease of the hyper-rich” -- stagnation.  Hayek’s family heeded his message. Son Nick Hayek, 56, now
CEO of Swatch, the largest maker of Swiss watches, flies a
helicopter and has dabbled in filmmaking. Sister Nayla,
chairwoman of the Biel, Switzerland-based company, judges
Arabian horses, gaining contacts among the elite in the  Middle
East  and expanding clientele for luxury brands that include
Blancpain.  Stebbins’s books about leisure opened a field of research
into hobbies where participants need to develop skills and
persevere in the pastime until it becomes part of their personal
identity. “As long as it’s challenging, mentally or physically
or both, they get skills that help them become better chief
executives,” he said.  ‘Good Hunters’  Cigar maker Villiger has been an avid hunter since getting
his license on his 37th birthday. In the past 44 years, he said
he’s hunted boar and deer in Poland and  Hungary , pigeon in Cuba,
antelope in  South Africa  and zebras in  Zimbabwe .  Hunting is “just like in our business life, where the
manager must be better than his competitor to be successful,”
he said. “Good managers are at the same time good hunters.”  Adecco SA (ADEN)  CEO Patrick De Maeseneire, 53, collects modern
Chinese art while Wenger CEO Peter Hug, 50, takes employees of
the maker of Swiss army knives on annual outdoor events. This
year was tree-climbing in the Jura mountains.  Connecting With Past  Elsewhere in the Swiss voralpen or pre-Alps, Biver brings
Brunette, Marguerite and the rest of his 50 heifers down from
the pastures to his hometown because “the first watchmakers
were peasants and made cheese,” he said. “I decided to start
making cheese to connect to the past.”  Brabeck, 66, said he learned a valuable business lesson
five years ago climbing the Matterhorn when he decided to turn
back 150 meters (500 feet) from the summit as a thunderstorm
closed in.  At the time, Brabeck was both chairman and chief executive
of Nestle, the world’s largest food company, and he worried he
was putting too much at risk. That taught him to avoid risky and
expensive acquisitions later in his career, even after spending
time to pursue them, he said.  “If you overstretch yourself going to the top, you most
probably will die coming down,” Brabeck said in an interview in
 Kenya  during a July visit to the food company’s local factory.
“That’s not a very successful mountain climber.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net  