-- 
Merkel Government Signs Swiss Tax Deal as Opposition Bridles

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-09-21T17:25:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/merkel-government-signs-swiss-tax-deal-as-opposition-bridles-1-.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government signed an agreement with Switzerland aimed at ending
a dispute over  tax evasion , setting up a clash with German
opposition lawmakers who threatened to block the measure.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and his Swiss
counterpart, Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf, signed the accord in
Berlin today after ministers gave their approval at Merkel’s
weekly Cabinet meeting. The deal introduces a levy on German
bank customers while preserving Swiss banking secrecy.  The agreement, completed by negotiators last month, seeks
to quell a dispute between the neighboring countries over
wealthy Germans holding cross-border accounts with Swiss private
banks. It foresees a 2 billion Swiss-franc ($2.2 billion)
upfront payment to the German government from banks to cover the
failure by their clients to declare holdings, an amount that
will later be reimbursed from taxes paid by German customers.  “We are convinced that this agreement solves in a good
manner a problem that for years was able now and again to burden
relations between the Swiss confederation and  Germany ,”
Schaeuble told reporters at the signing ceremony. “It’s a good
and fair result of the negotiations.”  While the accord seeks to recover German tax claims, it
also protects bank clients’ privacy, a position that Schaeuble
has said is non-negotiable with Swiss officials.  “We’ve both had to make concessions,” Widmer-Schlumpf
said. “We’ve also had to deal with huge resistance.”  Bundesrat Showdown  Lawmakers from Germany’s main opposition  Social Democratic
Party  threatened to halt the bill in the upper house of
parliament, or Bundesrat, where Merkel’s coalition lacks a
majority. SPD floor leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the foreign
minister in Merkel’s first-term government, called the deal an
“abetment to tax evasion.”  Schaeuble, in an interview with the  Berliner Zeitung 
published today, said he is confident the tax accord will pass
both houses of parliament.  Beginning in 2013, Swiss banks will levy a 26 percent
withholding tax on holdings of Germans with offshore accounts,
according to the agreement. The tax on assets from the past will
range from 19 percent to 34 percent, depending on the duration
of the client relationship and the initial and final amount of
capital. Account holders may also disclose their holdings to
German tax authorities.  Fully Offset  Tax payments by German dodgers on old, untaxed assets will
be fully offset against the 2 billion-franc upfront payment up
to a 1 billion-franc cap, according to the deal. A third of the
tax payments exceeding that limit will be refunded to Swiss
banks, meaning they will be fully reimbursed for the upfront
payment after tax dodgers have repaid 4 billion Swiss francs.  Switzerland  agreed in March 2009 to meet international
standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax haven by the
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development . Relations
between Germany and Switzerland soured early last year when
German authorities began an investigation into tax evasion based
on purchased CDs of stolen bank data.  “The tax agreement does not come without a price tag for
the banks,” the  Swiss Bankers Association  said in a statement
on Aug. 10 after details of the negotiations were made public.
“The implementation of the measures will cost the banks in
Switzerland a mid-three-digit million Swiss-franc amount.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  