-- 
Tesco Plans $460 Million Thai Property Fund to Fuel Growth

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-21T08:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/tesco-plans-460-million-thai-property-fund-ipo-to-help-finance-expansion.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the world’s third-
largest retailer, said it plans to sell shares in its Thai
property fund on the domestic stock exchange, raising about 14
billion baht ($460 million) for expansion.  The initial public offering will include 15 shopping malls
anchored by Tesco Lotus stores, as well as freehold land and
ground leases, the Cheshunt, England-based grocer said in a
statement today. Tesco leases its hypermarkets from the fund.  Tesco has raised about 5.5 billion pounds ($8.6 billion) in
the past seven years from selling and leasing back U.K. stores
and last month got $115 million from its first issue of yuan-
denominated dim sum bonds in  China . The retailer has more than
750 stores in Thailand, where its hypermarket business is market
leader. Revenue there last year was 2.84 billion pounds, making
it the third-largest market after the U.K. and  South Korea .  The IPO means Tesco can invest in “innovation and
growth,” Chief Financial Officer Laurie McIlwee said in the
statement. The property fund “is in line with the property
strategy we unveiled earlier this year and will be a great
example of the value we create through our property,” he said.  The number of Tesco Lotus outlets in Thailand may rise to
1,000 by early 2012, said Christopher Bush, chief executive
officer of Ek-Chai Distribution System Co., the Thai company
that operates the stores for Tesco.  “The REIT is an alternative for us to raise funds for
expansion,” Bush said at a media briefing in Bangkok. “In the
past, we used debt and our own cashflow for that.”  The final structure of the fund is subject to market
conditions and approval by the Thai  Securities and Exchange
Commission , Tesco said.  “Tesco’s REIT will provide another good investment
alternative for Thai investors,” Charamporn Jotikasthira,
president of the Stock Exchange of  Thailand , said in Bangkok.
“Thai investors have been searching for good securities from
companies like Tesco in which to invest their savings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  