-- 
Esprit Falls to Lowest in 9 Years as Morgan Stanley Cites Europe Concerns

-- B y   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-09-21T09:54:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/esprit-falls-to-lowest-in-9-years-as-morgan-stanley-cites-europe-concerns.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  plunged to the
lowest level in more than nine years in  Hong Kong  trading as
Morgan Stanley listed it as one of the Asian companies with the
most risk related to the European debt crisis.  The clothing retailer, which makes 79 percent of annual
sales in  Europe , dropped 11 percent to HK$8.96, the lowest level
since January 2002, at the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong. Esprit has
declined about 51 percent since reporting Sept. 15 that full-
year profit declined 98 percent on restructuring costs.  Revenue from Europe, where the Hong Kong-based company
plans to close 65 stores, fell for the third year in a row.
Esprit, which said in its Sept. 15 earnings filing that the
brand had “lost its soul,” plans to spend HK$6.8 billion on
branding over the next four years, focusing its efforts in
Germany,  France , Belgium, the Netherlands and  China .  The retailer is among 50 companies in Asia with
“significant revenue exposure” to Europe,  Jonathan Garner ,
Manas Dwivedi and Pankaj Mataney, analysts at Morgan Stanley,
wrote in a note to clients today.  The European Union and  International Monetary Fund  resumed
talks with Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos this week
as the country seeks to win a sixth payment of rescue loans.  The casual clothing maker forecast an operating profit
margin of 1 percent to 2 percent for the year ending June 2012
as it reported net income dropped to HK$79 million in the year
ended June, the third consecutive annual decline. The clothier
plans to close 80 outlets, including 24 in  Germany , 12 in France
and 13 in  Australia .  ‘Safe and Boring’  “We know earnings are going to be very low for the next
two years so the market is now trying to work out the floor in
the share price based on the brand value and the power of their
retail network,” Aaron Fischer, head of consumer and gaming
research at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, wrote in a note to
clients today.  The decline in Esprit’s share price today is the second-
biggest on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  The company’s product designs became “too safe and
boring,” Chief Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis said in a
Sept. 15 interview.  Esprit, which hired the brand director and creative
director of  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ’s H&M, is setting up a team of
designers in Paris to be “closer to the pulse of fashion,” Van
der Vis said in the same interview. He also said he wants a new
team in China, where sales more than tripled to HK$2.68 billion
in the year ended June, accounting for 7.9 percent of the
company’s total HK$33.8 billion sales.  Sales derived from the rest of the world fell an average of
5.6 percent in the period, according to Bloomberg calculations
using data in Esprit’s earnings statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  