-- 
Europe’s Financial Risk Watchdog Urges Fast Action to Combat Crisis Threat

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-21T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/esrb-says-risks-to-eu-financial-system-increased-considerably-on-crisis.html
The European Systemic Risk Board
urged swift action from policy makers to tackle threats to the
financial system that have increased “considerably” as the
region’s sovereign debt crisis pressures banks.  “Key risks stem from potential further adverse feedback
effects between sovereign risks, funding vulnerabilities within
the European Union banking sector, and a weakening of growth
outlooks both at global and EU levels,” the ESRB,  Europe ’s risk
watchdog, said in a statement late yesterday. “Decisive and
swift action is required from all authorities.”  Concerns are mounting that European banks may not have
sufficient capital to withstand a default by Greece and slowing
economic growth caused by governments’ austerity measures.
Lloyd’s of  London  has stopped depositing money with some banks
in Europe’s peripheral economies, Luke Savage, finance director
of the world’s oldest insurance market, said yesterday.  The ESRB, which is hosted by the  European Central Bank  in
 Frankfurt , issued a confidential warning to European governments
in June urging them to ready capital injections for banks that
failed or came close to failing stress tests, a European
financial official said.  The ESRB said yesterday that supervisors should coordinate
efforts to strengthen bank capital, “including having recourse
to backstop facilities, taking also into account the need for
transparent and consistent valuation of sovereign exposures.”  EFSF Role  “If necessary, this could benefit from the possibility for
the European Financial Stability Facility to lend to governments
in order to recapitalize banks, including in non-program
countries,” it said, referring to the euro area’s rescue fund.  The ESRB, which aims to warn of brewing risks in the
financial system, was set up in January as part of a new
European architecture designed to ward off another financial
crisis such as that which followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. Its board is headed by ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , with  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  as deputy.  “Authorities must act in unison with a total commitment to
safeguard financial stability,” the ESRB said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  