-- 
Estonia May Delay EFSF Approval as Party Seeks Legal Fix

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-09-21T14:39:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/estonia-may-delay-efsf-approval-as-party-seeks-budget-law-fix.html
Estonia’s opposition  Social
Democrats  said amendments to the European Financial Stability
Facility can’t be passed without changes to the budget law,
potentially delaying planned ratification beyond next week.  The budget law must be amended to recognize that the
European Union’s rescue fund is governed by private law so
parliament can approve the necessary state guarantees, according
to the Social Democrats’ Rannar Vassiljev, deputy chairman of
the legislature’s finance committee. The  Finance Ministry  says
changes aren’t required.  “We are definitely not opposing the EFSF bill as such,”
Vassiljev said today in a phone interview from Tallinn. “But
we’re afraid it would lead to much bigger repercussions if it
turns out later that this has been done illegally.”  The enhanced rescue fund, agreed on by European leaders in
July, requires ratification by all 17 euro-area parliaments.
Approval is facing delays in other eastern European countries,
with Slovakia’s Freedom and Solidarity, one of the nation’s
ruling parties, opposing a more powerful EFSF, and Slovenia’s
decision in question after Prime Minister Borut Pahor’s
government lost a confidence vote yesterday.  Estonia’s Social Democrats introduced draft changes to the
budget law today, according to a statement on the parliament’s
website. If handled quickly, the government may endorse the
amendments at a regular meeting tomorrow, allowing parliament to
approve them next week alongside the EFSF bill, the party said.
The changes may delay the EFSF bill to October, Vassiljev said
before the statement was released.  The Social Democrats control 19 seats in the 101-member
Riigikogu, while the ruling coalition of Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip ’s Reform Party and Isamaa ja Res Publica Liit has 56.  ‘Very Embarrassing’  Estonia’s parliament is authorized to assume financial
obligations on behalf of the state under the constitution,
Finance Minister Juergen Ligi said, according to comments
forwarded today by the ministry. Parliament shouldn’t be looking
for “technical excuses not to take decisions that are within
its competence,” he said.  “Delaying the decision would put Estonia in a very
embarrassing situation internationally and we would definitely
see the consequences of it in global economic data,” Ligi said.  The parliament’s finance committee is due to meet tomorrow,
with Ligi in attendance, to discuss the situation. Sven Sester,
the committee’s head, said in a phone interview that he expects
the Social Democrats’ objections to be resolved tomorrow and is
aiming to pass the EFSF bill in two readings next week.  Estonia, which adopted the euro in January, would guarantee
as much as 1.995 billion euros ($2.733 billion) of debt under
the EFSF, according to a draft bill backed by the government
Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  