-- 
New York Mets Considering Making Citi Field Walls More Home-Run Friendly

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-21T15:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/mets-considering-making-walls-home-run-friendly.html
The  New York Mets  are considering
changing Citi Field’s outfield walls to increase the number of
home runs hit in the three-year-old stadium.  General Manager  Sandy Alderson , speaking in  St. Louis  where
the Mets are playing a series against the Cardinals, said the
team has studied statistics from the ball park and is “taking a
very serious look” at alterations.  The Mets haven’t finished higher than fourth since moving
into the $800 million stadium in 2009. The club has 102 home
runs, fourth lowest in  Major League Baseball . Since 2009, the
Mets have hit an MLB-low 325 home runs.  “We’re not looking necessarily to gain an advantage,”
Alderson said on the Mets’ website. “But at the same time, I
think there is some sense that the park is a little more
overwhelming to a team that spends half its time there.”  Alderson didn’t discuss specific changes, and said that the
team will make a final decision no later than October. Citi
Field is 335 feet down the left-field line, 408 feet to center
and 330-feet down the right-field line, according to the team’s
website. The wall is 16 feet high in most places, and has a
deepened recess in right-center that measures 415 feet.  After an Aug. 21 loss to the  Milwaukee Brewers , Mets
pitcher R.A. Dickey blamed the field’s dimensions for denying
teammate  Jason Bay  a go-ahead seventh-inning home run, the New
York Post reported. The ball hit off the top of the left-field
wall.  “Any other ball park in the universe, that’s a home run,”
Dickey told the  newspaper .  The Mets have hit 17 fewer home runs in the last three
seasons than the next closest team, the  Houston Astros . The  New
York Yankees , who also moved into their new stadium in 2009,
have hit 656 in the same period.  Tigers Walls  The Mets wouldn’t be the first team to move the outfield -
run walls in a new stadium. In 2003, the  Detroit Tigers  made
changes to three-year-old Comerica Park, moving the fence in
left-center 25 feet closer to home plate, the team said on its
 website .  The Mets and their opponents have combined for 99 home runs
through 75 games at the Flushing Meadows stadium this year,
according to the team’s website. That number is on pace to
finish below the 111 combined home runs at the park in 2010 and
130 in 2009.  Mets third baseman  David Wright  averaged about 29 home runs
in his final three seasons in Shea Stadium, the team’s home
before Citi Field. In three years in the new stadium, the five-
time All-Star is averaging about 18 home runs.  Alderson didn’t specify any players most affected by the
new stadium, and said that a part of the decision was in the
fans’ best interest.  “To some extent, it’s a question of entertainment,” he
said. “I think offense is appealing. Offense sells.”  Fewer Doubles  He said changes would result in more home runs, fewer
doubles and roughly the same amount of triples. Mets shortstop
 Jose Reyes , set to become a free agent after this season, leads
baseball in triples even after two stints on the disabled list.  Alderson said the four-time All-Star may be affected if the
Mets make the changes.  “He might need to slide at third a little more often,”
Alderson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  