-- 
EU Makes Progress on Economic Governance

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-21T05:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/eu-is-developing-economic-governance-greece-s-lambrinidis-says.html
Europe  is “fixing” its lack of
economic governance and will survive the region’s debt crisis,
Greek Foreign Minister Stavros Lambrinidis said yesterday in a
speech in New York.  “Europe has to become more political, more economic and
more united,” Lambrinidis said at the Foreign Policy
Association’s 2011 World Leadership Forum dinner in New York.
“We know what was lacking and we’re fixing it now.”  European Central Bank president  Jean-Claude Trichet 
proposed in a June 2 speech a “major strengthening of the rules
and organizations” including power of veto for European
institutions over the budgets of countries in crisis and the
creation of a regional  finance ministry  to monitor policy
making. European leaders are squabbling over the terms of a July
21 agreement for a second Greek rescue and the prospect that
they will be forced to channel more money to keep  Greece  in the
currency union.  Greece has cut its deficit, though the spending reductions
caused a recession that has shrunk the nation’s tax revenue
making it more difficult to achieve its fiscal goals,
Lambrinidis said. European countries and the U.S. should
consider taxing financial markets, which made “major
miscalculations” that contributed to the global financial
crisis in 2008, to provide revenue to narrow budget deficits, he
said.  ‘Find New Sources’  “It’s very difficult to close that gap if you don’t have
enough earnings,” Lambrinidis said. “How do you infuse more
money into economies that cut, cut, cut? The answer is you need
to find new sources of revenue.”  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos made “good
progress” in a second round of talks yesterday with the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  aimed at staving
off default, the EU said.  Talks on the Greek aid payments resumed after IMF and EU
monitors earlier this month suspended the review for a sixth
tranche of loans following the discovery of a hole in the
budget.  The austerity measures demanded in return for the emergency
loans are deepening a three-year recession, making it harder for
the government to meet the deficit goals laid out in its aid
package. The IMF’s representative in Athens Bob Traa said Sept.
19 the economy will shrink 5.5 percent this year and another 2.5
percent next year, before growth resumes in 2013.  Preliminary numbers showed the deficit widened 22 percent
to 18.9 billion euros ($26 billion), more than the target of
18.1 billion euros for the period. Greece pledged to reduce its
deficit to 7.6 percent of gross domestic product this year from
10.5 percent in 2010.  “We know we have a long ways ahead of us, many years of
pain,” Lambrinidis said. “However, both us, the euro zone, and
Europe will survive this crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  