-- 
Commerzbank CEO Supports Proposed Boost to EU Rescue Fund

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-09-21T13:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/eu-lawmakers-should-increase-rescue-fund-commerzbank-ceo-says.html
Lawmakers in euro-area nations
should endorse a planned increase in the region’s rescue fund as
they work toward greater fiscal integration,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
Chief Executive Officer Martin Blessing said.  “We need a plan in the medium-term on how we’re going to
move forward with European integration in the next three to five
years and we need the instruments to bridge the time,” Blessing
told reporters in  Frankfurt  yesterday. “We need a crisis plan
in the short term, especially for  Greece .”  Investors have “limited” faith in European governments
after they failed to stem concern that contagion from Greece’s
fiscal woes will engulf Spain and Italy and hurt French banks,
Blessing said. To restore confidence, lawmakers need to help
develop the equivalent of an “equity story” to map out the
region’s growth prospects and implement an agreement to boost
the size of the European Financial Stability Facility, said the
CEO of  Germany ’s second-largest lender after Deutsche Bank AG.  “Rescue mechanisms have to be increased, especially the
EFSF, regardless of whether the troika says the next tranche can
be paid out or not,” Blessing said, referring to the EU, the
 European Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund . “If they
say it can’t be paid out, then we’ll really need the fund.”  Fund Boost  In June, European finance ministers agreed to boost the
fund’s lending capacity to the headline 440 billion euros ($600
billion) from about 250 billion euros. The decision will take
effect after being ratified by all 17 euro-area countries.  Germany’s lower-house Finance Committee backed proposed
enhancements with a “big majority,” easing the bill’s path
before a Sept. 29 vote in parliament, Deputy Finance Minister
Hartmut Koschyk said in an interview today.  While the measure won support from opposition Social
Democrat and Green committee members, the three parties in
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition had a sufficient majority
to pass the legislation without opposition help, Koschyk said.  Blessing said that while he supports increasing the fund,
he doesn’t necessarily see the need to raise it even further.  Investors must believe that  Italy  wants to address its
fiscal issues, he said.  “I can’t imagine a fund that is big enough to also
guarantee Italy in total, so Italy has to help itself,” he
said. “Italy is in a whole other situation than Greece.”  Italy’s credit downgrade by  Standard & Poor’s  isn’t a
concern, Blessing said in comments that were embargoed for
today.  Joint euro bonds “can be an instrument if you have a
fiscal union,” he said. “What they can’t be is a short-term
financing instrument. The euro bond is a crowning element.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  