-- 
European Stocks Retreat on Greek Talks; Peugeot, Volkswagen Lead Decline

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-21T16:13:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/european-stock-index-futures-pare-decline-inditex-sap-might-be-active.html
European stocks retreated as
officials said they plan to return to Athens next week after
three days of consultations failed to produce a solution to the
country’s debt crisis.  PSA Peugeot Citroen and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  led a decline in
automakers.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s
largest mining companies, fell with metal prices.  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  lost 5 percent as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  downgraded
Europe’s second-biggest airline.  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ)  slumped
19 percent for the biggest drop in three years.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank 1.7 percent to
225.33 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge rose for the
fifth day in six yesterday as  Greece  described its debt talks
with the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  as
“productive” and investors speculated the  Federal Reserve  will
provide more stimulus at today’s meeting. The Stoxx 600 has
still fallen 23 percent from this year’s peak on Feb. 17 amid
concern the global economic recovery is at risk.  “There is still nervousness in the market,” said Heinz- Gerd Sonnenschein, an equity strategist at Deutsche Postbank AG
in Bonn. “There’s fear about what will come out of the FOMC
meeting and about what’s coming up with Greece. The Greek
problems will need time to be solved. We still have a long and
difficult way to go.”  Greek Debt Talks  The European Union said that a “full mission” of
officials from the  European Central Bank , International Monetary
Fund and EU will return to  Athens  next week after talks with
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos made “good
progress.”  The debt crisis has generated as much as 300 billion euros
($410 billion) in credit risk for European banks, the IMF said,
wrote in its Global Financial Stability Report released today.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  may decide today to
replace short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio
with long-term bonds in a bid to lower rates for mortgages, auto
and consumer loans, according to 71 percent of 42 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The central bank was scheduled to
issue its statement after the close of European markets.  Bank of England  officials considered ways of adding
stimulus to the economy this month and most of them said an
expansion of their 200 billion-pound ($313 billion) bond
purchase program is “increasingly probable.” The nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee voted 8-1 to maintain the current size
of the bond plan and were unanimous in keeping the benchmark
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent. The minutes of the Sept. 8
meeting show the decision on whether to expand stimulus was
“finely balanced.”  ‘Near the Bottom’  “The ball is in the court of the policy makers,” said
 Markus Steinbeis , head of equity portfolio management at the
Unterfoehring, Germany-based unit of Pioneer Investments KGmbH,
which oversees about $221 billion globally. “The market is
hoping for any kind of reaction from the Fed. We’re probably
near the bottom in the short term.”  Policy makers battling  Europe ’s debt crisis shouldn’t rule
out issuing joint euro-area bonds and must develop tools to make
that possible, even if German opposition means it can’t be done
immediately, European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said.  “The commission believes we should look also at that
option,” Barroso said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York . “We are not saying it is immediately.
This is a matter that must be discussed, but we should not
exclude that option either.”  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes retreated in 13 of the 18
western European markets.  Germany ’s DAX Index declined 2.5
percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 1.4 percent and  France ’s
CAC 40 dropped 1.6 percent.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest carmaker, slid 5.7 percent
to 17.04 euros and Volkswagen preferred shares slipped 2.6
percent to 111 euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler
AG (DAI) , the world’s biggest makers of luxury cars, declined 2.7
percent to 56.09 euros and 3.8 percent to 35.40 euros,
respectively.  Fiat SpA (F)  fell 6.2 percent to 4.04 as Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded its corporate family rating. A gauge of auto-
industry shares dropped 3.3 percent for the second-largest
retreat among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  BHP Billiton , the world’s biggest mining company, fell 3.9
percent to 1,888.5 pence, while Rio Tinto, the second-largest,
retreated 4.2 percent to 3,389 pence. Mining companies were the
worst performers as a group in the Stoxx 600 as copper, lead,
nickel, tin and zinc declined on the London Metal Exchange.  Lufthansa Downgrade  Lufthansa fell 5 percent to 9.80 euros, the lowest price
since August 2009, as the airline was downgraded to “sell”
from “hold” at Deutsche Bank. The company expects fuel
expenses to climb to 6.4 billion euros this year, according to a
presentation on its website today.  Stada Arzneimittel slumped 19 percent to 18.79 euros, the
largest decline since July 2008. The drugmaker said it will post
a one-off charge of about 97 million euros in the third quarter
because of unpaid bills from Serbian drug wholesalers.  Deutsche Bank retreated 2.3 percent to 23.90 euros as Chief
Financial Officer Stefan Krause said Germany’s biggest bank is
“fighting” to meet its goal of 10 billion euros in operating
pretax profit this year.  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  sank 3.3 percent to 5.51 euros as  Italy ’s
biggest publicly traded investment bank reported a quarterly
loss after writing down the value of Greek bonds and its stake
in Telco SpA, the largest investor in Telecom Italia SpA.  Metro AG (MEO)  rallied for a second day, climbing 2 percent to
31.51 euros. There was no “power struggle” at the retailer’s
supervisory board over the extension of Chief Executive Officer
Eckhard Cordes’s contract, according to the top management of
Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH, one of the retailer’s largest
shareholders, the Financial Times Deutschland reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  