-- 
European Steelmakers Idling Blast Furnaces as Demand Slumps

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-21T09:35:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/european-steelmakers-idling-blast-furnaces-as-demand-slumps-1-.html
European steelmakers, accounting
for about 13 percent of global output, are idling blast furnaces
after demand failed to rebound, according to MEPS
(International) Ltd., a U.K.-based industry consultant.  Facilities have been shuttered in  France , Belgium and  Italy 
and that may extend to other European sites, the consultant said
in a  report  on its website today. While producers want to
increase fourth-quarter prices, “the success of this initiative
is questionable,” MEPS said.  “There are fears of a serious slowdown in the German
market,” MEPS wrote in the report. “The summer months of July
and August have been exceptionally quiet. End-users have work
for now but their forward order books are looking thin.”  Industrial production in the 17-nation euro area fell 0.8
percent in June, the biggest drop in more than a year, before
advancing 1 percent the following month. The region’s debt
crisis is spurring governments to cut spending and raise taxes,
eroding  consumer confidence .  The summer months were “exceptionally quiet” in  Germany 
and steel demand remains “sluggish” in France, with
distributors using stockpiled metal rather than making new
orders, MEPS said. The U.K. market is “weak and depressing”
and demand in  Spain  “dreadful,” the consultant said.  The 27-nation European Union and six other nations in the
region produced 15.76 million metric tons of steel in August,
out of a global total of 124.6 million tons, the World Steel
Association reported yesterday. EU production in the first eight
months expanded 4.4 percent to 120.9 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  