-- 
European Supergrid to Cut Offshore Wind Cost by 25%, Panel Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-09-21T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/european-supergrid-to-cut-offshore-wind-cost-by-25-panel-says.html
A European “supergrid” connecting
the electricity network of Britain to those of mainland  Europe 
could cut the cost of connecting offshore wind farms to the land
by a quarter, a panel of U.K. lawmakers said.  Investment in offshore power transmission could also create
775,000 jobs across Europe by 2020, Parliament’s  Energy and
Climate Change Committee  said today in an e-mailed study. It
recommended that new wind farms are connected in a way that’s
compatible with a supergrid, rather than using individual
connections to shore. The government wants to boost offshore
wind capacity to 18 gigawatts in 2020 from 1.3 gigawatts now.  “If we continue developing these renewable resources site-
by-site, it could be prohibitively expensive,” committee chair
 Tim Yeo , a lawmaker with the ruling Conservatives, said in a
statement. “An integrated and interconnected offshore network
would allow us to tap these huge resources cost-efficiently and
prepare the ground for a future European supergrid.”  The idea of a supergrid has been promoted by companies
including  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  National Grid Plc (NG/) 
to make it easier to balance demand with intermittent power
generation across Europe, from solar farms in Mediterranean
nations to offshore  wind turbines  in the North Sea.  Creating the grid could eventually cost 200 billion euros
($275 billion), with a first stage of 28 billion euros by 2020,
Mainstream Renewable Power Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Eddie O’Connor told the U.K. panel during its evidence sessions.  Super Friends  Assuming it was accompanied by 100 billion euros spending
to create 25 gigawatts of offshore windpower, expenditure in the
first stage would cancel out the costs of building and running
an equivalent amount of gas-powered plants within 8 years,
because the wind is a free fuel, O’Connor told the panel.  The supergrid “is about ensuring that Europe’s, and the
UK’s, renewable electrical resource is harnessed to the maximum
extent, at the most efficient cost and in an integrated
manner,” O’Connor said today in an e-mailed statement.  O’Connor is president of the  Friends of the Supergrid , an
alliance of at least 21 companies that includes Dublin-based
Mainstream, Munich-based Siemens, GE of Fairfield,  Connecticut ,
and London-based National Grid.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story: Alex Morales
in London at   amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  