-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Global Gold Vaults Run Out of Space

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-09-21T07:41:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/europe-commodity-day-ahead-global-gold-vaults-run-out-of-space.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Bullion Vaults Run Out of Space as Gold Rallies: Commodities  Deep in the 7.4-acre  Singapore  FreePort next to Changi
International Airport’s runways is the bullion vault of Swiss
Precious Metals, behind seven-metric-ton steel doors built to
survive a plane crash or earthquake.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Corn May Reach Record on Supply ‘Nervousness,’ Newedge Says (1)  Corn may advance to a record as “nervousness” returns
about global supply and harvest yields in the U.S., the biggest
shipper, may be less than expected, according to Newedge USA LLC,
the world’s biggest futures broker.  Rice May Decline on Indian Exports, Easing Food Inflation (1)  Rice, which has beaten corn, wheat and soybeans in the past
year, may drop as  India  restarts non- basmati exports after a
ban was lifted, boosting global supplies as buyers including
 Indonesia  take less than expected.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Onahama Smelter to Process First Copper Ore From Canada Mine  Mitsubishi Materials Corp.,  Japan ’s third-largest copper
smelter, said the first shipment of concentrate from Canada’s
Copper Mountain mine will be processed at its Onahama smelter as
the cargo arrived on schedule.  Zinc Will Rise to Average $2,800 a Ton in 2014, Antaike Says  Zinc may climb to average $2,800 a metric ton in 2014 as a
shortage develops, Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.
and Raw Materials Group said.  Copper-Alloy Product Output in Japan Drops for Third Month (1)  Japan’s output of copper and copper-alloy fabricated
products slumped 5.3 percent in August from a year ago,
declining for a third month as car production remained subdued
after the March temblor, an industry group said.  Copper Rebounds From Nine-Month Low on Global Shortfall Concern  Copper rebounded from a nine-month low after data showing
that global supplies didn’t meet demand in the first half
reinforced concern that the metal is in a deficit even as the
global economy slows.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Royal  Canada  Mint Says Silver-Coin Sales May Rise 39% This Year  The Royal Canadian Mint expects sales of silver coins to
rise as much as 39 percent this year on demand from investors
expecting prices to appreciate, said John Moore, the executive
director of bullion and refinery services.  Gold Gains for Second Day on Concern World Economy May Falter  Gold gained for a second day to trade above $1,800 an ounce
as concern the global economy is faltering stoked demand for
haven investments including bullion.  iShares Silver Trust Holdings Dropped 34.83 Tons Yesterday  Silver holdings in the iShares Silver Trust, the biggest
exchange-traded fund backed by silver, fell 34.83 metric tons
yesterday to 9,921.49 tons, according to figures on the
company’s website.  MINING:  Murchison, Mitsubishi Consider Funding Plans for Ore Port (1)  Murchison Metals Ltd. and Japanese partner Mitsubishi Corp.
are revising plans for their A$5.94 billion ($6.11 billion)
Oakajee iron ore infrastructure project in  Western Australia 
after failing to secure key agreements.  Lynas Slumps Most in Two Years on Rare Earths Price Drop (1)  Lynas Corp., an Australian rare earth developer, fell the
most in more than two years in Sydney trading following declines
in prices for the elements used in electronics and magnets.  Batista’s MPX Targets China as ‘Main Market’ for Colombian Coal  MPX Energia SA, the energy company controlled by Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista , said it’s targeting China as the
“main market” for the coal it will produce in  Colombia .  AGRICULTURE:  Global Sugar Market Will Be in Surplus in 2011-2012, Licht Says  The global sugar market will be in a surplus in the year
beginning Oct. 1 as production expands,  Stefan Uhlenbrock ,
senior commodity analyst at F.O. Licht, said at a conference in
Beijing today.  Corn, Soybeans, Wheat Gain on Unfavorable Weather Conditions  Corn, soybeans and wheat advanced, erasing earlier losses,
on speculation that unfavorable weather in growing areas in the
U.S., the biggest exporter, may hurt crop yields.  Palm Oil  Declines as Cuts to IMF Forecasts Boost Demand Concern  Palm oil dropped after the  International Monetary Fund  cut
its global economic growth forecasts, raising concern that
commodities demand may weaken.  Rubber Gains From One-Month Low on Speculation of U.S. Stimulus  Rubber rebounded from the lowest level in more than a month
on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may take additional
steps to bolster the  U.S. economy , supporting demand for the
commodity used in tires and gloves.  SHIPPING:  Gunvor, Trafigura Book Tankers to Ship  Fuel Oil  to Singapore  Gunvor Group Ltd. and Trafigura Beheer BV booked
supertankers to ship fuel oil from Rotterdam to Singapore in
October as Asian prices for the shipping fuel rise relative to
crude, broker data show.  ECONOMIES:  Greece Makes ‘Good Progress’ in Talks to Get Loan Payment (2)  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos made “good
progress” in a second round of talks with the European Union
and International Monetary Fund aimed at staving off default,
the EU said.  Barroso Says Euro Bonds Should Be Preserved as Debt Plan Option  Policy makers battling a European debt crisis shouldn’t
rule out issuing joint euro-area bonds and must develop
integration tools to make that possible, even if German
opposition means it can’t be done immediately, European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said.  Asia May Use Record Reserves to Slow Inflation: Chart of the Day  Asian central banks may step up sales of dollars to arrest
slides in their currencies which risk spurring inflation,
according to  Barclays Capital .  China  Faces ‘Hot Money’ Surge on Global Financial Market Turmoil  Turmoil in global financial markets may be spurring a surge
in flows of speculative capital into China as investors bet on
the nation’s growth and prospects for gains in the yuan.  OTHER MARKETS:  Yen Climbs, Oil Falls on Growth Concerns; Asia Stocks Erase Loss  The yen strengthened against most of its major peers while
Asian stocks swung between gains and losses amid concern
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will hamper global economic
growth and before the U.S. Federal Reserve concludes a two-day
policy meeting.  Oil Declines on Speculation Demand to Falter; Brent Erases Drop  Oil fell in  New York  as investors speculated that demand
will falter amid increasing U.S. crude stockpiles in the world’s
biggest consumer of the commodity. London-traded Brent’s premium
to the U.S. contract widened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  