-- 
Rajaratnam Is Next After Two Insiders Get 14 Years in Jail

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-22T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ex-galleon-trader-zvi-goffer-sentenced-to-10-years-in-prison-1-.html
An ex-Galleon Group LLC trader and
expert-networking consultant were sentenced to a combined 14
years in prison for their roles in a nationwide  insider trading 
scandal, just three weeks before  Raj Rajaratnam , the man at the
center of the investigation, is to learn his fate.  The sentences imposed within hours of each other yesterday
by two different federal judges in the same Manhattan courthouse
showed widely disparate perspectives on how insider trading
should be punished.  Zvi Goffer, 34, the former Galleon trader, was given 10
years, the longest prison sentence so far in the crackdown, for
leading a scheme to trade on inside information provided by
lawyers. Winifred Jiau, 43, a former consultant with expert-
networking firm Primary Global Research LLC, was given a prison
term of four years for passing information on technology
companies to fund managers.  Goffer’s sentence matches the longest term imposed for
insider trading in Manhattan federal court in at least the past
eight years. For 12 defendants who have been sentenced in cases
linked to Galleon, the average prison term has been
35 3/4 months, or almost three years.  “I view this as a tragic day,” U.S. District Judge
 Richard Sullivan  said as he issued Goffer’s 10-year sentence.
“Anything less than that would send the wrong message.”  Goffer, convicted in June of all 14 counts of conspiracy
and securities fraud against him, had asked for a lenient
sentence, claiming he’s a changed man since committing his
crimes. Prosecutors recommended more than 10 years.  ‘Arithmetic Certainty’  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff denied prosecutors’ request
that Jiau serve as long as 10 years in prison.  Rakoff criticized federal sentencing guidelines for their
“arithmetic certainty” and rejected the 78 to 97 months the
guidelines suggested in favor of the shorter prison term.  Prosecutors claimed Goffer led an insider-trading ring that
used information misappropriated by two lawyers to make more
than $10 million trading in shares of 3Com Corp., Axcan Pharma
Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corp.  Goffer’s wife, Dana, began to weep openly after Sullivan
sentenced her husband to a decade behind bars.  “What am I going to do? It’s so unfair,” she cried out in
the courtroom.  After a courtroom spectator who was consoling Goffer’s wife
shouted out an expletive, Sullivan halted proceedings, stood up
and threatened to have her arrested.  “This is a courtroom,” he said. “This is not a street
corner.”  Rajaratnam Postponement  Goffer’s sentence came about three weeks before his former
boss, Galleon co-founder Rajaratnam, is scheduled to be
sentenced in the same courthouse for directing the biggest hedge
fund insider-trading scheme in history. Rajaratnam’s court date,
originally set for Sept. 27, was postponed yesterday until
Oct. 13. Rajaratnam was convicted in May.  Goffer, who worked as a trader at New York-based
Schottenfeld Group LLC, used the tips to impress Rajaratnam and
get a job at Galleon, according to the government. Goffer
started Incremental Capital LLC after he was fired from Galleon
in 2008.  Goffer was tried with his brother, Emanuel, and Michael Kimelman, both of whom were convicted of the three conspiracy
and securities fraud counts they faced. Emanuel Goffer and
Kimelman haven’t been sentenced.  ‘Getting an Edge’  Goffer read from a prepared statement, apologizing to his
family, to investors and to the government for his crimes.  “I thought I was getting an edge so I could compete with
the large  hedge funds ,” he said.  Goffer was visibly emotional when he mentioned his wife and
his brother, who was also in the courtroom. He said he had
avoided thinking about the sentence, which will take him away
from his wife and their two young sons.  “Today I have to face it and I am terrified,” he said
yesterday in court.  Yesterday, James Fleishman, a former executive at  Mountain
View , California-based Primary Global Research LLC, was
convicted of two counts of conspiracy for his role in a separate
insider-trading scheme in which he passed tips to fund managers.
His sentencing is scheduled for Dec. 21.  Goffer was charged in an investigation by the office of
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  targeting insider
trading at hedge funds. The Goffer and Rajaratnam trials both
featured phone conversations secretly recorded by the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation .  Drimal, Chiesi  Craig Drimal, another former Galleon trader, was sentenced
to 5 1/2 years in prison. Danielle Chiesi, a former analyst at
New Castle Funds, got 2 1/2 years for passing tips to Rajaratnam
and others. Drimal and Chiesi both pleaded guilty.  In 2008, former Credit Suisse Group AG banker Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem, convicted of leading a $7.8 million
scheme unrelated to the Galleon probe, was sentenced to 10
years.  In the hearing yesterday, Sullivan cited wiretaps in which
Goffer was caught talking about people buying  call options  on a
stock on which he had inside information.  “‘That’s a ticket right to the big house,’” Sullivan
quoted Goffer saying on the wiretap. “‘That person is dead.
That is so illegal.’”  “You clearly understood the consequences of what you were
doing,” Sullivan told Goffer. “This statement reflects you
clearly understood the risks of this conduct.”  Goffer’s Bribes  Sullivan also pointed to Goffer’s payment of bribes to get
inside information, his use of prepaid cell phones in an attempt
to avoid detection and his actions in recruiting lawyers and
traders into the scheme.  In addition to the prison term, Sullivan sentenced Goffer
to three years probation after he’s released. Goffer must also
forfeit $10 million.  “Insider trading is very, very hard to detect and because
of that it has to be dealt with harshly to send a message,”
Sullivan told Goffer.  Jiau, of Fremont,  California , was convicted by a jury in
June of one count each of conspiracy and securities fraud in
Manhattan federal court for passing earnings and other
information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) 
to hedge fund managers Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital
Advisors LP portfolio manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New
York-based Barai Capital Management LP.  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Avi Weitzman and  David Leibowitz 
sought a prison term of eight years to 10 years, saying Jiau
“sold out her employer and her friends in the name of greed.”  Primary Global  Prosecutors argued that Jiau befriended and recruited a
Marvell accountant and Nvidia analyst who provided her with
confidential earnings information that she shared with Freeman
and Barai during consulting sessions with Primary Global. The
firm links investors with industry experts at public companies.  A  fund manager  testified Jiau worked with him and a group
of friends under an agreement in which Primary Global paid her
$10,000 a month and they had exclusive access to her
confidential information.  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney Avi Weitz said Jiau
failed to show any remorse or any charitable works.  “You see a self-interested individual who did what she
needed to make money,” Weitzman said.  Jiau’s lawyer, Joanna Hendon, said her client deserved a
term similar to the 18 months Rakoff imposed on a co-defendant
in the expert-networking investigation.  ‘Can’t Ignore’  “There are certain things the court can’t ignore,” Rakoff
said. “This was a serious crime, going to the integrity of the
financial markets, engaged in for a period of up to two years.
That alone requires some meaningful sentence.”  Rakoff said he would impose a forfeiture order of
$3.1 million.  Jiau, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in  Taiwan , has been
in custody since her arrest in December after Rakoff ruled she
was likely to flee if freed.  “I’m truly sorry for being here,” Jiau said yesterday in
court. She apologized to her family and friends as well as to
her golden retriever, Hunter: “I’m sorry I broke my promise to
take care of you and be with you.”  The cases are U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, and U.S. v.
Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  