-- 
Ex-Investment Adviser Scott Allen, Charged in Fraud Scheme, Granted Bond

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-21T15:53:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ex-investment-adviser-charged-in-trading-scheme-granted-bond.html
Former investment adviser Scott
Allen, accused of taking part in a $2.6 million insider-trading
scheme with an independent film producer, was allowed to remain
free on a $500,000 bond.  Allen, 45, of Atlanta, and film producer John Bennett were
accused Sept. 15 of taking part in the scheme involving drug-
company takeovers.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in  New York  today agreed
to let Allen remain free on the bond and ordered him to turn
over his travel documents and regularly report to court
authorities by telephone.  Allen and his lawyer, Brian McEvoy, declined to comment
after court.  In his role at a consulting firm, Allen learned inside
information about the April 2008 acquisition of Millennium
Pharmaceuticals Inc. by Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. and about the
September 2009 purchase of Sepracor Inc. by Dainippon Sumitomo
Pharma Co., according to a criminal complaint filed by
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Before the deals were announced, Allen disclosed the
information to Bennett, a longtime friend, the U.S. said.
Bennett, 48, of Norwalk,  Connecticut , gained $1.1 million in
profits trading on the information, the U.S. said. Allen and an
unidentified person who is cooperating with the U.S. made
$2.6 million, according to prosecutors.  Bennett, who worked for Merrill Lynch from 2005 to 2007,
has acted in several films, including the 1990 courtroom drama
“Presumed Innocent,” according to the website IMDb.com. He
cofounded Bennett Robbins Productions in 2008, according to the
company’s website.  Both men are each charged with one count of conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud  and two counts of securities fraud. If
convicted, they face as long as 20 years in prison on each count
of securities fraud and fines of as much as $5 million,
prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Allen, 11-MAG-2361, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 