-- 
Ex-SEC Top Lawyer Denies Claims He Had Conflict in Madoff Case

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-09-21T22:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ex-sec-top-lawyer-denies-claims-he-had-conflict-in-madoff-case.html
David Becker , the former U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission general counsel accused of
violating conflict of interest laws, said he had “no financial
interest” in the agency’s position on how  Bernard Madoff ’s
fraud victims should be compensated.  Becker, who stepped down in February, made the statement in
remarks prepared for a U.S. House hearing called to review his
participation in SEC policy related to the Madoff case after
inheriting money tied to the  Ponzi scheme .  Tomorrow’s hearing will come two days after SEC Inspector
General H. David Kotz released a review of Becker’s role and
said he would ask U.S. prosecutors to determine whether Becker
should face criminal charges for helping to make policy when he
had a financial interest in the outcome.  “It was in my best interest and the commission’s for me to
follow the law wherever it led,” Becker wrote in explaining his
decision to seek and follow the SEC ethics officer’s advice on
whether the inheritance presented a conflict. “I had neither
the desire nor reason to skate close to the line.”  Becker, Kotz and SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  are scheduled
to testify in a hearing before the committee tomorrow.  In response to accusations he acted in his own financial
interest, Becker said he took a 90 percent pay cut to return to
the SEC and “forfeited millions of dollars to serve my
country,” according to the testimony. Becker said his only
relationship with Madoff “is that in 1995 he defrauded my then
85-year-old father.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  