-- 
Texas Sues U.S. to Block EPA Power Plant Emission Rules Covering 27 States

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-21T16:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/texas-sues-u-s-to-block-epa-power-plant-emission-rules-covering-27-states.html
Texas, the second-most populous
U.S. state, sued the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
seeking to block rules aimed at curbing air pollution.  State Attorney General  Greg Abbott ’s office today filed a
petition for review of the regulation at the U.S. Court of
Appeals in  Washington . A request to bar its enforcement will be
filed later today, a spokeswoman for the attorney general,
Lauren Bean, said today in a telephone interview.  Abbott “is deeply concerned about these new federal
regulations’ impact on the State of Texas, its electric grid and
the Texans whose access to something as basic as electricity is
threatened,” the attorney general said in an e-mailed
statement.  The EPA standards, issued in July, say 27 states must
reduce power-plant emissions of sulfur dioxide, which can lead
to acid rain and soot harmful to humans and ecosystems, and
nitrogen oxides, a component of ground-level ozone. The rule
applies to emissions that cross state lines.  Coal accounts for 98 percent of sulfur dioxide and
92 percent of nitrogen oxides released into the air by power
plants, according to the EPA.  Texas  consumes more electricity
and uses more coal than any other state, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  Criticized by Perry  Texas Governor Rick Perry, who is seeking the Republican
Party nomination for president in the 2012 election, has
criticized the rule as “heavy-handed and misguided.”  The regulation has been challenged in a lawsuit by Luminant
Generation Co., an Energy Future Holdings Corp. unit, which
claims the measure will cost it $1.5 billion through 2020 and
force it to eliminate at least 500 jobs.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on today’s filing.  The case is State of Texas v. U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, 11-1338,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  