-- 
Mexico Needs No Stimulus to Withstand U.S. Slowdown, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-21T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/mexico-needs-no-stimulus-to-withstand-u-s-slowdown-meade-says.html
Mexican Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade ruled out boosting spending to fight off a U.S.
slowdown that the  International Monetary Fund  says will hurt
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy more than its neighbors.  Meade, in an interview, said he’s sticking by a 4 percent
growth forecast for this year even after the IMF yesterday
slashed estimates for Mexico’s economic performance this year
and in 2012. Mexico is committed to spending restraint, a policy
that served it well during the global financial crisis when
other countries saw inflation accelerate and debt loads rise as
a result of excessive fiscal stimulus, he said.  “Some countries that were very active fiscally and very
active monetarily are now paying the consequences,” Meade said
in an interview yesterday in Mexico City. “Mexico has reaped
the rewards for proving to be responsible.”  Mexico’s economy in 2009 shrunk the most since the Great
Depression after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
and is among the most vulnerable nations should the U.S. fall
back into recession. A slowdown in the  U.S. economy  would dry up
trade, tourism and remittances to Mexico, the IMF said in a
report yesterday when it slashed its 2011 growth forecast for
the country to 3.8 percent from 4.7 percent in June. Only
 Venezuela  is expected to grow less among the region’s major
economies.  Prudence, Campaign  President Felipe Calderon presented a 2012 budget that
calls for a deficit equivalent to 0.2 percent of gross domestic
product, excluding investments in state-owned oil company
 Petroleos Mexicanos , down from 0.5 percent this year, as growth
is slowing from 5.4 percent last year.  The goal is to gain consensus budget approval “in similar
terms to what we proposed” from Congress for a sixth
consecutive year to create certainty for investors, Meade said.  A lower deficit and international reserves of $136 billion
provide stability that underpins economic growth, Meade said.
Fiscal and monetary prudence has “worked well for Mexico,” he
said. Mexico’s central bank has held its target rate at 4.5
percent for 21 straight policy meetings, while Brazil and  Turkey 
have cut rates.  Mexico is lagging other emerging markets and the economy
should grow at a 6 percent clip, said  Luis Tellez , chief
executive officer of the Mexican stock exchange in an interview
yesterday. The nation needs to discuss policies to boost growth
during the campaign leading up to the July presidential election,
he said.  Meade said Mexico can only speed growth with legislation
aimed at making the nation more efficient. Since Calderon took
office in December 2006, Congress has approved laws to save a
public-sector pension system from insolvency and passed two tax
reforms that increased the ratio of revenue to GDP to a historic
level, Meade said.  ‘Better Drivers’  Mexico  has become more competitive, helping economic growth
outpace the U.S. in the last decade after lagging its largest
trading partner in the 1990s and 1980s, Meade said.  “The export sector, consumption and investment are all
better drivers of growth” than stimulus spending, Meade said.
“The thrust of our economic policy for this year and next will
be fiscal responsibility and monetary responsibility.”  The ministry will not change its dollar auctions, he said.
The peso’s 11 percent decline against the dollar since June is
part of normal trading activity and doesn’t warrant intervention,
he said.  The flexibility of Mexico’s floating exchange rate has been
positive by giving a boost to exports when it’s needed, he said.  “We don’t see any behavior in the market that seems driven
by a structural problem as compared to, for example, 2008 when
you did see a very illiquid market for the  Mexican peso ,” he
said. “The movements of the market have been orderly.”  Meade said he favors seeking renewal of a $72 billion IMF
flexible credit line when it expires in 2013. The credit
provides confidence in Mexico’s financial markets, he said.  “We have been served well by it and I think that we should
probably pursue renewing it in the future,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  