-- 
Expert-Networker Jiau Gets Four Years for Insider Trading

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-22T00:49:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/expert-networker-jiau-sentenced-to-4-years-in-prison-for-insider-trading.html
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant
at Primary Global Research LLC, was sentenced to four years in
prison for selling inside information on technology companies to
fund managers who made millions of dollars trading on the tips.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who presided over Jiau’s
jury trial, handed down the sentence today in Manhattan. Rakoff
said he would impose a forfeiture order of
$3.12 million. Jiau, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in  Taiwan ,
has been in custody since her arrest in December.  Jiau, 43, of Fremont,  California , was convicted in June of
one count each of conspiracy and securities fraud for passing
earnings and other information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge fund managers Noah Freeman, a
former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management LP.  “I’m truly sorry for being here,” Jiau said today in court.
She apologized to her family and friends as well as to her
golden retriever, Hunter: “I’m sorry I broke my promise to take
care of you and be with you.”  Primary Global, based in  Mountain View , California, is an
expert-networking firm that matches investors with specialists
who provide insight into specific markets. A fund manager
testified Jiau worked with him and a group of friends under an
agreement in which Primary Global paid her $10,000 a month and
they had exclusive access to her confidential information.  Fifteen Charged  Since November, 15 people have been charged with insider
trading by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office in a
nationwide crackdown on so-called expert-networking consultants
at technology companies who gave fund managers confidential
information. Twelve defendants have pleaded guilty and former
Primary Global executive James Fleishman was convicted by a jury
yesterday.  The U.S. sought a prison term of eight to 10 years.
Assistant  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Avi Weitz said Jiau failed to
show any remorse or any charitable works.  “You see a self-interested individual who did what she
needed to make money,” Weitzman said.  Jiau’s lawyer, Joanna Hendon, said her client deserved a
term similar to the 18 months Rakoff imposed on a co-defendant
in the expert-networking investigation.  ‘Can’t Ignore’  “There are certain things the court can’t ignore,” Rakoff
said. “This was a serious crime, going to the integrity of the
financial markets, engaged in for a period of up to two years.
That alone requires some meaningful sentence.”  Still, Rakoff criticized federal sentencing guidelines for
their “arithmetic certainty” and rejected the 78 to 97 months
the guidelines suggested in favor of a shorter prison term.  Zvi Goffer, a former trader at Galleon Group LLC, was
sentenced today to 10 years in prison for an  insider trading 
scheme involving tips about pending deals from lawyers. Galleon
co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , the center of a crackdown on insider
trading at  hedge funds , is set to be sentenced on Oct. 13 after
being convicted in May.  Prosecutors said Jiau befriended and recruited a Marvell
accountant and an Nvidia analyst who gave her confidential
earnings information that she shared with Freeman and Barai
during consulting sessions with Primary Global, which links
investors with industry experts at public companies.  Nvidia Earnings  Sonny Nguyen, a former Nvidia financial analyst who pleaded
guilty and is cooperating with the U.S., testified at Jiau’s
trial. He said he gave her confidential data about the
chipmaker’s quarterly earnings in August 2008. Prosecutors also
presented evidence showing that Stanley Ng, a Marvell
accountant, had tipped her to his company’s earnings in May,
2008. Ng, who was arrested Aug. 10, is the only person publicly
charged in the probe whose case hasn’t been resolved.  Freeman testified at the trial that data Jiau provided
during consulting sessions was “perfect information” for at
least eight quarters. Freeman said he made from $5 million to
$10 million by trading on her Nvidia information.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 