-- 
Venezuela’s PDVSA in Talks on $6 Billion Settlement With Exxon Mobil

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 
2011-09-21T23:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/exxon-pdvsa-arbitration-negotiations-at-6-billion-escarra-says.html
Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA, the
state oil company, and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  are negotiating an
arbitration settlement of about $6 billion for assets seized by
President  Hugo Chavez  in 2007.  Venezuela will pay any ruling issued by the World Bank’s
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, or
ICSID, that is in Exxon’s favor, Carlos Escarra, the country’s
prosecutor general, told reporters today in Caracas.  “They started asking for $20 billion,” Escarra said,
referring to Exxon’s original demands for compensation. “Talks
dropped to around $12 billion, and now they are around $6
billion. Venezuela has to pay -- we are clear on that. The
problem now is how much we will pay.”  Chavez, since coming to power in 1999, has nationalized
parts of the oil, metals, cement and utilities industries. In
2007, he forced foreign oil producers into joint ventures as
minority partners. Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil and
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  rejected the revised terms and instead entered
into international arbitration.  “Exxon Mobil does not comment on media reports,” said
Patrick McGinn, a Houston-based spokesman. Exxon, the world’s
largest oil company, reduced the amount it’s seeking for the
takeover of its Cerro Negro venture in the Orinoco heavy crude
belt to $7 billion from $12 billion last year, PDVSA said in a
bond prospectus at the time.  “Venezuela is evaluating the amount that we would consider
to be a triumph,” Escarra said.  Venezuela Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said the country
proposed paying Exxon $1 billion in compensation,  Reuters 
reported. Phone calls after business hours to PDVSA, as the
state oil company is known, were not returned.  Arbitration Results  “As the figure for the settlement has been coming down
with the passage of time, that is good news for the sovereign
and PDVSA,”  Boris Segura , a Latin America strategist with
Nomura Securities International Inc. in  New York , said today in
an interview from New York. “But most importantly, Mr. Escarra
was unequivocal in saying that Venezuela will abide by the
results of the arbitration.”  The Washington-based ICSID ruled on June 10 that it has
jurisdiction over any disputes after Feb. 21, 2006, for the
Cerro Negro project, according to documents posted on the
agency’s website. PDVSA previously argued that the matter should
be resolved in Venezuelan courts.  The Cerro Negro joint venture refined tar-like crude into
synthetic oil from wells in the Orinoco belt.  Regional Arbitration  Exxon initially won an order in the U.K. blocking PDVSA
from selling $12 billion of assets anywhere in the world. The
order was overturned by a U.K. court in March 2009.  Escarra, who was sworn into office as state prosecutor on
Aug. 30, said he previously advised Chavez to withdraw Venezuela
from the World Bank investment dispute unit when he was a
lawmaker in Venezuela’s National Assembly.  “In my opinion, we should leave. Ecuador and  Bolivia  have
already pulled out, and  Argentina  is pushing for a Latin
American arbitration court,” Escarra said. “But as the
prosecutor, I follow instructions from Chavez.”  Exxon fell 2.8 percent to close at $71.97 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan
 government bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 17 basis
points, 0.17 percentage point, to 1,315 basis points today at
5:21 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan & Chase Co.’s
EMBI+.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 rose 31 basis points to 14.84 percent. The
price fell 1.4 cents on the dollar to 66.17 cents.  “As risky assets worldwide were under pressure today,
don’t expect a positive day for Venezuelan assets, not even with
this news,” Segura said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  