-- 
Failing Banks’ Derivative Trades May Face EU Write Downs

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 4 3 0 1 8 6 1 ]   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-21T16:39:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/failing-banks-derivative-trades-may-get-forced-eu-write-downs.html
European Union regulators may write
down the value of outstanding derivatives contracts issued by
banks in crisis as part of broader plans to protect taxpayers
from having to bail out failing lenders.  Bank supervisors should be given power to impose losses on
“as wide a range of the unsecured liabilities of a failing
institution as possible,” to help cover winding-up costs,
according to a draft EU document outlining the plans. This may
include liabilities from “derivatives that are not fully
secured by collateral,” as well as unsecured senior bonds,
according to the document obtained by Bloomberg News.  Unsecured derivatives “should, in principle, be within the
scope of the debt write down powers,” the document said.
Exceptions could apply if imposing losses would have a negative
impact on the banking system, adversely affect counterparties or
harm clearinghouses, according to the EU document.  The European Commission delayed publishing the plans this
month because of concerns the measures may spook investors at a
time of market turbulence and that they need more work,
according to two people familiar with the situation. The final
proposals may be released next month.  “If there can be exceptions to write down provisions
because of concerns about possible negative effects on banks,
counterparties or clearing houses, this leaves a lot of room to
maneuver,”  Richard Reid , the International Centre for Financial
Regulation’s director of research, said in an e-mail. The plans
seem “to leave quite a bit of discretion to national regulators
as to how these measures are implemented.”  G-20  World leaders in the Group of 20 nations are seeking to
reach a deal on measures to wind down failing lenders without
the need for government bailouts, amid warnings from banks that
writing down the value of securities may raise their funding
costs and harm the economic recovery.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief,
published plans in January to impose losses on failed banks’
senior bondholders. The Financial Stability Board, which brings
together G-20 nation regulators, called in July for countries to
use debt write downs, along with other instruments such as
living wills, to prevent banks from reaching a size at which
they are considered too big to fail.  Government-Insured Deposits  Debt writedowns should not be applied to bonds or other
claims on a bank that are “secured, collateralized or otherwise
guaranteed,” the document says. Claims protected from such
losses should include government-insured deposits, money owed to
employees, or “commercial claims that relate to goods and
services necessary for the daily functioning of the
institution,” the document says.  “Losses should first be absorbed by regulatory capital
instruments, then by subordinated debt, and only by senior
claims if the subordinate classes have been written down
entirely,” the document says.  Derivatives are financial instruments derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to specific
events like changes in  interest rates .  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for Barnier, declined to
immediately comment. 