-- 
Fed Will Lengthen Maturity of Securities in Bid to Cut Rates

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T02:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/fed-to-shift-treasury-holdings-to-longer-term-securities-in-stimulus-step.html
The Federal Reserve will replace
$400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-
term Treasuries in an effort to reduce borrowing costs further
and counter rising risks of a recession.  The central bank will buy securities with maturities of six
to 30 years through June while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less, the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said today in Washington after a two-day meeting. The
action “should put downward pressure on longer-term interest
rates and help make broader financial conditions more
accommodative,” the FOMC said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  expanded use of unconventional
monetary tools for a second straight meeting after job gains
stalled and the government lowered its estimate of second-
quarter growth. Yields on 30-year Treasuries fell below 3
percent for the first time since 2009 and U.S. stocks had their
biggest drop in a month on the Fed’s plan, dubbed “Operation
Twist” after a similar Fed action in 1961.  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed statement said. By contrast, the August statement said only
that downside risks had increased and omitted any mention of
financial markets.  Boost to Growth  Today’s action may boost growth by 0.2 percentage point to
0.4 percentage point during the next year, said  Keith Hembre , a
former researcher at the Minneapolis Fed. Central bankers might
have passed on a third round of net asset purchases because
inflation is higher than it was when they began the second round
of so-called quantitative easing in November, he said.  “The Fed, I think, is fairly constrained right now,” said
Hembre, chief economist and investment strategist in Minneapolis
at Nuveen Asset Management, which oversees about $210 billion.
“The Fed can either do nothing, or it can do something like
this.”  The Fed left unchanged its pledge to keep the benchmark
interest rate near zero through at least mid-2013 as long as
unemployment remains high and the inflation outlook stays
“subdued.” The central bank has kept the target federal funds
rate for overnight interbank loans in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Policy makers amended the interest-rate pledge at their Aug.
9 meeting to substitute mid-2013 for the less-specific
“extended period” that had been in FOMC statements since March
2009.  Mortgage Securities  The central bank said today it will also reinvest maturing
housing debt into mortgage-backed securities instead of
Treasuries “to help support conditions in mortgage markets.”  Yields on  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac mortgage securities
that guide U.S. home-loan rates tumbled the most in more than
two years relative to Treasuries. The average rate on a typical
30-year fixed loan fell to a record low 4.09 percent last week.  The FOMC vote was 7-3. Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher,
 Minneapolis  Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  and  Charles Plosser  of the Philadelphia Fed voted against the FOMC decision
for a second consecutive meeting. They “did not support
additional policy accommodation at this time,” the Fed
statement said today.  Average Maturity  The amount of debt to be sold represents about three-
fourths of Fed holdings of between three months and three years.
The central bank will release a schedule of purchases and sales
for October on Sept. 30. The program will extend the average
maturity of the Fed’s Treasury holdings to 100 months, or 8 1/3
years, by the end of 2012, from 75 months.  “In response to the lower Treasury yields, interest rates
on a range of instruments including home mortgages, corporate
bonds and loans to households and businesses will also likely be
lower,” the Fed said on its website.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.9 percent to
1,166.76 in  New York . The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
closed down eight basis points, at 1.86 percent, after touching
a record low of 1.85 percent. Yields on 30-year bonds tumbled 21
basis points to 2.99 percent.  “Bernanke would rather try and fail than never have tried
at all,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist for Mesirow
Financial Inc. in  Chicago . “He does have a mandate to deal with,
and even if this helps on the margin, that makes a difference
for an economy that’s growing on the margin.”  Inflation View  Inflation “appears to have moderated since earlier in the
year,” the Fed said today without citing a specific measure.
The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and energy
costs, rose 1.6 percent in July from a year earlier,
accelerating from a 1 percent gain in March. At the same time,
retail gasoline prices have declined to an average of $3.57 a
gallon from $3.99 in May.  “This could be regarded as a bold move, as this hasn’t
been used for many years,” said K. C. Chan, acting financial
secretary of  Hong Kong , where monetary decisions track those of
the Fed because of a currency peg to the dollar. “This could
ease strains in financial markets and help keep up economic
momentum,” Chan told reporters today in Hong Kong, referring to
the Fed’s announcement.  The Fed’s System Open Market Account held $2.64 trillion in
securities as of Sept. 14, which included $1.65 trillion in
Treasury notes, bills and inflation-protected bonds and $995
billion of mortgage debt.  Two Rounds  The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion in debt from
December 2008 through June in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing aimed at lowering borrowing costs for
companies and consumers with the benchmark  interest rate  already
at zero.  Of the Fed’s $1.56 trillion in Treasury notes, 19 percent
mature in less than two years; 35 percent have maturities of two
to five years; 36 percent are due in five to 10 years; and 10
percent mature in 10 to 30 years, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on New York Fed data.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg anticipated a Fed program
today to extend the duration of its Treasuries. Of 42 surveyed
analysts, 71 percent forecast such a move, even as 61 percent
said it would probably fail to reduce unemployment.  “This is not likely to provide any significant stimulus,”
said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC in
Austin,  Texas . “The market really needed a boost of confidence.
There is no confidence from this.”  Chubby Checker  The Operation Twist from 1961, conducted with the Treasury
Department, got its name from Chubby Checker’s hit song, “The
Twist,” according to a report published March 14 by Eric Swanson, an economist at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  San
Francisco . That move lowered long-term Treasury yields by about
15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, according to Swanson.  Bernanke and his colleagues, who have a dual congressional
mandate to achieve stable prices and maximum employment, are
trying to reduce 9.1 percent joblessness that’s crept up 0.3
point since March. It reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in
October 2009.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1 percent annual pace in the
second quarter, the government said Aug. 26, reducing the
initial 1.3 percent estimate. Growth may be accelerating to 1.8
percent in the third period, according to the median estimate of
66 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from Sept. 2 to Sept. 7.
The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its U.S. growth
projection for 2011 to 1.5 percent from 2.5 percent in June.  Unemployment Outlook  The pace isn’t fast enough to make much of a dent in
joblessness, analysts say. The  unemployment rate  won’t budge
from 9.1 percent for the rest of the year, based on the median
estimate of economists in the Bloomberg survey; it will reach
8.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012, respondents said.  Last year’s $600 billion of bond buying brought the Fed in
for the strongest political criticism in three decades as
Republicans, including Ohio Representative  John Boehner , now the
House speaker, said the central bank’s actions risked
depreciating the dollar and causing too much inflation.  Republican lawmakers including Boehner and Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell urged Bernanke in a letter this week to
refrain from additional monetary easing to avoid “further
harm” to the economy.  The barbs have extended to the Republican campaign for the
2012 presidential nomination, with Texas Governor Rick Perry
saying Aug. 15 that Bernanke would be treated “pretty ugly down
in Texas” if he printed more money before the election.  Today’s move, while short of creating money, brought
criticism from both sides of the political aisle.  Republican Senator David Vitter of  Louisiana  said the
program is more likely to backfire by fueling inflation and
devaluing the dollar.  Vermont Senator Bernard Sanders, an independent who
caucuses with Democrats, said the action is “not bold and will
not create the millions of jobs that America needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  