-- 
Fed’s Statement on Maturing Extension Program (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-09-21T18:44:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/fed-s-statement-on-maturing-extension-program-text-.html
Following is the  Federal Reserve ’s
statement regarding the maturity extension program and agency
security reinvestment:  Statement Regarding Maturity Extension Program and Agency
Security Reinvestments  On September 21, 2011, the  Federal Open Market Committee  (FOMC)
directed the Open Market Trading Desk (the Desk) at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York to purchase, by the end of June 2012,
$400 billion in par value of Treasury securities with remaining
maturities of 6 years to 30 years and to sell, over the same
period, an equal par value of Treasury securities with remaining
maturities of 3 years or less.  The FOMC also directed the Desk to reinvest principal payments
from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed
securities (MBS) in agency MBS.  Maturity Extension Program
Purchases of  Treasury securities  associated with the $400
billion maturity extension program will be distributed across
five sectors based on the approximate weights in the following
table, although this distribution could be altered if market
conditions warrant:  ------------------------------------------------------------
Nominal Coupon Securities by Maturity Range*|   TIPS**
------------------------------------------------------------
6-8 Yrs | 8-10 Yrs | 10-20 Yrs | 20-30 Yrs  | TIPS 6 - 30 Yrs
32%     |  32%     |  4%       |   29%      |      3%
------------------------------------------------------------  *The on-the-run 10-year note will be considered part of the 8-
to 10-year sector.
**TIPS weights are based on unadjusted par amounts.  Sales associated with the $400 billion maturity extension
program will take place in Treasury securities with remaining
maturities of 3 months to 3 years. Roughly three quarters of
System Open Market Account (SOMA) holdings of Treasury
securities in this maturity range will be sold.  On or around the last business day of each month, the Desk will
publish a tentative schedule of operations expected to take
place over the following calendar month. The schedule will
include the anticipated total amount of purchases and sales to
be conducted over the month, operation dates, settlement dates,
security types (nominal coupons or TIPS) to be purchased or sold,
the maturity date range of eligible issues, and an expected
range for the size of each operation. A schedule of operations
expected to take place in October will be released on Friday,
September 30.  Purchases and sales will be conducted with the Federal Reserve’s
primary dealers through a series of competitive auctions
operated through the Desk’s FedTrade system. Consistent with
current practices, the results of each operation will be
published on the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s website
shortly after each operation has concluded. In order to ensure
the transparency of these operations, the Desk will publish
information on the transaction prices in individual operations
at the end of each month, coinciding with the release of the
next month’s schedule.  A set of Frequently Asked Questions associated with this program
will be released on Monday, September 26.  Reinvestments of Principal Payments on Agency Securities  Beginning on Monday, October 3, principal payments from holdings
of agency debt and agency MBS will be reinvested in agency MBS
through purchases in the secondary market. The current practice
of reinvesting principal payments from holdings of agency debt
and agency MBS in Treasury securities will be halted at that
time. The operations currently scheduled for September 23 and
September 27 will take place as previously announced.  Going forward, on or around the eighth business day of each
month, the Desk will publish the planned amount of purchases
associated with the reinvestment of principal payments from
agency debt and agency MBS expected to be received over the next
monthly period.  Reinvestment purchases will be conducted with the Federal
Reserve’s primary dealers through a competitive bidding process.
The results of each week’s purchases will be published on the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York ’s website. In order to ensure
the transparency of these operations, the Desk will publish
information on the transaction prices in individual operations
at the end of each monthly period, coinciding with the release
of the next period’s planned purchase amount.  SOURCE: New York Federal Reserve Bank  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  