-- 
Fiat Downgraded by Moody’s on Chrysler Combination Concerns, Europe Loss

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-09-21T13:47:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/fiat-debt-downgraded-by-moody-s-on-chrysler-combination-european-losses.html
Fiat SpA (F)  was downgraded by Moody’s
Investors Service by one step with a negative outlook on concern
the combination with Chrysler Group LLC will leave the Italian
carmaker responsible for the American automaker’s debt.  Fiat was lowered to Ba2, two notches below investment
grade, from Ba1 because the integration of the carmakers “could
result in the two companies having to support each other in the
event of financial difficulty,” Moody’s said today. Debt of
about 8.3 billion euros ($11.3 billion) is affected by the
downgrade, the rating company said. Fiat declined to comment.  Moody’s also cited Fiat’s business risks, including its
“relatively infrequent model renewal rate, which is
constraining the group’s competitive position” in  Europe , and
increased competition from rivals in  Brazil .  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who runs both
Fiat and Chrysler, is struggling to boost European sales as Fiat
posts losses in its biggest market and continues to lose ground
to competitors. Fiat’s European market share through August
shrank to 7.3 percent from 8.2 percent a year earlier as
deliveries plunged 13 percent, according to statistics from the
European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association.  Shares Drop  Fiat fell as much as 19 cents, or 4.5 percent, to 4.12
euros and was trading down 4.1 percent at 4.13 euros as of 3:45
p.m in Milan, giving the company a market capitalization of 5
billion euros. The shares have lost 38 percent this year,
compared with a decline of 25 percent in the Bloomberg European
Auto Manufacturers Index.  Marchionne said earlier this week that the group “has
enough liquidity to weather the storm.” The CEO said in June
that the Italian carmaker won’t risk a  credit-rating  downgrade
to gain full ownership of the American carmaker. Chrysler is
rated by Moody’s three steps lower than Fiat.  “Markets are worried again about liquidity,” Philippe Houchois, a London-based UBS AG automotive analyst, wrote in a
note to clients before the downgrade. Houchois, who has a buy
recommendation on the stock, today cut his target price to 7
euros from 8.50 euros.  Fiat, including Chrysler, expects to have as much as 5.5
billion euros of net industrial debt at the end of the year and
about 18 billion euros of cash. Group debt was 3.4 billion euros
at the end June, of which 979 million euros was for Fiat,
according to a July 26 presentation posted on its website. The
Italian carmaker began consolidating Chrysler’s results in June.  Fiat Liquidity  “Moody’s considers Fiat’s liquidity profile to be good,
excluding Chrysler and the unknown amount of cash outflow that
would be involved if Fiat were to exercise its option” to buy
the remaining stake owned by United Auto Workers union’s retiree
health-care trust.  Fiat aims to recover market share in the second half with
new models such as the Freemont, a European version of the Dodge
Journey, and the subcompact Lancia Y and Fiat Panda, which was
shown last week at the Frankfurt Motor Show.  The Italian carmaker may delay the market entry of new
products because of the crisis, Marchionne said last week. Fiat
postponed some Alfa Romeo models, including a sport-utility
vehicle, by one year to 2013, delaying the brand’s return to
 North America . Alfa abandoned the U.S. in 1995.  Marchionne said yesterday that  Italy ’s austerity measures
will impact car sales in the country this year and next. Fiat
targets “ultimate” break-even in Europe in 2014, he said.  No Share Sale  Marchionne, 59, last week ruled out any share sale for the
time being for Chrysler or luxury brand Ferrari because of the
market uncertainty. There’s no “urgency” to merge Fiat and
Chrysler, Marchionne said. Fiat owns 53.5 percent of the
American automaker and expects to get 58.5 percent by the end of
the year.  Fiat was placed under review for a possible downgrade by
Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings  in April after the carmaker announced
plans to raise its Chrysler stake.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its
long-term corporate credit rating on the carmaker to BB in
February and confirmed its “negative outlook.” All of Fiat’s
ratings are below investment grade.  -- Editors: Chad Thomas, Chris Reiter  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 