-- 
Fiat’s New, Serbia-Made Model May Succeed Idea, Lancia Musa

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-09-21T13:29:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/fiat-s-new-serbia-made-model-may-succeed-idea-lancia-musa.html
Fiat SpA (F)  may start full production
of its new model in Serbia in May or June next year after
technical tests of the car, seen as a possible successor to the
the Idea and Lancia Musa models.  The model, to be unveiled at the Geneva car show next year,
is intended mainly for the European markets, including  Russia ,
said Antonio Cesare Ferrara, head of Fiat Automobili Srbija,
Fiat’s joint venture with the Serbian government.  “In a later stage it may also be offered in the  United
States , but primarily  Europe ,” Ferrara told reporters at the
FAS plant in Kragujevac, Serbia, once home to the now defunct
Zastava carmaker known for making Yugo subcompacts in the 1980s.  Production capacity at the plant located about 110
kilometers (68 miles) from the capital Belgrade, is projected at
up to 250,000 units a year, “but the actual volume will, of
course, depend on demand,” Ferrara said.  The new Fiat car, code named “L-zero,” is described as a
B-segment, five-seater of between 4.1 meters (13.5 feet) to 4.25
meters in length in its basic version,  The model will also have
an “extended” variant that will seat seven, Ferrara said
today.  Fiat absorbed Zastava when it set up FAS with  Serbia  in
2008. The Balkan country expects Fiat output may contribute 0.4
percent to growth in 2012, or a cumulative 2 percent through
2016.  Fiat’s investment in Serbia will reach 850 million euros
($1.16 billion) by the end of the year, including the cost of
cleaning up and rebuilding the decrepit Zastava facilities,  and
importing “state-of-the art production equipment” from
Germany, Italy and  Japan , Ferrara said.  The first test units from the plant are expected by the end
of the year, Fiat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  