-- 
Finland Likely to Pass Expanded Rescue Fund, Urpilainen Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-09-21T10:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/finnish-lawmakers-likely-to-pass-efsf-changes-urpilainen-says.html
Finland ’s parliament is likely to
pass the expanded powers of  Europe ’s temporary rescue fund,
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said.  “It would show Finland in a very bad light if Finland
rejected the measures used to counter the crisis,” she told
reporters today, after giving a speech at a tax event hosted by
the Chamber of Commerce in Helsinki. Passing the measures is the
“responsible” thing to do, she said.  Finland’s insistence that it get collateral in exchange for
its contribution to a second Greek bailout has threatened to
derail Europe’s crisis-fighting efforts and roiled European
financial markets. The yield on  Greece ’s two-year notes soared
to more than 65 percent this week.  Talks on collateral among European Union countries should
end as soon as possible, Urpilainen said, without providing
details. The Greek government is seeking to accelerate budget
cuts to ensure the next tranche of an international rescue
package is delivered in October to stave off default.  Spain,  France , Italy, Belgium and Luxembourg have already
approved the enhanced powers for the 440 billion-euro ($601
billion) fund. All euro-region nations need to approve the plan
adopted by European leaders on July 21.  Under its expanded powers, the European Financial Stability
Facility would take over bond buying responsibilities from the
 European Central Bank  and be able to lend to nations before they
need a bailout.  Slovenian Delays  Slovenia’s minority government headed by Prime Minister
Borut Pahor was toppled in a confidence motion over pension
changes yesterday, potentially delaying the vote on the EFSF.  A delay in Slovenia would slow the whole ratification
process, since Slovakia, where one of the ruling parties,
Freedom and Solidarity, opposes a more powerful EFSF, has
already made it clear that it wants to be the last euro-region
member to vote on the issue, Michal Dybula, an economist at BNP
Paribas in Warsaw, wrote in a note to clients.  Finland’s six-party government, which has a majority in
parliament, might collapse if it doesn’t deliver a collateral
accord, according to Timo Tyrvaeinen, chief economist at  Aktia
Oyj. (AKTAV)   The collateral dispute reflects the bailout fatigue that is
spreading in Europe’s more fiscally prudent countries, fueling
support for political parties opposed to aiding the region’s
more profligate members. In Finland, the anti-bailout party,
which calls itself “The Finns” after changing its name on Aug.
22 from “The True Finns,” campaigned against the rescues,
forcing other parties to address voter concerns by seeking to
cap Finland’s liabilities.  National politics is increasingly at odds with efforts to
forge European unity, complicating a comprehensive response to
the debt crisis that now threatens Spain, Italy and France.  Finland’s legislature is scheduled to vote on the
amendments to the EFSF on Sept. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  