-- 
Florida’s Scott Is Still Least Popular U.S. Governor in Quinnipiac Polls

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-09-21T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/florida-s-scott-still-least-popular-governor-in-quinnipiac-polls.html
Florida Governor  Rick Scott ’s
approval rating was little changed in a Quinnipiac University
poll this month, leaving him the least-popular of six state 
leaders in the school’s surveys of the past two months.  Thirty-seven percent of Floridians polled said the first-
term Republican was doing a good job compared with 35 percent in
August, the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute said today.
The September number is up from Scott’s 29 percent low in May.  “Scott certainly has a long way to go till he can see the
breakeven point, but his ratings that dropped to awful are now
just bad,” Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Hamden,
Connecticut-based institute, said in a statement.  The former health-care executive, 58, who campaigned on
cutting  government spending  and supporting private job growth,
was elected in November with less than half the votes cast.  He signed a $69.1 billion budget in May that’s more than $1
billion smaller than last year’s. It called for state employees
to contribute 3 percent of their salaries to the pension system,
cut education spending $542 per student and lowered corporate
income taxes by about $300 million.  Forty-one percent of voters surveyed by Quinnipiac thought
the budget was fair to people like them, compared with 33
percent in August and 29 percent in May.  Other Republicans  Quinnipiac surveys about other Republican governors showed
 New Jersey ’s  Chris Christie  had a  47 percent  approval rating in
a survey released Aug. 17; Pennsylvania’s Tom Corbett had a 44
percent rating in a poll  Aug. 3 , and Virginia’s Bob McDonnell
had 61 percent in a  Sept. 14  survey.  Among Democrats,  Dan Malloy  of  Connecticut  had a  41 percent 
approval rating in Quinnipiac’s Sept. 15 poll and New York
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  scored  66 percent  on Sept 20.  The institute hasn’t polled voters in Ohio since  July , when
35 percent approved of Republican Governor John Kasich’s job
performance.  Quinnipiac interviewed 1,007 Florida registered voters by
telephone from Sept. 14-19. The poll has a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 