-- 
Florida $15 Million School Bond Vote Delayed in Scott Review

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-09-21T23:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/florida-15-million-school-bond-delayed-in-scott-spending-review.html
Florida ’s cabinet delayed voting on
a $15 million bond sale for school buildings under Republican
Governor  Rick Scott ’s increased scrutiny of spending.  Scott, 58, asked a cabinet meeting in Tallahassee  yesterday 
to defer consideration of the sale pending “more information on
how the new debt is going to be used.” The debt, proposed by
the Division of Bond Finance, was meant for construction in
local school districts and the Florida college system.  The first-term governor, who promised increased government
accountability in his campaign, vetoed almost $165 million of
school-building bonds authorized by the Legislature when he
signed the fiscal 2012 budget in May.  “This is not a common occurrence,”  Ben Watkins , director
of  bond sales , said in an e-mail referring to the cabinet’s
action. “But rather a reflection of the increased scrutiny of
and justification for bond-financed facilities.”  The $15 million of bonds would have been repaid mostly from
motor-vehicle license fees. They would also have had the state’s
full faith and credit backing. Watkins said he was unsure when
the cabinet would reconsider the sale.  Scott wants to know more about how school officials
determine their capital needs, and the approval process, before
he gives his go-ahead for debt to be issued, said Lane Wright, a
spokesman.  “Governor Scott is asking everybody to be accountable,
especially when it comes to issuing new debt,” Wright said in a
telephone interview.  Four-Member Cabinet  The four-member cabinet authorizes bonds issued by the
state on behalf of local school boards. Its members include
Scott, Attorney General  Pam Bondi , Chief Financial Officer Jeff Atwater and Agriculture Commissioner Adam Putnam, all
Republicans elected in November.  The panel has been more active assessing  bond sales  than
previously, Watkins said.  Other examples of involvement “are less visible but have
to do with the questions that are asked and the information
needed to evaluate requested authorizations,” he said.  Standard & Poor’s , which gives Florida its highest  credit
rating , revised its outlook on July 12 to stable from negative.
It cited an expectation the state’s debt burden “should remain
manageable and should not increase significantly based on
current bond issuance.”  State debt decreased to $28.1 billion at the end of fiscal
2011 on June 30 from $28.2 billion the year before, Watkins said
at the cabinet meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 