-- 
Ford Expects to Resume Dividend

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-09-21T20:10:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ford-says-it-will-resume-dividend-in-relatively-near-future-.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , which hasn’t paid a
dividend in five years, expects to resume paying one in the
“relatively near future,” and is no longer tying such a move
to achieving an investment-grade debt rating.  “As our balance sheet continues to improve, we expect to
resume paying a dividend,” Controller Bob Shanks said today at
the Citi Global Industrials Conference in  Boston . “We expect
this to occur in the relatively near future.”  Ford suspended its dividend in September 2006. Chief
Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  said at a Sept. 9 investor
conference that Ford won’t resume paying a dividend until after
returning to an investment-grade  credit rating . Standard &
Poor’s rates Ford debt at BB-, three levels below investment
grade, with a positive outlook.  “We do not need to be investment grade before resuming our
dividends,” Todd Nissen, a Ford spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement after today’s presentation.  The second-largest U.S. automaker earned $4.95 billion in
the first half of the year, as fuel-efficient models like the
Fiesta subcompact attracted buyers. Ford’s U.S. light-vehicle
sales are up 12 percent this year through August, ahead of the
industrywide gain of 10 percent.  The automaker is seeking to lower labor costs in contract
talks with the  United Auto Workers . The current contract
covering Ford’s 41,000 U.S. hourly workers expired Sept. 14 and
was extended.  General Motors Co. (GM)  reached a tentative agreement
with the UAW Sept. 16, subject to ratification vote by workers.  Mulally’s Strategy  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  raised prices this
year to offset some of the $4 billion in higher costs the
company expects in 2011, including manufacturing spending.  Ford earned $9.28 billion in the past two calendar years
after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. The
automaker borrowed $23.4 billion in late 2006, putting up all
major assets including its blue oval logo as collateral. That
helped Ford avoid the bankruptcies and bailouts that befell the
predecessors of GM and Chrysler Group LLC.  Ford slid 45 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $9.97 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 41 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  