-- 
Foresight’s ForVEI Venture Acquires 3 Italian Solar Plants

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-09-21T15:11:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/foresight-s-forvei-venture-acquires-3-italian-solar-plants.html
  Foresight Group LLP , a British
clean-technology investor, said its ForVEI venture acquired
three Italian solar plants with total capacity of 13 megawatts
from  Spain ’s OPDE Group.  The 55 million-euro ($75 million) deal is the largest
lease-financing arranged by a single bank for a solar deal in
Italy, Federico Giannandrea, a partner at Foresight, said in a
phone interview today. Two units of Milan-based  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  will own the solar parks for 18 years while ForVEI pays a
monthly lease and earns guaranteed above-market rates for the
power generated, he said.  Italy has been the world’s most active solar market this
year, connecting 6.5 gigawatts in solar photovoltaic projects,
or three times more than  Germany , to reach a total of 10
gigawatts, according to its renewable energy regulator, GSE.  “That’s a pretty startling amount and shows the Italian
market in solar PV is very healthy,” Giannandrea said. “The
returns for the equity investors have remained in the teens. I
see the market going forward as a very stable one.”  Giannandrea said the purchase of the three plants in
northwestern  Italy ’s Piedmont region is based on predicted
returns of 12 percent to 15 percent, and “you expect the plants
to produce more. Historically in Italy, most of the plants have
overperformed.”  GSE says more than 26,000 solar installations totaling
about 1.7 gigawatts of capacity have been built in Italy since
June, when the country began reducing incentives.  Highest Rates  “This deal hows that there is still appetite for financing
quality solar assets in the dangerously overheated Italian
market,” said Pietro Radoia, a solar analyst in  London  for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Even with the tariff cuts, Italy has one of the highest
feed-in tariffs in  Europe , Giannandrea said. Feed-in tariffs, or
FITs, are guaranteed above-market prices paid for electricity
from renewable sources. The rates will be cut 31 percent by
December.  Under ForVEI’s agreement with OPDE, the venture will buy
another 20 megawatts of Italian solar farms developed by the
Spanish company by the end of October. Including a deal
announced in June, that will bring the total of operational
farms it owns to about 40 megawatts, according to Giannandrea.  Foresight contributes about 20 percent of ForVEI’s funds,
as does the Luxembourg-based Quercus Renewable Energy Fund,
according to Giannandrea. He said the remaining 60 percent comes
from VEI Capital, itself a venture between Palladio Finanziaria
SpA,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo , Veneto Banca
SpA and Banca Popolare di Vicenza Scrl.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  