-- 
Forint May Fall to 2 1/2-Year Low on Policy, SocGen Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-21T15:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/forint-may-fall-to-300-per-euro-on-misguided-plan-socgen-says.html
The forint may weaken to the lowest
level in 2 1/2 years on “misguided policy moves” by the
government, including a plan for the early repayment of foreign-
currency mortgages, according to  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.  The forint weakened 1.3 percent to 290.98 per euro as of
5:35 p.m. in Budapest, extending its loss this month to 6.8
percent. Investors should sell the forint as it may depreciate
to 305 versus the European common currency, Guillaume Salomon, a
Societe Generale strategist, said in an e-mail to clients. That
would be the weakest since March 2009.  “We are seeing a significant erosion of investor
confidence in  Hungary ,”  Benoit Anne , Societe Generale’s London-
based head of emerging-markets strategy, said earlier in a
separate e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg. “The
risk of policy error has risen dramatically after the misguided
policy moves on the part of the government over the past few
days.”  Anne cited a law approved this week allowing the repayment
of mortgages denominated in Swiss francs, euros and yen at
below-market rates at banks’ costs. He also pointed to the
 Economy Ministry ’s proposal yesterday to increase the minimum
wage as an example of moves which “undermine the business
climate” and “ends up in fiscal slippage.”  Hungary’s forint may weaken to 300 “in a matter of days,”
Anne said.  ‘Profound Effect’  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is raising taxes and cutting
spending to narrow the  budget deficit  and trim public debt to 72
percent of gross domestic product next year from 80 percent at
the start of 2011, the highest among the European Union’s
eastern members.  Orban is raising excise taxes this year and will increase
value-added tax to a European Union-high 27 percent from 25
percent in 2012. The government yesterday proposed raising the
minimum wage from 2012 by 18 percent to 92,000 forint, the
biggest increase in a decade. It also wants private companies to
raise salaries by 5 percent next year, above the government’s
4.2 percent inflation estimate.  “These measures could have a profound effect on the
budget,” Salomon said, referring to the state’s proposal to pay
employers for some of the wage increases. The state also faces a
potential bill from planned legal challenges to the mortgage
plan from banks, Salomon added.  The forint weakening beyond 300 may prompt  interest rate 
increases of as much as 300 basis points, he said.  The central bank yesterday kept the benchmark interest rate
at 6 percent after also discussing the option of raising it to
6.25 percent, central bank President Andras Simor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  