-- 
Ex-Goldman Trader Accused of Insider Trading

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-09-21T20:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/former-goldman-sachs-etf-trader-accused-of-insider-trading.html
A former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
trader and his father were accused by U.S. regulators of making
illegal trades based on confidential information related to the
Wall Street firm’s exchange-traded fund investments.  Spencer Mindlin, 33, and Alfred Mindlin, 68, reaped at
least $57,000 in illicit profits by trading in December 2007 and
March 2008 “with knowledge of massive, market-moving trades”
that Goldman Sachs planned to execute in four securities, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said today in a statement.
The Mindlins denied the claims, which were outlined in an
administrative proceeding filed by the SEC’s enforcement unit.  The younger Mindlin, who worked on Goldman Sachs’s ETF
desk, learned of the firm’s plans to buy and sell large amounts
of securities underlying an ETF known as SPDR S&P Retail ETF,
according to the order. He tipped his father, and the two took
long and short positions depending on whether Goldman Sachs
intended to buy or sell, the order said. The  insider-trading 
claims are the SEC’s first involving ETFs, the agency said.  “We are aggressively working to identify and prosecute
illegal insider trading across multiple markets and derivatives
products regardless of the complexity of the trading pattern,”
Sanjay Wadhwa, associate director of the SEC’s New York regional
office, said in the statement. The agency is seeking
disgorgement of ill-gotten gains and unspecified penalties.  Nothing Wrong  The Mindlins did nothing wrong and the allegations
shouldn’t have been brought against them, according to their
lawyer, Robert Knuts of Park & Jensen LLP.  “This is a situation where a son working in the securities
industry suggested a trading strategy to his father and helped
the father understand and execute the strategy,” Knuts said in
an e-mailed statement. “That strategy was not based on any
confidential information obtained by the son. Instead, it is
based on the well-known re-balancing phenomenon within the ETF
industry and publicly available information.”  The elder Mindlin is a certified public accountant,
according to the SEC.  SEC investigators typically pursue insider-trading cases in
federal court rather than through an administrative proceeding,
where penalties are limited. The agency withdrew claims last
month against former Goldman Sachs director Rajat Gupta after he
sued the agency, arguing that an administrative hearing denied
him the right to a  jury trial .  Goldman Sachs spokeswoman Andrea Raphael said in an e-
mailed statement that the firm “fully cooperated” with the
SEC’s investigation.  “All of the trading was conducted in private, undisclosed
accounts held outside of Goldman Sachs and none of the trading
involved client information,” Raphael said.  Spencer Mindlin left Goldman Sachs in 2009, according to
the administrative order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  