-- 
Clyfford Still Works Could Raise $70 Million at Sotheby’s

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-09-21T14:52:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/four-clyfford-still-paintings-could-raise-70-million-at-sotheby-s-auction.html
Four paintings by Clyfford Still
could fetch more than $70 million when they come up for auction
at  Sotheby’s  on Nov. 9 in  New York .  The rare pieces come from the estate of Still’s wife,
Patricia Still, and are being sold by the City of Denver. The
proceeds will go toward the endowment of the  Clyfford Still
Museum , which is scheduled to open on Nov. 18 in Denver.  The auction house guaranteed the museum more than $25
million. The four works are estimated to bring between $51
million and $71.5 million. Sotheby’s could earn as much as $15
million in commission from the sale, according to the contract
with the City of Denver.  “You always think in your job that you’ve seen everything,
but this is a new world,”  Tobias Meyer , worldwide head of
contemporary art at Sotheby’s, said in a telephone interview.
The sale marks the first time, he added, that four works by the
American Abstract Expressionist will be offered “to the global
community of collectors.”  The works include three completed in the 1940s and one in
1976. The top lot of the group, “1949-A-No. 1,” features deep
reds and velvety blacks. It has an estimate range of $25 million
to $35 million.  Paintings by Still (1904-1980) rarely come up at auction.
In 2006, Christie’s, which competed for the Denver consignment,
sold a large 1947 canvas for $21.3 million, the auction record
for Still.  During his life, Still sold very little and frequently
rejected exhibition opportunities. His will stipulated that the
estate be given in its entirety to a U.S. city willing to
establish a permanent museum housing his work alone.  In 2004, Patricia Still selected Denver. The city received
Still’s 2,400-piece collection, including 825 paintings. The
Clyfford Still Museum will house about 94 percent of the
artist’s works.  Denver’s City Council unanimously approved the contract
with  Sotheby’s (BID)  last month. The four works had to be first
offered to museums, but the private sale failed to take place by
the deadline of Sept. 19, as the contract stipulated.  “We kind of knew that going in,” said Jan Brennan,
director of Denver’s office of cultural affairs, adding that she
is “glad that the institutions had this opportunity.”  She declined to disclose the names of participating
museums, citing confidentiality, or the exact amount that
Sotheby’s guaranteed Denver.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 