-- 
Primary Global, Full Tilt Poker, BP, BofA in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-21T10:37:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/full-tilt-poker-news-corp-bp-ibm-yukos-in-court-news.html
A former executive at expert-
networking firm Primary Global Research LLC, James Fleishman,
was found guilty of helping pass confidential information to
fund managers as part of an insider-trading scheme.  Fleishman, of Santa Clara,  California , was found guilty
yesterday by a  Manhattan  federal jury of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and conspiracy to commit  wire fraud . The jury
deliberated for about six hours before reaching a verdict.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff set sentencing for Dec. 21.
Until then, Fleishman, who faces as long as 25 years in prison,
remains free on bond. He and his lawyer,  Ethan Balogh , declined
to comment as they left the courthouse.  “We had enough evidence to find the defendant guilty of
both counts,” said jury foreman Ben Stein, who works in the
information-technology sector of a financial-services business.
“It was not easy, but we had lots of evidence.”  Since November, 15 people have been charged by federal
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet
Bharara  in a probe of expert networkers and hedge fund managers.
Twelve have pleaded guilty, including Noah Freeman, a former
portfolio manager with SAC Capital Advisors LP, and Samir Barai,
the founder of Barai Capital Management LP.  Fleishman, 42, was the second to go to trial. Winifred
Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant who was convicted at
trial in June of securities fraud and conspiracy, is scheduled
to be sentenced today in Manhattan federal court.  Prosecutors said Fleishman obtained and passed confidential
data from technology company employees who were moonlighting as
consultants for Mountain View, California-based Primary Global.
The secret tips were given to fund managers who paid Primary
Global for consultation calls, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Full Tilt Paid Board With Players’ $440 Million, U.S. Says  Full Tilt Poker  paid board members more than $440 million
using funds it had told its online poker players would be
available to them for withdrawal at any time, U.S. prosecutors
said.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office yesterday
asked U.S. District Judge Leonard B. Sand for permission to add
the new allegations to a civil forfeiture case first filed
against Full Tilt, PokerStars, Absolute Poker and other
businesses in April.  “Full Tilt insiders lined their own pockets with funds
picked from the pockets of their most loyal customers while
blithely lying to both players and public alike about the safety
and security of the money deposited with the company,” Bharara
said in statement.  The forfeiture action parallels criminal charges also
brought by Bharara against the poker companies and 11 people,
alleging bank fraud,  money laundering  and illegal gambling.
Prosecutors said that after the U.S. enacted a law in 2006
barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites, Full Tilt, PokerStars and Absolute Poker worked around
the ban to continue operating in the U.S.  Ireland-based Full Tilt, Absolute Poker of Costa Rica and
PokerStars, based on the  Isle of Man , were the leading online
poker sites doing business with U.S. customers.  Bharara’s office said in yesterday’s filing that Full Tilt
management’s payment processing had so degraded by last year
that it was crediting website players with money never collected
from their accounts.  L. Barrett Boss, an attorney for Full Tilt, didn’t
immediately reply to telephone and e-mail messages seeking
comment on prosecutors’ filing.  The civil forfeiture case is U.S. v. PokerStars, 11-cv-
2564, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Tzvetkoff, 10-cr-336,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  News Corp. (NWS)  Said to Get Letter From U.S. in Bribery Probe  News Corp. (NWSA)  was sent a letter by U.S. prosecutors
investigating foreign bribery, requesting information on alleged
payments employees made to U.K. police for tips, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  The letter is part of an effort by the U.S.  Justice
Department  to determine whether News Corp. violated the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, according to the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public. News
Corp. fell 1.7 percent on the news.  The inquiry advances an existing U.S. probe that is
reviewing claims that victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks had
their phones hacked by News Corp. employees. The letter doesn’t
carry the same legal force as a grand jury subpoena, which would
compel a response under law.  Earlier this year, it was revealed that reporters at New
York-based News Corp.’s News of the World had hacked the
voicemail accounts of celebrities and a young girl who had been
kidnapped and murdered. Investigators subsequently began looking
into allegations that the tabloid’s staffers made payments to
police officers in return for confidential information.  The FCPA, enacted in 1977, makes it a crime for U.S.
businesses or their employees to pay off representatives of a
foreign government in an attempt to gain a commercial advantage.
Federal prosecutors have broad discretion to interpret the law
and its definition of who qualifies as a government official.  In July, News Corp. retained attorney Mark Mendelsohn of
Paul Weiss Rifkind & Garrison LLP, according to the Wall Street
Journal, which is owned by News Corp. Prior to joining the  law
firm , Mendelsohn had overseen the Justice Department’s FCPA
investigations.  Suzanne Halpin , a spokeswoman for News Corp., didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the letter. Last
week, she declined to comment on the probe. Jerika Richardson, a
spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, whose
office initiated the FCPA investigation, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  BP Says It Didn’t Hide Information About Gulf Well Blowout  BP Plc (BP)  said it didn’t hide information about a possibly
dangerous condition in the Macondo oil well before or after it
blew out in April 2010, killing 11 people and triggering the
biggest U.S. offshore oil spill.  BP personnel determined that a sand layer above the blast
site was water-bearing rather than a gas-containing
“hydrocarbon zone” and provided supporting data to its well
partners before the blowout, according to a court filing
yesterday. BP investigators reported publicly after the
explosion that this may have been gas-containing sand, while
determining it wasn’t a cause of the incident, the company said
in the filing.  A  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  unit that provided cementing services for
the well asked a federal court in New Orleans Sept. 1 to allow
it to add a claim of fraud in its lawsuit against BP over the
spill, contending concealment of the hydrocarbon zone.
Halliburton shouldn’t be allowed to add the new claim, BP said
in its filing.  “There is no evidence that BP held the pre-incident belief
that the sand was hydrocarbon-bearing, or that it had any intent
to conceal,” the company said in the filing. BP distributed
information about the shallower sand within days after the
incident, the company said.  “Had BP disclosed the higher hydrocarbon zone in April
2010, Halliburton would not have pumped the cement program
unless and until changes were made to the cement program,
changes that likely would have required BP to redesign the
production casing,” Tara Mullee Agard, a spokeswoman for
Houston-based Halliburton, said yesterday by e-mail.  The Macondo blowout and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP and its partners and contractors. The
lawsuits over economic losses and personal injuries have been
combined before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans.  The federal case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-
2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  Verizon Must Face Claims Over Idearc Spinoff, Judge Rules  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  must face claims in a lawsuit
accusing it of defrauding creditors of Idearc Inc. when it spun
off the directory business in 2006, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge A. Joe Fish in Dallas denied Verizon’s
request to dismiss claims that the telecommunications company
intended to “hinder, delay or defraud” creditors and that it
aided and abetted breach of fiduciary duty, according to a
decision filed Sept. 19.  “These detailed and particularized allegations show that
Verizon had a motive and opportunity to commit the alleged
actual fraudulent transfers, and they permit the court to draw a
reasonable inference of Verizon’s intent,” Fish wrote.  As a result of the spinoff, Verizon received $9.5 billion
in assets from Idearc and Idearc was left insolvent, U.S. Bank
NA, the trustee for a litigation trust for creditors, said in a
lawsuit last year. Idearc filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  Robert Varettoni, a Verizon spokesman, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. Bank National Association v. Verizon
Communications Inc., 10-01842, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Texas  (Dallas).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Bank of America, Merscorp Sued by Dallas District Attorney  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc. were sued by Dallas County District Attorney Craig
Watkins over claims that the tracking of mortgages violates
Texas law.  Merscorp Inc.’s MERS, which runs an electronic registry of
mortgages, cheated Dallas County out of “tens of millions in
uncollected filing fees,” Watkins said in a statement. MERS
tracks servicing rights and ownership interests in mortgage
loans on its registry, allowing banks to buy and sell loans
without recording transfers with counties.  Watkins, in a complaint filed yesterday in state court in
Dallas, claims MERS was established by banks including Bank of
America to avoid paying filing fees, as well as to ease
transfers of mortgages. The county asked the court to hold Bank
of America liable as a shareholder of MERS and said the bank
“knew or should have known” that the system would cause
improper filing.  “Texas public policy favors a reliable functioning public
recordation system to avoid destructive breaks in title,
confusion as to true identity of the holder of a note,
fraudulent foreclosures and uncertainty as to title when a home
is sold,” Watkins said in the 48-page complaint. MERS “has all
but collapsed this system throughout the U.S,” he said.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, didn’t return calls seeking comment after
regular business hours.  “We have not had an opportunity to review the complaint
and have no comment at this time,” Karmela Lejarde, a Merscorp
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Dallas County may add other banks to the lawsuit, Watkins
said yesterday in an interview. Naming Bank of America first was
“a strategic move,” he said. “We expect more banks will be in
this before it’s over.”  The case is Dallas County v. Merscorp Inc., CC-11-06571-E,
County Court at Law, Dallas County, Texas.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Gryphon’s Marsh Gets Eight Years in Prison in Stock-Tip Case  Kenneth Marsh, the “ringleader” behind the Gryphon
Holdings Inc. boiler-room operation on New York’s Staten Island,
was sentenced to eight years in prison for his role in
defrauding almost 5,500 people out of $20 million.  Marsh, 44, the last of the 18 Gryphon defendants to learn
his prison term, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge
Jack Weinstein in  Brooklyn , New York. He pleaded guilty in April
to one count of securities fraud, admitting he misled investors
into paying for phony stock tips.  “The victims were heard and they told heart-wrenching
stories,” Weinstein said.  Gryphon charged clients as little as $99 and as much as
$250,000 for access to its investment recommendations, according
to a related civil lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The other 17 defendants in the scheme, including
members of its sales force, all pleaded guilty and got sentences
ranging from three to 25 months. Marsh personally made $1.9
million through Gryphon, according to the SEC complaint.  “The court endeavored mightily to balance all of the
factors and came up with a fair and just sentence,” Alan S.
Futerfas, one of Marsh’s lawyers, said after the hearing
yesterday.  Futerfas said he would have to discuss with Marsh whether
to appeal the sentence.  Marsh, a former stockbroker who had been barred from the
securities industry, used the fictitious names Michael Warren
and Ken Maseka to pose as two investment advisers with
experience working at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Seven former salesmen and Marsh’s ex-wife, Nicole Marsh,
who ran Gryphon with him, cooperated with prosecutors, according
to the government. Nicole Marsh, 32, was sentenced to three
months in prison on Sept. 14.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Baxter Wins Bid to Force Teva to Honor Hepatitis-Case Accord  Baxter International Inc. won a bid to force  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to pay costs of defending Nevada
lawsuits alleging that the drugmakers’ sales of the anesthetic
propofol led to patients developing hepatitis.  An arbitration panel properly found that Teva was bound by
an agreement to cover all liability tied to claims that tainted
vials of  propofol  caused colonoscopy patients to develop
hepatitis, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster
concluded. A Las Vegas jury last year ordered Teva and Baxter to
pay more than $500 million in damages to a Las Vegas school
principal on one such claim.  The arbitration finding “is valid and enforceable,”
Laster said in a Sept. 15 ruling. The accord requires Petach
Tikva, Israel-based Teva to reimburse Baxter for “all claims,
damages, liability or losses” from the cases, the judge said.  The indemnity agreement is among the evidence a Las Vegas
jury is hearing in the trial of three more cases alleging Teva
and Baxter officials sold propofol in oversized vials that
encouraged medical personnel to reuse the containers for
multiple patients. Las Vegas residents contend they got
hepatitis C from the tainted vials.  Denise Bradley, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Teva, declined
to comment on the judge’s ruling.  Deborah Spak , a spokeswoman
for Deerfield, Illinois-based Baxter, didn’t immediately return
a call for comment on the decision.  The Delaware case is  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  v. Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 6819, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington.) The Nevada case is Sacks v. Endoscopy Center of
Southern Nevada LLC, 08A572315, District Court for Clark County,
Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more, click here.  IBM Offers to Settle EU Antitrust Probe, Second Case Closed  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  offered to resolve a
European Union investigation into claims the company blocked
competition from rival providers of maintenance services for
mainframe computers.  The European Commission, the Brussels-based EU antitrust
regulator, yesterday asked for comments on IBM’s commitments to
ensure the availability of spare parts and technical data. The
commission also  closed a separate probe  over IBM’s mainframe
computers after three competitors dropped complaints.  The commission in 2010 opened investigations into Armonk,
New York-based IBM over possible conduct that may have blocked
competitors in mainframe software and maintenance contracts by
restricting access to parts. While IBM has shifted its focus
away from hardware toward its more profitable software and
services businesses, the mainframe operations have high gross
margins and help pull in revenue for other divisions.  “It seems that IBM has taken a pragmatic approach and
determined that these commitments do not constitute a
significant issue for them and that it’s preferable to get a
settlement and put this probe behind them instead of fighting
till the end,” Christian Riis-Madsen, an antitrust partner in
Brussels at law firm O’Melveny & Myers LLP, said by telephone.  The company said in an e-mailed statement that it
“welcomes” the commission’s decision “to close the
investigation of IBM’s mainframe and associated intellectual
property rights.” The company said it also looked forward to
providing the basis for the final resolution of the probe into
maintenance practices.  For more, click here.  Yukos Wins Partial Victory Over  Russia  in European Court  A European court handed a partial victory to former
managers of Yukos Oil Co., ruling that Russia had violated the
company’s rights while rejecting a political motivation behind
tax claims that led to its bankruptcy.  Russia infringed on the company’s property rights with
penalties imposed concerning the 2000-2001 tax assessments and
left Yukos inadequate time to prepare a case, precluding a fair
trial, the  European Court of Human Rights  said.  “The crux of Yukos’s case was essentially the speed with
which it was required to pay and the speed with which the
auction had been carried out,” the Strasbourg, France-based
court said in a statement on its website yesterday.  Yukos’s main assets, now owned by state-run OAO Rosneft,
were seized and auctioned off by the government in 2004 to
settle more than $30 billion of tax claims. Yukos owner Mikhail
Khodorkovsky, who is in prison serving 13 years for crimes
including  tax evasion  and fraud, maintains the charges were
fabricated because he opposed then-President Vladimir Putin.
Putin, now prime minister, has denied any involvement in the
case.  The court said it wasn’t prepared to decide on a demand for
compensation in excess of $100 billion by Russia’s once-largest
oil producer. The same court awarded Khodorkovsky almost 25,000
euros ($34,200) in May, saying he was held in “inhuman and
degrading conditions.”  “For Khodorkovsky, to see the European Court of Human
Rights rule that the case against his company was lawless with
human rights violated on several counts was certainly a victory,
if a partial one,” said  Masha Lipman , an analyst at the
Carnegie Moscow Center research group.  Yukos failed to prove the tax case against it was
politically motivated, the court said. The May 31 ruling on
Khodorkovsky’s complaint had also dismissed claims that his
arrest on fraud charges was politically driven, saying the
accusations required incontestable proof.  “The ultimate resolution on the damages is yet to come and
I think ultimately that that will be resolved in favor of Yukos
stakeholders,” Bruce Misamore, former chief financial officer
of Yukos, said on a webcast press conference yesterday.  The court’s decision was a compromise, according to
Carnegie’s Lipman.  The case is: OAO Neftyanaya kompaniya YUKOS v. Russia,
14902/04, European Court of Human Rights.  For more, click here.  Boston  Scientific Wins Dismissal of Suit Over Sales Group  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  won dismissal of a class-action
lawsuit accusing the company of failing to disclose questionable
sales practices in its cardiac-devices group to investors.  Four pension funds sued last year, claiming losses of more
than $2.8 million from buying the stock at an artificially
inflated price. U.S. District Judge Douglas Woodlock in Boston
ruled Sept. 19 that the complaint failed to state a
“cognizable” claim for securities fraud.  “Rather than suggesting an intent to deceive investors,
the facts contained in the complaint exhibit the defendants
engaging in a good faith process to inform themselves and the
public of the risks,” Woodlock said in a 41-page opinion.  Boston Scientific failed to promptly disclose its decision
to fire some sales representatives after an internal audit
uncovered ethical violations in dealings with physicians,
according to the complaint, filed on behalf of investors who
bought the stock from Oct. 20, 2009, to Feb. 10, 2010.  The company, based in Natick,  Massachusetts , disclosed the
terminations in February 2010 after many of the sales personnel
were hired by competitor St. Jude Medical Inc., court papers
showed. Boston Scientific reported in April 2010 that the
disciplinary actions would result in about $300 million in
losses.  The company made the disclosures in a “reasonable time,”
Woodlock said in his ruling.  Jonathan Shapiro, an attorney for one of the plaintiffs,
Steelworkers Pension Trust, didn’t return a phone call seeking
comment on the ruling.  The case is In re Boston Scientific Corp. Securities
Litigation, 10-10593, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  Former CSK Auto CFO Watson Sentenced to Two Years in Prison  The former chief financial officer of CSK Auto Corp. was
sentenced to two years in prison for his role in a scheme to
manipulate the company’s earnings and double-bill customers,
federal prosecutors said.  Don W. Watson, 55, of Gilbert,  Arizona , was also ordered
Sept. 19 to serve three years of supervised release and to pay
restitution in an amount to be set by the court at a later date,
according to a U.S. Justice Department statement. Edward Novak,
Watson’s attorney, didn’t respond to a message seeking comment
about the sentencing.  O’Reilly Automotive Inc. (ORLY)  this month agreed to pay $20.9
million to resolve a Justice Department probe of a scheme to
manipulate earnings and double bill at CSK Auto before O’Reilly
bought it in 2008.  The investigation has produced guilty pleas from three
former CSK Auto employees, including Watson, the department
said.  The case is U.S. v. Fraser, 09-cr-00372, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here. For the
latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  SEC Ex-Counsel Referred to Justice Dept. Over Madoff Work  The U.S. Justice Department should consider whether a
former Securities and Exchange Commission general counsel
violated criminal law by working on policy related to  Bernard
Madoff ’s fraud when he had a financial interest in the outcome,
the SEC’s internal watchdog said.  In a 119-page report sent to Capitol Hill yesterday, SEC
inspector general H. David Kotz said he is referring the
conflict-of-interest allegations against  David Becker  to
prosecutors after receiving guidance from the U.S. Office of
Government Ethics. He also urged the SEC to overhaul its
procedures for providing ethics advice to agency officials.  Becker, who inherited profits from the Madoff fraud,
“participated personally and substantially in particular
matters in which he had a personal financial interest,” Kotz
wrote. The issues Becker worked on “could have directly
impacted his financial position,” Kotz said in the report.  Kotz opened his probe in March after Becker and his
brothers were sued by the court-appointed trustee in the Madoff
bankruptcy case to recover $1.5 million in what he termed
fictitious profits. When he joined the agency in 2009, Becker
told Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and William Lenox, then the agency’s
ethics counsel, about his family’s Madoff investment. Lenox told
Becker in May 2009 that he didn’t have a financial conflict of
interest and could work on the policy.  A phone call to William Baker III, Becker’s attorney at
Latham & Watkins LLP, wasn’t immediately returned.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 