-- 
Gamesa Talking to Three Utilities About Offshore Turbine Sales

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-09-21T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/gamesa-talking-to-three-utilities-about-offshore-turbine-sales.html
Gamesa Corp. Technologica SA, a
Spanish wind-turbine company that began developing its first
offshore wind turbines last year, is talking to at least three
potential customers, Chief Executive Officer Jorge Calvet said.  “We are in very advanced discussions with more than three
very significant and large utilities with whom we expect to
close opportunities in a short period of time,” Calvet said in
an interview yesterday in Southampton, southern  England . He
declined to name the companies, which he described as prominent
in the U.K.,  Germany ,  France , Belgium and Holland. “You have
all the names there,” he said.  Gamesa also may be “active” in any consolidation in the
industry, Calvet said, a buyer rather than a target.  The comments are part of Gamesa’s effort to characterize
itself as a survivor in the wind industry, which is facing
increased competition from Chinese companies and slower growth
in orders. The Zamudio-based company’s shares have fallen 41
percent this year, more than double the decline of the Bloomberg
Wind Energy index of 64 companies in the industry.  European governments have slashed subsidies for renewable
power and Gamesa hasn’t yet won orders for its offshore  wind
turbines , part of a plan to diversify from land-based models.
Calvet said he might have orders soon.  “I would love to have opportunity to announce some
contracts or agreements in the next six months,” Calvet said.  Wind Acquisitions  Calvet said any consolidation activity would be more than
“traditional mergers and acquisitions.” Instead, it will be a
“disappearance of suppliers, so the consolidation is going to
be by disappearance of capacity.”  Gamesa itself has received no takeover offers, Calvet said.
“We’re acquisitive on one side, but it has to be for
opportunities that makes sense for our shareholders and our
business,” Calvet said.  “We’re not actively seeking, but if a good opportunity
comes along we would look at it very carefully, both in on- and
offshore wind,” Calvet said. Opportunities would be global and
along the full wind value chain, he said.  The company is forging ahead with its plan to create an
offshore wind hub in the U.K., while other companies are pulling
back. Clipper WindPower, owned by United Technologies Corp.,
suspended its own wind turbine project in northeast England.
General Electric Co. also has said it may scale back its
presence in the offshore wind market in Norway and  Sweden .  Gamesa is aiming to capture 10 percent to 15 percent of the
global offshore wind market by 2020, Calvet said, and is closing
52 percent of its production capacity for onshore turbines in
 Spain .  “We’re shifting part of that, not all of that, to
countries like  India ,  China  and  Brazil ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  