-- 
GE Said to Consider $1 Billion Sale of Europe Trailer-Lease Unit

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-09-21T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ge-said-to-weigh-1-billion-sale-of-european-trailer-lease-unit.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is considering
a sale of its European trailer-leasing unit, a deal that may
fetch about 800 million euros ($1 billion), two people with
knowledge of the discussions said.  GE hired  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to help manage the sale process,
which probably will attract private-equity buyers, said the
people who declined to be identified because the matter is
confidential. An auction may start in the next weeks after banks
are sounded out on the amount of debt financing they would be
willing to lend to help fund a leveraged buyout, they said.  The division is part of GE’s finance unit, which the
Fairfield, Connecticut-based parent company is shrinking as a
percentage of profit and sales while working to boost industrial
businesses.  GE Capital  is selling or winding down about $80 billion in
assets and will shift those resources to areas such as aircraft
leasing and middle-market lending.  William Spiers, a spokesman for GE in the U.K., declined to
immediately comment when reached by phone.  Russell Wilkerson , a
spokesman for GE Capital in the U.S., couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment. A spokesman for Barclays in  London  declined
to comment.  European private-equity firms, which typically fund more
than half of their takeovers with debt, are having a harder time
borrowing because of the sovereign debt crisis. Companies
including French luxury group PPR SA have had to halt disposals
because bad financing conditions may lower prices that buyout
firms can offer.  GE’s TIP Trailer Services provides rentals and leasing of
equipment including trucks, tankers and trailers to
transportation companies. It has the largest trailer and truck
fleet in  Europe ,  according to its website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net 
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  