-- 
Merkel’s Government Signs Swiss Tax Accord as Opposition Bridles

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-21T15:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/german-cabinet-approves-german-swiss-tax-agreement.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government signed an agreement with  Switzerland  that seeks to
end a dispute over tax evasion, setting up a clash with German
opposition lawmakers who threatened to block the measure.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and his Swiss
counterpart, Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf, signed the accord in
Berlin today after ministers gave their approval at Merkel’s
weekly Cabinet meeting. The accord introduces a levy on German
bank customers while preserving Swiss banking secrecy.  The agreement, completed by negotiators last month, seeks
to quell a dispute between the neighboring countries over
wealthy Germans holding cross-border accounts with Swiss private
banks. It foresees a 2 billion Swiss-franc ($2.2 billion)
upfront payment to the German government from banks to cover the
failure by their clients to declare holdings, an amount that
will later be reimbursed from taxes paid by German customers.  “We are convinced that this agreement solves in a good
manner a problem that for years was able now and again to burden
relations between the Swiss confederation and  Germany ,”
Schaeuble told reporters at the signing ceremony. “It’s a good
and fair result of the negotiations.”  While the pact seeks to recover German tax claims, it also
protects bank clients’ privacy, a position that Schaeuble has
said is non-negotiable with Swiss officials.  “We’ve both had to make concessions,” Widmer-Schlumpf
said. “We’ve also had to deal with huge resistance.”  Bundesrat Showdown  Lawmakers from Germany’s main opposition  Social Democratic
Party  threatened to halt the bill in the upper house of
parliament, or Bundesrat, where Merkel’s coalition lacks a
majority. SPD floor leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the foreign
minister in Merkel’s first-term government, called the deal an
“abetment to tax evasion.”  Schaeuble, in an interview with the  Berliner Zeitung 
published today, said that he was confident the tax accord will
pass both houses of parliament.  Beginning in 2013, Swiss banks will levy a 26 percent
withholding tax on holdings of Germans with offshore accounts,
according to the agreement. The tax on assets from the past will
range from 19 percent to 34 percent, depending on the duration
of the client relationship and the initial and final amount of
capital. Account holders may also disclose their holdings to
German tax authorities.  Switzerland agreed in March 2009 to meet international
standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax haven by the
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development . Relations
between Germany and Switzerland soured early last year when
German authorities began an investigation into  tax evasion  based
on purchased CDs of stolen bank data.  “The tax agreement does not come without a price tag for
the banks,” the  Swiss Bankers Association  said in a statement
on Aug. 10 after details of the negotiations were made public.
“The implementation of the measures will cost the banks in
Switzerland a mid-three-digit million Swiss franc amount.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  