-- 
Germany’s Green Drive Subdues 2013 Power Prices: Energy Markets

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-09-22T16:33:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/germany-s-green-drive-subdues-2013-power-prices-energy-markets.html
A surge in renewable energy in
 Germany  is pushing power prices for 2013 below next year’s level
even as natural gas, coal and emissions rise.  Electricity for 2013 was 45 euro cents (61 cents) a
megawatt-hour cheaper than next year’s contract today after the
gap widened to as much as 1.25 euros at the start of last week,
broker prices on Bloomberg show. The country, Europe’s biggest
power consumer, will build 7,000 megawatts of solar and wind
capacity in 2013, 32 percent more than the additions planned for
next year, according to  Societe Generale  SA.  Germany is installing more  wind turbines  and solar plants
to offset halted atomic production while limiting emissions from
fuels such as coal and gas, which typically determine power
prices. Industrial users in  Europe ’s biggest economy are buying
supply for next year as Germany’s biggest utility EON AG has
already sold almost all of its electricity for the period,
helping keep 2012 prices at a premium.  “Much of this premium has to do with new power plant
projects coming online, both traditional coal and gas plants and
renewable energy,” Sigurd Lie, a senior analyst at Nena AS in
Oslo said in a Sept. 14 e-mail. Lie has studied Europe’s power
markets for more than a decade.  Germany will build 9,600 megawatts of power generation
capacity in 2013 and retire 3,200 megawatts of thermal plants
fueled using coal and natural gas, Societe Generale’s head of
energy research  Emmanuel Fages  said in slides e-mailed Sept. 15.  Solar, Wind Share  The country got a record 20.8 percent of its electricity
from renewable sources such as wind, solar, biomass and hydro in
the first half of the year, the country’s BDEW utility
association said Aug. 29. Still, renewable energy is a less
reliable form of production as it relies on fickle sunshine and
wind while thermal and nuclear plants are able to generate
around the clock.  The next-year contract rose to a two-year high of 60.90
euros a megawatt-hour on May 31, the day after  Chancellor Angela
Merkel ’s coalition endorsed a plan to close eight nuclear
reactors following the disaster at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
atomic plant. It was at 56.85 euros at 6:30 p.m. in Berlin
today, its lowest close since Aug. 18. The 2013 contract traded
at 56.40 euros.  The forward price curve, with 2013 prices at a discount to
next year, is “justified, especially because of the prevailing
new build of renewable generation,” Peter Krembel, head of
power, carbon and cross commodity trading for continental Europe
at RWE Supply and Trading GmbH in Essen, Germany, said in a
Sept. 13 e-mail.  Autumn Buying  Industrial users traditionally buy supplies for next year
during the autumn, a further impetus to push 2012 prices higher.  “We are in an intensive period of contracting right now,”
Per Lekander, UBS AG’s London-based head of global utilities
research, said by e-mail on Sept. 15.  The later-dated of the two front year power contracts in
Germany was last cheaper in 2008, when energy traders deemed the
commodity rally unsustainable as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed, Krembel said. The next-year contract traded at a
record 90.80 euros on July 7 of that year.  Coal prices for 2013 are 3.6 percent more expensive than
for next year. Natural gas for next winter in the U.K., Europe’s
most liquid market, is 3.8 percent more expensive than for the
six months through March 2013 while European Union emissions
permits for 2013 are at a 7.3 percent premium to next year. A
situation whereby later-delivery contracts cost more than
earlier ones is known as contango.  ‘Bit Fishy’  “I think it’s a market anomaly and a bit fishy because
forward fuel markets and CO2 are in their normal contango,”
Lekander said. “I would be really surprised if this is still
the situation in six months. It’s more likely to do with hedging
and the utilities having sold less of 2013 power.”  Dusseldorf-based EON sold 90 to 100 percent of its 2012
German, Benelux and French power by the end of the second
quarter. It had sold less than 60 percent of its 2013 power,
according to  slides  posted on its website on Aug. 10.  RWE AG (RWE) , the nation’s second-biggest utility, said a day
earlier it had sold more than 30 percent of its 2013 German
power as of June 30. Georg Oppermann, a spokesman at EON,
declined to provide more recent figures. Harald Fletcher, an
Essen-based RWE spokesman, declined to provide an update on the
company’s hedging.  As Europe’s largest economy slows and reduces energy demand
growth, the buffer of spare capacity is widening, Lie at Nena
said. Local utilities including Stadtwerke Munchen GmbH are
building wind parks that can earn more than double the market
rate for electricity.  Solar Panels  Some of the country’s 40 million households are installing
solar panels on rooftops that earn more than five times the
wholesale day-ahead power price under so-called feed-in tariffs.
The nation will add 6,000 to 7,000 megawatts of solar power this
year, on top of last year’s install of 7,400 megawatts,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “The installed solar base in Germany is growing rapidly
thanks to continued feed-in tariff support,” Jenny Chase, a
solar analyst at Bloomberg New Energy, said today by e-mail.
“We expect this to weigh on power spot prices, particularly
because renewable energy has priority grid access and near-zero
marginal cost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  