-- 
Germany Confronts Neo-Nazi Extremists by Banning Largest Active Group

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-09-21T09:34:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/germany-confronts-neo-nazi-extremists-by-banning-largest-active-group.html
The German government banned the
country’s largest active neo-Nazi group, an organization that
sought to spread its message through support to imprisoned
extremists.  The group, known by its German acronym HNG, posed as an aid
organization for prisoners. Founded in 1979 and claiming some
600 members, HNG’s true goal was to approach neo-Nazis and
others it identified as “national political prisoners,” the
 Interior Ministry  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “It was no longer acceptable that imprisoned right-wing
extremists could be strengthened by the NHG in their aggressive
position against a free, democratic order,” Interior Minister
 Hans-Peter Friedrich  said in a statement. “The HNG contributed
to a marked radicalization of the neo-Nazi scene.”  While Germany has confronted the threat of potentially
violent anti-immigrant violence, neo-Nazi groups represent a
more virulent threat because of their implicit identification
with National Socialism and  Adolf Hitler ’s  Third Reich . The
Interior Ministry counted about 5,600 people in neo-Nazi groups
last year, an increase from about 5,000 in 2009.  Nazi symbols, such as swastikas and the Hitler salute, are
prohibited in  Germany . Today’s ban was based on material seized
in a September 2010 raid in which German security officials
searched 30 premises across nine states.  Germany has outlawed several groups in recent years in an
effort to stamp out a growing movement of potentially violent
anti-immigrant extremists.  The Federal Administrative Court last year upheld an April
2009 ban on another neo-Nazi organization, the Heimattreue
Deutsche Jugend. That organization sought to attract youths
under the guise of activities such as summer camps and outings.
Police had found swastikas, black-clad youngsters and extremist
lyrics during a raid on one of the HDJ’s camping sites on the
 Baltic Sea coast  of  Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania  state two
years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  