-- 
Giants Wide Receiver Hixon Will Miss Rest of NFL Season With a Knee Injury

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-21T18:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/giants-wide-receiver-hixon-will-miss-rest-of-nfl-season-with-a-knee-injury.html
New York Giants wide receiver
Domenik Hixon has suffered a season-ending knee injury for the
second straight year, the team said.  Hixon tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee
during the Giants’ Week 2 win over the  St. Louis Rams . It’s the
same injury he sustained 15 months ago that forced him to miss
the 2010 National Football League season.  “It’s a shame, he’s a guy who we missed last year and were
happy to have back,” Giants quarterback Eli Manning said at a
news conference. “It’s unfortunate, but we’re going to need
some guys to step up.”  Hixon, also a kick-return specialist, will be the Giants’
ninth player on injured reserve and the fifth to sustain a
season-ending knee injury. Starting middle linebacker Jonathan Goff, cornerback Terrell Thomas and reserves Clint Sintim and
Brian Witherspoon also tore knee ligaments.  Hixon, 26, was injured while making a juggling 22-yard
touchdown reception just before halftime of the Giants’ 28-16
win over the Rams two days ago. The sixth-year receiver caught
four passes for 50 yards in the Giants’ first two games and
returned three punts for 31 yards.  Victor Cruz, Brandon Stokley or Jerrel Jernigan will likely
replace Hixon, the Giants said.  “It feels good to know you have an opportunity to get some
real playing time this week and make a difference in the game,”
Cruz told reporters. “The other part of me feels really awful
for Domenik.”  Receiver  Mario Manningham , who missed the second half of
the Monday night win because of a possible concussion, met
yesterday with team physicians and an independent neurologist.
The Giants said he will undergo further examination and testing
today. Manningham’s status for this week’s game against the
 Philadelphia Eagles  isn’t known.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  