-- 
Gilt’s $31 Bacon Burger Mocks Deluxe Villard Room: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/gilt-s-31-bacon-burger-mushy-caviar-mock-luxe-villard-room-ryan-sutton.html
Railroad magnate Henry Villard’s
stately Madison Avenue compound once housed Le Cirque, where
haute-cuisine met high society with air kisses.  Today the tenant is six-year old Gilt, famous for a grilled
cheese sandwich inspired by “ Gossip Girl .”  That truffled travesty cost $30. Its successor is a $31
bacon burger. The meat belongs to the elite wagyu breed, claims
the kitchen. As if. The patty, with the heft of any supermarket
sirloin, delivers more gas-grill aroma than beefy flavor. The
bun is dry and cold.  Chef Justin Bogle, like his predecessor Christopher Lee,
specializes in turning expensive luxury ingredients into cheap,
uninteresting food.  Caviar -- even the second-rate, mushy brand of hackleback
that Gilt uses -- deserves a neutral palate to show off its
delicate maritime essence.  Bogle pairs the roe with scrambled eggs -- a good start --
then obliterates the caviar’s subtleties with “bacon tapioca.”
Another night he overcorrects with an amuse, pairing more
hackleback with a saline cut of cured salmon. This amounts,
here, to using salt to season salt.  Bad Bird  Label Rouge, one of the most expensive hens this side of
Bresse, suffers indignity by deconstruction.  Strips of breast are poached in olive oil. Tastes like firm
tofu. The fowl is topped with a sprinkling of fried skin,
resulting in something like  Bacos , but with less flavor.  Egg yolk, yet another element of the dish, is slowly
steamed into a shiny ball. It chews like a gumdrop. Such errors
might be forgiven and forgotten at a tapas joint. They’re
magnified at Gilt, where dinner for two can easily exceed $300.  A certain magic is necessary along with superb cooking if
high-end prix-fixe dining is going to work. At Eleven Madison
Park, the clientele are satisfied that $125 for four courses is
a value, given the quality of the cooking and the oodles of
freebies.  At Gilt, by contrast, the $89 three-course menu inspires
mathematical calculation. You start dividing. You ask yourself:
Did that crummy chicken cost $50? Was dessert actually $19?  The amuse on a recent visit was a tiny, forgettable
madeleine, little better than those available at Starbucks. It
foolishly preceded the bread course, a fine selection that
included a heady cheddar and mustard pretzel roll.  Fino Vino  Gilt has certain pleasures, chiefly the room and the wines.
Tables are arranged in two orderly rows that give everyone the
sense of a more elegant time. And everyone drinks well courtesy
of Patrick Cappiello, the smart beverage director. He’s given
New York one of its best collections of old Madeiras and other
oxidized wines.  A $19 Vin Jaune has the caramel nose of a dessert wine, the
sea salt sting of an Islay whisky, the bone-dry palate of a fino
sherry. For a hint more sugar, try the nutty, single vintage
oloroso from 1989 ($13).  Does the sherry pair with hibiscus-wrapped foie gras?
Perhaps. Problem is the liver suffers from hypothermia. At Gilt,
the foie is so cold it must be cut with a knife.  Nix the Ice  Raw scallops are served on a bed of ice. Remove your
shellfish from the portable cooler. Wait five minutes before
consuming.  A seasonal salad is ruined by tomatoes that taste freshly
picked from the refrigerator. What makes the dish even worse is
a maitake mushroom “soil,” a gritty, dehydrated concoction
that succeeds in mimicking the texture of dirt.  Order salmon, the delicate filet emboldened by a heady
saffron zucchini sauce. Cubes of cobia collapse in oily bliss;
dip the fish into a green curry paste for spice, smear it with
gelled peanut milk for palate cleansing.  Mangalitsa pork neck is slow cooked in beer and served over
beans. It’s the type of one-plate-meal you’d like to savor on a
cold autumn day, alternating bites with swigs of good lager.  Too bad Bogle doesn’t allow anything from the set menu to
be ordered a la carte, in the bar. I tried. I failed. Even
 Thomas Keller ’s Per Se lets folks purchase individual plates
from the tasting menu.  What does Gilt serve in its lounge? That bacon burger. So
just linger over respectable chocolate souffle or perhaps some
peaches and cream, and enjoy the setting.
Rating: * 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Three courses for $89; longer menus at $120, $150.  Sound Level: Moderate, around 70 decibels.  Date Place: The setting will seduce, the food will bore.  Inside Tip: Avoid the chicken.  Special feature: Excellent wine list.  Will I be back? For sherry at the bar.  Gilt is at 455 Madison Avenue. Information: +1-212-891-8100
or  http://www.giltnewyork.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 