-- 
GM in ‘Best Fighting’ Shape for Global Slowdown, CEO Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T12:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/gm-in-best-fighting-shape-for-u-s-slowdown-akerson-says-2-.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest
U.S. automaker, is in the “best fighting trim” in five decades
to handle a global economic slowdown, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson said today.  “Prior to bankruptcy we had almost $40 billion in debt and
were limited to almost no cash,” Akerson said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Shanghai. “Today we have minimal debt
and about $34-$35 billion in cash. I would argue we are in the
best fighting trim we have been in since probably the 1960s.”  The automaker can’t rely on  North America  alone and China
is “critically important,” Akerson, who was in Shanghai for a
board meeting and the opening of a technical center, said today.
Confidence among U.S. consumers plunged in August to the lowest
level in more than two years, while the nation’s economy may
grow by less than 3 percent through 2013, according to
government and Conference Board reports last month.  GM has recovered since its predecessor, General Motors
Corp., filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in June 2009
and is expanding abroad, including in China.  Annual vehicle sales in China are expected to grow by 13
million units over 10 years, Akerson said. Vehicle sales in the
nation reached 18.06 million units last year, boosted by
government tax breaks and rural subsidies, helping China
overtake the U.S. to stay the world’s largest vehicle market for
a second year.  Cadillac  The automaker will start manufacturing Cadillacs in China,
the world’s biggest auto market, in the next 12 months or later
as part of a shift in product mix toward higher-end vehicles,
Akerson said.  “It’s estimated that by 2020, 40 percent of the sales of
luxury automobiles will be in  China ,” he said. “So we are
moving to a different mix over time.”  GM yesterday signed an agreement to develop electric cars
in China with its partner SAIC Motor Corp. The government aims
to have 1 million electric-powered vehicles on road by 2015,
according to the Ministry of Science.  GM, which plans to introduce the plug-in hybrid Chevrolet
Volt in China in the fourth quarter, will not give SAIC or the
Chinese government intellectual property for the Volt as part of
the agreement, GM Vice Chairman Steve Girsky told reporters
yesterday.  Chevrolet Volt  The plug-in hybrid Chevrolet Volt will be imported into
China and won’t qualify for a subsidy for electric cars in the
country, Akerson said.  “We’ve decided to test market it here, and will make the
decision further down the road with regard to the Volt,” he
said.  The electric vehicle GM plans to co-develop with SAIC is a
“different car, different market, and different targeted
customer base”, Akerson said.  The world’s biggest automaker is comfortable sharing
technology with its Chinese partner when it benefits both
parties, he said.  GM, the biggest overseas automaker in China, boosted sales
in the country 29 percent to 2.35 million vehicles through joint
ventures last year as government stimulus policies and rising
incomes spurred demand for its Buick and Chevrolet models.  The automaker aims to double sales in China to 5 million
units by 2015, it said at the  Shanghai  Auto show in April.  --Liza Lin and Robyn Meredith in Shanghai. Editors: Jamie Butters, Bill Koenig  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Robyn Meredith at  rmeredith8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  