-- 
Gold’s Price Surge Skews Inflation Numbers Across Asia

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-09-22T10:08:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/gold-surge-vexes-asian-officials-as-inflation-numbers-sent-awry.html
The surging price of gold is
fueling inflation from  India  to  Indonesia  and forcing
statisticians to decide whether jewelry made of the metal still
belongs in consumer-price indexes.  In South Korea, gold rings will be dropped from the
inflation basket for the first time since 1975 as part of a
scheduled reweighting in December, Bang Tae Kyoung, deputy
director of the statistics agency, said in an phone interview
from Daejeon. “People are now buying gold mostly for investment
purposes, and so it should be classified as an asset, rather
than spending,” Bang said.  Gold has climbed 24 percent this year as turbulence in
equities and currencies, money printing by central banks, and a
decade-long bull market in the metal lure investors to an
alternative store of value. Bullion vaults such as the Swiss
Precious Metals facility in  Singapore  are nearing capacity, and
Tiberius Asset Management AG warns that gold is in the final,
overheated phase of an upswing.  “It’s more of an asset -- it’s not a consumption item,”
said Prasanna Ananthasubramaniam, Mumbai-based chief economist
at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd., a unit of India’s
biggest private lender. As a “speculative asset class,” gold
should be dropped from India’s basket in the next reweighting,
he said.  Korean Traditions  Gold for immediate delivery fell 0.6 percent to $1,771.73
an ounce as of 9:03 a.m. in  London  today, while the dollar
rallied after the  Federal Reserve  indicated that it saw
“significant downside risks” in the  U.S. economy . The metal
reached a record $1,921.15 on Sept. 6.  In South Korea, where President  Lee Myung Bak  has declared
“war” on inflation, a 29 percent jump in the cost of gold
rings pushed inflation past 5 percent for the first time in
three years in August. A tradition of giving what is called a
“Dol” ring as a gift for a child’s first birthday is a factor.  In Indonesia, gold jewelry was the biggest contributor to a
0.93 percent increase in consumer prices in August from the
previous month, accounting for 0.19 percentage point of the gain,
government data show.  The issue doesn’t arise in developed nations including
 Japan , the U.S. and the U.K., or in Asian economies such as
Singapore, Vietnam and  Hong Kong  where the metal is absent from
inflation baskets or jewelry has a limited effect.  India’s Inflation  Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., said gold’s influence on  China ’s inflation
rate via the personal ornaments category is “tiny.”  While gold and gold ornaments have a weighting of just 0.36
percent in India’s main index, a 52 percent jump in prices for
that category was enough to push up the headline inflation rate
in August. With gold, the wholesale price index climbed 9.78
percent in August from a year earlier. Without, the increase
would have been 9.49 percent, according to ICICI.  ICICI’s Prasanna said that, pending any reweighting, the
Indian central bank needs to “look through” gold’s effect when
assessing inflation and monetary policy.  In  South Korea , the price of a 3.75-gram ring for a first-
birthday gift has soared to a record of 298,000 won ($258),
according to data on the  website  of the Korea Jeweller’s
Association, Inc.  Warning From Soros  In  Seoul  yesterday, housewife Kim Geum Ja, 66, said that
while she doesn’t know much about consumer-price indexes, “what
I can say is that the current Dol ring price is very expensive
and people are trying not to buy.” At the same time, “some
people have to buy anyway, so that’s quite burdensome,” she
added.  Kim said she hasn’t yet decided whether to purchase a ring
for her youngest grandchild’s first birthday in November. In
expressing her concern at the price gains, Kim joins billionaire
investor  George Soros , who called the metal “the ultimate asset
bubble” in 2010.  “We are now in the final, overheated phase of gold’s
protracted  bull market ,” Chris Eibl, a partner at Zug,
Switzerland-based Tiberius, which has $2.8 billion in assets,
wrote in a report distributed Sept. 15. Gold “is already so
overbought in the wake of panic selling of bank stocks that a
calming of the European financial markets could well trigger a
tactical pullback by about $200 to $300.”  In Jakarta,  Fauzi Ichsan , an economist at Standard
Chartered Plc said that removing gold from Indonesia’s basket of
consumer goods, was “theoretically logical.” At the same time,
it could lead to speculation that the statisticians were under
political pressure, he said. Yunita Rusanti, the head of the
consumer-price statistic sub-directorate, declined to comment on
whether gold jewelry should be removed from calculations.  Gold bought for investment accounted for 38 percent of
total demand in 2010, compared with about 4 percent a decade
before, the World Gold Council estimates. 