-- 
Google Ad Rate for Microsoft Said to Be Under U.S. Investigation

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-09-21T20:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/google-ad-rate-for-microsoft-said-to-be-under-u-s-antitrust-investigation.html
U.S. antitrust enforcers are
investigating whether  Google Inc. (GOOG)  illegally increased
advertising rates 50-fold for rival  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , according
to a person familiar with the matter.  The Federal Trade Commission is probing the increase, along
with other allegations against Google related to advertising, as
a result of complaints from Microsoft, according to the person,
who wasn’t authorized to publicly comment. The complaints are
being examined as part of a larger antitrust probe into Google
that began earlier this year, the person said.  If true, the Microsoft allegations could be used to help
the FTC build a case showing that Google abused its power as the
owner of the world’s most popular search engine, violating the
Sherman Act and other antitrust laws, said Andre Barlow, an
antitrust lawyer at Doyle, Barlow & Mazard PLLC in  Washington .  “A lot of this conduct, when put together with a firm with
market power, could be viewed as a violation” of antitrust
laws, said Barlow, who hasn’t been briefed on the investigation
and doesn’t represent those involved.  When investigating the ad complaint, the FTC will consider
the motives for the accusations by Microsoft, the world’s
largest software maker and one of Google’s biggest competitors,
said Barlow.  Ad Rates  Adam Kovacevich, a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, said that while company officials didn’t know the
details of Microsoft’s allegations about ads, rates are usually
determined in part by how closely related an ad is to a user’s
search.  “One of the reasons our ad system works so well is that it
is built on showing relevant ads to consumers,” Kovacevich
said.  Jack Evans, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, confirmed the company had made advertising complaints
against Google and declined to discuss specifics.  Google “shouldn’t be permitted to pursue practices that
restrict others from innovating and offering competitive
alternatives,” Evans said. “That’s what it’s doing now.”  Google fell $7.43 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $539.20 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. Microsoft fell 99 cents, or 3.7 percent, to
$25.99.  Senate Hearing  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
her agency’s investigation.  Lawmakers and competitors criticized Google at a U.S.
Senate Judiciary antitrust subcommittee hearing today, saying
the company favors its own services in search results over
rivals. Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  defended the company’s
actions as helping consumers.  Microsoft first complained in September 2007 that Google
drastically raised the rate for an ad for Windows Live, a
predecessor to Microsoft’s Bing search engine, one of the main
rivals to Google’s Internet search, according to the person
familiar with the matter.  The cost increased to $5 per mouse click from 10 cents a
click for placing a Windows Live ad next to search results for
the word “hotmail,” Microsoft’s e-mail product, according to
the person.  Low-Quality Website  Google told Microsoft at the time that the rate increased
because users who clicked on the ad were directed to a low-
quality website, according to the person. The site was the home
page for Windows Live, whose services included Hotmail,
Microsoft said.  Microsoft’s complaint about the ad rate increase is similar
to those raised by MyTriggers.com and Foundem, price-comparison
sites that are Google competitors, in an Ohio court case and a
European Union complaint respectively.  Judge John P. Bessey in Columbus last month dismissed the
MyTriggers case. Bessey later allowed MyTriggers to submit an
amended complaint. Google has denied it unfairly singled out
Foundem or MyTriggers in raising their ad rates.  The Microsoft complaint highlights the growing battle among
Microsoft, Google and other search-engine companies for control
of the fast-expanding, $40 billion U.S. online advertising
market, said Eric Goldman, director of the High Tech Law
Institute at Santa Clara University in  California .  “Who wouldn’t like a piece of that action?” he said in an
interview. “There are going to be illegitimate complaints, and
with an organization as large and as complicated as Google,
there may be some legitimate complaints.”  Other Complaints  The other Microsoft advertising complaints under
investigation by the FTC include an accusation that Google
pressured advertisers to enter into contracts that make it
difficult to also advertise with Yahoo! Inc. or on Bing, the
person said.  Also under review is Microsoft’s assertion that Google
created technological hurdles to block advertisers from
comparing the number of times potential customers click on the
ads they run on Google versus those on competing sites, the
person said.  Kovacevich, the Google spokesman, rejected the Microsoft
complaints.  “We never forbid advertisers from advertising on other
platforms,” he said. “We place no restrictions on advertisers
transferring their own ad campaign data to other platforms.”  Broader Investigation  The FTC is investigating the broader issue of whether
Google is abusing its dominance in online search. Google
disclosed on June 24 that the FTC has begun a review of its
business practices and said it would work with the agency to
answer questions about its services.  Microsoft was among several companies recently subpoenaed
by the FTC in the investigation, said Evans, the company
spokesman. He declined to name the other companies or elaborate
on the subpoena’s contents.  Last month, the agency began sending civil investigative
demands, which are similar to subpoenas, to technology
companies.  The FTC is examining whether Google unfairly ranks search
results to favor its own businesses and is using its control of
the Android mobile operating system to discourage smart-phone
makers from using rivals’ applications and services, the person
said.  Inquiries about Google’s advertising practices are a theme
running through the FTC investigation, the person said.  Advertising made up $28.2 billion, or 96 percent, of
Google’s $29.3 billion in annual revenue last year, according to
company filings with the government.  Advertising Key  “Without advertising,” Google and its rivals “don’t
exist,” said Karsten Weide, a media and entertainment analyst
for market researcher IDC in  San Mateo , California.  Google took 59 percent of the U.S. online search
advertising revenue in the second quarter of this year compared
with second-place Microsoft at 9 percent and Yahoo at 7 percent,
according to a report by IDC this week.  Evans disputed those figures, citing a July report from
IgnitionOne Inc., a New York-based online marketing company,
that said Google had 81 percent of U.S. search advertising
revenue in the second quarter. Yahoo and Microsoft, which have a
search engine partnership, had a combined 19 percent share,
according to the IgnitionOne report.  Several companies that advertise on Google’s search results
declined to comment on its advertising practices. Those
declining to comment were  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for AT&T
Inc., Jessica Sutera, a spokeswoman for  Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW) ,
Christine Bock, a spokeswoman for  Vonage Holdings Corp. (VG)  and
 David Frink , a spokesman for  Dell Inc. (DELL)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  