-- 
Google, Oracle CEOs Are Said to Make Little Headway in Patent Negotiations

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/google-oracle-ceos-are-said-to-make-little-headway-in-patent-negotiations.html
Google Inc. and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  chief
executive officers made little headway this week in negotiations
aimed at resolving a lawsuit accusing the Web-search company of
patent infringement, a person briefed on the talks said.  The two sides, scheduled to meet again today in federal
court in San Jose, California, remained at loggerheads after the
daylong session and were unlikely to reach a settlement soon,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private.  Oracle, the largest maker of database software, sued last
year, saying Google didn’t obtain a license to use Java
technology patents that it says are infringed by the Android
mobile-device operating system. Besides seeking billions of
dollars in damages, Oracle wants the court to order destruction
of all products that violate its copyrights.  Google’s  Larry Page  and Oracle’s Larry Ellison appeared
before U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal during talks that
lasted more than 10 hours.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, and Katelin Todhunter-Gerberg, a
spokeswoman for Mountain View, California-based Google, declined
to comment.  Oracle’s suit may represent a bigger menace to Google’s
software than challenges from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which has already won
patent decisions against Android device makers. In settlement
talks, Page aims to avoid having to pay Oracle licensing fees
that analysts at Citigroup Inc. said could be as high as $15 per
device. That sum might slow the adoption of the software.  Oracle claimed in court papers that Google could owe as
much as $6 billion, while Google suggested at a hearing that a
reasonable royalty would be $100 million.  The case is scheduled to go to trial in October.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California ( San
Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  