-- 
Google Wins Legal Challenge by Australian Regulator Over Use of Paid Links

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   E v a n s
-- 
2011-09-22T00:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/google-wins-australia-regulator-challenge-over-paid-links.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest
Web search company, defeated a legal challenge by an Australian
regulator over its use of paid ads in search results.  The Australian Competition & Consumer Commission  sued 
Google in 2007, in the first claim of its kind in the world,
according to the regulator, and alleged that Google broke the
country’s Trade Practices Act when paid links appeared in search
results, making it appear competitors were associated with the
search request.  Justice Antony Nicholas in Sydney Federal Court dismissed
the ACCC complaint against Google today.  When people searched for Trading Post, an online site for
people looking to buy or sell cars, motorbikes, boats and other
motorized vehicles, they were offered links to Kloster Ford and
Charlestown Toyota, Trading Post’s competitors, the ACCC said.  “I am satisfied that Google did not know and had no reason
to suspect that the publication of the Kloster Ford
advertisement or the Charlestown Toyota advertisement would
amount to a contravention” of the Trade Practices Act, Nicholas
wrote in his 106-page ruling released today.  Google said in an e-mailed statement today that its guiding
principle has always been that advertising should benefit both
advertisers and users.  Nicholas found Trading Post breached the act by suggesting
with its link that it was affiliated with the  car dealerships .
Nicholas ordered Trading Post to pay A$28,000 ($28,070) to the
ACCC to cover its legal costs.  Current searches for Trading Post don’t showcase the paid
links.  The case is Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
v. Trading Post  Australia  Ltd. NSD1323/2007. Federal Court of
Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Evans in Sydney at 
 revans6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  