-- 
Gory Thriller Has Jet Set Meet Internet, Vegas Terrorism: Books

-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/gory-gun-crazy-thriller-has-jet-set-meet-internet-vegas-terrorism-books.html
Guns , guns, guns. “ Reamde ,” the
intercontinental terrorist techno-thriller from Neal Stephenson,
has lots of guns. Kalashnikovs, of course, plus AR-15s,
Makarovs, Glocks, Heckler & Kochs, Sig Sauers and even a Wild
West five-shooter.  “Reamde” is, in fact, one big, carefully choreographed,
jet-set square-dance of mayhem, taking the reader to  China ,
 Russia , the  Philippines  and the mountains of British Columbia.  Also Iowa. That’s the family home of Richard Forthrast, an
online gaming zillionaire with a murky past. Richard invested
the profits from his pot-smuggling business in a ski resort, and
combined his interests in  money laundering  and video games to
start a company that operates “T’Rain” -- a massive
multiplayer online game like “World of Warcraft” -- where
players can turn the virtual gold they obtain on their
adventures into actual money.  Marlon, a hacker from Xiamen, China, infects this virtual
realm with the typographically inept REAMDE virus, scrambling
the files on players’ computers and demanding a ransom in
virtual gold to unscramble them. An infected thumb drive, a
lousy boyfriend and some stolen credit-card numbers send
Richard’s niece Zula, an Eritrean orphan, into the hands of an
inept Russian gangster bent on punishing Marlon.  The plan goes wrong and Zula is kidnapped by Abdallah
Jones, a Muslim terrorist mastermind from  Wales  bent on getting
to the U.S. for one final nihilistic act of violence, possibly
in  Las Vegas . The hunt is on.  Get the girl , kill the baddies.  Good Villain  As with “ Paradise Lost ” or any Batman movie, the villain
is the best-rendered character in the story. Jones is a violent,
hyper-confident avenger whose religious and political
motivations fade before his ravenous appetite for murder.  After he, his henchmen and his hostage finish compiling a
shopping list of supplies they need at Wal-Mart, Jones blithely
remarks: “Will there be anything else, or can I get back to
planning atrocities?”  The story also features a resourceful tour guide caught up
by events, an Anglo-Chinese secret agent and a Soviet army
veteran with a conscience. There’s a flatness to some of the
characters, but they never slip into types and their motivations
remain clear, which is all we ask from people in a thriller.  SF Departure  Still, fans expecting Stephenson’s usual science fiction
and historical fiction may be disappointed by the here-and-now
of “Reamde.” In “ Anathem ” he created an entire world with
its own intellectual history, and in the Baroque Cycle he mined
the minds of 17th-century Europe. “Reamde” instead dwells on
contemporary topics: sex tourism, Chinese Internet bars, Russian
martial arts, fuse-boxes. And guns.  Stephenson engages some greater themes. The smallness of a
globe bound together by computers and private jets contrasts
neatly with the vastness of trackless woods and treacherous
mountainsides, where it can take an hour to travel a mile.
Aspects of the exotic virtual world of T’Rain inform everyday
realities such as the local Wal-Mart, which Richard compares to
“an interdimensional portal to every other Wal-Mart in the
known universe.”  Because Stephenson is over-fond of explaining things, these
digressions can slow the plot; but don’t worry, he returns to
the shooting quickly enough. And it’s not just guns, of course.
That would be tedious. Stephenson also deploys rocket-propelled
grenades, knives and cars as weapons. Also, a “Love Actually”
DVD. That  movie  is scarier than it looks.  “Reamde” is published by William Morrow (1,044 pages,
$35). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  is an editor at Bloomberg news. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of the review:
Andrew Dunn in  New York  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 