-- 
Greek Lawmakers Urged to Back Deeper Budget Cuts to Ensure Emergency Aid

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-09-21T09:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/greek-lawmakers-urged-to-back-deeper-budget-cuts-to-ensure-emergency-aid.html
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos prodded lawmakers to endorse deeper budget cuts to
keep emergency loans flowing and avoid default.  “The risk is that the system, the financial sector and the
real economy stop functioning,” Venizelos told Parliament in
Athens today before Prime Minister  George Papandreou  convenes
his Cabinet to press for accelerating austerity measures.  The finance minister yesterday completed two rounds of
discussions with representatives from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund , which made “good progress,” the
EU said. The talks were intended to damp concerns that Greece
may miss deficit-reduction targets required to receive rescue
loans.  The EU comments suggest the next payment for Greece is
likely to be released next month as Papandreou counters investor
doubts that he can avoid default. Greek unions today are
considering a 24-hour strike on Oct. 5. European leaders are
squabbling over the terms of a July 21 agreement for a second
Greek rescue and the prospect that they will be forced to
channel more money to keep  Greece  in the currency union.  Greek subway, tram, train, bus and trolley workers will
hold a 24-hour strike in Athens tomorrow to oppose government
plans to reduce the public sector, according to a spokeswoman at
the Greek Transit Workers Union press office.  Venizelos said extra cuts were needed to meet targets
because of a deeper-than-expected recession and failures by the
government to enact measures agreed upon last year as a
condition of a 110 billion-euro ($151 billion) bailout.  Yield Climbs  Greek bonds fell today, sending the yield on two-year notes
up 123 basis points to 65.4 percent at 11:56 a.m. in Athens.  While Greece says it has enough cash to cover its needs for
October, any disbursement of new funds would likely only see it
through to the end of the year.  Talks on the Greek aid payments resumed after IMF and EU
monitors earlier this month suspended the review for a sixth
tranche of loans following the discovery of an unexpected hole
in the budget.  The austerity measures demanded in return for the emergency
loans are deepening a three-year recession, making it harder for
the government to meet the deficit goals laid out in its aid
package. The IMF’s representative in  Athens  said Sept. 19 the
economy will shrink 5.5 percent this year and another 2.5
percent next year, before growth resumes in 2013.  Preliminary numbers showed the 2011 deficit through August
widened 22 percent to 18.9 billion euros, more than the target
of 18.1 billion euros for the period. Greece pledged to reduce
its deficit to about 7.5 percent of gross domestic product this
year from 10.5 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling or  jhertling@bloomberg.net  