-- 
Greece Speeds Budget Cuts to Ensure Aid as Transport Workers Hold Strike

-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-09-22T14:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/greece-accelerates-cuts-to-wages-pensions-to-ensure-next-bailout-payment.html
Greece  said it will accelerate
budget cuts to keep emergency loans flowing, extending austerity
measures that have deepened a recession and failed to ease
doubts that it can avoid default.  Public-transit workers unions will hold a second 24-hour
strike tomorrow, extending today’s action that shut subway,
tram, train, and bus services, to protest cuts in civil
servants’ wages and pensions.  The latest round of deficit fighting was demanded by
international lenders to ensure Greece reach targets in a 110
billion-euro ($151 billion) bailout and receive a payment due
next month.  “The situation is extremely critical and even dangerous
because there is a high level of anxiety in the euro area, the
European banking system and the world economy,” Greek Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos told lawmakers in Athens today,
according to a transcript provided by the ministry.  The cuts will enable Prime Minister  George Papandreou  to
address his biggest deficit, the “credibility deficit,” Jens Bastian, the Alpha Bank Fellow for Southeast Europe at St.
Antony’s College at the University of Oxford, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. Meeting international targets
and reducing civil-service costs are “a matter of national
urgency,” he said.  Venizelos heads to  Washington  tomorrow to attend the annual
meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  where he will hold
talks with IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde .  Latest Cuts  Measures announced yesterday following two rounds of talks
with the European Union and the IMF include: a 20 percent cut in
pensions of more than 1,200 euros ($1,650) a month, according to
a government statement; pensions paid to those younger than 55
will be shaved by 40 percent for the amount exceeding 1,000
euros and wages will be lowered for 30,000 state employees.  With an 8 billion-euro aid payment in the balance, Greek
creditors are also in the final stages of negotiating a bond
exchange intended to reduce the country’s debt load of about 350
billion euros. The swap was part of a second rescue set by
European leaders on July 21.  Fund Ratification  EU officials are squabbling over implementation of the
agreement, which includes an upgrade of the bailout fund, as
national legislatures ratify its terms, countering public
opposition to channeling more money to keep Greece in the
currency union.  Greek bonds rose in early trading today, sending the yield
on two-year notes down 27 basis points to 66.2 percent at 12:20
p.m. in  Athens .  While Greece says it has enough cash to cover its needs for
October, any disbursement of new funds would likely only see it
through to the end of the year.  Talks on the Greek aid payments resumed after IMF and EU
monitors earlier this month suspended the review for a sixth
tranche of loans following the discovery of an unexpected hole
in the budget.  Cuts totaling about 28 billion euros that were outlined in
June, which were made to ensure the release of the previous aid
payment, will be completed by 2014 instead of 2015, as planned,
the government statement said yesterday.  The austerity measures are deepening a three-year
recession, making it harder for the government to meet the
deficit goals laid out in its aid package. The IMF’s
representative in Athens said Sept. 19 the economy will shrink
5.5 percent this year and another 2.5 percent next year.  Greek government figures showed the 2011 deficit through
August widened 22 percent to 18.9 billion euros, more than the
target of 18.1 billion euros for the period. Greece pledged to
reduce its deficit to about 7.5 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 10.5 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling or  jhertling@bloomberg.net  