-- 
Gulf Cargo Gap Spurs Dubai-Abu Dhabi Rail Link: Freight Markets

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-09-22T10:20:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/gulf-cargo-gap-spurs-dubai-abu-dhabi-rail-link-freight-markets.html
Dubai and  Abu Dhabi , which boast
the world’s tallest building, largest mall and biggest
international airline, lack one key element of more basic
infrastructure: a railway.  That’s about to change as the  United Arab Emirates  awards a
construction contract for the first phase of a 1,200-kilometer
(750-mile)  freight line  connecting its seven sheikdoms and their
ports and factories, speeding transit times for cement, metals,
oil, gas and chemicals and paving the way for container trains.  With the Gulf’s major settlements connected by sea for
millennia, the region largely missed out on the coming of the
railroad in the colonial era, while recent investment has
focused on more modern technologies. That’s left bulk shipments
reliant on slow sea journeys and the local transfer of goods
from factories to ports confined to trucks using crowded roads.  “This is a strategic project, not just another mode of
transport,” said Mohammed Obaid al-Mazrouie, the former
assistant secretary general for economic affairs at the Gulf
Cooperation Council, who has helped develop a plan to extend the
line to almost 2,200 kilometers, stretching from the  Indian
Ocean  to the borders of  Iraq . “It’s vital for supporting trade
and industry, connecting the region and creating jobs.”  Lead Contractor  Etihad Rail, established to build the 40 billion dirham
($11 billion) railway in the U.A.E, will pick a lead contractor
from 10 local and international bidders in the next two months,
Chief Executive Officer Richard Bowker said in an interview.  Bidders include  Ansaldo STS SpA (STS) , a specialist in railway
construction and signaling, the Genoa, Italy-based company said
today, adding that it’s interested two tenders.  The first phase will extend for 266 kilometers and permit
Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., or Adnoc, to transport 22,000 metric
tons of granulated sulfur a day from inland sources in Shah and
Habshan, southwest of Abu Dhabi, to the harbor at Ruwais for
export. Construction is slated to start by the end of this year,
with the first trains due to begin running in early 2013.  A second track will link Abu Dhabi and its new port and
industrial zone of Khalifa with Dubai and the port of Jebel Ali,
80 kilometers to the north, before connecting with  Saudi Arabia 
and Oman. Work will begin in the second-half next year. A third
line, to be built at the same time, will run from Dubai to the
five northern emirates, including Sharjah and Fujairah.  Bulk Benefits  When the double-track network is completed, it will have
capacity for 50 million tons of cargo a year, including twin-
stack containers, on freight trains running at 120 kilometers an
hour. It will also be able to handle 16 million passengers a
year on 200-kmph commuter expresses.  “Industries that need to move bulk materials will benefit
most,” said Tim Risbridger, the Abu Dhabi-based head of  Middle
East  transportation at construction consultant EC Harris Group.
“In the future, smaller-scale industries will be able to use
the system to move container freight and the like.”  The project stems from the U.A.E.’s policy of investing
earnings from the world’s sixth-largest oil exports away from
hydrocarbons and into developments such as Khalifa Industrial Zone Abu Dhabi, or  Kizad , two-thirds the size of  Singapore .  Divided into clusters around aluminum, steel, engineered-
metal products, petrochemicals and chemicals, pharmaceuticals
and health-care equipment, food, trade and logistics, the site
aims to contribute around 15 percent of Abu Dhabi’s non-oil GDP
by 2030, with 80 percent of production going for export.  ‘Sound Logic’  Linking the new development and its port to a rail network
is “vital” in making the site more cost effective and freeing
up capacity on the road network, Etihad Rail’s Bowker said.  Kizad’s initial focus is on attracting heavy industry, such
Emirates Aluminium Co. and Borouge, a plastics maker which moves
tens of thousands of containers on Abu Dhabi’s roads each year,
Tony Douglas, CEO of Abu Dhabi Ports Co., said in an interview.  “We think there’s sound logic for that to move off the
roads and onto rail then to the ports,” Douglas said.  Emirates Steel Industries PJSC has also signed a deal to
use rail for transportation around the region from  Abu Dhabi .
Trains offer “greater efficiency, reliability and competitive
advantage,” especially over long distances, Mubarak Al Khaili,
its head of commercial strategy, said in an interview.  “The absence of a rail network means that our raw materials
and finished goods are transported via road, causing significant
constraints on transport volumes and distances,” he said.  European Connections  The ultimate aim is to extend the line through the six GCC
countries of  Oman , the U.A.E., Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and
 Kuwait , tapping an  economy  worth $898 billion, with scope for
connections to  Europe  and  Russia . The plan dates to 2000 and
could be completed by 2018, Bowker said, drawing on national
projects worth $100 billion, according to EC Harris data.  Dubai Aluminium Co., the Middle East’s largest smelter,
reckons it will reap most benefit when the railway spans the
Gulf, since it exports 90 percent of production. While most
exports go by sea to Europe,  Asia  and the U.S., the company
serves Saudi Arabia, Oman, Lebanon and Jordan using trucks which
are subject to border hold ups it says trains might avoid.  “We hope that, long term, when rail connects us to those
areas we’ll overcome those problems,” spokesman Khaled Issa Abu Humaid said by telephone. “The GCC is a very important market.”  Technical Challenge  The railway will also serve the Dubai World Central
logistics center and Al Maktoum airport, a hub that will be able
to handle 12 million tons of cargo and 120 million passengers a
year on completion, making it the world’s largest by capacity.  Bowker says he and his team are studying all models for
construction of the railroad and recently visited  Belgium  and
the Netherlands to examine intermodal facilities at ports there.  Just as important, he reckons, are the technical challenges
ahead, such as the reliable operation of trains in temperatures
that can exceed 50 degrees Celsius, and coping with a desert
environment where wind-blown sand can cover tracks in minutes.  “There’s no institutional framework, no railway industry or
anything,” he said. “You have to develop it all from scratch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Abu Dhabi at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  