-- 
Libya Forming Cabinet Amid Struggle to Take Sirte, Bani Walid

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-09-21T10:55:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/libya-rulers-a-week-from-forming-government-as-qaddafi-loyalists-fight-on.html
Libya ’s new rulers extended talks
to form a government while their troops fought to oust Muammar Qaddafi’s loyalists from Bani Walid and Sirte.  Libya’s National Transitional Council Prime Minister
Mahmoud Jibril said the government will be announced within 10
days, according to  Al Jazeera . “Most of the work has been
done,” it quoted him as saying yesterday at a Group of Eight
foreign ministers meeting in  New York . “It is a question of the
number of ministries and the location of the ministries.”  Since moving to Tripoli from its eastern base in Benghazi,
where the uprising began, the NTC has been working to stabilize
the economy and establish its authority over factions that
rebelled against Qaddafi, including the council in Misrata, the
main rebel stronghold in the west during the seven-month war.  Fighting has continued around cities controlled by Qaddafi
loyalists, including his hometown Sirte and Bani Walid, after
talks on their surrender broke down earlier this month. NTC
officials say that some of Qaddafi’s closest associates may be
hiding out in the two towns. Sirte lies 400 kilometers (250
miles) southeast of Tripoli, the capital, and the mountain town
of Bani Walid is 140 kilometers (90 miles) south of Tripoli.  Transitional council forces have captured a third holdout
town, Sabha, in the southern desert, and two nearby villages, Al
Arabiya television reported today.  Commercial Relations  The NTC has established diplomatic and commercial ties
abroad, hosting the leaders of the U.K.,  France  and  Turkey  in
the past week in Tripoli. The African Union yesterday became the
latest body to recognize the council as the representative of
the Libyan people, according to a statement on the website of
the South African president’s office.  Libya’s central bank has enough money to meet needs for
three months and possibly six, Wafik Shater, a member of the
Libyan Stabilization Team, told reporters in Dubai today.
Several foreign companies, including BP Plc and  Total SA (FP) , have
said they are preparing to return to Libya.  Ninety percent of all banks branches are open in Libya and
the stock market aims to restart trading “in the foreseeable
future,” said Faisel Gergab, the team’s program manager.  Banks Returning  HSBC Holdings Plc plans to resume its operations in Libya
“shortly”, Hatem Gheriani, an official from the bank said at a
conference in Dubai today. Qatar National Bank Group said
yesterday it is reopening its representative office Libya. PT
Medco Energi Internasional, an Indonesian energy company, also
plans to resume operation of its Area 47 oil block next month,
Director Lukman Mahfoedz said in Jakarta yesterday.  The U.S. will reopen its embassy in Tripoli this week, U.S.
President  Barack Obama  said yesterday after meeting with NTC
Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil in New York.  In New York, 66 delegations, most represented by a head of
state, discussed Libyan developments and pledged support for the
new leadership, said Derek Chollet, senior director for
strategic planning on Obama’s National Security Council.  Chollet said that Obama raised with Abdel Jalil the U.S.
concerns about security of Libya’s chemical weapons stocks and
conventional weapons, such as shoulder-fired anti-aircraft
missiles able to be used by terrorists. Obama met with Abdel
Jalil and Jibril for about 30 minutes, he said.  Credit Line Secured  The North African country, holder of the continent’s
largest crude reserves, has secured a six-month  credit line  to
buy gasoline, gasoil and fuel oil, Gergab said. The cargoes for
delivery to Misrata and Zawya started on Aug. 20, he said.  Libya’s Arabian Gulf Oil Co. will be ready to export 1
million barrels of crude within one week as its marketing
department evaluates several offers for shipments, Hassan
Bolifa, a management committee member, said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Benghazi. The crude will be loaded at
Marsa El-Hariga export terminal in the eastern city of Tobruk.  Crude for November delivery slipped as much as 70 cents to
$86.22 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $86.43 at 9:51 a.m. London time. Brent oil
for November settlement gained 24 cents, or 0.2 percent, to
$110.81 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
Exchange.  Three of the five oil refineries in Libya have restarted
operations, according to local officials. The Tobruk, Sarir and
Zawiya facilities are producing a total of about 60,000 barrels
a day.  The Ras Lanuf oil refinery, Libya’s largest, may be able to
resume production sometime next month, an official at Ras Lanuf
Oil & Gas Processing Company said today.  Libya’s five plants have a total production capacity of
378,000 barrels of crude a day, according to the  International
Energy Agency .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  