-- 
Iceland Keeps Rates Unchanged as Turmoil Threatens Recovery

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-21T09:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/iceland-keeps-rates-unchanged-as-turbulence-threatens-recovery.html
Iceland’s  central bank  kept
interest rates unchanged as market turmoil triggered by  Europe ’s
worsening debt crisis forced policy makers to halt a tightening
cycle started last month.  The seven-day collateral lending rate was kept at 4.5
percent, the Reykjavik-based Sedlabanki said today, while
signaling further rate increases may be needed to cap inflation.
The bank in August raised borrowing costs for the first time
since the failure of the country’s banks almost three years ago.  “Global financial market unrest and weaker-than-expected
output growth in the world economy create uncertainty about
inflation and growth prospects in Iceland,” the bank said in a
statement. “The risk of an adverse effect on the domestic
economy has grown since the last MPC meeting.”  The bank is balancing policy to protect the krona as it
scales back  capital controls  with efforts to support the economy
amid a global market rout that threatens to undermine recoveries
in Europe and the U.S. Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85
billion in 2008, completed a 33-month International Monetary
Fund program last month. Its economy is likely to grow faster
than the average for the euro area this year and next, the IMF
estimates, while credit default swaps on Iceland trade lower
than the average for the European Union.  The Icelandic krona fell 0.1 percent to 116.75 per dollar
as of 10:14 London time.  More Increases  While the benchmark rate remains at more than 4 percent,
inflation held at 5 percent in August, pressuring policy makers
to lift rates further.  “The Committee remains of the view that, in order to
contain inflation, it may prove necessary to raise interest
rates further” the bank said today.  Iceland has started easing currency restrictions, which the
central bank estimates have locked in about $4.3 billion in
krona assets.  Iceland’s $12 billion economy contracted 2.8 percent from
the first quarter after growing a revised 1.9 percent in the
previous period, the Reykjavik-based statistics office said on
Sept. 8. Output expanded an annual 2.5 percent in the first six
months, the agency said.  “The Monetary Policy Committee is concerned that a
negative real  interest rate  might undermine the value of the
krona,” Asdis Kristjansdottir, an economist with Arion Bank hf,
said in a note to clients before the announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik   valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 