-- 
Iceland Will Have to Live With Carry Trade, Sighvatsson Says

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-21T12:33:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/iceland-will-have-to-live-with-carry-trade-sighvatsson-says.html
Iceland  will have to “live with”
carry trades and should embrace the return of the practice that
channeled fast money into the country before its bank crisis,
said Arnor Sighvatsson, deputy governor at the central bank.  The carry trade “is just a part of the environment” and 
it can have “a positive side effect” in keeping Iceland’s 
currency stable, Sighvatsson told reporters in Reykjavik today. 
“We should celebrate that foreign investors are showing interest 
in Iceland.”  Iceland kept its key  interest rate  unchanged at 4.5 percent
today as market turmoil triggered by  Europe ’s worsening debt
crisis forced policy makers to halt a tightening cycle. The
bank, which last month raised borrowing costs for the first time
since the failure of Iceland’s banks in 2008, today signaled
that further increases may be needed to cap inflation.  “Smaller currencies need higher interest rates than larger
ones,” Sighvatsson said. Iceland has “to live with this and
even more so” when the  capital controls  are removed, he said.  A carry trade allows an investor to borrow low-yielding
currencies and carry the funds into higher-yielding markets 
such as the krona to make a profit.  Central banks including the Riksbank in  Sweden  and Norges
Bank in Norway have scaled back tightening as global growth
prospects worsen. The U.S. Federal Reserve last month said it
will probably need to keep its rate near zero until the middle
of 2013, while the  European Central Bank  scrapped its increases,
keeping its rate at 1.5 percent, and resumed bond purchases to
counter the debt crisis.  It’s “important that we have rules that prevent”
Iceland’s lenders from taking “too much risk in foreign
currencies,” Governor Mar Gudmundsson told reporters. “We need
to make sure that our banking sector is protected and not a
participant on its own account” when it comes to the carry
trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  