-- 
High-Speed Rail ‘Life Support’ Wins Approval by Senate Panel

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-09-21T22:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/high-speed-rail-life-support-said-to-be-in-senators-proposal.html
A committee of the Democrat-
controlled  U.S. Senate  amended spending legislation to direct
$100 million to President Barack Obama’s high-speed rail program
next year, a day after its transportation subcommittee omitted
funding for the initiative.  Senators Dick Durbin of Illinois, Frank Lautenberg of  New
Jersey , Dianne Feinstein of California and Mary Landrieu of
 Louisiana , all Democrats like Obama, proposed reallocating funds
earmarked for highway and transit projects at the Senate
Appropriations Committee meeting today. The amendment was
adopted by voice vote, John Bray, a committee spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  The appropriations subcommittee yesterday approved a bill
that didn’t include money for the initiative, for which Obama
has sought $8 billion in fiscal 2012. Of the $10.1 billion that
Congress has directed to the program since 2009, $7.59 billion
has been distributed.  California  is counting on federal funding
as it builds a $43 billion system to run trains up to 220 miles
per hour between  San Francisco  and  Los Angeles .  The money would “be very helpful to keep things on life
support until Congress comes to its senses,” Phineas Baxandall,
a senior analyst for the  U.S. Public Interest Research Group 
said in a telephone interview. U.S. PIRG is a Washington-based
consumer advocacy group that supports  government spending  on
high-speed rail service.  Placeholder Not Enough  The proposal would be a placeholder and not enough to
“really advance” high-speed rail, Thomas Hart, vice president
for government affairs at the U.S. High-Speed Rail Association,
said by telephone. The Washington-based group supports the
creation of a national high-speed rail network.  The House transportation appropriations  subcommittee  also
didn’t include money for the program in the bill it adopted
Sept. 8. The full House Appropriations Committee has not yet
scheduled a vote on the measure.  Most of the money has gone to increasing train speeds on
existing passenger routes, including $1.1 billion for  Illinois 
to provide 110 mile-per-hour service between  Chicago and St.
Louis .  California , overseeing the only project to build a rail
corridor dedicated to high-speed trains, has been awarded $3.5
billion from the program.  In February, Obama asked for $53 billion through 2018 to
provide high-speed rail service to 80 percent of Americans
within 25 years.  The $447 billion jobs bill he submitted to lawmakers this
month would devote $4 billion more to the initiative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  