-- 
Il Sole Calls on Berlusconi to Quit as Business Leaders Abandon Government

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-21T15:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/il-sole-calls-on-berlusconi-to-quit-as-business-leaders-abandon-government.html
Il Sole 24 0re, the financial
newspaper controlled by  Italy ’s employers lobby, called on Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to resign, highlighting the growing
rift between the premier and the country’s top executives.  “The country most at risk now after  Greece  is Italy and
this is due to the fragility of your governing coalition, the
chain of embarrassing scandals that have directly touched you,
your ministers and your closest collaborators, and the
consistent incapacity to make painful, but necessary
decisions,” Roberto Napoletano, the newspaper’s editor-in-
chief, wrote in a front-page editorial.  The article titled “For Italy, Above All” came a day
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the country’s credit rating for the
first time in five years, citing weak growth, high debt and a
“fragile” government. Berlusconi’s legal woes are also
occupying the prime minister at a time when his government is
trying to respond to soaring borrowing costs that prompted the
 European Central Bank  to buy its bonds to try to stem contagion.  “It is a very clear sign of mistrust,” said Roberto
d’Alimonte, professor of politics at Luiss University in Rome.
“The business world has abandoned Berlusconi, even if the
Parliament hasn’t done it yet.”  Fifth Indictment  Berlusconi is currently under indictment in four corruption
cases that include charges of paying a minor for sex and may
face a fifth indictment in another case tomorrow, requiring
court appearances. Parliament will also vote tomorrow on whether
to allow the arrest of Marco Milanese, a lawmaker for
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party and former top aide of
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti , on graft charges.  Berlusconi denies any wrongdoing and says prosecutors are
out to destroy him politically. His office also said in a
statement yesterday that S&P’s decision appeared “dictated more
by newspaper speculation than by reality, and appear influenced
by political considerations,” adding that Italy will meet its
goal to balance the budget in 2013.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond is approaching 6 percent,
six weeks after the ECB began buying the securities to prevent
Italy from being engulfed by the region’s debt crisis.
Berlusconi secured ECB support by crafting an austerity plan to
eliminate the  budget deficit . Bond yields began to creep up
again as Berlusconi’s allies initially sought to water down the
plan, removing key revenue measures and spooking investors.  Berlusconi Shares  Berlusconi will meet President Giorgio Napolitano around 7
p.m., Il Sole reported on its website, citing unidentified
government officials. Berlusconi decided to meet Napolitano to
discuss the current situation and explain what the government
plans to do to boost growth, the daily said.  News of the meeting prompted speculation Berlusconi planned
to step down, hurting shares of traded companies linked to the
premier.  Mediaset SpA (MS) , Berlusconi’s broadcaster, dropped as much
as 4.9 percent in Milan trading. Arnoldo Mondadori Editore SpA,
the publisher he controls, dropped as much as 4 percent while
Mediolanum, the financial-services company partly owned by
Berlusconi, lost 2 percent compared with a 1.2 percent decline
in the benchmark FTSE MIB index.  “The time for nebulous, unspecified and non-detailed
commitments is gone,” Fiat SpA Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said yesterday in  London . The “whole question about
austerity is crucial,” he said when asked what Italy should do
to boost credibility after S&P lowered its rating to A from A+.  Italy, Inc.  Berlusconi enjoyed broad support from employers lobby
Confindustria and the Italian business community when he entered
politics in 1994 on promises to channel his experience building
Italy’s biggest media company into running the nation like a
chief executive rather than a politician. He pledged tax cuts
and structural reforms to make Italy more completive and unleash
the country’s growth potential.  His failure to deliver, his legal woes and the country’s
anemic growth have strained relations with the business class,
leading to the rupture with Confindustria, which represents more
than 146,000 companies employing 5.4 million workers. Italy has
had average annual growth of 0.9 percent since Berlusconi was
elected to his first of three terms in 1994, compared with 1.6
percent for the euro region.  “The government must make serious, strong and unpopular
reforms” or it “should just go home,” Confindustria President
 Emma Marcegaglia  said yesterday in Bologna, Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in  Rome  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 