-- 
Military, Police Drones May Lead to Supreme Court Ethics Fight

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-09-21T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/military-police-drones-may-lead-to-supreme-court-ethics-fight.html
The large-scale deployment of
drones by the U.S. military to track and kill enemies, as well
as the use of the unmanned planes by police forces for
surveillance, may lead to legal disputes about the rights to
self-defense and to privacy, according to an article published
today in the journal Nature.  The use of drones is “a Supreme Court case waiting to
happen,” wrote Peter W. Singer, a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution , quoting an unnamed U.S. federal district
court judge.  The U.S. Defense Department operates more than 7,000 aerial
drones and 12,000 unmanned ground systems, Singer wrote, and the
Miami and Ogden, Utah, police departments have sought licenses
to operate surveillance drones.  Still, researchers, manufacturers, and military and
civilian users of the drones, as well as regulators and policy
makers, have yet to address the legal implications of using
robots for military and police missions, Singer wrote.  Failure to consider “these issues of law and ethics can
have immense consequences,” he wrote.  The U.S. already is drawing a legal distinction between
deploying forces and using drones, Singer wrote, citing
President  Barack Obama ’s argument earlier this year that he did
not need to seek congressional approval for military operations
against  Libya  because only unmanned planes were used.  Drone Defense  The U.S. Air Force says its unmanned spy planes, when
targeted by enemy radar, have the same right to retaliate as
manned airplanes, Singer wrote. Conferring such self-defense
rights to drones may lead to legal disputes and international
crises, he wrote, “as well as a huge (and probably
unintentional) first step for the cause of robots’ rights.”  “Using a submarine to attack shipping, for example, was
once science fiction,” Singer wrote. “When it became reality,
the dispute over ‘fair use’ of such technology” drew the U.S.
into World War I after its ships were sunk by German submarines.  U.S. drone makers include Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ; Falls Church, Virginia-based  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) , maker of the  Global Hawk  plane; Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) ;
and San Diego-based General Atomics Aeronautical Systems Inc.,
maker of the  Predator  drones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  