-- 
Millionaires Form Family Offices to Avoid Private Banks

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-09-22T06:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/millionaires-form-family-offices-to-dodge-private-bank-salesmen-in-asia.html
Stephen Diggle, who co-founded a
hedge fund that made $2.7 billion for investors in 2007 and 2008,
set up a family office to manage the millions in fees he earned
instead of entrusting his wealth to private bankers.  “It was fairly demonstrably clear that there was a very
significant problem of alignment of interests by private banks
and their customers,” said the 47-year-old founder of Vulpes
Investment Management, whose Singapore-based family office has
invested in hotels in Japan and farms in Uruguay. “They ceased
to be custodians of people’s money and they became salesmen.”  Asia ’s wealthiest investors, whose ranks are swelling as
the region’s economic growth outperforms the rest of the world,
are turning to family offices to maintain control of their money
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 made
them more risk averse.  “Private banks try to sell you everything and not
necessarily what’s best for your family office or for
yourself,” said Clinton Ang, managing director of Singapore-
based wine and spirits distributor Hock Tong Bee Pte, who is
among those preferring to manage his family’s wealth himself.
“If sophisticated investors haven’t already learnt the lessons
of the past crisis, with the impending crisis that is on the
horizon they’d better.”  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has tumbled 17 percent from this
year’s high in May and is trading close to a one-year low after
 Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating in
August and  Europe ’s debt crisis deepened.  U.S. Downgrade  “Markets go up and markets go down,” said Tan Su Shan,
head of wealth management of Singapore-based DBS Group Holdings
Ltd.,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest bank. “It’s easy enough for
clients to point the finger at the banker when things go wrong.
What about when things go up? There are always two sides to the
story.”  DBS attracted more than S$2 billion ($1.6 billion) in net
new money in August, Tan said. The bank’s wealth-management unit
turned bearish two months ago and “took money off the table for
clients” invested in equities, Tan said.  About 90 percent of Ang’s family’s investable assets of
almost S$100 million are in cash after he sold from October
through March its investments in stocks, bonds and most property
assets, said the 38-year-old, who describes himself a follower
of Templeton Asset Management’s  Mark Mobius .  Family offices are typically tailored to the families’
investment and personal needs, and often include estate planning,
philanthropy and lifestyle management such as maintaining homes
and yachts. Private wealth managers, who generally work for
global investment banks, rely on fees and commissions from
managing their clients’ money.  More Defensive  Most family offices in Asia are more defensive in their
investment strategy and tend to hire a “generalist” to manage
their wealth, rather than specialists such as former hedge fund
managers, said William Chan, chief executive officer of
Singapore-based Stamford Privee, which manages his family’s
wealth and that of two others. Such managers may cost a family
office between $300,000 and $400,000 a year, while specialists
would be more expensive, Chan said, citing U.S. surveys.  Wealthy families tend to choose investment professionals
they had previous dealings with, such as a private banker, as
their office manager, said Chan. Others may select an ex-
investment banker who advised them on transactions such as an
initial public offering of their company, he said.  “Being the trusted adviser is key,” Chan said. “Failure
to retain talent in a buoyant market will usually be the cause
of the office’s failure. Right hires are managers who have a
strong streak of loyalty to the family and who will not be
easily swayed by other offers.”  Asian Wealth  Wealth in Asia, excluding  Japan , is expected to rise at
about double the global rate of almost 6 percent through the
next five years, the  Boston Consulting Group  said in a May 31
report.  Singapore  will become the world’s top wealth management
center by 2013, overtaking Switzerland and  London , according to
a PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP study published in June.  The region also is attracting overseas family offices. Tano
Capital, the financial adviser of the founders of Franklin
Templeton Investments, and London-based Alta Advisers Ltd., the
family office of Swedish billionaire Hans Rausing, have opened
units in Singapore.  “Anecdotally, we are seeing more European family offices
making enquiries about setting up their Asian headquarters to
participate in the Asian growth story,” said Amy Lo, head of
ultra-high net worth in Asia-Pacific at UBS AG’s wealth
management business.  Singapore Rules  About 62 percent of U.S.-based family offices surveyed this
year said they were considering increasing allocations to Asian
markets outside Japan, according to Family Office Exchange. The
median family office reported 12 percent annual pretax portfolio
return in 2010 and families are expecting a median return of 8
percent this year, according to the Chicago-based organization,
which represents 350 families worldwide.  Singapore’s central bank will require banks from Jan. 1 to
advise inexperienced investors on the suitability of products
they wish to buy.  “The Lehman crisis was a learning experience for most
private banks and private bankers,” said DBS’s Tan. “You
cannot sell products that don’t fit the clients’ risk profile
and investment objectives.” The Monetary Authority of
Singapore’s rules serve “as a protection from hopefully mis-
selling from the bankers to the clients.”  Private Banks  Noor Quek, previously the head of business development in
Southeast Asia at Citigroup’s private-banking unit who now runs
Singapore-based family office adviser NQ International Pte, said
family offices shouldn’t be seen as a replacement to banks.  “The whole issue is about both working together,” she
said. “The bank must be able to understand the client and the
client is to understand what the bank can offer. This is not
something that happens overnight.”  Some investment banks are now seeking to tap the growth of
family offices in the region by setting up units that cater to
the independent firms.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is housing five
Asian and European families in Singapore that are seeking to
“incubate” their own wealth management firms, said Bernard Fung, head of family office services at the private banking unit.
The Zurich-based bank also works with other families in the
region seeking to set up their own family offices, he said.  Role to Play  Family offices and private banks are “not mutually
exclusive,” said Fung, who previously oversaw the London-based
family office of David Sainsbury, the billionaire philanthropist
and former chairman of the eponymous supermarket chain. Families
that are serious about managing their assets should use “proper
systems to measure risk and governance processes,” he said.  “If you’ve got that, then financial institutions can have
a role to play within that,” Fung said. “Trust goes both
ways.” Part of the wealth of the family offices that Credit
Suisse is housing is still managed by the bank, he said.  Zurich-based UBS set up in January a family services unit
in Asia, where much of the wealth was created after World War II,
which provides non-investment advice such as philanthropy and
wealth planning to its richest clients.  “Most families prefer to set up their own family offices
with a combination of their own employees and external experts,
with specialist skills ranging from accountants to legal and tax
advisers to investment professionals,” said Hong Kong-based Lo.  DBS built up its family office advisory business this year,
offering services that include advice on private-equity
investments and philanthropy. There’s a “huge movement” of
family offices creating their own funds and teaming up with
other independent firms to co-invest, said Terry Alan Farris,
who joined DBS’s private banking unit in January as its
Singapore-based head of family office.  Rockefeller’s Wealth  Market gains helped boost assets managed by private banks
by 11 percent last year with the top 20 in the world overseeing
a combined $11.1 trillion, according to London-based Scorpio
Partnership. The rate of net new money inflows fell on average
by almost 19 percent from 2009 and many banks saw margins
squeezed, according to the wealth-management consultancy firm.  There are about 50 established family offices in Asia
outside of Japan that are managed professionally, according to
Scorpio. Worldwide, there are an estimated 2,500 to 3,500 family
offices, said Joseph Reilly, president of the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Family Office Association. The first family
office was established in the U.S. by oil baron  John D.
Rockefeller  in 1882 to manage his family’s assets.  GFIA Pte, which advises investors seeking to allocate money
to hedge funds and began its wealth-advisory business when it
started managing Diggle’s money, is in talks with other
prospective clients, said  Peter Douglas , the firm’s principal.  As financial institutions curb risk after the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers  triggered the global credit crisis, wealthy
families are “stepping into the holes left by the exits of the
banks” in making higher-return investments, Douglas said.  Uruguay Farms  “It’s partly the realization of the conflict between
private wealth and the financial services industry, and it’s
partly because now there’s a lot more opportunity out there for
private wealth relative to that available for the financial
services industry compared with pre-crisis,” Douglas said.  Diggle’s family office bought farms in Uruguay and  Illinois ,
a kiwi-and-avocado orchard in  New Zealand , land in Italy and
Bali, boutique hotels in Japan, defensive stocks, gold and “a
large portfolio of very high-end wine,” he said. Diggle set up
Vulpes in April after closing in March Artradis Fund Management
Pte, the hedge fund he co-founded with Richard Magides.  Diggle, who has four children, said he set up the family
office with GFIA to put in place the processes and structure to
preserve his fortune.  Sharing Costs  Some family offices cater to more than one family to gain
economies of scale. It costs at least $1.5 million a year to run
a family office that includes an investment team, and a family
will need a minimum of $100 million to justify the expenses,
said Chan of Stamford Privee.  Blue Ocean  Capital Partners , a unit of Singapore-based
private-equity firm Tembusu Partners Pte, plans to set up an
office with a U.K.-based family firm this year, said Director
Daniel Lin.  Lin, 28, said he and his 54-year-old father, who founded
 Tembusu Partners , will start by managing the wealth of their
family with the help of a chief executive officer. At least two
other families have agreed to partner with them later, he said.  “For private banks, because they have certain targets,
they need to find something that will give them a financial
return pretty quickly,” Lin said. “For us, we’re not in a
hurry to make money out of this; we have time to build on the
intangibles such as family values and governance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  