-- 
IMF Sees 300 Billion-Euro Credit Risk to Europe Banks

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-09-21T18:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/imf-sees-410-billion-credit-risk-to-europe-banks-as-it-urges-more-capital.html
The European debt crisis has
generated as much as 300 billion euros ($410 billion) in credit
risk for European banks, the  International Monetary Fund  said,
calling for capital injections to reassure investors and support
lending.  Political squabbling in  Europe  over ways to fight contagion
and delays in implementing agreed measures are raising concern
about the risk of government defaults, the IMF said. Banks, in
turn face “funding challenges” because investors are concerned
financial institutions will potentially show losses on
government bonds holdings, and reliance by some on the  European
Central Bank  for liquidity, it said.  “A number of banks must raise capital to help ensure the
confidence of their creditors and depositors,” the IMF wrote in
its Global Financial Stability Report released today. “Without
additional capital buffers, problems in accessing funding are
likely to create deleveraging pressures at banks, which will
force them to cut credit to the real economy.”  The Washington-based IMF yesterday cut its global growth
forecast and predicted “severe” repercussions if policy makers
fail to stem the debt turmoil that’s threatening to engulf  Italy 
and Spain. Bank recapitalization, through public injections if
necessary, should come in addition to “credible” strategies by
governments to reduce their public debt, the IMF said today.  Stress Test  The fund said its assessment of the potential credit risks
of European banks isn’t a calculation of their capital needs,
which would require a “fully fledged stress test.” It said its
analysis was based on published data from the European Banking
Authority’s stress test and Bank for International Settlements
figures.  Banks in the region may face a 400 billion-euro capital
shortfall, factoring in another recession and a 21 percent
impairment on Greek, Irish, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish
debt,  Jon Peace , an analyst for Nomura International Plc in
London, wrote in a note to investors on Sept. 7.  Analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG in a Sept. 15 research
note estimated the capital deficit to be 165 billion euros at
the end of 2012, “given higher regulatory capital demands and
funding markets requiring larger capital cushions.”  Unlimited Lending  The ECB and peers in the U.K.,  Switzerland ,  Japan  and the
U.S. last week said they’ll provide unlimited three-month money
to lenders in three tenders starting October. That was after
funding dried up for European banks in general, and French
lenders in particular, amid concern  Greece  is headed for a
default.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Societe Generale SA had their long-
term credit ratings cut one level this week by Moody’s Investors
Service, which cited their reliance on short-term funding and
Greek exposure.  “The usual way to deal with a banking crisis is through a
state-led bailout or recap operation, but it was the concern
about the sovereigns’ ability to deal with their obligations
that started the whole process in the first place,” said
markets, said Stephen Jen, managing partner at SLJ Macro
Partners LLP in  London .  “Investors will have a hard time handicapping the risks
and will likely insist on a  risk premium  higher than they would
otherwise if the vicious circle were not there.”  Fiscal Plans  The IMF also called on the U.S. and Japan to craft fiscal
plans for the medium term, “particularly given the many adverse
global economic and financial repercussions that would follow
from failure to adequately deal with U.S. fiscal problems.”  The IMF is not judging the European stress tests published
earlier this year, said Jose Vinals, the head of the agency and
capital markets department.  “Since then, things have changed,” he told reporters in
Washington today. “There is a significant spillover of
sovereign risk into banks and that this is something that is
creating market strains.”  “This is something which supervisors will need to look at
very carefully and then decide what is the size of capital
buffers that the banks must get in order to get funding in
appropriate conditions,” Vinals said.  The  S&P 500  slipped 0.6 percent to 1,195.05 at 2 p.m. in
 New York , extending losses as Moody’s Investors Service cut its
debt rating on  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell to 1.92 percent from 1.94 percent late
yesterday.  Emerging-Market Banks  Emerging-market banks are not sheltered from the
consequences of weaker global growth, the IMF said. It estimated
that their capital adequacy could be dented by 6 percentage
points under a scenario that combines several shocks.  Calls by IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  to
recapitalize European banks where shunned by officials from
Germany to Spain, with ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
describing the fund’s methodology on capital as different from
his own institution’s.  The IMF analysis measured the size of spillover on banks
from credit-related strains in the bond markets of Greece,
Ireland, Portugal, Belgium, Italy and  Spain  and used spreads on
credit default swaps.  The IMF said banks’ “spillover” from sovereign debt alone
amounts to about 200 billion euros. Adding banks’ holdings of
bank assets whose value has also fallen in the crisis countries
brings the total as high as 300 billion euros.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  