-- 
Private Air-Traffic System Can Soar: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-09-21T00:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/in-private-world-air-traffic-technology-soars-commentary-by-peter-orszag.html

(Corrects second paragraph to delete reference to reduced flight
time.)  Without a doubt, GPS, the
satellite-based navigation system that has revolutionized travel
by car and truck, even by foot, could do the same for commercial
air traffic.  President  Barack Obama  has proposed stepping up  government
investment  in NextGen, a GPS-based air-traffic-control
technology that will allow planes to fly closer to one another
than they can with human and radar help alone and to follow more
direct flight paths. The system is expected to reduce delays by
more than a third, saving billions of dollars for airline
companies and for the traveling public. This would mean
consuming less  jet fuel , so  carbon emissions  would be lower,
too. The change would even improve safety by making us less
dependent on sleep-deprived controllers.  So it’s a step in the right direction. Unfortunately,
though, the NextGen system is being rolled out in stages, and it
isn’t expected to be fully operational in U.S. airports and
aircraft until 2020. Even that slow timetable assumes that the
 Federal Aviation Administration , the agency overseeing the
project, receives the necessary funding from Congress and can
meet all its deadlines.  Nonprofit Solution  We shouldn’t have to wait so long. There is a way to move
faster, one that would probably also help the NextGen system
work more smoothly once it’s in place: Take responsibility for
implementing the new GPS system, and for air-traffic control
altogether, away from the FAA and assign it to a private,
nonprofit organization. (Disclosure: Aerospace clients I work
with at Citigroup Inc. would benefit from faster implementation
of NextGen.)  Almost two dozen other countries have already assigned air-
traffic control to either government-owned corporations,
nonprofits or other organizations outside of government, and the
results have generally been encouraging. As the U.S. Government
Accountability Office concluded in a  2005 review , these
operators have maintained or even improved air safety, while
they have lowered costs and boosted efficiency by investing in
new technology.  NAV Canada , for example, is a nonprofit corporation that
provides air-traffic control, along with weather reports, flight
information and other services. Its revenue comes from fees
charged to airlines for this work. Its safety record is
excellent. And, compared with the FAA, it tends to be more
responsive to innovation and better able to make improvements in
technology, investing in the needs of its user airlines.  For example, NAV Canada has developed a touch-screen flight
data and display system, called NAVCANstrips, which automates
controllers’ work flow and reduces their need to communicate
with one another verbally. It integrates tower flight data with
information about departures, arrivals and planes en route, as
well as radar, weather and the status of runways. This system
was developed by controllers themselves, and NAV Canada has sold
it to the U.K.,  Denmark  and other countries. (It’s also being
used at Sheppard Air Force Base in  Texas .)  The public air-traffic-control system we have in the U.S.
began as part of the federal government’s role in air mail,
starting in the early 20th century, through the U.S. Postal
Service (an agency that should also be moved out of the
government, but that’s a different topic). By the 1920s, the
government was licensing pilots and issuing certificates of
airworthiness for planes.  FAA History  In the late 1930s, Congress explicitly assigned the Civil
Aeronautics Authority (the predecessor of the FAA) the job of
managing air-traffic control. That was more than 70 years ago,
even before the use of radar in civil aviation. Today, air
traffic increasingly relies on rapidly evolving technology, and
the FAA has, for decades, struggled to keep up.  As late as the 1970s, U.S. air-traffic control was still
using light beacons to guide planes at night. As a 2006 review
of the agency, by Clinton Oster of  Indiana University ,
concluded, “Concerns about being able to upgrade and expand the
air traffic control system to accommodate anticipated growth in
air traffic have been almost continual since the early 1960s.”  In 2004, an expert panel convened by the  National Academy
of Sciences  likewise concluded that the FAA lacks the technical
expertise needed to build and manage complex air-traffic
systems.  An important reason the FAA has had trouble keeping up with
technology is that its funding has been unstable and uncertain.
Its money comes from two sources, an annual appropriation from
Congress, and revenue from the passenger tax. The amount that
comes from Congress is always at risk of being reduced,
especially when money is tight. And the passenger tax, for its
part, is misaligned with the costs of air-traffic control.  The tax is assessed on airlines’ total receipts from ticket
sales, but what determines the amount of funding needed is not
the number of passengers or the price paid per passenger (which
combined determine ticket revenue), but rather the number of
flights coming in and out of airports. And that is not directly
reflected in the passenger count because it varies depending on
size of aircraft and how full the flights are.  User Pays  A better approach would be for users to pay the whole bill,
and for the fees to be imposed based on the number of takeoffs
and landings. This would ensure that those who use the air-
traffic-control system pay for it, and it would keep funding
outside the political process.  To be sure, there are downsides to a user-based revenue
model. For example, NAV  Canada  experienced financial
difficulties after the Sept. 11 attacks, when travel declined,
diminishing its revenue base. In response, the agency raised
user rates, froze employee wages and took other steps to improve
its financial health. By 2005, NAV Canada’s finances had
stabilized.  Perhaps the biggest objection to shifting air-traffic
responsibilities to a nonprofit comes from the National Air
Traffic Controllers Association. It asserts that private
management would create tension between safety and profits --
even though the Canadian agency has an outstanding safety
record. Other union concerns could be at least partially
mitigated by including protections for controllers in the
legislation that would move air-traffic control out of the FAA.
For example, in NAV Canada, the unions nominate two members of
the board of directors. The Canadian agency also extended pre-
existing job security provisions and reached a new collective-
bargaining agreement with employees.  This isn’t to say all government functions would be best
turned over to private operators. There are some jobs that, over
the past two decades, the U.S. has unwisely moved out of
government control. In the 1990s, for example, despite some
strong objections within the Clinton administration, the
government turned over to private operators the U.S. Enrichment
Corp., which has the job of enriching nuclear fuel.  The regulation of airline safety and operation should
remain the business of the government, as it would pose too many
conflicts of interest to have the airlines regulate themselves.
But as other countries have shown, air-traffic control can be
split off into a nongovernmental entity even while the
government retains regulatory oversight of  air travel . NAV
Canada, especially, provides a model the U.S. would be smart to
follow.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 