-- 
Inditex First-Half Earnings Beat Estimates as Zara Owner Expands

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-09-21T10:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/inditex-earnings-beat-estimates-as-zara-chain-owner-expands.html
Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s largest
clothing retailer, reported first-half earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates as it added shops in  Asia  and started
selling apparel online.  Earnings before interest and taxes rose 10 percent to 914
million euros ($1.25 billion) in the six months ended July 31,
from 830 million euros a year earlier, the Arteixo, Spain-based
owner of the Zara chain said today. The average estimate of
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 870 million euros.  Inditex, which introduced the Zara brand online about a
year ago, is adding outlets in  China  and other emerging markets
to tap higher growth in  consumer spending , while reducing its
dependence on Spain and southern  Europe .  “This is our favorite retail stock in the sector, one of
the few really crisis-resistant retailers out there,” said Jan Meijer, a retail analyst at ING Bank in Amsterdam. “The only
negative about today’s numbers was that sales growth in August
and September is slowing down.”  Revenue expressed in local currencies gained 9 percent in
the Aug. 1 to Sept. 17 period compared with last year. Sales at
that level gained 13 percent in the first half.  H&M Sales  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , the world’s second-largest clothing
maker, last week reported August sales that beat analyst
estimates, sending the shares up the most in more than a year.
The Stockholm-based clothing retailer will report earnings next
week.  The Spanish retailer opened 67 stores in the second
quarter, fewer than the 75 outlets it opened in the same period
a year earlier. Credit Agricole Cheuvreux analyst Daniel Ovin
said that was lower than his estimate of 90 stores in the
quarter.  Inditex, which has said it may add as many as 500 stores
this year, said today that its expansion is going according to
plan as it will open more stores in the second half than in the
first.  Inditex shares fell 0.3 percent to 62.86 euros at 11:56
a.m. in  Madrid , paring yesterday’s 2.8 percent gain. They have
advanced 12 percent this year, while nearest rival H&M has
slumped 12 percent.  Gross profit as a proportion of sales slipped to 58.4
percent in the first half from 59.4 percent a year earlier,
Inditex said today. Inditex reiterated that this year it aims to
keep half of the improvement from last year. The gross margin
rose 2.2 percentage points to 59.3 percent in that period.  The clothing retailer may beat that target, said Societe
Generale analyst  Anne Critchlow , who said the margin reported
today exceeded her estimate.  Total sales rose 12 percent to 6.2 billion euros. Inditex
Chief Executive Office Pablo Isla said the company has been
“having positive sales performance” in all its markets and
expects “stable performance” in Spain. He spoke on a
conference call with analysts today.  Zara will enter new markets including  South Africa , Taiwan,
Georgia,  Azerbaijan  and Peru in the coming months, Inditex also
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  