-- 
ING Cuts Italian, Spanish Sovereign Holdings by a Third

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-09-21T15:55:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ing-cuts-italian-spanish-sovereign-debt-holdings-by-a-third.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, cut its Spanish and Italian
government debt holdings by a third to 6.4 billion euros ($8.7
billion) over 11 weeks as it seeks to limit risks on its
investments.  ING Bank’s holding of Italian sovereign debt fell by 2.5
billion euros to 1.9 billion euros in the period to Sept. 15
while the insurance unit cut its position by 0.1 billion euros,
the company said today in a presentation to investors. ING Bank
also trimmed its holding of Spanish debt by 0.6 billion euros to
0.8 billion euros.  ING remains “alert to further market developments,” the
Amsterdam-based firm said in the presentation.  The  European Central Bank  last month started buying Italian
and Spanish government bonds after  Europe ’s debt crisis pushed
their yields to euro-era records. European bank and insurance
shares have plunged since the end of June on concerns about
their investments in southern European sovereigns.  ING has dropped 41 percent since the end of the second
quarter and slipped 2.9 percent to 4.97 euros in Amsterdam
today. That compares with a 26 percent retreat in the 28-company
Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index since June 30.  ‘Alternative Funding’  ING said its banking unit’s funding structure is
“strong,” with deposits accounting for 61 percent. The lender
countered a withdrawal of U.S. money market funds from European
banks by seeking “alternative funding sources with similar or
longer tenors” and a reduction of short-term assets. That
allowed it to avoid using its liquidity buffers to replace the
funds, the company said.  ING is “decisively yet prudently” preparing for two
initial public offerings for its U.S. and combined European and
Asian insurance businesses, the company said. ING has to divest
the units before the end of 2013 as a condition for European
Union approval for state aid in 2008 and 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  