-- 
Insider-Trading Sentences Offer Preview to Rajaratnam Term

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-21T22:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/insider-trading-sentences-offer-preview-to-rajaratnam-penalty.html
An ex-Galleon Group LLC trader and
expert-networking consultant were sentenced today to 10 years
and four years in prison for their roles in a nationwide insider
trading scandal, just three weeks before  Raj Rajaratnam , the man
at the center of the investigation, is to learn his fate.  Zvi Goffer, the trader, and Winifred Jiau, who worked for
Primary Global Research LLC, were convicted in June in separate
Manhattan federal court trials. Jiau was sentenced today to four
years after the government asked for as long as 10 years. Goffer
received a 10-year term following a U.S. request that he serve
almost 13 years.  Rajaratnam, 54, co-founder of Galleon, was found guilty in
May of directing the largest hedge-fund insider-trading ring. He
should be given a prison term of as long as 24 1/2 years when
sentenced, prosecutors said. His sentence was postponed today
from Sept. 27 to Oct. 13.  The sentences for Goffer and Jiau are more severe than in
typical  insider-trading  cases where a defendant gets and trades
on information only once, said John C. Coffee Jr., a professor
at  Columbia Law School  in  New York .  “These were professionals engaging in this as their
regular course of business,” Coffee said. “They went about it
systematically.”  Dozens of People  Dozens of people have been charged with participating in
overlapping insider-trading rings by the office of U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara in Manhattan. The Goffer and Rajaratnam trials
featured phone conversations secretly recorded by the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation . The two, along with Jiau, were
convicted based partly on the testimony of co-conspirators
cooperating with prosecutors.  Jurors at Jiau’s trial saw instant electronic messages that
a hedge fund analyst sent his boss while they were on the phone
with her. The analyst also recorded the calls.  Goffer, who co-founded Incremental Capital LLC after he was
fired from Galleon in 2008, was convicted of all 14 criminal
counts against him. Goffer’s brother, Emanuel, and Michael Kimelman were convicted at the same trial. Prosecutors said  Zvi
Goffer  headed a ring that made more than $10 million trading in
3Com Corp., Axcan Pharma Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels
Corp. based on information misappropriated by two lawyers.  Judge Request  Prosecutors had asked U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan 
to send Goffer to prison for as long as 12 years and seven
months.  “Goffer’s criminal scheme was brazen, sophisticated and
extensive,” prosecutors argued in a Sept. 14 memorandum.  Goffer, 34, claimed he’s a changed man who deserves a
lesser sentence.  Jiau, 43, of Fremont,  California , was convicted of one
count each of conspiracy and securities fraud. A jury found her
guilty of passing earnings and other information about  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to Noah Freeman, a
former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management LP.  Prosecutors argued Jiau should get eight to 10 years in
prison in papers filed with U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff.
Jiau’s lawyers downplayed her role in the chain of inside-
traders and called the government’s suggested sentence
“draconian.”  ‘Couldn’t Shoot Straight’  “If Ms. Jiau was at the ‘heart’ of anything in this case,
it was of the gang that couldn’t shoot straight,” they said.  Yesterday, James Fleishman, a former executive at  Mountain
View , California-based Primary Global, was convicted of two
counts of conspiracy for his role in a separate insider-trading
scheme in which he passed tips to fund managers. His sentencing
is scheduled for Dec. 21.  Craig Drimal, another former Galleon trader, was sentenced
to 5 1/2 years in prison, which had been the longest sentence in
the scandal before Goffer’s term was handed down today. Danielle Chiesi, a former analyst at New Castle Funds, got 2 1/2 years
for passing tips to Rajaratnam and others. Drimal and Chiesi
both pleaded guilty.  An analysis by Bloomberg News earlier this year showed that
19 of the 43 defendants sentenced in federal court in  Manhattan 
for insider trading since 2003 got no jail time. The average
prison sentence was 18.4 months.  Don Chu, the Taiwan liaison for Primary Global, got two
years of probation.  The cases are U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, and U.S. v.
Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  