-- 
Internet Providers Asked by U.S. to Set Virus Defense Standards

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-09-21T18:57:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/internet-providers-asked-by-u-s-to-set-virus-defense-standards.html
Internet-service providers
including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  may be asked to create an
industry standard for fighting computer viruses known as botnets
under a proposal from U.S. regulators.  The Homeland Security and Commerce departments are seeking
comments through Nov. 4 on the creation of a voluntary program
that would “reduce the harm that botnets inflict on the
nation’s computing environment,” according to a notice
published today in the Federal Register.  Botnets link personal computers to flood corporate or
government networks with unwanted traffic that can take down
systems. To build a botnet, hackers send out programs, often
disguised as links or hidden in an e-mail attachments, that
infect a computer when opened. Infected computers communicate
invisibly with command machines, generating hard-to-trace spam
and searching for user passwords and company secrets.  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , a computer security company based in
 Mountain View ,  California , estimates there are about 3.5 million
to 5.4 million botnets worldwide. At least 18 percent of home
computers are controlled remotely by cyberthieves without their
owners’ knowledge, according to Damballa Inc., an Atlanta-based
cybersecurity research firm that tracks botnets.  Homeland Security and Commerce said in their notice that
botnets have emerged as an increasing threat during the past
several years. Cybercrime, which includes attacks from botnets,
costs large U.S. companies an average of $3.8 million annually,
and about 9 million Americans have their identities stolen each
year, a group of U.S. senators said Jan. 26 after introducing a
bill aimed at tightening Web security.  Monitoring Customers’ PCs  The agencies suggested that Internet-service providers
monitor customers’ computers to detect botnets and then notify
subscribers of infections, according to the notice. ISPs, which
have contact information and a “pre-existing relationship”
with users, can inform customers how they can remove the virus,
according to the notice.  To encourage providers to adopt a voluntary standard,
companies may be offered protection from lawsuits stemming from
cyberattacks on customers’ computers, the notice said. The
agencies also suggested establishing a “resource center” to
support people whose computers have been infected by botnets.
The center might be operated by industry, the government or
both, according to the notice.  Botnet Risk  “Botnets are increasingly putting computer owners at risk
of intrusions by malicious actors and the loss of computing
power and  Internet access ,” Chris Ortman, a Homeland Security
spokesman, said in an e-mail. Today’s proposal “will help DHS
evaluate the extent to which voluntary notification of botnet
infections can reduce and protect against cyber threats.”  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  spokesman Richard Young
declined to comment. Representatives of AT&T, Comcast and the
Commerce Department, did not immediately respond to phone calls
and e-mails seeking comment.  A Federal Communications Commission working group in
December  issued a report  recommending ways for ISPs to address
botnets, including detecting malware infections, notifying
users, temporarily “quarantining” compromised accounts, and
making anti-virus software available to consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  