-- 
Intesa, Mediobanca Ratings Cut by S&P After Italy’s Downgrade

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-09-21T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/intesa-mediobanca-ratings-cut-by-s-p-after-italy-s-downgrade.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Mediobanca SpA (MB) 
and two other Italian banks had their credit ratings lowered by
 Standard & Poor’s  after the company downgraded Italy on Sept. 20
for the first time in five years.  “The respective rating actions and outlook revisions
follow the lowering of the unsolicited long- and short-term
sovereign credit ratings on the Republic of Italy,” S&P said
yesterday in a report.  Italy’s rating was lowered by one level on concern that
weakening economic growth and a “fragile” government mean the
nation will struggle to reduce the euro-region’s second-largest
debt burden. Italy was lowered to A from A+ with a negative
outlook four months after the company warned of the risk of a
downgrade.  “We generally cap most bank issuer ratings at the level of
the foreign currency long-term rating on the related
sovereign,” S&P said in the report.  Intesa, Italy’s second-largest lender, and investment bank
Mediobanca were lowered to A, the same level as Italy, with a
negative outlook. Eight other banks, including Italy’s biggest
lender  Unicredit SpA (UCG) , had their outlooks changed to negative
from stable.  The large amount of Italian sovereign debt held by domestic
banks make it likely that S&P would change its ratings on some
lenders,  Moritz Kraemer , S&P Managing Director of European
Sovereign Ratings, said in a conference call on Sept. 20.  Intesa held 64.5 billion euros ($89 billion) of  government
bonds  as of June 30. UniCredit owned 38.7 billion euros of
bonds. Monte Paschi di Siena SpA, the third-largest, holds about
25 billion euros of Italian debt.  Findomestic Banca SpA and Cassa di Risparmio di Bologna
SpA’s ratings were cut to A from A+.  Italy followed Spain, Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus and  Greece 
as euro-region countries whose credit rating have been cut this
year as fallout from the region’s debt crisis prompts scrutiny
of rising debt levels. Italian companies whose ratings are
linked to the country’s creditworthiness have been suffering in
markets as concern over the country’s solvency grows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  