-- 
Savers Flooding Stable Value Funds May Have Limited Access

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-09-21T15:50:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/investors-flood-stable-value-funds-that-beat-market-limit-access-to-cash.html
Galliard Capital Management Inc.’s
stable-value funds, designed to preserve principal in tumultuous
times, drew more than four times the usual inflows in August as
market volatility increased, said managing partner John Caswell.  Investors in retirement plans administered by  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  moved $850 million into the funds that month, while at Aon
Hewitt, a benefits manager, about $1 of every $5 transferred by
plan participants was put in a stable-value fund.  While the funds recently have outperformed the stock
market, investors should realize they’re riskier than money
funds, and may contain restrictions on transfers and
withdrawals, said Jeff Elvander, chief investment officer for
 Aliso Viejo , California-based 401(k) Advisors Inc., a consultant
to employers that offer defined-contribution retirement plans.  “Some of those restrictions may not be clearly
communicated until a participant tries to make a transaction,
and then they’re prevented from making it,” Elvander said.  Stable-value funds are viewed by many investors as a higher
yielding alternative to money-market funds, said Pamela Hess,
director of retirement research at Aon Hewitt, a unit of  Aon
Corp. (AON)  In August they returned 0.22 percent, compared with the
5.68 percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. They
achieve those returns in part by purchasing insurance contracts,
which come with restrictions. The funds are riskier than the
typical money-market fund, meaning they aren’t really comparable
investments, said Donald Stone, president of Chicago-based Plan
Sponsor Advisors.  No Guarantees  “There’s a reason why they call them stable value, not
guaranteed,” Stone said. “I don’t think participants
understand that. They understand if they put a dollar in they’ll
get a dollar back, and some interest.”  There was about $540 billion invested in stable value
products as of December, according to the Stable Value
Investment Association. The funds are more complicated than most
investors realize, said Hess.  Although they’re often called “funds,” stable-value can
refer to funds that pool one or more retirement plan’s assets,
and to insurance contracts, in some cases annuities, that are
offered within defined-contribution  retirement plans  such as
401(k)s. The funds generally invest in short- to intermediate-
term bonds and buy insurance on their portfolios. The contracts
are issued directly to a retirement plan sponsor or to its
participants, and offer an interest rate that resets
periodically.  Smooth Ride  By buying insurance on their portfolios, the funds can
allow investors to redeem shares at principal plus interest,
even though the underlying bonds may be lower or higher in
price. The insurance is meant to cover a potential shortfall
should a fund have to sell bonds to meet redemptions.  “The insurance smoothes out the returns of the underlying
portfolio,” said Gina Mitchell, president of the Washington-
based Stable Value Investment Association, a membership and
trade group for the stable-value industry.  The insurance also comes with restrictions. The companies
that provide the contracts, including  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , generally limit the circumstances
under which they’ll pay out and may also restrict how or when
savers may transfer or withdraw their money.  “The insurance company is willing to guarantee this book
value, but they’re only willing to do that up to a point,” said
Stone of Plan Sponsor Advisors.  Investors usually can’t move their money to competing
investment options such as short- to intermediate-term bond
funds for 90 days after withdrawing from a stable-value option,
said Caswell of Galliard, which is a subsidiary of Wells Fargo
and oversees about $68 billion in stable-value assets.  Surrender Charges  The insurance contracts can be even more restrictive.
Savers in a stable-value annuity issued by TIAA CREF may only
withdraw or transfer funds over a set schedule of 10 payments
during nine years. Workers who quit a company that uses the
product in its retirement plan may take a lump sum within their
first 120 days of leaving, during which they would pay a 2.5
percent surrender charge.  Retirement-plan administrators such as Boston-based
 Fidelity Investments  said these restrictions are disclosed in
investment literature, even if participants don’t always read
it.  Those limitations allow TIAA CREF to offer a higher
interest rate than it would be able to otherwise, said Phil
Maffei, director of  product management  for the New York-based
insurance and mutual-fund provider. The TIAA CREF annuity
yielded 4 percent in August.  Insurance Caveats  Insurers also generally stipulate that they won’t be liable
under certain circumstances, which can leave savers with losses.
Major layoffs, mergers and bankruptcies at the employer usually
nullify a portfolio’s insurance. That’s because large outflows
from a fund increase the likelihood that an insurer would have
to pay out on the contracts they’ve issued.  Employees of Chrysler LLC received 89 cents on the dollar,
or a loss of 11 percent, when a stable-value fund the company
offered in a supplemental savings plan liquidated in January
2009. Insurance on the fund, which was managed by Dwight Asset
Management Co. LLC, didn’t cover the shortfall because of
restrictions on the insurance contracts. Kristel Garneau, a
Dwight spokeswoman, declined to comment on the Chrysler fund
citing client confidentiality.  Lehman Brothers   A stable-value separately managed account offered to  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  employees lost 1.7 percent in its
liquidation in December 2008, because the portfolio’s insurance
stipulated it wouldn’t pay in a bankruptcy. Lehman Brothers
filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 on Sept. 15, 2008.  After accounting for that drop, the Lehman Brothers fund
returned 2.2 percent total during 2008, said Bill Hensel,
spokesman for Atlanta-based  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , which managed the
fund.  Such losses are rare, said Galliard’s Caswell. Often
companies have no need to liquidate a plan in a bankruptcy, and
if they do they generally have more time to plan and are able to
pay out participants’ assets without losses, he said.  “Stable value’s been a safe haven,” said Mitchell of the
trade association. “It’s not risk free, but it is one that has
continued to perform throughout the financial crisis and even in
today’s volatile market.”  Bond Funds  Stable value is a conservative investment option and
participants should think of it as similar in risk to a short-
term bond fund, rather than as a cash-equivalent, said Kristi Mitchem, head of global defined contribution for  State Street
Global Advisors , a unit of  State Street Corp. (STT)   The funds returned 2.9 percent on average for the 12 months
ending in August, compared with the 1.8 percent average return
for short-term taxable bond mutual funds, according to data from
Hueler Companies Inc. and  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The average stable-
value fund yielded 2.55 percent on Aug. 31 compared with the
average taxable money-market fund yield of 0.02 percent on Aug.
30, according to data from Hueler and from iMoneyNet, which
tracks money-market funds.  “Defined-contribution plan participants tend to be a
conservative group, often citing preservation of principal as a
major factor in fund selection,” said Christopher Rowlins, a
consultant to plan providers with Fiduciary Investment Advisors
LLC in Windsor,  Connecticut . “That is one reason stable-value
funds are and remain popular.”  Investors, for whom losses in stable value have been rare
events, may not have realized that in some cases fund managers
were propping up their own products during the financial crisis.  Terminating Guarantees  State Street voluntarily contributed about $450 million of
its own capital to the stable-value funds it managed during the
fourth quarter of 2008, and purchased about $2.5 billion of debt
securities from the funds, because the investments the funds
held had fallen significantly in value, according to its annual
report from that year.  “During 2008, the liquidity and pricing issues in the
fixed-income markets adversely impacted the market value of the
securities in these accounts to the point that the third-party
guarantors considered terminating their financial guarantees
with the accounts,” the report said. The Boston-based company
is in the process of exiting the stable-value business, said
spokeswoman Alicia Curran Sweeney.  Some insurance contracts allow the issuer to terminate for
any reason provided the company gives notice, such as 90 days,
Stone said.  ‘All Bets Off’  “If we went into some kind of world calamity here, it
could be all bets off,” Stone said. “You can imagine an
instance where the guarantee might be difficult for a company to
honor.”  After the financial crisis, the cost of the insurance has
more than doubled to 15 basis points to 25 basis points of fund
assets from 4 basis points to 8 basis points, said Mitchell, of
the Stable Value Investment Association. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “Insurers had priced this business on the idea that they
would never have any claims,” Stone said. During the 2008 to
2009 financial crisis, “they were really staring into the face
of having to pony up quite a bit of money.”  Those costs reduce fund yields and aren’t generally
disclosed to participants, according to Galliard’s Caswell. That
may change in 2012 when a U.S. Department of Labor rule
requiring comprehensive fee disclosure for 401(k)s takes effect.
Management fees, which generally range from 10 basis points to
55 basis points depending on the size of the retirement plan,
are disclosed to investors, according to Mitchell.  Rising Rates  The insurance contracts also depend on the strength of the
underlying insurer. Prudential holds an a- long-term rating from
A.M. Best Co., which rates the financial strength of insurers.
JPMorgan is not rated by A.M. Best and has an Aa3 long-term
rating from Moody’s Investors Service and an A+ rating from S&P.  Even though the funds generally invest in longer-dated debt
than money-market funds, they could lag behind money funds’
yields if  interest rates  rise rapidly because they generally
take longer to adjust to rate changes, Caswell said.  “Right or wrong, there are plenty of disclosures that
participants receive that nothing is guaranteed,” with stable-
value funds, said Jon Upham, principal of  Irvine , California-
based SageView Advisory Group, a consultant to plan sponsors.  “From a practical standpoint, participants think that if
they put their money in a money-market fund or a stable-value
fund, they think it is guaranteed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 