-- 
BofA $8.5 Billion Mortgage Bond Deal Defended by Investors in U.S. Court

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-09-21T21:46:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/investors-defend-8-5-billion-bofa-mortgage-bond-deal-in-court.html
A lawyer for a group of investors
that includes  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  defended their $8.5 billion
mortgage-bond settlement with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , saying a
delay in getting court approval costs them money.  “They believe this is a very positive settlement,” Robert
Madden, who represents 22 institutional investors, told a
federal judge at a court hearing today in Manhattan.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley heard arguments about
whether the settlement should be considered for approval in
federal court or returned to state court in New York, where it
was originally filed. Pauley didn’t rule on the issue.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the mortgage-bond trustee
that sought approval for the settlement, says the case doesn’t
belong in federal court and should be sent back to state court.
The removal by an investor group -- Walnut Place LLC and related
entities -- threatens to “significantly delay” the state-court
proceeding, the bank said in a court filing.  “Delay hurts investors,” Madden said in an interview
after the hearing. When Bank of  New York  filed the proceeding in
state court, a judge set a November hearing to consider
approval.  The proposed $8.5 billion agreement would settle claims
from investors in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds and
is a move by Bank of America to resolve liabilities tied to its
2008 purchase of the home lender. The deal was reached with the
institutional investor group and would apply to 530 mortgage-
securitization trusts.  State Court Proceeding  Besides BlackRock, the institutional investor group that
reached the deal includes Pacific Investment Management Co.,
Goldman Sachs Asset Management LP and Western Asset Management
Co., according to court papers. Under the state court proceeding
planned by Bank of New York, the settlement would bind investors
outside the group.  “No one was doing anything until we started,” Madden told
Pauley about how the group came together. “This was a
litigation group that intended to bring litigation claims.”  Other investors have criticized the settlement. American
International Group Inc. said in a court filing that Bank of
America is “drastically underpaying.” Federal government
agencies have also objected, seeking more information, and the
case has drawn the attention of the Delaware and New York
attorneys general, who have sought to intervene in the case.  Owen Cyrulnik, a lawyer for the Walnut Place entities,
declined to comment after the hearing about why they want the
case in federal court.  In court papers, they said Bank of New York filed the state
court case, known as an Article 77 proceeding, to “cherry-
pick” the benefits of class-action settlements and “cast aside
the aspects that it finds inconvenient,” namely the right of
investors to opt out of the deal.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  