-- 
Iron Ore’s Four-Year Slide Hitting Mining Earnings: Commodities

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-09-22T20:11:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/iron-ore-s-four-year-slide-hitting-mining-earnings-commodities.html
Iron ore is set for the first four-
year drop since at least 1982 as supplies surge, threatening to
end record earnings at  Vale SA (VALE3) ,  Rio Tinto  Group and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world´s biggest producers.  Global prices may fall 29 percent to an average $123 a
metric ton in 2015 from a record $173 this year, according to
the median estimates of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The decline contrasts with estimates for little change in copper
and a 10 percent increase for aluminum in the same period,
London Metal Exchange futures prices show.  Iron ore supplies for export will jump 53 percent by 2015
even as slower growth in Chinese steelmaking saps demand,
Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty. said. That will reduce
prices and profit that reached records this year for BHP and
 Brazil ’s Vale, whose net income will fall almost 50 percent by
mid-decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “ Iron ore  is the largest single contributor to profits for
these large mining companies,”  Tony Robson , an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto, said by telephone. Should sagging
prices offset rising shipments, “total profitability will be
reduced,” he said.  Rio Tinto fell 11 percent, the most in two years, to close
at 3,017 pence in London. BHP slid 8.3 percent to 1,731.5 pence.
They led a group of basic resource producers and banks that
pulled U.K. stocks down the most in 2 1/2 years as the  Federal
Reserve  warned of “significant downside risks” to the  U.S.
economy . Vale’s American depositary receipts were down 6.7
percent at $23.63 at 4:00 p.m. in  New York .  The Bloomberg World Mining Index skidded as much as 7.1
percent.  Seaborne Lock  The three producers together supply about 62 percent of the
seaborne market, the largest platform for global trade, UBS AG
said. The turnabout caps two years of price gains for the main
ingredient in steelmaking that spurred them and Chinese-financed
operators to dig new mines in  Australia , Brazil and  Africa .  BHP is spending $7.4 billion on its operations in  Western
Australia ’s Pilbara region to boost output 64 percent to 220
million tons by 2014. Rio is studying spending about $15 billion
expanding annual capacity in the region by about 50 percent by
2015.  World trade in iron ore is forecast to gain 8 percent next
year to 1.2 billion tons, with  China  expected to account for the
largest share, Australia’s Bureau of Resources and Energy
Economics said this week in a report. Meanwhile, the pace of
growth in steel demand in China, the biggest ore buyer, may ease
to 2.6 percent annually through 2015 from the 4.6 percent
forecast for this year, as its economy slows, the China Iron &
Steel Association said in April.  Chinese Flattening Output  “Come 2014 and 2015 we expect a continuing flattening of
Chinese steel production,” Peter Hickson, global head of
commodity research at UBS, said in an interview. “There’s
easing of demand growth, but certainly the primary issue is
emergence of significant new supply.”  Citigroup Inc. has estimated a surplus of 50.6 million tons
of iron ore in 2014, rising to 100.8 million tons the following
year, driven by increased output capacity. Annual growth in
global steel production will slow to 3.2 percent in 2015 from
8.6 percent this year, Morgan Stanley said in July.  At Rio, earnings before interest and tax from iron ore are
forecast to drop to $11 billion in 2015 from an expected peak of
$21.3 billion next year, Deutsche Bank AG said Aug 4. Iron ore
provided almost two-thirds of the London-based company’s 2010
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or
Ebitda.  At BHP, where iron ore comprised 26 percent of Ebitda in
fiscal 2010, the earnings will peak at $16 billion in 2013,
before falling to $11.6 billion in 2015 and $7.9 billion in 2016,
Bank of America Corp. said in a report. Overall Ebitda will drop
25 percent in the five years through 2016, the bank forecast.  ‘Move Into Oversupply’  “We think that the growth in Chinese steel production will
ease over the next few years and that the iron ore supply side
will catch up, move into oversupply and prices fall,” Goldman
Sachs analyst Neil Goodwill said in a Sept. 9 report.  Iron ore for immediate delivery was $177.40 a ton on Sept.
20, according to a  price index  compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.
The price reached a record $191.90 on Feb. 16. Kelly Quirke, a
spokeswoman for BHP, and Karen Halbert, a spokeswoman for Rio,
declined to comment on the iron ore outlook.  Bankrolling Rivals  China has been on a decade-long drive to break the
stranglehold of Rio, BHP and Vale by bankrolling rival mines.
Chinese investors, mainly state-owned steelmakers, have funded
at least 20 iron ore companies in Australia including Sundance
Resources Ltd.,  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  and  Mount Gibson
Iron Ltd. (MGX)  In August, Shandong Iron & Steel Group Co. agreed to
buy a 25 percent stake in  African Minerals Ltd. (AMI) ’s Tonkolili
project in  Sierra Leone  for $1.5 billion.  In the last decade, China had to absorb six years of gains
in contract prices and failed to stop the three top suppliers
moving to spot pricing, heightening tensions between the
suppliers and the Chinese government.  China’s drive to secure larger-scale ore production was set
back in June 2009 when Rio, the world’s second-largest exporter,
rejected a planned $19.5 billion investment by Aluminum Corp. of
China, or Chinalco, that would have included stakes in Rio’s
Australian iron ore operations.  Rio said last month a 10 percent drop in iron ore prices
will cut its annual underlying earnings by $1.7 billion and BHP
said a $1 a ton decline in the price will reduce net income by
$90 million for this financial year. Rio and BHP are set for
record profit this year of $17.6 billion and $25.3 billion
respectively, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Expansion Doubts  BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said in May
seaborne-traded iron ore supply growth had failed to meet
expectations. From 2008 to 2010, about 55 percent of supply
growth hadn’t been delivered, he said in a presentation.  “In theory there is going to be huge expansions including
Rio, BHP and everybody else,”  Ian Henderson , who manages $9
billion of natural-resource assets at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in
London, said in an interview. “But in practice very few of
these projects are likely to be up and running on time or to
produce as much as people are saying.”  New projects will add at least 500 million tons and
“probably” more than 600 million tons of capacity by the end
of 2013, the earliest time when supply and demand will be
brought into equilibrium, the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development said last month in a report.  Australian forecast  Iron ore contract prices next year are forecast to average
$151 a ton as growth in supply from Australia, coupled with
weaker steel production, particularly in OECD economies, place
downward pressure on prices, the Australian government
forecaster said in a report.  Mining companies in Western Australia state alone are
spending about A$45 billion ($46.3 billion) on developing and
expanding iron ore mines, according to the state’s Department of
Mines and Petroleum.  “We have forecast a surplus in 2014,” said Citigroup
analyst Daniel Hynes. “It’s a combination of obviously this
demand growth easing but we are also seeing several projects in
the west and the western Australia coming through at that time
as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 