-- 
Israel Bonds Gain as Palestinian Statehood Bid Concern Eases

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-09-21T15:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/israel-bonds-gain-as-palestinian-statehood-bid-concern-eases.html
Israeli  government bonds  rose,
pushing yields to the lowest in almost a week, as demand for
local assets climbed on speculation a planned Palestinian bid
for statehood at the  United Nations  this week will be avoided.  The yield on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit due
January 2020 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
4.58 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, matching the
level on Sept. 15. The rate on the 5.5 percent bond due in
January 2022 dropped three basis points to 4.78 percent. The
shekel weakened 0.1 percent to 3.6884 per dollar at 5:25 p.m.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Palestinian President
 Mahmoud Abbas  were set to meet late today, with Obama supporting
 Israel ’s goal of sidetracking the statehood effort. Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz said yesterday a declaration of
statehood might lead to Israel suspending the transfer to the
 Palestinian Authority  of $100 million per month in custom fees
it collects.  “Israel’s risk premium and the tension that was built in
the past weeks are easing on chances the Palestinian bid for
state recognition may be averted,” Amir Kahanovich, chief
economist at Clal Investment Management Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said
by telephone.  Possible Boycotts  Five-year credit-default swaps, or the cost of protecting
government debt against non-payment for the period, were little
changed at 189, the highest level in at least two years,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  A survey of 530 exporters found that about a quarter are
concerned about possible boycotts stemming from the Palestinian
statehood bid, the Israel Export & International Cooperation
Institute said today.  Israeli products, especially those by companies based in or
with facilities in the  West Bank , have been the target of
boycotts. Norway announced in 2009 it would exclude Israel’s
 Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  from its sovereign-wealth fund,  Europe ’s
largest, because of the defense company’s involvement in the
construction of a West Bank security barrier.  The two-year breakeven rate, which reflects market
expectations for inflation over the period, rose six basis
points to 197, implying an average rate of 1.97 percent. The
rate has increased 40 basis points since a Sept. 15 report
showed consumer prices rose more-than-forecast in August. The
yield on the CPI-linked bond due in June 2013 dropped for a
fourth day, falling two basis points to 1.16 percent.  Inflation Expectations  Consumer prices advanced 0.5 percent last month from July
as housing costs rose 1.3 percent, the largest monthly increase
since at least February, the Jerusalem Central Bureau of
Statistics said last week. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey was 0.3 percent.  “Inflation expectations, which have come down sharply in
recent weeks amid slower economic growth and ongoing social
protests, are adjusting as higher-than-forecast August prices
showed that rising housing costs are still a concern,” said
Clal’s Kahanovich.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  pledged Sept. 4 to help
ease the cost of living after more than 400,000 protesters took
to the streets. A committee’s recommendations aimed at providing
cheaper housing and bringing down prices for food, child care
and transportation are due this month.  Two-year interest-rate swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for rates in the next two years, rose two basis
points to 2.99 percent. The central bank held the benchmark rate
at 3.25 percent for a third month in August amid signs of
slowing growth. The bank’s next rate decision is scheduled for
Sept. 26.  The Tel-Bond 40 Index of corporate bonds gained 0.6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  