-- 
Israel Punches Above Weight as GDP Beats Developed World

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T10:11:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/israel-punches-above-weight-as-gdp-outperforms-developed-world.html
Never mind the collapse in
confidence in  Europe , the Palestinian proposal for United
Nations recognition and heightened tensions with neighboring
 Egypt  and longtime ally Turkey. The Israeli economy just keeps
growing faster than the rest of the developed world.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week raised its
forecast for the country and cut its estimate for the global
economy on the impact of the European debt crisis. Israel’s
gross domestic product will expand 4.8 percent this year,
according to the Washington-based lender. That’s up from an
April forecast of 3.8 percent and triple the pace for the
average of the 34 advanced economies.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said on Sept. 18 it would establish a new
Israeli research center and  Standard & Poor’s  a week earlier
raised the country’s credit rating. It cited the discovery of
two gas fields off the coast of Israel that hold an estimated 25
trillion cubic feet of the fuel.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the
12-year-old Israeli adapter maker part-owned by Oracle Corp.,
says sales will grow 80 percent in the third quarter.  “The Israeli economy is very vibrant,” Finance Minister
Yuval Steinitz said in a Sept. 20 interview with Bloomberg
Television. “We enjoy very low unemployment and nice economic
growth and this is mainly because we managed to develop very
advanced high tech industries and very strong exports.”  Technology Capital  The stock market in Israel, whose population of 7.8 million
is similar to Switzerland’s, was upgraded to developed-market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted into the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. The country has about 60
companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the most of any
nation outside  North America  after  China  and is also home to the
largest number of startup companies per capita in the world.  Israel ranks third in terms of projected growth this year
among MSCI’s list of 24 developed economies, after 6 percent for
 Hong Kong  and 5.3 percent for  Singapore , according to the IMF.  “Israel’s exports are high-added value exports like
informatics and technology,” said Jean-Dominique Butikofer, a
fund manager who helps oversee about $1 billion of emerging-
market debt at Union Bancaire Privee in Zurich, including quasi-
sovereign Israeli bonds. “They’re not exporting Gucci bags. If
there’s a slowdown, these are the kind of assets that are good
to have.”  Talent Pool  Venture-capital backed Israeli technology companies raised
$364 million in the second quarter of this year, a 77 percent
jump from the $206 million raised in the year-earlier period,
according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Moneytree report.
Seventy-six companies raised funding in the three-month period,
compared with only 60 last year, the report said.  “One reason that the economy continues to do well is the
component of innovation and ability to adapt to a changing
environment,” Citigroup  Israel  Managing Director Ralph Shaaya
said in explaining the New York-based bank’s decision to locate
a research center in Israel. ‘There is a rich pool of talent in
the high tech sector. The propensity for innovation is high.”  For Mellanox, orders are persisting even as global growth
falters.  “In these situations people tend to look for products
that do more with less,” Chief Executive Officer Eyal Waldman
said in an interview on Aug. 29. “We still see the orders going
in so we don’t feel the macro waves coming.”  Shares of Mellanox have jumped about 28 percent in Tel Aviv
trading this year, compared with a 21 percent drop on the
benchmark TA-25 index. In  New York , shares gained about 23
percent, compared with a drop of about 4 percent in the Nasdaq
composite index.  Political and Economic  The good times may not last. After withstanding a
Palestinian uprising in 2000 that frightened away tourists and
deterred foreign investment and a credit crisis in 2008, Israel
now faces troubles both political and economic.  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas plans as
early as tomorrow to ask the  Security Council  to recommend that
Palestine become the world body’s 194th member. The U.S. has
threatened to veto any resolution in the Security Council.  Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer, whose actions in
2008 helped the economy recover from the global financial
crisis, this week voiced concern about the possible effects a
prolonged global slump and geopolitical friction could have in
coming months. His worry was reflected in the IMF forecast for
2012, which predicts a slowing to 3.6 percent.  Lowest Jobless Rate  Israel has emerged from economic turmoil before. In 2000,
as peace with the Palestinians looked possible following the
1993 Oslo accords and the Israeli technology industry took off,
growth was at 9.1 percent. Then, in December, the second
intifada, or Palestinian uprising, broke out, just as the
technology bubble burst on world stock markets. In 2001, Israel
contracted by 0.1 percent and in 2002, by 0.6 percent.  By 2004, growth had returned to 5.1 percent; it reached 5.7
percent in 2006. Israel’s unemployment rate declined to 5.5
percent in the second quarter of this year, the lowest level
since at least 1985.  Still, next year’s IMF outlook of 1.8 percent growth for
the U.S. and 1.1 percent growth for the euro area, Israel’s two
main markets, is likely to moderate demand for the country’s
exports, one of the main growth engines of the $217 billion
economy. The Palestinian statehood bid could give the new entity
more legal clout or raise nationalism pressure should the
Security Council vote to reject it.  Turkey  Expulsion  Israel is also facing security threats as the so-called
Arab Spring creates turmoil in its Middle Eastern neighbors. In
Egypt, the pipeline that carries gas to Israel has been bombed
four times since the January uprising against former President
 Hosni Mubarak . A cross-border attack by terrorists who came from
the  Sinai peninsula  killed eight people near the resort city of
Eilat in August.  Turkey, one of Israel’s largest regional trading partners,
expelled the Israeli ambassador and halted defense purchases
after Israel refused to apologize for a commando raid last year
on a Turkish vessel attempting to breach the blockade of the
Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip that left nine dead.  Israeli five-year credit-default swaps, or the cost of
protecting government debt against non-payment for the period,
are at 190, the highest level in more than two years, according
to data provider CMA. It is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The shekel has weakened more than 5 percent this year,
headed for its biggest annual drop against the dollar since 2005
when it fell 6.1 percent.  Investment Grade  “We weren’t  Switzerland  to begin with,” said Yaniv Pagot,
chief strategist for the Ayalon Group, a holding company with
interests in insurance, the capital market, and real estate.
“We’ve had the Lebanon War, the Cast Lead military operation in
the Gaza Strip, and the economy has dealt with temporary
situations. If the situation lasts longer, if it becomes
permanent, that could have an impact.”  The economy may already be feeling the bite. Exports,
excluding ships, aircrafts, and diamonds, declined for the
fourth month out of five in August to their lowest since
January, according to seasonally adjusted figures.  This didn’t deter Standard & Poor’s from raising Israel’s
credit rating earlier this month to A+, its fifth-highest
investment-grade rating, just a few weeks after cutting the U.S.
and before cutting Italy. S&P cited the two gas fields, Tamar
and Leviathan, off its Mediterranean coast.  “You have a situation where the global economy is clearly
running into a roadblock and having a tough time while the
Israeli economy is going to bend but it isn’t going to break,”
said  Daniel Hewitt , senior emerging-market economist at  Barclays
Capital  in  London .  “We think Israel can maintain positive
growth. Israel has a strong economy with a strong base.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net 
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 