-- 
Issa Postal Service Control Board Plan Advances in U.S. House

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-09-21T22:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/issa-postal-service-control-board-plan-advances-in-u-s-house.html
A measure that may put the U.S.
 Postal Service  under a control board, end to-the-door mail
delivery and close post offices using the same process as
military-base shutdowns was approved by a U.S. House panel.  The bill, sponsored by Representatives  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican, and  Dennis Ross , a Florida Republican,
was approved today with Republican support and Democratic
opposition.  “If the Postal Service were a private business it would
have to declare bankruptcy and completely reorganize itself,”
Ross said at a meeting of the Federal Workforce Subcommittee of
the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. “By next
summer, the Postal Service will not make payroll, and mail
delivery will begin to grind to a halt.”  The control-board provision, if adopted, may take effect
almost immediately, as Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe has
said the Washington-based service won’t make a $5.5 billion
payment for future retirees’ health benefits that’s due to the
 U.S. Treasury  by Sept. 30. The Issa-Ross measure is among
several Congress may consider. The Postal Service has said it
faces insolvency without changes in laws governing it.  President Barack Obama this week asked a 12-member
congressional committee looking for ways to reduce the federal
 budget deficit  to allow the Postal Service to cut a day of mail
delivery each week and refund $6.9 billion it’s paid into a
federal retirement program. Obama didn’t endorse a Postal
Service proposal to break contracts with labor unions to allow
it to fire employees as it tries to cut 220,000 workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  