-- 
Issa Sought U.S. Clean Energy Aid in the Past

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-21T04:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/issa-sought-u-s-clean-energy-aid.html
Republican Representative  Darrell Issa , who said government subsidies to specific companies can
encourage corruption, sought U.S. help in the past for clean-
energy projects in his home state of California.  Issa, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, wrote Energy Secretary Steven Chu to support an
Energy Department loan for Aptera Motors Inc., a Carlsbad,
California, electric-car maker, according to a letter received
by the department Jan. 14, 2010.  “Awarding this opportunity to Aptera Motors will greatly
assist a leading developer of electric vehicles in my
district,” Issa wrote in letters obtained yesterday.  Issa’s committee has been investigating regulations
proposed by the Obama administration and now is examining the
system of federal support, including loan guarantees for
companies such as Fremont, California-based Solyndra LLC. The
solar-panel manufacturer filed for  bankruptcy protection  on
Sept. 6 after receiving $535 million in U.S. loan guarantees
since 2009.  “There’s been this attitude that somehow the government
can weigh-in with loan guarantees and money and pick specific
company winners and losers,” Issa said yesterday on C-SPAN’s
“Washington Journal” program. “We see that as a backdoor,
easy way to end up with corruption in government.”  Frederick Hill, a spokesman for Issa, said Aptera has been
awaiting an Energy Department decision for three years.  “In the entire time that Aptera’s application has been
pending, Solyndra was able to obtain taxpayer backing and go
bankrupt leaving taxpayers on the hook,” Hill said in an e-
mail. “Most applicants for federal programs don’t, in fact,
receive the VIP treatment Solyndra did.”  Backing Quallion  Issa also signed a June 22, 2009, letter to Chu promoting
battery maker  Quallion LLC , based in Sylmar,  California . An
Energy Department clean-energy grant might create more than
2,300 jobs nationwide, according to the letter, which was signed
by Issa and 16 members of California’s delegation.  The grant program is a “huge step forward” to improving
the environment, eliminating dependence on foreign oil and
creating a modern “green collar” U.S. workforce, according to
the letter.  In the C-SPAN interview, Issa said government support for
specific companies can be dangerous because politicians might
favor companies out of ideology or because executives are
campaign contributors.  Issa’s committee will hold a hearing tomorrow titled, “How
Obama’s Green-Energy Agenda is Killing Jobs.”  Energy committee Republicans released a report on Solyndra
Sept. 14 that said Obama’s aides pressed loan officials to
accelerate their review in time to let U.S. officials announce
the deal.  White House and Energy Department officials have said
political considerations didn’t affect the review of Solyndra’s
loan application.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  