-- 
Ivanhoe Says Rio Released ‘Unauthorized’ Information on Mine

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-21T20:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ivanhoe-says-rio-gave-incomplete-information-on-oyu-tolgoi.html
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. founder and
Chief Executive Officer Robert Friedland said Rio Tinto Group
released “unauthorized and incomplete” information about Oyu
Tolgoi, the Mongolian mine they’re jointly developing.  The information was presented during an investor briefing
by senior management, Friedland said today in a statement.  Andrew Harding , chief executive officer of Rio’s copper
unit, said yesterday at an investor presentation in  London  that
talks were under way regarding a review of the investment
agreement with Mongolia that governs the mine’s development. Rio
also is seeking to resolve uncertainty over power supplies for
the project, Harding said. Commercial operation of the mine may
be delayed if the source of electricity can’t be agreed to in
the coming months, he said.  Ivanhoe, based in  Vancouver , owns 66 percent of Oyu Tolgoi,
one of the world’s largest untapped copper-and-gold deposits,
and Mongolia owns the rest. London-based Rio has a 48.5 percent
stake in Ivanhoe. The Canadian company spent more than six years
negotiating with Mongolia to develop the mine, reaching an
accord in October 2009.  Rio and Ivanhoe are awaiting the outcome of arbitration
proceedings following a dispute that stems from Ivanhoe adopting
a shareholder rights plan in April last year. The so-called
poison pill would allow Ivanhoe to issue new shares to block an
attempted takeover.  Oyu Tolgoi Terms  Mongolia will seek to revise the investment terms for Oyu
Tolgoi, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt told News.mn portal
in an interview published yesterday. News reports about a review
of the agreement should be assessed in the context of Mongolian
elections next year, Harding said yesterday.  “Ivanhoe Mines will provide further details in a future
statement following communication directly with  Rio Tinto  on the
specifics of its concerns,” the Canadian company said.  Tony Shaffer, a Rio spokesman, declined to comment.  Ivanhoe dropped C$1.77, or 9.4 percent, to C$16.97 as of 4
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading, the seventh-largest
decline on the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index. The shares
have declined 26 percent this year. Rio fell 148.5 pence, or 4.2
percent, to 3,389 pence on the London Stock Exchange.  Rio is the world’s second-largest mining company after
Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 