-- 
Japan Exports Gain Less Than Forecast in August on Waning Worldwide Demand

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   L i l y   N o n o m i y a
-- 
2011-09-21T00:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/japan-exports-gain-less-than-forecast-on-waning-world-demand.html
Japan ’s exports increased less than
expected as shipments of electronic parts fell, an indication
that slowing growth abroad and a rising yen may weigh on the
economy’s recovery.  Overseas shipments increased 2.8 percent in August from the
same month a year earlier, the first increase since the March 11
earthquake, according to a Ministry of Finance report from Tokyo
today. The gain was slower than the lowest forecast of 22 
economists surveyed by Bloomberg New, whose median estimate 
was for an 8 percent increase.  Analysts are predicting that the world’s third-largest
economy will grow this quarter as companies restore facilities
damaged by a temblor that left about 19,000 dead or missing. The
resurgence in demand may be undermined by slowing overseas
economies, with the  International Monetary Fund  cutting its
global growth forecast to 4 percent for this year and next.  “Exports have been recovering since the earthquake, but
they are losing momentum,”  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP
Paribas Securities in Tokyo, said before the report was
released. “A recession for Japan is still unlikely but
decelerating exports imply any recovery will be modest.”  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News see gross domestic
product expanding at a 5.7 percent annual pace this quarter,
reversing three consecutive periods of economic contraction. The
rate of expansion is then expected to slow into 2012, the
economists surveyed said.  Standard & Poor’s  last week cut its
Japan GDP forecast to close to zero from its pre-quake estimate
of 1.3 percent, citing a “less robust” rebound from the
disaster than it expected.  Strong Yen Steps  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda yesterday unveiled a plan to
help companies respond to the yen’s appreciation, pledging to
grant “large” subsidies for domestic construction of
factories. The currency advanced to a post-World War II record
of 75.95 per dollar last month.  The yen’s climb this year has prompted companies including
Panasonic Corp. to announce plans to shift operations overseas.
Panasonic, the world’s largest maker of rechargeable batteries,
is moving the headquarters of its $57 billion procurement
operation to  Singapore  from  Osaka  in the year starting April
2012, Masaaki Fujita, an executive in charge of the business,
said last week.  A trade ministry survey this month showed that about 15
percent of large Japanese manufacturing companies expect
operating profit to drop 20 percent or more if the yen is at 76
per dollar.  The International Monetary Fund cuts its growth forecasts
this year for Japan’s largest exports markets yesterday.  China ’s
economy will expand 9.5 percent in 2011, less than the IMF’s
June estimate of 9.6 percent, while it lowered its U.S. growth
projection for this year to 1.5 percent from 2.5 percent,
according to the IMF’s World Economic Outlook report.  The IMF also cut its world growth forecast to 4 percent in
2011 and 2012, compared with June forecasts of 4.3 percent this
year and 4.5 percent next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Lily Nonomiya in Tokyo at 
 lnonomiya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  