-- 
JPMorgan-to-Welfare Worker Devastated When Funds Cut

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-09-21T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/jpmorgan-to-welfare-worker-devastated-when-funds-cut.html
When Carol Perkins arrives at the
office, she checks e-mails, organizes files, and calls
corporations as part of a fund-raising effort.  Perkins, 60, works at  the Urban League of Essex County  in
New Jersey through a U.S. senior-citizen jobs program that used
to pay for an average of 20 hours a week of training and work.
In April, Congress sliced tens of millions of dollars in
funding, and Perkins’ schedule was cut by at least half --
forcing her to turn to welfare to pay the rent after her monthly
take home fell more than $100.  “I’m devastated,” said Perkins, of Montclair, New Jersey,
who said her previous administrative support jobs at  New York- 
based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bear Stearns Cos. were
eliminated. “We need jobs. It’s as if they have forgotten about
us seniors and we’ll wind up out on the street. I just want to
work.”  The funding cut illustrates the conflict between the need
to put people back to work and the mandate of a 12-member
congressional supercommittee to cut $1.5 trillion from the
deficit. Scaling back the job training for U.S. seniors will
mean fewer work opportunities as President  Barack Obama  pushes a
job stimulus plan, unveiled Sept. 8, aimed at easing
unemployment that has been 9 percent or higher for five straight
months.  It also shows how cuts to federal spending can exacerbate
the jobless situation and shift seniors into other public
assistance programs, negating some of the savings, according to
groups that help run the training. Organizations said they’ve
reduced paid training, work hours, and in some cases are turning
away seniors seeking the job-based training.  Homeless Seniors  Many in the program, which is aimed at unemployed, low-
income people who are 55 or older, need the paid training and
work: Almost 40 percent were homeless or at risk of being
homeless in 2009, according to the Labor Department.  The  unemployment rate  for people age 55 and older is at
levels not seen since at least 1948, according to the Bureau of
Labor Statistics. It peaked at 7.3 percent in 2010 and was at
6.6 percent in August.  In 2000, the seniors’ rate was below 3 percent.  Older Americans are more likely than any other age group to
remain out of work for 99 weeks or more, according to a December
2010 report by the  Congressional Research Service , which
provides policy and legal analysis to lawmakers.  45% Funding Cut  Funding for the  Senior Community Service Employment Program 
was cut 45 percent, to about $450 million for the year that ends
June 2012, from $825 million approved in 2010, under an April
budget deal forged by Congress and Obama. The previous year
included $225 million from federal Recovery Act money, and
excluding that appropriation the drop was 25 percent, according
to the Labor Department.  The Obama administration in proposing the cut found
“little evidence” that spending on seniors’ job training
“successfully promotes unsubsidized employment or provides
cost-effective community service.”  Cutting the program is necessary as the government seeks to
close the deficit, Thomas Schatz, president of Citizens Against
Government Waste, a Washington-based advocacy group, said in an
interview.  “There are ways to help people find work without spending
a lot of money,” Schatz said. “The objective has to be to help
as many as possible with the least cost.”  Program Merits  Shrinking the seniors jobs program shows how efforts to
curb the deficit by slashing spending can exacerbate the jobless
situation, said Lita Levine Kleger, a spokeswoman for Arlington,
Virginia-based  Experience Works Inc. , which helps low-income
seniors with employment.  “I understand there’s this conversation in Congress about
making tough choices, but there has to be some discussion on the
merits of what actually works,” Levine Kleger said in an
interview. “This program gets people jobs.”  Experience Works cut about 140 staff positions and closed a
customer-service center in Waco,  Texas , Levine Kleger said.
They’re turning away interested applicants, she said.  Participants in the U.S. program generally earn minimum
wage and work an average of 20 hours a week. The goal is to help
participants get paying jobs, according to the Labor Department.  ‘Unnecessary Spending’  Cutting the training and work effort makes little fiscal
sense, according to lawmakers such as U.S. Representative
Charles Rangel, a New York Democrat.  “If you take away this, what other problems are you
creating?” Rangel said in an interview. “What are seniors
supposed to do if they can’t find a job and are on a limited
income? When you talk about taking away money from seniors who
are fragile economically, that has an effect. I wish when people
talked about spending, they’d talk about cutting unnecessary
spending.”  Republican Representative Michael Simpson of  Idaho , a House
Appropriations committee member who sits on three panels, said
the senior training service is an employment initiative that
simply fell victim to the deficit-reduction drive.  “I don’t think anybody is going to be pleased,” Simpson
said in an interview. “The reality is that as we try to reduce
spending, it’s taken a larger budget reduction.”  To qualify, a seniors’ income must be 125 percent of
federal poverty guidelines, or $13,613 a year for a family of
one, in most states.  Participation is expected to fall to 70,537 people in the
year ending June 30, 2012, according to an agency report. That’s
down almost half from 130,223 the agency estimated for 2010.  ‘It’s Absurd’  “It’s absurd,” Marc Morial, chief executive officer of
the National Urban League Inc., a New York-based civil rights
group that focuses on economic issues, said in an interview.
“Obama is talking about jobs, and this is a jobs program. The
best deficit reduction program is a jobs program.”  Cutting the funds also worsens the U.S. deficit as seniors
have less disposable income to spend, pay less in taxes, and
rely more on  government aid  such as food stamps, he said.  Valerie Farrer, 77, of Verona,  Wisconsin , in September 2009
qualified for the aid, working in the town library and
eventually teaching jobs skills at Experience Works.  Her schedule has been scaled back to 22 hours a week from
28 hours following the budget cuts, she said, and her income has
dropped $200 a month. Farrer said she doesn’t turn on the air
conditioner, has cut back on groceries and limits herself to
necessities to help save money.  She gets some help from Social Security. That income is
drained on such expenses as supplemental Medicare insurance and
car insurance, she said.  ‘It’s Devastating’  “It’s devastating when the hours are cut,” Farrer said in
an interview. “You feel as though you’re trapped. With the
program, there’s a reason to get up every day. Then the hours
are cut and it turns back into depression.”  Fallout is being felt at the Urban League of Essex County
in  Newark ,  New Jersey , which lost about $1.2 million in funding
on June 30, Vann Holland, director of workforce operations, said
in an interview. That left enough money to help 132
participants, said Holland, not enough for the 500 seniors
currently being aided. To help stretch dollars, training hours
were reduced to 10 hours from 20 hours a week, he said.  “We may run out of money end of December or January,” he
said. “We may have to end the program.”  The National Caucus and Center on Black Aged Inc . in
 Washington , which assists low-income seniors, fired nine full-
time staffers, and the 1,800 participants in D.C. and eight
states now train 15 hours a week, down from 20 hours, Karyne
Jones, chief executive officer, said in an interview.  Food Stamps  “Some participants have lost their apartments or have gone
to agencies to get food stamps,” Adrienne Wiggins, the
program’s coordinator for the group, said an interview.  Barbara Oliphant, 65, of Washington, earned about $660 a
month for 20 hours of training as a job counselor through the
program. With a reduction in hours, she said in an interview
that she now gets about $500 for 15 hours.  “It’s had a big impact,” said Oliphant, who lives with
her son and pays for utilities and her groceries. “With the
cutbacks, it’s just enough to get by. It’s very stressful.”  For Perkins, the reduced training hours have left her
worried about paying her rent, she said. She no longer buys
vision contacts and she scrimps on groceries. Some weeks she
skips doing her laundry, she said.  “I don’t understand what Congress is doing,” Perkins said
in an interview. “You’re older now but you still have skills.
This program gives you hope.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  