-- 
KBC Ratings Cut by Moody’s on Doubts Over Repaying State Aid

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 
2011-09-21T16:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/kbc-ratings-cut-by-moody-s-on-doubts-over-repaying-state-aid.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Belgium ’s biggest
bank and insurer by market value, had its debt ratings cut by
Moody’s Investors Service because of doubts that the firm can
repay state aid by the end of 2013.  The long-term senior debt rating of KBC’s banking unit was
cut to A1 from Aa3, with a stable outlook, according to a
statement today from Moody’s. The rating for KBC Group was
reduced to A2 from A1.  KBC’s ability to repay 7 billion euros ($9.6 billion) of
state aid may be hindered by delays in planned asset sales, the
rating company said. KBC’s credit profile may be hurt if failure
to repay the bailout led the European Union to demand further
restructuring measures, Moody’s said.  “The group has encountered delays in executing its
disposal program,” Moody’s said. “The current market
conditions may further negatively affect the timely divestment
of the assets earmarked for sale.”  KBC fell 3.5 percent 14.71 euros in Brussels today, the
lowest level since July 2009. The shares have fallen 42 percent
since the start of this year.  KBC in July renegotiated state-aid conditions with the
European Commission after Basel III capital rules and a banking-
industry levy in  Hungary  made initial public offerings of its
Czech and Hungarian units less attractive options to raise
capital. The company now seeks to sell its Polish bank and
insurance subsidiaries.  Surplus Capital  KBC’s earnings could be hurt by “the evolution of the loan
books in Ireland and Central and Eastern Europe, which have been
hit by significant impairments over the past two years,”
Moody’s said.  KBC last month said it has about 5.3 billion euros of
surplus capital it could use to repay state aid. That includes
the capital released by the divestment of Centea NV in Belgium,
which was completed on July 1.  “This was not unexpected,” said Viviane Huybrecht, a
spokeswoman for the Brussels-based firm, adding that the cut
brings Moody’s in line with other rating companies.  KBC is rated A at Fitch Ratings and A- at  Standard &
Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  