-- 
Kenyan Shilling Falls to 17-Year Low as Bank Acts to Ease Supply

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-21T10:26:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/kenyan-shilling-falls-to-17-year-low-as-bank-acts-to-ease-supply.html
Kenya’s shilling depreciated to a
17-year low as the central bank planned to inject the local
currency into the market by offering to purchase securities from
lenders to increase  money supply .  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy declined as
much as 0.8 percent to 97.05 per dollar and traded 0.7 percent
down at 96.88 by 12:58 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital, the weakest
intraday level since March 1994, when the central bank abolished
exchange controls.  Kenya’s central bank invited offers for reverse-repurchase
agreements at 5.75 percent, a central bank official said by
phone today from the capital. The bank last offered so-called
reverse repos, which are used to inject shillings into the
market, on Aug. 9, the official said.  “The shilling has weakened due to the central bank’s
decision to inject money into the market as it tries to address
the tight liquidity which has pushed up interbank rates,”
Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of
Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview.  Kenya ’s interbank lending rate climbed to 6.7788 percent
yesterday from 5.1257 percent on Sept. 16, the Central Bank of
Kenya said said in a statement on its website.  The Central Bank of Kenya’s occasional use of liquidity
management tools shouldn’t be seen as a shift in monetary
policy, the Nairobi-based bank said  in a statement on Sept. 14 .  The statement followed a special meeting of the monetary
policy committee that increased the benchmark  interest rate  by
0.75 percentage points to 7 percent to help ease inflation.  “This is a short-term liquidity injection because they see
there is liquidity crunch,” Fred Moturi, a fixed-income trader
with Sterling Capital Ltd. in Nairobi, said by phone today.  Kenya’s shilling has depreciated 16 percent against the
dollar this year, making it Africa’s second-worst performer
after neighboring  Uganda ’s currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  