-- 
Kenya’s Finance Minister Uhuru Kenyatta Starts ICC Pre-Trial

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-09-21T15:07:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/kenya-s-finance-minister-uhuru-kenyatta-starts-icc-pre-trial-1-.html
Kenyan Finance Minister  Uhuru
Kenyatta  and two officials appeared at the  International
Criminal Court  in a hearing to confirm charges of crimes against
humanity committed during violence after the 2007 election.  “The confirmation of charges hearing is neither a trial
before trial, or a mini-trial nor a first-instance court,”
Presiding Judge  Ekaterina Trendafilova  of  Bulgaria  said. Its
goal is to determine “whether there’s sufficient evidence to
establish substantial grounds to believe that the suspects
committed the crimes charged.”  Besides Kenyatta, 49, those appearing at The Hague-based
court included former police chief Mohammed Hussein Ali, 55, and
Head of the Cabinet Francis Muthaura, 64. The hearing is
scheduled to conclude Oct. 5.  ICC Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo said he can prove
the accused are linked to crimes including murder, rape, forced
displacement, and persecution. A similar pre-trial hearing for
three other Kenyan suspects, including lawmakers  William Ruto 
and  Henry Kosgey  and radio presenter Joshua arap Sang, was held
earlier this month and results haven’t been announced. All six
men deny the accusations.  Post-Election Violence  Kenya was racked by two months of violence sparked by
allegations of vote-rigging by supporters of then-opposition
leader  Raila Odinga , a Luo by tribe who heads the Orange
Democratic Movement, in the December 2007 presidential election.
The fighting left 1,500 people dead.  The unrest subsided after President Mwai Kibaki, leader of
the Party for National Unity and an ethnic Kikuyu, signed a
power-sharing accord that installed Odinga as prime minister of
 East Africa ’s largest economy.  The agreement included a commitment to bring the
perpetrators to justice. Still, several attempts to create a
dedicated local tribunal into the violence have been blocked by
lawmakers.  Moreno-Ocampo alleges that supporters of Odinga’s ODM party
mainly from the Kalenjin tribe, led by Ruto and his deputy
Kosgey, carried out attacks against the Kikuyu, Kamba and Kisii
people, whom they believed were supporters of Kibaki’s PNU
party. Sang is accused of spreading hate messages and inflaming
tensions.  Execution of Plan  In retaliation, Kenyatta and Muthaura allegedly executed a
plan formulated before the election in which the Mungiki
criminal gang attacked perceived allies of the ODM in the towns
of Naivasha and Nakuru in the Rift Valley.  The main targets were people belonging to the Luo, Luhya
and Kalenjin ethnic groups, according to a case information
sheet on the ICC’s website. The attacks, which occurred during
the last week of January 2008, left as many as 152 people dead,
displaced more than 10,000, led to dozens of reported cases of
rape, and at least nine instances of forced circumcision.  The Mungiki was enlisted to carry out the attacks in
exchange “for an end to government repression and protection of
the Mungiki’s interests,” the ICC statement said.  The outlawed Mungiki group is notorious for extorting money
from bus and taxi drivers, kidnapping and murder.  Kenyatta allegedly helped organize meetings with Mungiki
and PNU members to plot the attacks in the Rift Valley and
contributed funding. Muthaura led some of the planning sessions
and, in his position as chairman of  Kenya ’s National Security
and Advisory Committee, ordered the police not to interfere, an
order which Ali upheld, according to the ICC case sheet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in  The Hague  at
   jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 