-- 
King Moves Toward Bernanke in Push to Stimulate Economy, Avoid Recession

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-22T07:57:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/king-moves-closer-to-joining-global-stimulus-push-as-fed-shifts-portfolio.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  has moved closer toward joining the  Federal Reserve  in a
global push to add stimulus and stave off renewed recessions.  Economists at JPMorgan Chase and Co. and  RBC Capital
Markets  see the U.K. central bank starting to buy 50 billion
pounds ($77 billion) of assets by November after most of its
policy makers said more so-called quantitative easing is
“increasingly probable.” JPMorgan economist Malcolm Barr in
London said weak survey data could prompt a move in October.  A cooling global economy and the threat from  Europe ’s debt
crisis have refocused policy makers’ attention away from
inflation risks to avoiding a slide back into recession. The Fed
late yesterday said it will rebalance its Treasury holdings to
cut longer-term borrowing costs,  Sweden ’s Riksbank said slowing
growth may warrant a rate cut, while the Swiss National Bank
lowered its benchmark to zero earlier this month.  “Concerns about inflation carry much less weight now that
the focus has shifted to growth,” said Samuel Tombs, an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “They’ve given a
clear steer that they’ll announce more asset purchases in the
coming months, if not October then November is quite likely.”  The pound fell as much as 0.3 percent against the dollar
today, dropping to an eight-month low. It traded at $1.5465 as
of 8:55 a.m. in London, from $1.55 yesterday.  Government bonds 
rose, with the yield on the 10-year gilt falling 6 basis points
to 2.36 percent.  ‘Materially Weaker’  Minutes of the central bank’s Sept. 7-8 meeting published
yesterday showed that officials now see second-half growth being
“materially weaker” than previously projected. They will
announce their next policy decision on Oct. 6.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011 and 2012 U.K.
economic growth forecasts this week to 1.1 percent and 1.6
percent. The Washington-based IMF previously projected expansion
of 1.5 percent and 2.3 percent respectively.  While most of the Monetary Policy Committee sees more QE as
likely, Bank of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  indicated
yesterday he may not be among that group. Dale, who ended a push
for a rate increase in August, said any decision on stimulus
needs to be “weighed against the backdrop of continuing high
inflation.”  The bank has forecast that consumer-price growth will
accelerate to 5 percent in the coming months, more than twice
its target. At the same time, economic expansion slowed to 0.2
percent in the second quarter,  consumer confidence  is declining
and manufacturing and services gauges fell in August.  Recession Risk  “With the risk of recession, everything possible has to be
done,” Mario Blejer, who was an adviser to King from 2003 to
2008, said in an interview. “U.K. inflation is already too high
and there are issues about the bank meeting its target. But in
the current context, the damage from a second recession
overwhelms all the other issues.”  The Fed said yesterday it would replace much of the short-
term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in a move
dubbed “Operation Twist.” The central bank will buy $400
billion of bonds with maturities of six to 30 years through June
while selling an equal amount of debt maturing in three years or
less.  Barclays Capital  said Sept. 20 that the  European Central
Bank  will cut its benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter point to
1.25 percent next month, reversing one of its increases earlier
this year, in an attempt to ease tensions on money markets.  Government Pressure  Pressure on the  Bank of England  to aid the recovery is
growing as Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  vows to
stick to his spending-cut plan to reduce the deficit, a move
that opposition politicians say is undermining the recovery.
Business Secretary Vince Cable repeated a call yesterday for the
central bank to expand beyond its government bond purchases.  Britain is facing the fifth-largest fiscal squeeze among
advanced economies, according to IMF data analyzed by the
London-based Institute for Fiscal Studies. Only  Greece , Ireland,
 Portugal  and Iceland are on course to see deeper cuts to 2015.  The MPC minutes showed officials voted 8-1 to keep the bond
program unchanged and were unanimous in holding the key interest
rate at a record-low 0.5 percent. Still, the decision to
maintain the current stimulus was “finely balanced.”  Morgan Stanley currency strategist Tim Davis said yesterday
that the pound, which has fallen 6 percent against the dollar in
the last month, may weaken further as the Bank of England moves
closer to policy loosening.  ‘Bearish’  “The pound had been supported by safe haven flows
attracted by the U.K.’s stable monetary and fiscal policy, but
the increased prospect of QE may have significantly removed this
pillar of support,” Davis said in a note, adding he sees the
currency at $1.53 by the end of the year. “We remain
fundamentally bearish.”  Adam Posen , who has been voting for a 50 billion-pound
expansion of the bond program since November, stepped up his
push this month, saying the bank may need to buy as much as 100
billion pounds within three months and that officials’ delay in
acting has made economic prospects “worse.”  “Additional QE may not be far away,” said Jamie Dannhauser, an economist at Lombard Street Research in  London .
“Unless there is an improvement in financial-market conditions,
the MPC may be minded to ease policy as soon as next month, at
the latest in November.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  