-- 
Netflix Renews Pact to Stream Discovery Communications Shows

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-21T13:47:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/netflix-renews-accord-to-stream-discovery-communications-shows.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest
online movie-rental service, renewed and expanded a licensing
accord with  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) , allowing it to stream
shows including “Man vs. Wild” to its customers.  Subscribers can watch prior-season series and specials from
channels including Discovery, TLC and Animal Planet, Netflix
said today in a statement. The non-exclusive agreement runs for
two years.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos,  California , is securing
streaming rights for television shows in an effort to maintain
its status as the market leader for renting online video
content. Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings announced he was
splitting off and renaming the DVD business on Sept. 18.  Netflix’s disassociation from DVDs, along with a 60 percent
price increase for customers who subscribe to both DVDs and
streaming content, has led to a drop in the company’s shares.
The price increase caused Netflix to cut its subscriber forecast
and may lead to a loss of almost 600,000 U.S. customers,
according to  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets, who rates the shares “neutral.” Netflix ended the
second quarter with a record 24.6 million customers worldwide.  Netflix shares have declined 44 percent this month and are
down 56 percent since reaching an all-time high on July 13.
Earlier this month, the company said it had failed to come to an
agreement with Starz LLC, part of John Malone’s Liberty Media
Corp., over streaming rights that gave Netflix access to newer
movies from Walt Disney Co. and Sony Corp.  The Starz loss could cause Netflix to lose up to 15 percent
of its customers, according to  Michael Pachter , an analyst with
Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles . He rates the shares
“underperform.”  Netflix rose $2.84, or 2.2 percent, to $132.87 at 9:45 a.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  