-- 
Netflix Says Service Changes Led to Subscriber Volatility

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-21T20:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/netflix-plans-to-add-social-network-features-to-video-service.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  said changes to its
mail-order and streaming services and pricing have angered
customers and led to subscriber volatility.  “We’ve ruffled a lot of feathers,” Chief Financial
Officer  David Wells  said today at a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
conference. The company has been “humbled” by customer
reaction to the changes, he said.  The shares have slid 38 percent since Netflix lowered its
subscriber forecast on Sept. 15. The cut reflected customer
anger over the  Los Gatos , California-based company’s plan to
split its mail-order DVD and online services, and charge more to
people wanting both.  The company is unlikely to respond to customer anger by
rolling back prices, even for a short term, since that would be
“kicking the can down the road,” Wells said.  Netflix fell $1.53 to $128.50 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the seventh straight decline.  The loss of content from the Starz cable network has fed
the customer reaction to the price increase. Starz wanted too
much to renew the contract for online access to films that ends
in February, Wells said. The company today extended and expanded
a licensing accord with  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)   Most future content deals will be for TV shows, not movies,
Wells said in New York. The company may also spend 15 percent of
its budget on original programming.  Wells also said Netflix plans to add social-networking
features to its video service. Facebook Inc. may announce
partnerships with Netflix and competitor Hulu LLC, the New York
Post reported.  Netflix announced over the weekend that the DVD by mail
business would be renamed Qwikster, and that the operation would
have a separate website and billing.  The decision by Netflix to split and rebrand its mail-order
DVD business from the Netflix streaming service will help online
growth, Wells said. The DVD business will focus on operating
margin while the online business will emphasize subscriber
growth, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  