-- 
New Zealand Will Take Time Raising Rates, Reserve Bank’s Bollard Says

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-21T17:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/new-zealand-faces-a-softer-global-outlook-bollard-says.html
Reserve Bank  of New Zealand
Governor Alan Bollard said the central bank is in no rush to
raise  interest rates  even as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and
a U.S. slowdown are having a minimal impact on economic growth.  Gross domestic product rose 0.5 percent in the three months
through June from the prior quarter, according to the median of
15 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before a government
report tomorrow at 10:45 a.m. in Wellington. The economy grew
0.8 percent in the first quarter.  “Why didn’t we move to increase rates last time; because
of the significant global risks out there,” Bollard said during
a Euromoney conference in New York. “At the moment we are not
being particularly impacted in the short term by these risks but
we are a big global trader and we know that when Lehman’s
happened on this side of the world in 2008 we had about 30
seconds before it hit  New Zealand .”  Investors are betting that Bollard will keep the official
cash rate at 2.5 percent until next year as a rising local
dollar, aftershocks in Christchurch and fallout from the
European debt crisis curb the recovery. An extended rate pause
may limit gains in the kiwi dollar, the best performer among
Group of 10 currencies in the past six months.  “We do have a picture where we still do expect to have to
push rates up,” Bollard said. “However we don’t think there is
any particular rush to do that.”  Private Sector Squeeze  The New Zealand dollar advanced 8.9 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  in the three months through June, the biggest rise
since the third quarter of 2009. A stronger currency makes
exporters’ goods and services more expensive to overseas
customers. The kiwi weakened 1.2 percent to 81.46 U.S. cents at
1:16 p.m. in New York.  “The  New Zealand dollar  is squeezing the private sector
leading to more moderation in the economy which is helping
monetary policy but is not the choice of instruments we would
choose if had full ability to that,” Bollard said.  Traders expect the central bank to increase the benchmark
interest rate by 37 basis points in the next 12 months according
to a Credit Suisse Group AG Index based on swaps.  “We’ve had to downgrade our own trading partner growth
forecasts,” Bollard said. “Our trading partners are the United
States, euro zone,  Asia  and of course of  Australia , pulling out
of the financial crisis initially with a very strong recovery
and then subsiding in to a decidedly soggy picture with rather
unclear growth focus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  