-- 
New York City Didn’t Spend $9.3 Million Meant for Jobs, Audit by Liu Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-21T20:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/new-york-city-didn-t-spend-9-3-million-meant-for-jobs-liu-says.html
New York City ’s  Economic
Development Corp . failed to spend more than $9.3 million
collected from private developers for job creation and training,
Comptroller  John Liu  said.  About $8.9 million meant for a  rail yard  development in the
Bronx is unused, as is $464,574 to rehabilitate a  movie studio 
in Astoria, Queens, and train employees, Liu said in an audit
released today. The agency also failed to collect $475,720 owed
by KeySpan Corp., owner of an electricity plant in  Long Island
City , “to fund community interests,” the  audit  said.  “It makes little sense that millions intended for economic
development remain unused for so long, especially in the Bronx,
where jobs are greatly needed,” Liu said in a statement. “If
the EDC can’t figure out how to put the capital to work, then at
least return the money to the city treasury.”  Liu, 44, a Democrat who has expressed interest in running
for mayor in 2013, criticized the EDC in an April 2010 audit
that said the agency owed the city treasury $125 million. The
EDC disputed the findings and agreed to return $120 million.  The EDC, a private corporation, was created by the city to
help stimulate economic growth and  job creation  through low-cost
financing, training and elimination of bureaucracy.  Liu’s most-recent audit said the city spent only about 80
percent of the funds in the program.  Fund Restrictions  “We appreciate the comptroller’s analysis, and we’re glad
it determined that EDC has disbursed a vast majority of the
funds available for community benefit,” Patrick Muncie, an EDC
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “The comptroller’s suggestions
for the remaining funds may be well-intentioned, but they ignore
the disbursement restrictions EDC is legally bound to follow.”  In a response to the comptroller contained in his audit,
the agency said: “The fact that funds in these accounts have
not yet been spent is not an indicator that funds should have
been spent.”  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  