-- 
New Zealand’s Economy Almost Stalls in Second Quarter, Weakening Currency

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-09-22T01:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/new-zealand-s-economy-weakens-in-second-quarter-on-quake-rebuilding-delays.html
New Zealand ’s economy almost
stalled last quarter, sending the local currency to a four-month
low and reinforcing the case for central bank Governor Alan Bollard to maintain record-low  interest rates  until 2012.  Gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent in the three months
through June from the previous quarter, less than all but one of
15 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey, a Statistics New
Zealand report showed today in Wellington. The median estimate
was for a 0.5 percent gain.  The local dollar slumped as investors bet weaker growth and
risks of slowing global demand for New Zealand exports will
prompt Bollard to keep the official cash rate at 2.5 percent
until next year. The currency has fallen 10 percent from a
record last month as a European debt crisis and the downgrade of
the U.S. government’s credit rating led investors to reduce bets
on a rate rise this year.  “This is a disappointment and suggests more spare capacity
in the economy than initially thought,” said  Philip Borkin ,
economist at Goldman Sachs & Partners New Zealand Ltd. in
Auckland, who expects rates are on hold until March. “The risks
are skewed toward an even further delayed tightening cycle.”  New Zealand’s dollar fell to as low as 79.53 U.S. cents
after the data, the lowest level since May 25. It bought 79.67
cents as of 1:10 p.m. in Wellington. On Aug. 1, it reached 88.43
cents, the highest since exchange-rate controls were removed in
1985.  Rate Pause  Bollard on Sept. 15 left the cash rate unchanged for a
fourth meeting, and reiterated that eventual increases in
borrowing costs will hinge on a decline in global financial
risks and a sustained domestic recovery after a Feb. 22
earthquake killed 181 people and demolished businesses, roads
and houses in the South Island city of Christchurch.  “We do have a picture where we still do expect to have to
push rates up,” Bollard said during a conference in  New York 
yesterday. “However, we don’t think there is any particular
rush to do that.”  Nine of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg on Sept. 16
predicted rates will be unchanged until at least January.
Sixteen expect a rise by March. The chance of a rate increase in
March fell to 48 percent from 64 percent yesterday, according to
swaps prices from Westpac Banking Corp.  Bollard expected second-quarter growth of 0.6 percent,
accelerating to 0.8 percent in the three months through
September and 1 percent in the final three months of the year.  Rugby Spending  Aiding  consumer spending , about 95,000 foreign fans are
attending the Rugby  World Cup  due to end Oct. 23. New Zealand’s
terms of trade, which measure relative export income, are at a
37-year high, Bollard said last week.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy
exporter, today said it distributed NZ$10.6 billion ($8.5
billion) to its New Zealand farmer shareholders in the year
ended May 31. The company’s earnings and payout are good for the
economy, Chairman Henry van der Heyden said on a conference
call.  New Zealand’s economic recovery “remains patchy across
different sectors,” Finance Minister  Bill English  said in an e-
mailed statement. The nation faces challenges from global
financial market volatility and the rising currency is a
“headwind” for exporters, he said.  Second-quarter growth was the weakest since a contraction
in the third quarter last year. First-quarter growth was revised
higher to 0.9 percent from an initially reported 0.8 percent,
today’s report showed.  Annual Growth  The economy last quarter grew 1.5 percent from the year-
earlier period, less than the 1.7 percent pace estimated by
economists.  The production-based measure of GDP last quarter was led
higher by farm output, while finance, insurance and business
services rose the most in more than six years. Milk and wool
production led the increase in farm output. Real estate
services, retail spending and accommodation rose.  Construction fell 4.3 percent, led by trade services and
residential dwellings, while road and bridge building gained. A
0.1 percent decline in manufacturing was led by machinery,
equipment, wood and paper.  Spending on furniture and appliances led a 0.3 percent gain
in consumption, even as purchases of food, electricity and other
non-durable goods declined, the statistics agency said.  Exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy, declined
0.5 percent, led by machinery and meat shipments, the report
showed. Tourist spending in New Zealand dropped. Imports rose
1.7 percent as the  air force  purchased new aircraft parts.  Government services fell after a first-quarter increase
caused by hiring and emergency responses to the earthquake.
Transport and communication also declined. Business investment
gained 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  