-- 
CSX Declines Most Since December 2008 After Coal Forecast Cuts

-- B y   E d   D u f n e r   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-09-21T20:33:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/norfolk-southern-falls-most-in-year-amid-coal-forecast-cuts.html
CSX Corp. (CSX) , the biggest railroad in
the eastern U.S., fell the most since December 2008 and smaller
rival  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)  also tumbled after two coal
companies cut their forecasts.  CSX slid $1.64, or 8.1 percent, to $18.59 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading while Norfolk Southern
dropped $5.61, or 8.3 percent, to $61.93.  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) ,
No. 1 in the U.S. by sales, also declined.  Coal is the largest commodity by volume for the big U.S.
railroads.  Walter Energy Inc. (WLT)  reduced its second-half sales
forecast today, citing delays at mines in British Columbia and
Alabama.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  pared its outlook for
full-year production because of a drop in Asia demand and lower-
than-expected output at some mines.  “That’s a point of evidence that the global economy is
slowing down,” Peter Tuz, who helps manage $1 billion as
president of Chase Investment  Counsel Corp. (CXS)  in Charlottesville,
 Virginia , said in a telephone interview. “One of the real
strengths of the market of the last few years has been the
upward push of commodities driven by global demand.”  Union Pacific tumbled $5.31, or 6 percent, to $83.07. Union
Pacific, Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX and Norfolk Southern
make up the Standard & Poor’s 500 Railroads Index, whose drop
today of 7.1 percent was fifth-worst among industry groups in
the benchmark gauge and the steepest since 2008.  Across the Board  Today’s decline erased the railroad index’s advantage over
the  S&P 500  this year. The railroad index has fallen 9 percent,
compared with 7.2 percent for the S&P 500.  Walter Energy, based in Birmingham,  Alabama , and Abingdon,
Virginia-based Alpha Natural Resources both produce so-called
metallurgical coal, which is used by steelmakers.  Norfolk Southern, based in Norfolk, Virginia, has seen no
indication that “across-the-board demand is softening for
export metallurgical coal,” Chief Financial Officer James Squires said today at the Citi Global Industrials Conference in
 Boston . Customers are expecting the U.S. to be a greater
supplier to the global market than it has been, he said.  Customers of Omaha, Nebraska-based Union Pacific want more
coal deliveries to bolster their supplies, finance chief Robert Knight said at the conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ed Dufner in Dallas at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  