-- 
Norway’s Central Bank Keeps Rate Unchanged

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-21T12:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/norway-s-central-bank-keeps-rate-unchanged-as-outlook-worsens.html
Norway ’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a third consecutive
meeting as European leaders struggle to contain a debt crisis
that’s threatening the region’s economic recovery.  The overnight deposit rate was kept at 2.25 percent, the
Oslo-based bank said today. The decision was expected by all of
the 21 economist surveyed by Bloomberg, after a market rout
forced policy makers to scrap a planned increase last month.  “Our analysis in June implied a gradual increase in the
key policy rate through the final half of the year,” Deputy
Governor Jan F. Qvigstad said in a statement. “The turbulence
and uncertainty abroad, combined with lower inflation and weaker
prospects at home, suggest that the key policy rate should be
kept low for a longer period than expected in June.”  The central bank is joining policy makers elsewhere in
returning to crisis mode as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
threatens to engulf the region’s banks. Norges Bank has signaled
it doesn’t want to stray too far from its trading partners in
setting rates as it seeks to stem krone gains. At the same time,
the bank needs to limit credit growth as Norway’s financial
regulator warns of the risk of a housing bubble.  A Long Period  Norway’s krone weakened 0.6 percent against the euro at
7.7542 as of 2:45 p.m. in Oslo. Versus the dollar, the krone
lost 1 percent to trade at 5.6843.  Erik Bruce , an economist in Oslo at Nordea Bank AB, said in
a note that the bank will be on hold “for a long period,”
while  Kyrre Aamdal , an economist at DnB NOR ASA, said he expects
rates will be kept “low until March.”  “Low inflation, a weaker growth outlook and lower rates
abroad justify that the rate will be kept low longer than
forecast,” Aamdal said in an e-mail.  Central banks such as the Riksbank in neighboring  Sweden 
have also scaled back tightening as global growth prospects
worsen. The U.S. Federal Reserve last month said it will
probably need to keep its rate near zero until the middle of
2013, while the  European Central Bank  scrapped its increases and
resumed bond purchases to counter the debt crisis.  Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen this month warned that
the bank may even reduce rates to keep the krone from
strengthening too much after it emerged as a haven for investors
seeking to avoid the euro-area’s debt woes. The krone’s haven
status grew after  Switzerland  moved to cap franc appreciation.  Krone in Line  “The krone exchange rate has fluctuated considerably,”
the bank said. “But so far in the third quarter the krone has
on average been broadly in line with that projected in the June
2011 Monetary Policy Report.”  The krone has strengthened about 1.7 percent since the
bank’s last policy meeting on Aug. 10, hurting exporters such as
Norske Skogindustrier ASA. The world’s third-largest newsprint
producer said this week it will lay off workers as krone gains
hurt profitability.  The bank’s move to limit damages to exporters risks fueling
gains in property prices and a potential real estate bubble in
the world’s second-richest country per capita after Luxembourg.  Home prices  rose an annual 9.4 percent in August,
accelerating from 8 percent growth last year, according to
Norway’s Real Estate Brokers Association. Household credit grew
an annual 7.1 percent in July, hovering at a 2 1/2-year high,
 Statistics Norway  said. The central bank estimates consumer debt
burdens will grow to more than 204 percent of disposable income
next year, the highest since at least 1988.  Core inflation  slowed last month, easing pressure on rates.
Underlying inflation, adjusted for taxes and energy prices,
slowed to 0.8 percent in August from 1.2 percent a month
earlier. That compares with a target of 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  