-- 
Tottenham Goalkeeper Gomes May Leave, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-09-23T10:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/nottingham-forest-poised-to-sign-qpr-defender-clint-hill-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Gomes Going?  Tottenham is likely to allow last year’s starting
goalkeeper,  Heurelho Gomes , to leave in January after he failed
to keep his place in the team,  the Mirror said.   The Brazilian is now the club’s third choice keeper, and
he’s only appeared in one game, against Stoke this week, the
newspaper said. Manager Harry Redknapp said the player won’t be
willing to sit on the bench, the Mirror said.  QPR Resurrection  Queens Park Rangers Shaun Wright-Phillips may get a chance
to return to the England national team because his play improved
after he left Manchester City,  the Sun said.   England manager  Fabio Capello  will watch the 29-year-old
during QPR’s match with  Aston Villa  this weekend, and may put
him in the squad that faces Montenegro on Oct. 7, the newspaper
said.  Rodallega’s Return  Wigan coach  Roberto Martinez  said striker Hugo Rodallega
may return more quickly than expected from a knee injury
suffered last weekend against Everton,  the Mail said.   The Colombian player was carried off the field, although
Wigan’s medical staff said he sustained no serious damage, the
newspaper said.  Bergkamp Role  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger may turn to former striker
Dennis Bergkamp as the London club’s football development
executive,  the Daily Star said.   Bergkamp, who is working as an assistant to Frank de Boer
at Ajax, is willing to return to the Gunners, where he played
for 11 years, the newspaper said.  Hargreaves’ Treatment  Manchester City midfielder Owen Hargreaves said his medical
treatment at  Manchester United  cost him three years of his
career,  the Mirror said.   The player had injections in both knees, producing side
effects that set back his recovery, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 