-- 
Obama Praises End to ’Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-09-21T01:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/obama-praises-end-to-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-in-talk-to-donors.html
President  Barack Obama , addressing
a group of Democratic activists following a day of meetings at
the United Nations in New York, welcomed the end of the policy
that banned gays from serving openly in the military.  Recounting that he had just met with former members of the
military who were forced out because they were gay, Obama said,
“As of today, that will never happen again.”  The military today ended its 18-year policy of “don’t ask,
don’t tell,” meaning that troops who identify themselves as gay
or lesbian will no longer face automatic discharge.  At tonight’s fund-raising event, Obama also focused on his
plans to create jobs and increase taxes on the wealthy to help
pay for the program.  Noting that Republicans are accusing him of class warfare,
he described himself as a “warrior for the middle-class.”
Wealthy people, including himself, “should pay our fair share,”
Obama said. “I think that most wealthy Americans would agree if
they thought this would grow the economy.”  The president, alternating between international diplomacy
and political party building, spent a second night raising money
from  New York  City’s elite. Tonight he was accompanied by first
lady  Michelle Obama  for an event at Gotham Hall, with
entertainment provided by singer Alicia Keys.  Tickets started at $2,500 and some cost as much as $35,800,
according to a Democratic Party official, who wasn’t authorized
to discuss the fundraiser. Organizers were expecting 400 guests.  Sluggish Economy  Obama is heading into his 2012 re-election campaign with an
economy that administration forecasters project will grow at a
sluggish 1.7 percent this year and with an unemployment rate
that will average 9.1 percent in 2011 and show little change
next year.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted Sept. 9-12 found 62
percent of Americans disapprove of Obama’s handling of the
economy. The president’s overall job-approval rating was 45
percent, the lowest since he was inaugurated in January 2009.  Earlier today, the first lady was joined by author and
activist Gloria Steinem to rally a group of 400 donors, most of
them women, at a luncheon fundraiser in  Manhattan . Obama drew a
standing ovation and she told the women she needed them “fired
up and ready to go” a catch phrase from the 2008 campaign.
Tickets for the luncheon started at $500, according to the pool
report distributed by the White House.  The first lady told the women that “in the end, we’re not
fighting these battles for ourselves, we’re fighting them for
our daughters and our granddaughters.”  Expanding Health Care  She highlighted her husband’s expansion of health-care
coverage and his naming of two women to the  Supreme Court . She
also promoted the president’s recently proposed $447 billion
jobs plan.  Vice President  Joe Biden  was in Chicago today raising money
for the campaign with a speech and a dinner.  Yesterday evening, Obama raised money at a dinner hosted by
Evercore Partners’ Ralph Schlosstein and  Roger Altman .  Tomorrow, Obama will give his address to the  United Nations 
General Assembly and then will meet, separately, with Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas, Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ,
Prime Minister David Cameron and French President Nicolas Sarkozy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in New York at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in New York at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 