-- 
Obama Urges Coordinated Action Among Allies to Aid Recovery

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-09-22T20:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/obama-says-coordinated-action-needed-to-sustain-global-economic-recovery.html
President  Barack Obama  used the
annual meeting of the United Nations General Assembly to press
leaders, in public and private, to take “coordinated action”
to prevent the world’s economy from slipping into a recession.  As a bid by Palestinians for United Nations recognition
dominated discussions at the world body in New York, Obama
conferred with French President Nicolas Sarkozy, U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  on finding a way to sustain a fragile recovery amid the
European debt crisis and sluggish U.S. growth.  “We acted together to avert a depression in 2009,” Obama
said in his speech to the General Assembly yesterday. “We must
take urgent and coordinated action once more.”  Officials are gathering in  Washington  this week for the
 International Monetary Fund  and the World Bank annual meetings,
which begin tomorrow. The IMF said Sept. 20 that political
squabbling in  Europe  over ways to prevent the debt crisis from
spreading and delays in implementing measures are raising
concerns about the risk of defaults by countries such as  Greece .  The conversations Obama had on the sidelines of the UN also
served to preview points that will be on the agenda when leaders
of the world’s biggest economies convene for a Group of 20
summit in Cannes,  France , on Nov. 3-4.  Before his first face-to-face meeting with Obama, Noda said
there is “emerging concern” that “we might be drawn back into
another recession.”  Paving the Way  The Washington-based IMF cut its global growth forecast
this week and predicted “severe” repercussions if policy
makers fail to stem the debt turmoil threatening to engulf Italy
and  Spain . Sarkozy, speaking to reporters before meeting with
Obama, said, “There is still much to do, in particular in
paving the way to the G-20 summit.”  Finding a path to growth is “our number one priority,” he
said. It wasn’t clear whether world leaders can replicate the
same unified stance they adopted at the April 2009 summit in
 London .  “The euro crisis itself can’t be solved by the G-20
because it is the euro-zone countries which must now decide if
they will cede fiscal policy authority to the union in order to
maintain a common currency,” said Daniel Price, a managing
director at Rock Creek Global Advisors LLC who was an economic
adviser to former President  George W. Bush .  Frayed Unity  “The G-20 played a critically important role in 2008-09 at
the onset of the economic crisis in setting an agreed roadmap
for financial reform and economy recovery,” he said in an e-
mail. “But as countries have recovered at different speeds,
that unity of purpose has somewhat frayed.”  The  European Central Bank  and its counterparts in the U.K.,
 Switzerland ,  Japan  and the U.S. last week said they will provide
unlimited three-month money to lenders in three tenders starting
in October. That was after funding dried up for European banks
in general, and French lenders in particular, amid concern
Greece is headed for a default.  The IMF said the European debt crisis has generated as much
as 300 billion euros ($410 billion) in credit risk for European
banks.  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  will replace much of the
short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in
an effort to further reduce borrowing costs and keep the economy
from relapsing into a recession.  Treasuries Advance  Treasuries advanced today, with yields on 30-year bonds
dropping 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 2.81
percent at 1:31 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. A one-point gain in 10-year notes pushed yields
down 11 basis points to 1.75 percent after touching 1.7333
percent, the lowest in Fed figures beginning in 1953.  Amid concern central banks are running out of tools to
prevent a recession the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 3.9
percent to 1,120.99 at 3 p.m. New York time. The MSCI All-
Country World Index sank 4.9 percent, extending losses from its
May peak to 23 percent, and emerging-market stocks plunged the
most in almost three years.  In his public comments, Obama didn’t specify what steps
should be taken, insisting that global cooperation was again
needed. “We are coordinating closely in managing a very
difficult time for the global economy,” he said before his
session with Cameron.  ‘Forceful’ Action Urged  During his conversations with European leaders the
president has “encouraged them to take forceful and decisive
action” to manage the debt crisis, White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  told reporters today.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20
nations gather in Washington for the annual meetings of the
International Monetary Fund and  World Bank , where the European
crisis will be a focus.  The economy also was the subject of the president’s talk
yesterday at the Clinton Global Initiative. The world is “still
reeling” from the global recession and as the biggest economy
the U.S. can help lead the recovery, Obama said.  “When America’s growing, the world is more likely to
grow,” Obama told the gathering, founded by former President
 Bill Clinton  and convened annually in conjunction with the UN
session. “Our future depends on fighting this downturn with
everything we’ve got right now.”  ‘Terrible Toll’  Obama said the $447 billion package of tax cuts and
spending that he has proposed is aimed at addressing “the
terrible toll that unemployment inflicts on people.”  During Clinton’s two terms in office, Obama said, the
growth in jobs and wealth was spread across all economic groups.
Now the U.S. is facing a “once-in-a-generation crisis,” he
said.  “We can get through it, but our politics right now is not
doing us any favors,” Obama said, referring to opposition he
faces from Republicans, who control the House of
Representatives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in New York at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in New York at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 