-- 
Obama Makes Personal Appeals to Donors to Energize Party Base

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/obama-offers-personal-appeals-to-donors-in-bid-to-reenergize-party-base.html
President  Barack Obama , mixing
fundraising appeals with diplomacy while in  New York  to attend
the  United Nations General Assembly , is seeking to reenergize
his Democratic Party base by melding the personal with the
political and even including a bit of marital romance.  Addressing 400 donors at Gotham Hall last night, Obama
praised the official end of the military’s 18-year “don’t ask,
don’t tell” ban on gays serving openly in the armed forces. He
said he had just met offstage with former members of the
military who were forced out because they were gay.  “As of today, that will never happen again,” he said to
roars from the crowd.  Obama included some standard fare for fundraisers,
including his plans to create jobs and increase taxes on the
wealthy to help pay for the employment program. He called
himself a “warrior for the middle class.”  At the same time, he weaved in a more personal thread,
talking about the promise of meritocracy in the U.S., including
for “a little mixed kid in Honolulu” raised by a single mom.
The audience listened in silence as he lowered his voice.  He was introduced by his wife, Michelle, who teased him
about his graying hair and called it “quite sexy.” She spoke
to the audience about falling in love with him years ago in his
community organizer days.  “I still see that connection, that fire,” she said. Both
spoke of their need for more “date nights,” and Obama said
his wife is “getting cuter” as time goes by.  Steinem Appearance  Earlier in the day, the first lady was joined by author
and activist Gloria Steinem to rally a group of 400 donors,
most of them women, at a fundraiser luncheon in  Manhattan .
 Michelle Obama  drew a standing ovation and she told the women
she needed them “fired up and ready to go,” a catch phrase
from the 2008 campaign. Tickets for the event started at $500,
according to the pool report distributed by the White House.  The first lady told the women that “in the end, we’re not
fighting these battles for ourselves. We’re fighting them for
our daughters and our granddaughters.”  Fundraising tickets at this week’s events ranged from $500
to $35,800 per person, with a portion going to Obama’s re-
election campaign and most to the  Democratic National Committee .
While singer  Alicia Keys  performed last night, singer Jon Bon Jovi was among those at a 60-guest event on Sept. 19 at a
dinner hosted by Ralph Schlosstein, chief executive officer of
Evercore Partners Inc., and  Roger Altman , who is chairman of
the New York-based investment bank.  Weak Economy  Obama is heading into his 2012 re-election campaign with
an economy that administration forecasters project will grow
just 1.7 percent this year and with a jobless rate that will
average 9.1 percent in 2011 and show little change next year.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted Sept. 9-12 found 62
percent of Americans disapprove of Obama’s handling of the
economy. The president’s overall job-approval rating was 45
percent, the lowest since he was inaugurated in January 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in New York at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in New York at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 