-- 
Obama Says Mideast Peace Won’t Come Through UN Resolutions

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-09-21T15:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/obama-says-mideast-peace-won-t-come-through-un-resolutions-1-.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  told
the annual meeting of the United Nations General Assembly that
Palestinians must reach a negotiated accord with  Israel  rather
than try to gain statehood through the UN.  “Peace will not come through statements and resolutions at
the UN,” Obama said of Palestinian plans to seek the world
body’s recognition, which the U.S. and Israel oppose.
‘Ultimately, it is Israelis and Palestinians -- not us -- who
must reach agreement on the issues that divide them: on borders
and security; on refugees and  Jerusalem .’’  The president’s remarks came as the U.S. and Israel work
publicly and behind the scenes to head off the Palestinian move
to seek full recognition by the UN Security Council. The U.S.
has said it would use its veto to block such a resolution.  Obama addressed the UN in a period of change and turmoil in
the  Middle East  and economic uncertainty in the U.S.,  Europe  and
the world. As Obama spoke, there were conflicting reports about
whether two American hikers held by Iranians since 2009 would be
released in conjunction with Iranian leader Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s trip to the UN.  Obama’s speech reflected events since he spoke to the group
last September. At that time, he’d said it was possible there
could be an Israeli-Palestinians peace agreement by this year’s
session of the general assembly.  Since then, talks broke down and the Palestinians said they
would take their case to the UN.  Negotiations Necessary  “I believed then and I believe now that the Palestinian
people deserve a state of their own,” he said today. That won’t
be possible without a negotiated agreement with Israel.  U.S. support for Israel is “unshakeable,” he said,
recounting the Holocaust and “centuries of exile” and
persecution for Jews. He told UN members to “be honest” about
Israel’s being surrounded by nations that want to “wipe it off
the map” and said “friends of the Palestinians do them no
favors by ignoring this truth.”  The U.S. opposition to the Palestinian bid at the UN could
isolate the U.S. from Arab states and western nations that back
the Palestinian effort. Obama said he recognized the controversy
as a test for  U.S. foreign policy .  Before Obama spoke, Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  said
that she believes that “the time has come” for Palestinians to
have full representation at the UN.  After the speech, Obama sat down with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who told the U.S. president, “I
want to thank you for standing with Israel.”  Obama repeated to Netanyahu that the “bonds between the
 United States  and Israel are unbreakable.”  A meeting later today with Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas was added to Obama’s schedule in New York.  Full membership as a nation-state would require approval by
the UN Security Council, and the U.S. has said it would veto
such a resolution. Instead, Obama is trying to move both sides
back into direct negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in  New York  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in New York at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 