-- 
Obama’s UN Eloquence Misses Foreign Policy Opportunity: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-21T20:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/obama-s-eloquence-before-un-missed-u-s-foreign-policy-opportunity-view.html
President  Barack Obama ’s speech to
the  United Nations  was elegantly written and eloquently
delivered. But it missed an opportunity to promote a strong U.S.
role in the world and voice his opposition to this week’s
paramount issue: Palestinian plans to seek UN recognition as a
nation.  Obama gave Americans a synopsis of the foreign platform of
his re-election campaign -- Osama bin Laden was killed on his
watch; U.S. combat involvement in Iraq has ended; a transition
has begun in Afghanistan, with its government taking the lead in
the war there. “The tide of war,” and with it the need for
costly American involvement in the world’s conflicts, he said,
“is receding.”  We agree, as Obama said, that “it has been a remarkable
year.” Yet he seemed to take credit on behalf of the
international community for the spread of freedom and human
dignity in places such as  Egypt ,  Ivory Coast ,  Libya , South Sudan
and  Tunisia . On Libya, the speech would have been stronger, and
more honest, if it had made specific mention of the leadership
role  France  and the U.K. had played in the  UN Security Council 
and in the NATO air campaign that helped end Muammar Qaddafi’s
dictatorship.  Obama was right in pointing out that progress toward
democracy and prosperity is reversible and that building free
societies is often more difficult than bringing down dictators.
We support Obama’s pledge that the U.S. and others must do their
part to help.  Unstated Positions  Oddly, he didn’t address the questions that were probably
on the minds of most of the world’s leaders inside the General
Assembly chamber: What stand would the U.S. take in supporting
freedom movements in countries such as Iran and Syria, and how
would the U.S. contribute to the consolidation of democracy in
nations where dictators have recently fallen? By failing to
articulate specific U.S. positions, Obama seemed more like an
observer of the momentous changes in the  Middle East  than a
participant, let alone a leader.  Yet we were struck by the force of Obama’s description of
the U.S.’s “unshakable” commitment to  Israel . Rarely has a
speaker at the UN rostrum spoken so clearly and obviously
sympathetically on how Israeli and Jewish history shapes that
nation’s security concerns. That point might seem self-evident,
but it was a pointed and welcome rebuke to Holocaust deniers or
minimizers in the Middle East and elsewhere.  Odder still was his silence on U.S. opposition to
establishing a Palestinian state in the current UN session.
Obama offered only a tepid endorsement of Palestinian
aspirations to independence. Obama might feel that he made his
stand against the Palestinian strategy clear by stating that
negotiations and compromise offer the only path to Israeli-
Palestinian peace and that “there are no shortcuts.” But we
believe that most in the audience expected an explicit
explanation of U.S. policy and its plan to veto a resolution of
recognition in the  Security Council .  Obama will have other opportunities to make those points.
But he will probably not have a chance to speak to so many world
leaders at once. It’s too bad that he didn’t take full advantage
of that opportunity.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 