-- 
Odyssey Marine Drops on Ruling that 1804 Shipwreck Booty Belongs to Spain

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-09-21T20:28:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/odyssey-marine-drops-38-percent-as-court-upholds-black-swan-ship-ruling.html
Odyssey Marine Exploration Inc. (OMEX) 
fell as much as 44 percent as an appeals court upheld a ruling
that property it recovered from a sunken ship code-named “ Black
Swan ” must be returned to Spain.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta affirmed the lower-
court ruling in a decision today.  “The district court did not err when it ordered Odyssey to
release” the property to Spain, the appeals court said.  In December 2009, U.S. District Judge Steven D. Merryday in
Tampa,  Florida , backed Spain’s position on the treasure from the
ship, whose full name is Nuestra Senora de las Mercedes, and
dismissed the case that Odyssey Marine had brought. Merryday had
said Odyssey could hold the property while it pursued its
appeal.  Odyssey fell to $1.80 before closing at $2.16, down 33
percent, in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The company will ask the full appeals court to rehear the
case, it said in a statement.  “While we were surprised by the ruling and are obviously
not pleased with the opinion, there is no near-term economic
impact on the company,” President Mark Gordon said in the
statement.  Odyssey, which searches for sunken treasure, said in May
2007 it recovered more than 17 tons (15,422 kilograms) of silver
coins from the ship, which went down in the Atlantic Ocean off
the Strait of Gibraltar.  ‘Pivotal 1804 Engagement’  Spain , contesting the company’s claim to the wreck, said it
is “a Spanish frigate that exploded in a pivotal 1804
engagement with the British and precipitated Spain’s declaration
of war against Britain,” U.S. Magistrate Judge Mark A. Pizzo
wrote in a June 2009 report.  Pizzo agreed with Spain that the U.S. lacks jurisdiction
over the case and recommended that Merryday dismiss it and order
the property returned to Spain, which he did.  Odyssey argued the ship isn’t entitled to sovereign
immunity because it was “primarily on a commercial voyage when
it sank, and therefore should not be considered as a
‘warship,’” the company said in the statement. More than 70
percent of the coins never belonged to Spain, the company has
said.  The case is Odyssey Marine Exploration Inc. v. The
Unidentified Shipwrecked Vessel, 10-10269,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the 11th Circuit (Atlanta), and 8:07-cv-00614, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn ,  New York , federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 