-- 
Offshore Banks, FCC ‘Kids’ Rule, Naked CDS Law: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-21T12:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/offshore-bank-subpoenas-fcc-kids-rule-naked-cdss-compliance.html
Eight offshore banks are under
federal grand jury investigation for facilitating  tax evasion  by
U.S. citizens as part of a probe the Justice Department said has
dealt “fabled Swiss bank secrecy a devastating blow.”  The department disclosed the probes on a section of its
website detailing the Tax Division’s  Offshore Compliance
Initiative . In 2009, prosecutors charged UBS AG, the largest
Swiss bank, with aiding tax evasion by U.S. clients. UBS avoided
prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax
evasion, and giving the U.S. Internal Revenue Service data on
more than 250 accounts. It later turned over data on another
4,450 accounts.  Prosecutors opened 150 grand jury investigations of
offshore-banking clients, charging 30 people, and indicting 13
other people who facilitated the hiding of assets offshore,
according to the  website .  “In addition, grand jury investigations have been opened
into eight additional offshore banks across the world,”
according to the website. “The outcome cannot be measured in
litigation results alone. This enforcement effort has dealt
fabled Swiss bank secrecy a devastating blow.”  The Justice Department, which didn’t identify the eight
banks, hadn’t previously said how many were under investigation.
 Charles Miller , a spokesman for the department, declined to
comment yesterday.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Lawmakers, Governments Fail to Reach Deal on Naked CDS Law  European Union governments and lawmakers failed to reach an
agreement on a law to curb sales of so-called naked credit-
default swaps for sovereign debt at a two-hour meeting
yesterday.  Negotiations will continue to bridge the gap between the
European Parliament and governments, Sharon Bowles, chairwoman
of the parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee,
said in a telephone interview. The next meeting hasn’t been
scheduled, she said.  The curbs are part of a broader draft EU law that would
also limit naked short-selling of stocks and government bonds.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and lawmakers in
the European Parliament have called for the EU to ban naked CDS
on sovereign debt over concerns the securities fueled the euro
zone’s debt crisis. Germany already has restrictions on using
swaps to bet on sovereign defaults.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, has
called on governments and lawmakers to complete negotiations on
the law by the end of this month.  A naked CDS trade is when a trader buys the derivative as
insurance against default on debt he doesn’t actually own. Doing
so allows the trader to effectively bet on the borrowers’
default.  Swiss Regulator Finma Rejects Capital Models of Four Insurers  The  Swiss Financial Markets Supervisory Authority  rejected
the method used by four insurers to calculate their solvency.  Finma initially tested the models of those insurers “whose
solvency requires heightened attention,” and will also review
the rest, according to a session of the lower house of the Swiss
parliament published on its  website .  The solvency test introduced in January requires insurers
to provide a mark-to-market valuation of assets and liabilities
that for the first time takes into account their investments.
Half of Switzerland’s 140 insurers that need to apply the new
capital rules have adopted Finma’s standard model to calculate
their solvency levels, while the others used provisionally
approved internal models.  Kids’ Online-Privacy Rules Pose Trade-Off for Web Advertisers  Online advertising companies looking to cash in on the
burgeoning youth Internet market object to a U.S. proposal to
protect children’s privacy at their own peril, privacy advocates
said.  The Federal Trade Commission on Sept. 15  proposed  expanding
online-privacy rules for children under 13 to require parental
consent to collect location data from smartphones and use
tracking software to deliver targeted ads. The proposal drew
complaints from industry groups representing companies including
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. that said the changes would be
costly and technically daunting.  The FTC proposal seeks to update rules under the Children’s
Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, which requires websites
to obtain parental consent before collecting, using or
disclosing personal data from children under age 13.  The changes, which were prompted by the increased used by
children of mobile devices, online social networking and
interactive gaming, are drawing criticism from the  Direct
Marketing Association , which represents 2,000 companies in the
retail, airline, pharmaceutical and other industries.  The Interactive Advertising Bureau which represents 500
media and technology companies is reviewing the proposal.
Facebook, which is also reviewing the proposal, supports the
agency’s efforts “to improve protections for young people
online while helping them benefit from new services and
technologies,” spokesman Andrew Noyes said in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  UN Carbon Board May Impose Additional Liability on Projects  The regulatory board governing the world’s biggest
emissions-offsetting market may seek to impose additional
liability on investors in greenhouse-gas reduction projects,
according to a United Nations document.  Mistakes or misrepresentations in audits and reports that
result in the supply of “excess” UN emission credits already
can require the cancellation of credits equal to the exaggerated
supply. This penalty may be extended, according to the  document 
published yesterday for consideration by the  Clean Development
Mechanism  executive board, which has a meeting planned for next
week in Quito, Ecuador.  “The board may wish to consider and provide guidance on
what, if any, additional consequences may be imposed on the CDM
stakeholders who have been found responsible of the significant
deficiencies,” according to the document.  The UN regulator may not be able to penalize projects
directly because it has a contract with the audit firm, not the
project, said Gareth Phillips, chief climate change officer at
Singapore-based  Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Group Ltd.   Any penalties on projects and their investors for providing
false information, for instance, may need to be imposed by
national regulators, he said. The new measures should only be
used when there’s evidence of fraud or gross negligence,
Phillips said yesterday by phone.  Compliance Action  SEC Said to Subpoena Firms Over Trades Before U.S. Rating Cut  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has sent
subpoenas to hedge funds as part of an investigation into
whether some investors traded on confidential tips ahead of
Standard & Poor’s decision to cut the U.S. credit rating last
month, a person briefed on the matter said.  The SEC’s probe is in its early stages and will likely
focus on firms that made unusually large bets that markets would
decline ahead of the rating company’s Aug. 5 announcement,
according to the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the investigation isn’t public.  SEC inspectors have been scrutinizing S&P’s methods for
making the downgrade and whether the firm followed its own
procedures for keeping the information secret, according to
another person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The subpoenas were also reported yesterday by the Wall
Street Journal.  S&P lowered the nation’s AAA grade to AA+ last month after
warning on July 14 that it would reduce the ranking in the
absence of a credible plan to decrease deficits. The decision
contributed to a global equity rout beginning Aug. 8, the first
day of trading after S&P’s announcement.  U.S. officials have said the downgrade was based on a
flawed analysis that overstated the nation’s debt by about $2
trillion, while S&P said the discrepancy doesn’t change
projections that the U.S. debt-to-gross domestic product ratio
will probably continue to rise in the next decade. S&P’s
decision was at odds with the other two main ratings companies,
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  “We have longstanding policies and procedures regarding
the appropriate handling, use and protection of confidential
information,” said Edward Sweeney, a spokesman for S&P.  SEC Ex-Counsel Referred to  Justice Department  Over Madoff Work  The U.S. Justice Department should consider whether a
former Securities and Exchange Commission general counsel
violated criminal law by working on policy related to Bernard
Madoff’s fraud when he had a financial interest in the outcome,
the SEC’s internal watchdog said.  In a 119-page report sent to Capitol Hill yesterday, SEC
inspector general H. David Kotz said he is referring the
conflict-of-interest allegations against  David Becker  to
prosecutors after receiving guidance from the  U.S. Office of
Government Ethics . He also urged the SEC to overhaul its
procedures for providing ethics advice to agency officials.  Becker, who inherited profits from the Madoff fraud,
“participated personally and substantially in particular
matters in which he had a personal financial interest,” Kotz
wrote. The issues Becker worked on “could have directly
impacted his financial position,” Kotz said in the report.  Kotz opened his probe in March after Becker and his
brothers were sued by the court-appointed trustee in the Madoff
bankruptcy case to recover $1.5 million in what he termed
fictitious profits. When he joined the agency in 2009, Becker
told Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and William Lenox, then the agency’s
ethics counsel, about his family’s Madoff investment. Lenox told
Becker in May 2009 that he didn’t have a financial conflict of
interest and could work on the policy.  A phone call to William Baker III, Becker’s attorney at
Latham & Watkins LLP, wasn’t immediately returned.  For more, click here.  UBS Moved Executive Facing FSA Risk-Management Fine to Zurich  A  UBS AG (UBSN)  executive accused of risk-management failures and
facing a potential fine by the U.K. finance regulator was moved
as early as 2008 from  London  to Zurich by Switzerland’s biggest
bank.  John Pottage, the former chief executive officer of UBS’s
wealth-management division in London, will challenge the
Financial Services Authority at a court  hearing  in November over
their attempt to fine him for not ensuring the unit had controls
to prevent unauthorized trades that began in 2006, according to
three people familiar with the case.  The FSA fined UBS 8 million pounds ($12.5 million) in 2009,
at the time the third-largest penalty ever imposed by the
regulator, for failing to prevent employees in its international
wealth-management business from making as many as 50
unauthorized trades a day with funds from at least 39 customer
accounts.  Pottage was authorized by the FSA until Dec. 15, 2008,
according to the watchdog’s website. He had authorization for
roles including chief executive, significant management,
director, apportionment and oversight, investment adviser and
insurance mediator.  He declined to comment when reached at a UBS number in
Zurich. Yves Kaufmann, a UBS spokesman in Zurich, also declined
to comment.  UBS trader Kweku Adoboli was charged with fraud and false
accounting last week after the bank discovered unauthorized
trades that it said caused $2.3 billion in losses. The risk of
the trades was masked by fictitious positions, UBS said. The
company said no client positions were affected.  The FSA and the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority opened a joint investigation into control failures at
UBS that allowed the trades to go undetected.  Chris Hamilton , an FSA spokesman, declined to comment.
Tobias Lux, a spokesman at the Swiss regulator, declined to
comment on the case. Pottage’s lawyer, John Fordham, also
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Courts  Expert-Networking Executive Convicted at Insider Trial  A former executive at expert-networking firm Primary Global
Research LLC, James Fleishman, was convicted at trial of helping
pass confidential information to fund managers as part of an
insider-trading scheme.  Fleishman, of  Santa Clara , California, was found guilty
yesterday by a Manhattan federal jury of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and conspiracy to commit  wire fraud . The jury
deliberated for about six hours before reaching a verdict.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff set sentencing for Dec. 21.
Fleishman remains free on bond. He and his lawyer,  Ethan Balogh ,
declined to comment as they left the courthouse.  Since November, 15 people have been charged by federal
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in a probe of expert networkers and hedge fund managers.
Twelve have pleaded guilty, including Noah Freeman, a former
portfolio manager with SAC Capital Advisors LP, and Samir Barai,
the founder of Barai Capital Management LP.  Prosecutors said Fleishman obtained and passed confidential
data from technology company employees who were moonlighting as
consultants for  Mountain View , California-based Primary Global.
The secret tips were given to fund managers who paid Primary
Global for consultation calls, prosecutors said. said.  Balogh said his client relied on the expert networkers’ own
representations about their ability to do consulting outside
their companies, citing an agreement the consultants signed
confirming they had permission and agreeing not to pass
confidential information.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Consumer Bureau’s Date Says Mortgage Safeguards Coming in 2012  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will complete work
on a rule aimed at ensuring borrowers have the ability to repay
their mortgages early by next year, according to Raj Date, the
former banker running the new agency.  The agency plans to issue a final rule early next year “in
order to provide clarity to the market as quickly as we can,
without sacrificing the quality of our analysis,” Date said
yesterday at a Washington conference sponsored by  American
Banker , a print and online publication covering the financial-
services industry.  The rule, required under the Dodd-Frank Act, was issued by
the  Federal Reserve  in April and has been taken over by the
consumer bureau, which began work in July. The measure includes
underwriting standards aimed at preventing abusive lending
practices that lawmakers and regulators say led to record
foreclosures in the wake of the 2008 credit crisis.  Date is a former executive with  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  who joined the consumer bureau in February
as associate director for research, markets and regulation. He
took over as special adviser to the Treasury secretary
overseeing the agency on Aug. 1 when Elizabeth Warren stepped
down.  Richard Cordray, who is serving as the consumer bureau’s
enforcement chief, is awaiting Senate confirmation to become its
first director.  More Banks May Need Recapitalization, EU’s Almunia Says  European governments may have to inject funds into more
banks if they’re unable to get the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis under control,  European Union Competition  Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said.  “More banks may need to be recapitalized,” Almunia said
yesterday at a press conference in Brussels. “That’s why it’s
so important to solve the sovereign-debt crisis without a
delay,” or “the bill will only grow bigger,” he said.  European politicians have failed to stem concern that
contagion from Greece’s fiscal woes will engulf Spain and Italy
and hurt French banks. Investors see a 94 percent chance Greece
will default on its debt in the next five years, according to
CMA, which compiles credit-default swap prices.  Lenders should seek to finance themselves and consider
selling subsidiaries and cutting dividends before resorting to
public backstops, Almunia said. EU stress tests released in July
indicated France’s four largest banks had enough capital, though
eight lenders elsewhere in the euro region had a shortfall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 