-- 
Tombini Forecast Flops as Slowdown Fails to Crimp Inflation: Brazil Credit

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-09-21T16:26:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/tombini-forecast-flops-as-slowdown-fails-to-crimp-inflation-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian central bank President
Alexandre Tombini missed the first milepost in his plan to bring
down inflation and cut interest rates at the same time.  Inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest economy accelerated to
7.33 percent in mid-September from 7.1 percent a month earlier,
the government said yesterday. The increase goes against
Tombini’s forecast Aug. 4 that the annual rate would peak in
August as global economic growth slows.  The yield gap between two-year inflation-linked bonds and
fix-rated securities, a gauge of investors’ expectations for
price increases by 2013, jumped to 6.42 percentage points
yesterday, the highest level since October 2008. The so-called
breakeven rate was 5.86 percent Aug. 31, the day policy makers
cut the benchmark Selic a half-point to 12 percent. The similar
gauge for the U.S. rose 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage
point, this month to 1.39 percentage points and  Mexico ’s was
unchanged at 3.77 percentage points.  “There’s no sign inflation is cooling even after commodity
prices dropped because of the global slowdown,” said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital Markets in Sao Paulo.
“The central bank’s view that inflation will recoil beginning
in September doesn’t seem to be coming true.”  Twice the Pace  With prices rising at twice the pace in mid-September as
they did in mid-August, inflation this year may exceed the 6.5
percent upper limit of the bank’s target range for the first
time since 2003. Tombini’s bet that a global slowdown will
create space for lower borrowing costs is being offset by heated
consumer demand, near record-low unemployment and an 11 percent
drop this month in the currency, said  Solange Srour , chief
economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos in Rio de Janeiro.  “Domestic fundamentals don’t bode well for a strong fall
in inflation in the short term,” Srour said in a telephone
interview. “It looks as if inflation will stay high in
September even if the central bank is focusing on the external
scenario. The bank’s credibility depends most on whether the
slowdown abroad happens and affects the economy here.”  The yield on the overnight interest-rate futures show
traders expect policy makers will lower benchmark borrowing
costs by a total of 150 basis points, from 12 percent now, by
the first half of next year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The central bank may start raising  interest rates  as
soon as July, trading shows.  The central bank will have room to adopt an expansionary
monetary policy if there is a further worsening of the global
crisis, the  Finance Ministry  said today in its Brazilian
Economic Outlook report. The ministry reiterated annual
inflation will start slowing this month.  The central bank said in a statement today that inflation
as measured by the 12-month IPCA rate will start decelerating
more rapidly at the beginning of the fourth quarter.  ‘More Comfortable’  Tombini said in a television interview on Aug. 4 that
policy makers are “more comfortable” with inflation because
consumer price increases will slow starting in September, with
annual inflation falling two percentage points by April. A week
later, at an event in Brasilia, he affirmed these projections,
saying the annual inflation will show a “significant” drop
starting in September and will converge with its 4.5 percent
target by December 2012.  “That feeling inflation was out of control vanished,”
Tombini said in Brasilia. “We’ve advanced in creating a solid
fiscal policy, which will open space in the future, who knows,
to rebalance the macroeconomic policies in a responsible way,”
he said, without providing details about future policy shifts.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed one
basis point to 244 at 8:27 a.m. New York time, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The real fell 1.9 percent to 1.8208 per  U.S. dollar  and
touched the weakest level since June 2010. The yield on the
overnight interest-rate futures contract due in January 2012 was
little changed at 11.34 percent.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default
climbed four basis points yesterday to 173, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Brazil ’s monthly inflation will be about 0.38 percent in
the second half of this year, Tombini said Aug. 12 at an event
in  Sao Paulo . Inflation for the month through mid-September was
0.53 percent, twice the pace in the previous mid-month reading.  Tombini surprised all 62 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg on
Aug. 31, when he cut Brazil’s benchmark interest rate a half
point after raising borrowing costs at its five previous
meetings. The turnaround in monetary policy was the most abrupt
since 1999. The bank cited a “substantial deterioration” in
the global economy.  Debt Crisis  Equity markets around the world declined during the past
month on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis would threaten the global
economy. The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its
forecast for global economic growth to 4 percent from a June
estimate of 4.3 percent, and predicted “severe” repercussions
if Europe fails to contain its debt crisis or if U.S. policy
makers reach an impasse over a fiscal plan.  Slowing demand for exports have hit Brazil’s industrial
sector, which shrank in July from a year earlier. Brazil’s
economic growth slowed last quarter to 3.2 percent from a year
earlier, down from 4.2 percent in the first quarter and a 7.5
percent pace last year that was the fastest in two decades.  Still, higher wages continue to bolster demand for  consumer
goods . Unemployment fell to 6 percent in July, its lowest level
this year, fueling a 1.4 percent jump in retail sales in the
month that was the biggest this year. The country’s minimum
wage, which is used to adjust pension payments, is slated to
rise 14 percent next year.  Bank Survey  Analysts covering Brazil’s economy estimate prices will
keep rising next year and inflation will stay above the bank’s
target through 2013, according to a central bank survey of 100
economists released Sept. 19. This year, consumer prices as
measured by the IPCA index will rise 6.46 percent, the survey
found.  “The rate decision last month was premature,” said Silvio Campos Neto, an economist at Tendencias Consultoria Integrada in
Sao Paulo. “None of the economic factors support the move. It
hurts the bank’s credibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  