-- 
Tonga Defeats Japan 31-18 to Break Rugby World Cup Losing Streak

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-09-21T15:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/tonga-defeats-japan-31-18-to-break-rugby-world-cup-losing-streak.html
Tonga defeated  Japan  31-18 in their
Rugby World Cup Pool A match yesterday to end its four-match
losing streak at the tournament.  Each side scored three tries, but four penalties from
Tonga’s Kurt Morath helped separate the teams. Tonga’s Viliami
Ma’afu, Tukulua Lokotui and Fetu’u Vainikolo scored tries, while
Japan’s Kensuke Hatakeyama, Michael Leitch and Alisi Tupuailai
touched down in Whangarei,  New Zealand .  The victory, Tonga’s first in the last six meetings with
Japan, gives the island nation its first win at this year’s
tournament. Tonga moves ahead of  Canada , which also has one win,
and Japan, which has lost all three pool matches. France and the
hosts, New Zealand, are tied at the top of the pool with 10
points.  “We needed to get a win,” said Tonga captain Aleki Lutui.
“This is not the end of the road and we can now look forward to
 France . Our weakness has been in the last 10 minutes and we got
it right tonight.”  Japan hasn’t won in its last 17 matches in the tournament,
its only victory coming against  Zimbabwe , 52-8, in the 1991
World Cup.  Tonga forced a Japanese handling error on the opening
kickoff. The first seven minutes were played in the Japanese
half, with Tonga failing to score in an early attack because the
defense stopped the attacker from touching the ball down. Soon
after Ma’afu did score the first try after a five-meter scrum.  Japan’s James Arlidge was given a yellow card in the 31st
minute, but Tonga wasn’t able to take advantage. After two tries
for each team, the score was 18-13 to Tonga at halftime, with
Japan’s Shaun Webb kicking a penalty in the 39th minute.  Second Half  Tonga scored a penalty and a try in the first 15 minutes of
the second half to get some distance from Japan. Halani Aulika
got a yellow card in the 61st minute and Japan scored a try two
minutes later.  Short-handed Tonga was able to get a penalty from Morath in
the 68th minute to finish the scoring. Japan threatened in the
last 10 minutes, controlling 69 percent of possession, but
couldn’t touch down.  Tukulua Lokotui was given a yellow card in the 78th minute,
Tonga’s 13th in all Rugby  World Cup  matches, tying a record
Italy set this week.  Japan missed all three conversions in the match.  “They were just a lot stronger over the ball than us and
that pressure told,” Japan coach John Kirwan said. “Our errors
came from their pressure at the ruck, if we can fix that we’ll
be all right.”  Today, Pool D leader  South Africa  plays bottom team  Namibia 
in Auckland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  