-- 
Mongolia May Revise Biggest Coal, Copper Project Agreements

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-09-21T10:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/mongolia-may-revise-biggest-coal-copper-project-agreements-1-.html
Mongolia may revise ownership
accords with Rio Tinto Group and other foreign companies for the
nation’s two biggest mineral projects ahead of parliamentary
elections scheduled for next year.  The initial agreement with companies including  Peabody
Energy Corp. (BTU)  for part of the Tavan Tolgoi coal deposit may
change, Baasangombo Enebish, executive director of state-owned
Erdenes MGL LLC, said by phone today. Mongolia will also seek to
revise the investment terms for the Oyu Tolgoi copper project
that’s part-owned by Rio, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt
 told News.mn portal  in an interview published yesterday.  “The fact that they may be changing the goal posts near
the end of the game is not ideal but they are not the first
country in the world to be doing it,”  Richard Knights , an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London, said today by phone,
referring to recent mining tax changes in Australia and  Chile .
“It would definitely make companies more cautious when
considering an  investment decision .”  Mongolia is planning a potential initial public offering
next year for Tavan Tolgoi, the nation’s biggest coal field,
which may raise more than $3 billion. Revision talks may delay
the 2013 proposed start-up of the $6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper
and gold project, on which Rio’s partner, Ivanhoe Mines Ltd.,
spent more than six years negotiating an investment accord.  Coming Election  “There are discussions going on,”  Andrew Harding , chief
executive officer of Rio’s copper division, said yesterday in
London, referring to media reports about a review of Oyu Tolgoi
accords. The reports should be assessed in the context of a
Mongolian election next year, Harding said.  Rio declined 0.5 percent to 3,518.5 pence at 10:27 a.m.
 London  time. It earlier rose 1 percent to A$69.59 in Sydney.  A group of 20 lawmakers submitted a letter to Prime
Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold on Sept. 7 demanding that the Oyu
Tolgoi agreement, in which Mongolia has a 34 percent stake, be
revised to give the country half the equity, Xinhua reported
yesterday. The lawmakers also demanded higher taxes, the  news
agency  said.  “It’s a continuation of the theme of resource
nationalization which is now firmly back on the radar following
the Guinean government announcement a fortnight ago,” Knights
said. “Clearly, from a government perspective, it is still a
big issue.”  Guinean Mining Code  Guinean lawmakers adopted a new mining code on Sept. 9,
giving the West African nation 35 percent of local minerals
companies and raising  customs duties  to 8 percent. Rio is
developing the Simandou iron ore mine in the country which it
has said will cost more than $10 billion to build.  Ivanhoe Mines hasn’t had any discussions with the Mongolian
government about potential changes to an investment agreement
for Oyu Tolgoi, the company said today in an e-mailed statement.
Oyu Tolgoi’s development will boost Mongolia’s economy by 30
percent by 2020, according to Rio.  Peabody, the largest U.S. coal producer, said yesterday
that it’s continuing negotiations on Tavan Tolgoi, in western
Mongolia.  In July, the government announced that China Shenhua Energy
Co., Peabody and a Russian-Mongolian group would be allocated 40
percent, 24 percent and 36 percent stakes to develop the West
Tsankhi part of Tavan Tolgoi.  That accord was preliminary and its terms may change,
Erdenes MGL’s Enebish said. “This is an internal discussion
process within Mongolia on how to continue this investment
negotiation,” he said, adding that the process continues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  