-- 
Oprah-Backed Charter School Denying Disabled Collides With Law

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/oprah-backed-charter-school-denying-disabled-collides-with-law.html
When talk-show host Oprah Winfrey
handed a $1 million check last September to the principal of  New
Orleans  Charter Science and Math Academy, 200 students watched
the broadcast from a church and celebrated with a brass band.  Lawrence Melrose, a ninth-grader with learning and
emotional disabilities, sat next door in a school office. The
staff was concerned his fighting and cursing could be an
embarrassment, said Shelton Joseph, his great uncle. Because he
has trouble communicating, Lawrence needed intensive counseling
and speech therapy, which the school didn’t provide, Joseph
said. He was repeatedly suspended and told he couldn’t take the
school bus with other kids, according to his lawyer.  The education of 16-year-old Lawrence represents a common
complaint about privately run, taxpayer-financed charter
schools: They often exclude children with serious disabilities
or deny them the help they need, violating federal laws.  “They left me,” Joseph recalled the boy telling him on
the day of the Winfrey celebration. “They left me out.”  Along with the academy supported by  Oprah’s Angel Network  -
- which the entertainer used to raise money from the public --
New Orleans charter schools accused of discrimination include
those that are favored charities of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman
 Bill Gates ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Walton family and New Orleans
Saints quarterback Drew Brees.  Shunning special-education students helps school budgets
since the average disabled child costs twice as much to serve as
a nondisabled one, said Thomas Hehir, who oversaw federal
special-education programs under President  Bill Clinton . The
practice also improves the reported academic results of schools
because children with disabilities often have lower scores on
standardized tests, he said.  ‘No Incentive’  “There’s no incentive to take these kids,” Hehir, now a
Harvard University professor, said in an interview. “If you can
avoid educating them, there are other things you can do with the
money. You can pay people more or reduce class size.”  One New Orleans charter school recommended the expulsion of
a girl with depression for cutting herself in class, records
show. An administrator and an aide at another carried a
distraught third-grade boy into an empty room, restraining him
until he urinated on himself, according to their written
accounts. A former special-education coordinator at a third
school said administrators told her to stop talking to parents
after she counseled them that their children were entitled to
more services.  Closing Doors  Under  federal law , all public schools -- including charters
-- must educate students with disabilities. The requirement
strains even the best-financed school systems, which are under
pressure to accommodate special-needs students due to court
decisions even as they face budget cuts.  Charters and other public schools must come up with an
individual plan for every child with a disability. They are
expected, when appropriate, to place special-needs students in
regular classrooms with extra support, such as an aide.  If a child needs more help, the school can set up a
separate class or send the child elsewhere, including a private
school. The school pays the bill, and parents have a legal right
to challenge each decision. Students with disabilities also have
special protection when they are disciplined if the behaviors
are related to their condition.  Many charter schools aren’t following these rules and
procedures and are instead closing their doors to students with
disabilities or declining to provide appropriate services to
students like Lawrence, according to families and officials
monitoring school districts.  ‘Not Practical’  Charter schools, which tend to be small and receive less
tax money than traditional districts, can’t afford to take on
children who may cost tens of thousands of dollars to educate,
said Andrew Coulson, director of the Center for Educational
Freedom at the  Cato Institute , a Washington-based nonprofit
research group. The children need to stay in better-funded
districts, he said.  “It’s just not practical and feasible” for charter
schools to educate severely disabled children, said Coulson,
whose organization favors free markets and limited government.
Parents “know that every school can’t serve every child.”  Charters on average receive $9,460 per student in local,
state and federal money, 19 percent less than traditional
districts, in part because many don’t get money for buildings
under state laws, according to a 2010 Ball State University
study. Some schools get more for special-education students,
though generally not enough to cover the cost of services for
those with the most serious disabilities.  Government Money  About 1.8 million children -- or 4 percent of public school
students -- attend charters, five times the number in 1999-2000,
according to the  National Alliance for Public Charter Schools , a
nonprofit advocacy group based in  Washington .  Charters last year received $14.8 billion in local, state
and federal money, up from $4.5 billion in 2003, estimated Larry
Maloney, president of Washington-based Aspire Consulting LLC,
which analyzes public-education finances.  While charters are free from many of the bureaucratic
constraints of traditional districts, such as union contracts
and limits on the length of school days, they must follow U.S.
antidiscrimination laws, just like other public schools.  The 1975 federal legislation now known as the  Individuals
with Disabilities Education Act  requires a “free appropriate
public education” for disabled children, who make up about 12
percent of enrollment. The law mandates that schools provide
services -- Braille materials for the blind, tutoring sessions
for dyslexia, occupational and physical therapy for autism.  Court Cases  New Orleans,  Los Angeles  and Washington, three districts
that rely on charter schools, face claims of systemic
discrimination in special-education court cases, including
allegations that charters aren’t open to children with serious
disabilities.  While federal data show that charters and traditional
districts have similar percentages of kids in special education,
the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  found that charters in
 Louisiana ,  California ,  New York  and  Texas  had fewer with more
severe disabilities.  Only 1 percent of the students in Los Angeles charter
schools have serious disabilities, such as autism, compared with
3.5 percent at district-operated schools, according to the
system’s court-appointed monitor. Twenty-nine out of 186
charters didn’t have a single child with serious disabilities.  Charter enrollment practices may screen out children who
are hard to educate, according to reports by monitors in Los
Angeles and Washington. The Gates foundation disagrees. Parents
are often leery of leaving established district programs, where
they are well served, said Don Shalvey, who oversees the group’s
charter-school philanthropy of $475 million in the past decade.  After Katrina  After  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005, New Orleans turned to
charters as a way to rebuild schools and overhaul public
education. Its charter schools now enroll more than 70 percent
of students, a larger share than in any other U.S. district,
making it a flash point for concerns about special education.  Last October, 10 families, including Lawrence’s, filed a
federal special-education discrimination suit against the state
of Louisiana. The Southern Poverty Law Center, a civil-rights
group in Montgomery,  Alabama , represents the families. Charter
schools aren’t named as defendants, and the allegations include
complaints about services at conventional schools, as well.  Lawrence’s great uncle, Joseph, 57, lives in New Orleans’
hurricane-ravaged Lower Ninth Ward. Unemployed and recovering
from a heart attack and stroke, he became guardian four years
ago after the child’s grandmother died.  Army Dream  New Orleans Charter Science and Math , with its polo shirt
and khaki uniforms and mission to send kids to college, promised
special-education services and hope for Lawrence, Joseph said in
an interview.  A lanky teenager who dreams of joining the Army, Lawrence
reads and does math at roughly the third-grade level. Along with
attention deficit disorder, he has language-related disabilities
that make his speech difficult to understand.  In a 2009 evaluation at Children’s Hospital in New Orleans,
doctors said Lawrence could become “a productive member of
society.” They said his fighting resulted from frustration at
his difficulty in communicating, and recommended special-
education services “at the highest level possible,” including
speech therapy, tailored assignments and extended time on tests.  Rather than provide all the services he needed, the charter
school excluded him by suspending him repeatedly and keeping him
from going to the Oprah celebration, according to the lawsuit.  “He needed a place that would work with him as an
individual,” Joseph said. “What they gave him was the
opportunity to get out.”  ‘Beloved Member’  Lawrence and some other students didn’t attend the ceremony
to protect children’s safety,  Benjamin Marcovitz , the school’s
founder and principal, said in a phone interview. Angela De
Paul, an  Oprah Winfrey  spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Lawrence struggles because of failings of his previous
schools, and the academy did everything it could to help him,
including paying for a mentor, Marcovitz said. Educating the 15
percent of the school’s students with disabilities is
“something we’re very passionate about,” he said.  “Lawrence is a pretty beloved member of our school
community” and returned to school this year, Marcovitz said.
After the lawsuit was filed and repeated meetings with the
family, the school shifted its approach last December, providing
the mentor, speech therapy and instituting a plan that rewarded
him for good behavior, according to Eden Heilman, a  Southern
Poverty Law Center  senior staff attorney.  Noah’s Story  Kelly Fischer, another plaintiff, toured New Orleans
charter schools in March 2010 to find a spot in fourth grade for
her son Noah, who is blind, autistic and eats from a tube.  Administrators from three charter schools told her they
couldn’t handle Noah, according to her notes. At a fourth
school, the staff said she would have to meet with its special-
education coordinator to see if her son’s needs could be met.
The school didn’t return messages, she said.  “You do not want your son to come here,” Laura Todaro, a
counselor at  Samuel J. Green Charter School , told Fischer,
according to her notes.  Lafayette Academy Charter School  accepted Noah, educating
him primarily in a special-education class of a dozen students
where he has a full-time aide, along with a teacher. Noah
attends music, lunch and recess with the entire school.  “Noah came here, we provided the services he needed,
period, end of story,” Mickey Landry, Lafayette’s head of
school, said in a telephone interview.  Brees Donation  To entertain a visitor to his New Orleans home, Noah, a
skinny 10-year-old with close-cropped brown hair, played “Mary
Had a Little Lamb” on a keyboard, while Fischer sat on the
floor, smiling, laughing and offering encouragement.  “I know that my son requires a lot,” Fischer said. “I
also know he has some potential. But when people within the
educational field, professionals, tell me that he’s too much for
them, it’s kind of like telling me there’s no hope for him.”  The Samuel Green school, run by FirstLine Schools, received
a $279,000 donation from the  foundation  of NFL quarterback
Brees. Chris Stuart, Brees’s agent, declined to comment on
special-education services at the schools that the football
player supports.  About 15 percent of students at FirstLine schools have
disabilities, according to Chief Executive Officer Jay Altman.
Todaro, FirstLine’s director of counseling services, said she
remembers her conversation with Fischer differently. She told
Fischer and another parent with her that the schools educated
children with disabilities in regular classrooms -- a philosophy
of “complete and total inclusion” -- and didn’t have anything
already in place to serve Noah, Todaro said.  ‘We Always Try’  “I’m sorry if she took away that he couldn’t come here,”
Todaro said in a telephone interview. “We always try to
accommodate the needs of the kids.”  Once in a charter school, students with special needs can
find themselves under pressure to leave, said Robyn Flanery, a
parent at New Orleans’  Lusher Charter School .  In elementary school, Flanery’s daughter, Sayge Brantmeier,
who plays piano, violin, saxophone and guitar, flourished at the
arts-focused Lusher where she showed promise as a songwriter.
The NFL’s Brees raised more than $600,000 for Lusher through his
foundation.  In middle school, doctors diagnosed Sayge with depression.
She began showing mood swings and impulsive behavior. The school
chastised her for having cigarettes and violating its dress code
by wearing makeup, records show.  Cut With Scissors  In February 2010, the school recommended expulsion after
the seventh grader cut herself with scissors in science class,
“a disruption of the learning environment,” according to a
letter sent to her family.  Sayge was never expelled,  Kathy Riedlinger , Lusher’s chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview, during which
she declined to answer further questions about the case.  Under pressure from Lusher, Sayge withdrew from the school
and was then repeatedly hospitalized after attempting suicide,
Flanery said.  “They didn’t want to get her help,” Flanery said, her
voice breaking, during in an interview in her home, decorated
with her two daughters’ artwork. “So they got rid of her.”  After her family contacted the Southern Poverty Law Center,
the 14-year-old returned to Lusher in January, though she was
placed in a separate class, rather than in the general
population, according to Heilman. The family isn’t a plaintiff
in the suit.  Consequences  In another complaint about discipline in New Orleans,
Leskisher Luckett said  Langston Hughes Academy Charter School 
punished her son, Darren Butler, because he misbehaved after he
didn’t get the services he needed.  To handle Darren’s attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
in third grade, Langston Hughes relied on a system of
“consequences,” the most severe of which was isolating him in
a room, according to school records. Langston Hughes offered
only half an hour of counseling, according to the New Orleans
lawsuit.  When asked about discipline at his school during an
interview in his New Orleans home, Darren, a 10-year-old who
likes to crack jokes and fidget when he isn’t drawing or
dancing, turned quiet.  “They put me in a closet,” he said.  ‘Screaming and Yelling’  On May 12, 2010, after Darren harassed other students and
his teacher, an administrator and aide carried him into a band
practice room, according to their written accounts. Luckett
described the room as soundproof and the size of a large closet.  While the administrator stood outside, the aide restrained
Darren, who was “screaming and yelling the entire time” until
he urinated on himself, according to their reports. Darren
couldn’t breathe because the aide sat on his chest, his mother
said.  Luckett, a 35-year-old cable-television dispatcher and
single mother, said she pleaded for more help.  “He was too much for them to deal with,” said Luckett,
wiping away tears. “They didn’t want to provide the services.
They didn’t want to do the work.”  In a telephone interview, Mark Martin, Langston Hughes
school director, called the incident “unsubstantiated” and
declined to comment further.  ‘Superman’ Schools  The family of another child with attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder said he was shortchanged at KIPP schools
-- a charter network that operates across the U.S. San
Francisco-based KIPP is featured in “Waiting for Superman,”
the documentary directed by Academy Award winner Davis Guggenheim that lauds charter schools. The Gates and Walton
foundations support KIPP, which stands for Knowledge is Power
Program.  In the New Orleans lawsuit, the mother of a 16-year-old
said he didn’t get the help he needed from KIPP Believe College
Prep. Because of his ADHD, the boy, identified in the suit only
as L.W., reads at the second-grade level and had failing grades
and scores on state standardized tests.  The school’s special-education plan included no social
work, counseling or psychological services, according to the
complaint. At KIPP Renaissance High School last year, the boy
received only 30 minutes of counseling a week, the suit said.  ‘Serving All Students’  “We are deeply committed to serving all students,”
including the 9 percent last year who had disabilities, Rhonda
Kalifey-Aluise, executive director of KIPP New Orleans Schools,
said in a statement.  Substandard special education goes unnoticed because
schools discourage teachers from informing parents of their
rights, Sarah Clifford, a former special-education coordinator
at New Orleans charter school  Success Preparatory Academy , said
in an interview.  Four students, including one with Down syndrome and two
with autism, were placed in a separate classroom last year with
an aide who lacked training, she said.  One of the kids was Monica Butler’s son, 7-year-old C.J.,
who has a mild form of autism. Then a first-grader who did math
at a third-grade level, C.J. received little more than “baby-
sitting,” Butler, a 35-year-old hair stylist, said in a
telephone interview.  Clifford said she told parents to complain because their
children weren’t getting services. School co-founders St. Claire
Adriaan and Niloy Gangopadhyay warned her to stop talking with
families outside of their presence, she said.  Money Tree  “I was told they don’t have the money to provide the
services,” Clifford said. “They basically told me, ‘Where was
the money tree?’” She quit in December 2010 because she
objected to the charter’s approach, she said.  In a joint telephone interview, the co-founders said they
never let financial concerns interfere with providing services.  “I am shocked that our model is being questioned,”
Gangopadhyay said.  Adriaan said Clifford resigned after the school criticized
her job performance. The state determined the aide in the class
Clifford cited was qualified to provide services, he said. C.J.
returned in second grade, where he has a full-time aide and is
educated in regular and separate classes, according to the
founders and Monica Butler.  To avoid conflicts over special education, charter schools
need to form cooperatives so they can afford to handle the most
serious cases, said Todd Ziebarth, a vice president of the
 National Alliance  for Public Charter Schools, which receives
funding from the  Gates  and  Walton  foundations. That would give
charters the scale to offer special programs comparable to
larger school districts.  Central Lottery  New Orleans is pushing to establish cooperatives, said  John
White , superintendent of the Louisiana Recovery School District,
which oversees most of the city’s schools. He said he favors a
centralized lottery to encourage kids with disabilities to apply
more broadly and make it easier to monitor whether they’re given
a fair shot.  Students unwelcome at charters end up at traditional
schools, leaving districts with disproportionate workloads and
higher costs, said Frederick Weintraub, the court-appointed
monitor of the  Los Angeles school system .  “If you’re going to be a school in the community,”
Weintraub said in a phone interview, “you ought to serve all
the kids in the community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  