-- 
Oracle’s Shares Rise After Corporate Software Spending Bolsters Earnings

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-21T20:34:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/oracle-rises-after-corporate-software-spending-boosts-earnings.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  shares rose after the
software maker reported profit that topped analysts’ estimates,
boosted by increased spending on database programs and
applications that help run businesses.  Fiscal first-quarter earnings excluding some items were 48
cents a share, the company said in a statement yesterday. That
exceeded the average 47-cent estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales in the period ended Aug. 31 rose 12 percent to
$8.37 billion, matching the average projection. Forecasts for
this quarter’s profit also topped analysts’ predictions.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  has spent more than
$40 billion on takeovers since 2005 to add programs that help
large corporations manage operations and tackle complicated
computing tasks. The  Redwood City , California-based company has
benefited from combining those products and its own databases
with hardware acquired in the $7.4 billion purchase of Sun
Microsystems Inc. last year.  “Oracle’s done an outstanding job of execution,” said
Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in
 Portland ,  Oregon . “It’s a positive for the software sector.”  Oracle rose $1.19, or 4.2 percent, to $29.54 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has dropped 5.6
percent this year.  Sparc, Solaris  The company will concentrate on selling profitable computer
systems, called Exadata and Exalogic, that combine Sun’s Sparc
chips and Solaris operating system with Oracle software to
deliver faster computing performance, Ellison told analysts on a
conference call yesterday.  The approach could return the hardware business -- which
has reported lower sales for two quarters in a row -- to growth
by fiscal 2013, he said. At the same time, Oracle will continue
to de-emphasize less-profitable Sun machines that use so-called
x86 chips, based on an  Intel Corp. (INTC)  design.  “I don’t care if our commodity x86 business goes to zero -
- we don’t make any money selling those things,” Ellison said.  Net income in the first quarter rose 36 percent to $1.84
billion, or 36 cents a share, from $1.35 billion, or 27 cents, a
year earlier, the company said. Analysts had predicted $1.79
billion, or 35 cents a share.  ‘Seeding the Market’  New software license sales, a predictor of future revenue,
rose 16 percent to $1.5 billion, beating the 15 percent gain
estimated by  Jason Maynard , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in
San Francisco. Hardware sales declined 1.4 percent to $1.67
billion.  “The hardware business is fueling the software business --
that’s the takeaway,”  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in San
Francisco, said in an interview. “Without the hardware business,
their infrastructure business would not be putting up the kind
of numbers it is. They’re seeding the market.”  The company’s portion of the computer-server market
declined to 7.2 percent in the second quarter, from 8.1 percent
a year earlier, according to a  report  last month from market
researcher IDC.  For the current period, earnings excluding certain items
will be 56 cents to 58 cents a share, the company said, compared
with the 56-cent average estimate of analysts. Sales excluding
certain items will rise 4 percent to 8 percent, shy of the 8.2
percent analysts projected.  Data Analysis  Ellison told analysts that four more of the company’s
powerful computer systems acquired with Sun will debut this
quarter, including a “Sparc Supercluster” machine that’s
intended to compete with systems from International Business
Machines Corp.  At the OpenWorld  conference  in  San Francisco  that begins
Oct. 2, Ellison plans to unveil a new system that can perform
data-analysis tasks in the computer’s memory instead of using
slower disk drives.  The system would be similar to a combination of hardware
and software that SAP sells with hardware partners including IBM
and Hewlett-Packard Co. Oracle and SAP already compete in the
market for applications that handle business tasks such as
payroll and supply-chain management.  Ellison said on the conference call that Oracle is building
a computer “appliance” that can attach to its Exadata machines
or other Oracle databases and feed them information from open-
source software called Hadoop, which analyzes unstructured data
such as e-mail content.  In a separate webcast today, Andrew Mendelsohn, a senior
vice president, unveiled a new product called the Oracle
Database Appliance, a system designed for small and midsize
businesses. The combination of hardware, storage and software
will reduce customers’ costs and cut the time needed to build
and maintain networks of servers, he said. The system’s capacity
can be increased through software updates instead of switching
to new hardware, Mendelsohn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  