-- 
Morgan Stanley Changing Dark Pool Rules

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-09-21T22:48:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/morgan-stanley-changing-dark-pool-rules-in-attempt-to-increase-order-sizes.html
Morgan Stanley plans to alter the
way it brings orders together in dark pools, trying to encourage
bigger trades for institutional customers after a three-year
decline in the number of shares per transaction industrywide.  The bank, which operates venues in the U.S., Europe,  Hong
Kong ,  Japan  and  Australia  that match buyers and sellers without
showing bids and offers, will give priority to larger orders at
a specified price instead of those that arrived first, Bill Neuberger, co-head of Morgan Stanley Electronic Trading, said in
a phone interview. MS POOL, which is adopting a model similar to
one used by a  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  exchange, is among the first
dark pools to offer the protocol in the U.S.  “We want to reward size and de-emphasize speed,”
Neuberger said. MS POOL had the second-smallest average trade
size in July among venues tracked by Rosenblatt Securities Inc.
They averaged 209 shares in August, Neuberger said. “Fewer 100-
share prints in dark pools may be a good thing,” he said.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s changes are part of an effort to portray
its venues as places where sophisticated users employing high-
frequency strategies have less influence. Larger trade sizes may
connote less interaction with proprietary trading firms, whose
ability to sniff out and exploit the intentions of investors was
one of the reasons dark pools gained popularity in the latter
half of the last decade.  Getting Smaller  Trades in most dark pools average 200 shares to 300 shares,
down from 300 shares to 400 shares in 2008 and 2009, Justin Schack, managing director for market structure analysis at
Rosenblatt Securities, a New York-based broker that analyzes
dark pool volume and trends, said in a phone interview. The
decline may have resulted from more high-frequency penetration
in venues that don’t display quotes, increased stock volatility,
or algorithms reacting to trades they receive, he said.  U.S. dark pools followed by Rosenblatt accounted for 12.3
percent of U.S. volume in July, compared with 10.9 percent a
year earlier. There are about 40 U.S. pools, with data from the
largest included in Rosenblatt’s tally. A category of hidden
orders on equity exchanges such as Nasdaq Stock Market and the
New York Stock Exchange totaled 3.4 percent. More than 9 percent
of volume on the main exchange run by Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats
Global Markets was in dark or hidden orders, Rosenblatt said.  Market Share  MS POOL traded 61 million shares daily on average last
month, or 0.6 percent of U.S. equity volume, according to data
compiled by Morgan Stanley and Bloomberg. The broker had 0.7
percent of volume in July, Rosenblatt data showed. Credit Suisse
Group AG’s Crossfinder, the largest dark pool, had 2.2 percent
of U.S. volume, followed by New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ’s Sigma X with 1.5 percent. Zurich-based Credit Suisse’s
venue had the smallest average trade size in July, with 188
shares, according to Rosenblatt data.  U.S. stock exchanges match orders submitted to them against
incoming buy and sell requests based on when they were received,
a system called price-time priority. Among markets run by larger
exchange operators, only the New York Stock Exchange and NYSE
Amex allow certain firms -- brokers working on the exchange’s
floor and so-called designated market makers -- to jump ahead
and execute alongside those next in line to trade. Nasdaq OMX
PSX, which relies on price-size priority, began last year.  Order Size  Existing orders at a given price in MS POOL will trade
based on the number of shares they initially represented. If a
firm wants to buy 1,000 shares and another subsequently bid for
5,000 shares, the second one would move ahead of the 1,000-share
order. Even if smaller orders trade against the 5,000 shares and
500 shares remained, the order retains its priority because it
initially was bigger, Neuberger said from  New York .  Nasdaq OMX PSX  has a different version of price-size
priority. Existing orders trade based on the number of shares
they represent, with incoming orders distributed proportionally.
In the last example, an incoming order for 600 shares would
trade 500 shares against the 5,000-share bid and 100 against the
smaller one. Nasdaq OMX chose this method to avoid hurting the
senders of smaller orders that are publicly displayed who might
otherwise not send bids or offers.  Sapna Patel, head of market structure and liquidity
strategy for the Americas for Morgan Stanley, said a customer in
a dark pool isn’t revealing his intentions because bids and
offers aren’t public. “Since it’s a different model,” the
trader may opt to supply larger orders, she said.  The new rules are expected to become effective in MS POOL
in the U.S. and Europe next week and in  Asia  later this year,
she said.  Customer Curiosity  Investment Technology Group Inc.’s Posit dark pool uses
price-size priority to match buy and sell orders, according to
J.T. Farley, a spokesman. Other dark pools employ versions of
the protocol. Bids Trading LP gives users a choice about how to
execute their trade requests, Tim Mahoney, chief executive
officer of the dark pool operator, wrote in an e-mail. Both
companies are in New York.  Whit Conary, chief executive officer of Level ATS, a
Boston-based dark pool operator, said investors have asked
venues that don’t display quotes for more information about what
kind of traders are on their system, what kind of orders are
available and how rules on the platforms work. The  information 
helps users make better decisions about where they want to send
orders, he said. More brokers are also reporting trading volume
to Rosenblatt to increase transparency in the market. Level
traded almost 49 million shares in July, Rosenblatt data showed.  ‘Electronic Way’  “More broker-dealers are finding it’s efficient to have an
electronic way to match internal sources of order flow,” Conary
said in a phone interview. The result is that more dark pools
are finding customers, he said.  Morgan Stanley introduced MS POOL in the U.S. in 2006 and
in  Europe  in 2008. It runs another network called MS Trajectory
Cross in countries where MS POOL operates. That system matches
pieces of bigger algorithmic orders according to the stock’s
average price weighted by volume over a period of time.  Morgan Stanley hasn’t allowed some types of trading that
other dark pools encourage to attract orders. The firm doesn’t
let traders to submit orders that must be executed immediately
or canceled. It doesn’t send messages called indications of
interest to other pools or venues to solicit orders. Users must
also keep orders in MS POOL for at least a second before
withdrawing them -- a long time for many high-frequency traders.
That discourages short-term players, Neuberger said.  Minimum-Share Requirements  Some customers are asking whether dark pools aggregate
orders from users to get around minimum-share size requirements
that some investors place on orders. Such a restriction might be
sought to avoid trading against automated firms that prefer 100-
share transactions.  Schack said he asked dark pools several months ago to count
orders aggregated to meet a minimum-share size imposed by the
counterparty as separate trades in their reporting. “Bulking”
inflates the average trade size, which some investors use to
assess the type of liquidity in a venue, he said.  Conary said  Level , which is used by about 185 broker-dealer
customers, lets members choose whether to allow minimum-share
sizes they impose to be met by multiple orders.  Changes at MS POOL come as regulators in  Canada  and Europe
are considering rules to limit trading in dark pools that don’t
give investors better prices or larger executions than what’s
publicly available. While the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has raised the prospect of a similar restriction,
called a trade-at rule, many institutional investors and retail
brokers have said they wouldn’t support that since it would hurt
their transactions.  Trade Transparency  Separately, the SEC in October 2009 proposed rules that
would increase transparency for trades in dark pools and reduce
the amount of daily volume in a company’s shares that can be
executed on the systems before prices must be made public. The
agency hasn’t acted on that proposal, in part because of dozens
of new rules it has had to write related to the Dodd-Frank Act,
the financial overhaul enacted in July 2010.  “The SEC may be more likely to address the October 2009
proposal first,” Schack said. “The trade-at rule is incredibly
controversial. It has many organized, vocal opponents and very
few organized and vocal supporters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 