-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Decline to a 14-Month Low as Fed Sees Economic Risk

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-21T21:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/most-emerging-market-stocks-advance-on-china-growth-optimism-fed-meeting.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
14-month low after the  Federal Reserve  said there are “downside
risks” to the economic outlook and planned to replace much of
the short-term debt in their portfolio with longer-term
Treasuries.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 1.2 percent to
940.02 at 5:06 p.m. New York time, the lowest closing level
since July 2010. Equities benchmarks in  Brazil ,  Mexico , Chile,
and  Argentina  declined. Russia’s Micex Index retreated 0.8
percent. Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite index slid for a third
day as the nation’s domestic vehicle sales slowed in August.
Hungary’s BUX index declined 1.3 percent.  The U.S. central bank will buy $400 billion of bonds with
maturities of six to 30 years while selling an equal amount of
debt maturing in three years or less, the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said today in  Washington  after a two-day meeting.
“There are significant downside risks to the economic outlook,
including strains in global financial markets,” the Fed
statement said.  The Fed’s “continued negative outlook on the economy and
they basically don’t see any hope -- that worries me the most,”
said  Keith Springer , the president of Springer Financial
Advisors in Sacramento, California, by phone. The stocks were
sent down as “some people were looking for a full-blown
monetary easing program. They didn’t quite get it.”  Today’s move, dubbed “Operation Twist” by economists
after a similar Fed action in 1961, may lower  interest rates  and
avoids reprising the money creation that sparked Republican
criticism last year. Seventy-one percent of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecast such as move, even as 61 percent said it
will probably fail to lower the U.S.’s 9.1 percent unemployment
rate.  Emerging vs. Developed  The MSCI emerging market stock index has slid 18 percent
this year, compared with an 11 percent decline in the  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index. Stocks in the emerging-market gauge are traded at 10.4
times trailing earnings, versus 12.3 for equities in developed
nations.  OHL Mexico SAB, the toll road and airport builder and
operator, fell 5.2 percent in Mexico City.  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, which shares control of the
world’s largest sugar-cane processor with Royal Dutch Shell
Plc., dropped 2 percent.  The European debt crisis has generated as much as 300
billion euros ($407 billion) in credit risk for European banks,
the  International Monetary Fund  said, calling for capital
injections to reassure investors and support lending.  OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural-gas exporter, slid
1.3 percent in Moscow. OAO Novatek, the country’s second-largest
gas producer, fell 2.3 percent.  Currencies Weaken  All but two of the 25 emerging-market currencies fell
against the dollar, led by South Africa’s rand. The rand
depreciated 6.2 percent.  Brazil’s real tumbled 4.8 percent to a 15-month low,
extending its decline this month to 15 percent. The Mexican peso
dropped 3.5 percent.  Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  retreated 1.5 percent.
PT Astra International, Indonesia’s biggest automotive retailer,
dropped 2.1 percent. The nation’s domestic vehicle sales
declined to 73,279 units in August from 89,056 units the
previous month, Astra said.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest lender, plunged 6.8
percent.  China Gains  The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 2.7 percent after the
Conference Board said its leading indicator index, which is
designed to capture prospects over the coming six months, rose
0.6 percent in July.  The Conference Board revised June’s index to a 0.9 percent
gain from a previous 1 percent increase. The index “signals a
continuation of economic expansion through the end of this
year,” Jing Sima, the board’s New York-based economist, said in
a statement.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries surged 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 418, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 