-- 
Stocks Drop as Treasuries, Dollar Gain on Fed ‘Twist’ to Sustain Recovery

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-21T20:45:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/most-asian-stocks-oil-fall-as-yen-climbs-on-fed-meeting-growth-outlook.html
U.S. stocks slid, while Treasuries
and the dollar rallied, after the  Federal Reserve  announced
plans to buy $400 billion of long-term debt in an effort to
combat “significant downside risks” to the economy.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled the most in a
month, losing 2.9 percent to 1,166.76 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York and extending a three-day drop to 4.1 percent. Ten-year
Treasury yields dropped to a record low and 30-year bond rates
slid to the lowest since January 2009, while two-year yields
rose. The Dollar Index climbed 1 percent to a seven-month high
of 77.802. Lead, nickel and sugar fell more than 3 percent to
lead the S&P GSCI Index to a one-month low.  Financial shares in the  S&P 500  led losses and sank to a
two-year low after Moody’s Investors Service cut credit ratings
on three banks and the Fed said “strains in global financial
markets” were among risks to the economic outlook. The Fed will
replace some shorter-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term
Treasuries in an effort to further reduce borrowing costs and
keep the economy from relapsing into a recession, confirming
market speculation that policy makers were planning an
“Operation Twist” similar to a program in 1961.  “Markets took note of the Fed’s downward revision of the
economic outlook and upgrading of downside financial risks,”
 Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach , California, wrote in
an e-mail. Pimco is the world’s largest bond-fund manager.
“While Fed purchases can influence Treasury and mortgage
valuations, it is limited in its ability to deliver economic
outcomes.”  Fed’s Plan  The central bank will buy $400 billion of bonds with
maturities of six to 30 years through June while selling an
equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less. The Fed’s
plan to replace short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion
portfolio with long-term debt will probably fail to lower the
9.1 percent unemployment rate, according to 61 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the announcement. The
Fed also said today it will reinvest maturing housing debt into
mortgage-backed securities instead of Treasuries.  “The mortgage story is the most important part,” said
 William Larkin , a fixed-income money manager who helps oversee
$500 million at Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem,
 Massachusetts . “This goes right to the source. This will create
a wave of refinancings on the mortgage side.”  GOP Opposition  Republican lawmakers urged Chairman Ben S. Bernanke to
refrain from additional monetary easing to avoid “further
harm” to the  U.S. economy , saying Americans have reason to be
“skeptical” of his plans. Senator Charles Schumer, a Democrat
from  New York , in a statement yesterday said the move was “a
heavy-handed attempt to meddle in the Fed’s independent
stewardship of monetary policy” and should be ignored.  Ten-year Treasury yields sank as much as nine basis points
to 1.8525 and 30-year rates slid 19 basis points, or 0.2
percentage point, to 3.01 percent. Two-year yields climbed four
basis points to 0.20 percent.  All 10 of the main industry groups in the S&P 500 retreated
at least 1.3 percent, led by a 4.9 percent plunge in financial
shares. The Dow Jones Industrial Average sank 283.82 points, or
2.5 percent, to 11,124.84  “The markets apparently were hoping for a large, magic pill 
for an anemic economy that feels like it’s catching the flu,” 
 Barton Biggs , managing partner and co-founder of hedge fund
Traxis Partners LP in New York, said in an e-mail. The firm has 
$1.4 billion in assets.  Financials Plunge  The  S&P 500 Financials Index (S5FINL)  fell to the lowest level since
July 2009. Bank of America Corp. tumbled 7.5 percent after
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the bank’s long-term debt
rating.  Wells Fargo & Co . also had its long-term rating cut,
wiping out an earlier gain and dragging the stock down 3.9
percent.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  fell 5.2 percent as Moody’s cut its
short-term debt rating. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. closed below
$100 for the first time since March 2009.  Costs to protect debt from Bank of America, Citigroup and
Wells Fargo rose after the downgrades by Moody’s, which said
U.S. support is less likely in an emergency. Credit-default
swaps tied to Bank of America added about 40 basis points from
yesterday to 375 basis points as of 3:41 p.m. in New York,
according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. Swaps on Wells Fargo
jumped to the highest since July 2009, climbing 17 basis points
to 143 basis points, Phoenix prices show. Contracts on Citigroup
rose 19 to 250, according to data provider CMA.  Coal and Train Stocks  Commodity producers in the S&P 500 sank 4.5 percent as a
group for the second-biggest slide after financial shares. Alpha
Natural Resources Inc. and Walter Energy Inc., two U.S.
producers of coal used in steelmaking, tumbled at least 12
percent after they cut output and sales forecasts respectively.
Railroad companies slumped following the forecasts, with CSX
Corp. and Norfolk Southern Corp. sliding more than 8 percent.  Technology stocks fell the least among 10 groups.  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  climbed 4.2 percent after the software maker reported
profit that topped analysts’ estimates following increased
spending on database programs and applications that help run
businesses.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  rallied 6.7 percent after two
people familiar with the matter said the company’s board plans
to consider ousting  Leo Apotheker  as chief executive officer.  U.S. equities briefly turned higher this morning after
sales of existing homes increased more than forecast. Purchases
of existing houses, which are tabulated when a contract closes,
increased 7.7 percent to a five-month high 5.03 million annual
rate, figures from the National Association of Realtors showed.
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 4.75 million rate.  European Stocks  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index lost 1.7 percent with about
three shares declining for each that gained in the regional
benchmark. Automakers and basic-resource companies were the
biggest drag on the index, as PSA Peugeot Citroen and Daimler AG
lost more than 3.7 percent. Deutsche Lufthansa AG sank 5 percent
as Europe’s second-largest airline said it expects fuel expenses
to climb and Deutsche Bank AG downgraded the shares.  European banks slipped 1.6 percent as a group. The
government debt crisis has generated as much as 300 billion
euros ($410 billion) in credit risk for the region’s banks, the
 International Monetary Fund  said, calling for capital
injections. Banks face “funding challenges” because of
investor concern about their potential losses from  government
bonds , with some relying heavily on the  European Central Bank 
for liquidity, it said.  Debt Risk Increasing  The European Systemic Risk Board, Europe’s risk watchdog,
said threats to the financial system have increased
“considerably” as the region’s sovereign debt crisis weakens
economic growth and pressures banks. Intesa Sanpaolo SpA,
Mediobanca SpA and two other Italian banks had their credit
ratings lowered by S&P after the company downgraded Italy’s
government debt on Sept. 19 for the first time in five years.  Greek 10-year bond yields surged 31 basis points to 23.55
percent and Italian and Spanish yields also increased.
International inspectors will return to Athens next week to
discuss Greece’s prospects for more financial aid after Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos made “good progress” in
talks about with the European Union and the IMF yesterday,
according to the EU. Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s
government said it will accelerate budget cuts, targeting civil
servants’ wages and pensioners to keep emergency loans flowing
and avoid default.  Pound Weakens  The pound weakened 1.5 percent to $1.5505 and the U.K.’s
FTSE-100 Index of stocks lost 1.4 percent after  Bank of England 
officials said they may need to buy more bonds to bolster to
boost the U.K. economy. Most policy makers said it was
“increasingly probable that further asset purchases to loosen
monetary conditions would become warranted at some point,” the
minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee’s Sept. 7-8 meeting
showed.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 1.2 percent to the
lowest closing level since July 2010. Russia’s Micex Index
retreated 0.8 percent and the ruble declined for a ninth day
against the central bank’s target dollar-euro basket, headed for
its longest stretch of declines since February 2009. The
Shanghai Composite Index jumped 2.7 percent after the Conference
Board said its leading indicator index rose in July.  Oil lost 1.2 percent to $85.92 a barrel, erasing earlier
gains which were triggered by a U.S. Department of Energy report
that crude inventories fell by 7.34 million barrels to an eight-
month low of 339 million last week. Among 24 commodities tracked
by the S&P GSCI Index, only lean hogs advanced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  