-- 
Towson Won’t Sell Football Tickets for Maryland Game, Says StubHub Cheaper

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-21T20:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/towson-won-t-sell-football-tickets-for-maryland-game-says-stubhub-cheaper.html
Towson University  returned its
allotment of $38 tickets for an Oct. 1 game at the  University of
 Maryland  and suggested fans purchase seats on the secondary
market for as little as $4.  The Towson, Maryland, school received tickets to sell for
its game in  College Park , Maryland, the first football meeting
of the schools that are about 45 miles apart.  Maryland gave additional complimentary tickets to season-
ticket holders, leading to a high concentration of ticket
availability on websites such as  StubHub.com ,  Vividseats.com  and
 TicketsNow.com , according to Mike Harris, an associate athletic
director at Towson.  “The secondary market has been flooded with deeply
discounted tickets starting as low as $4 per seat,” Harris said
in a  statement  posted on the school’s website. “We are
encouraging our fans to seek tickets directly from UMCP
athletics or via the secondary market. Tickets on the secondary
market are more affordable and they are located in better
viewing locations.”  A search of StubHub today found tickets priced between $5
and $172. Seats on TicketNow.com ranged from $11 to $157.  The arrangement to allow Towson to return whatever ticket
it doesn’t utilize is standard, according to Shawn Nestor, a
spokesman for Maryland.  “We had great crowds against Miami and  West Virginia , and
now we’re looking forward to another solid turnout for the
Towson game,” Nestor said in an e-mail.  The Terrapins (1-1) reported attendance of 53,627 at
54,000-seat Byrd Stadium for its last home game, a 37-31 loss to
West Virginia on Sept. 17. It beat Miami 32-24 in its season-
opener before 52,875.  Towson, which plays in the second-tier Football
Championship Subdivision of the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association , is 2-0 following home wins over Morgan State and
Villanova.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 