-- 
Lloyd’s of London Pulls Deposits From Banks on Debt Crisis

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-21T10:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/lloyd-s-of-london-posts-697-million-pound-loss-on-disasters-1-.html
Lloyd’s of London , concerned
European governments may be unable to support lenders in a
worsening debt crisis, has pulled deposits in some peripheral
economies as the  European Central Bank  provided dollars to one
euro-area institution.  “There are a lot of banks who, because of the uncertainty
around  Europe , the market has stopped using to place deposits
with,” Luke Savage, finance director of the world’s oldest
insurance market, said today in a phone interview. “If you’re
worried the government itself might be at risk, then you’re
certainly worried the banks could be taken down with them.”  European banks and their regulators are trying to reassure
investors and customers that lenders have enough capital to
withstand a default by  Greece  and slowing economic growth caused
by governments’ austerity measures.  Siemens AG (SIE) , European’s
biggest engineering company, withdrew short-term deposits from
Societe Generale SA,  France ’s second-largest bank, in July, a
person with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  Lloyd’s, which holds about a third of its 2.5 billion
pounds ($3.9 billion) of central assets in cash, has stopped
depositing money with some banks in Europe’s peripheral
economies, Savage said, declining to name the countries or
institutions.  ECB Lending  “We have a very conservatively positioned balance sheet,”
Savage said. Lloyd’s also holds about a third of its assets in
mainly U.S. and U.K. government bonds and a third in corporate
bonds, he said.  The ECB today allotted $500 million to one bidder in a
regular seven-day liquidity-providing operation at a fixed rate
of 1.07 percent. Last week, the Frankfurt-based ECB loaned
$575 million to two euro-area banks, the first time financial
institutions had requested the currency since Aug. 17. The ECB
doesn’t identify the banks it lends to.  Today’s loan “is the rolling-over of previous lending of
dollars and isn’t very significant,” said  Christoph Rieger ,
head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“The three-month dollar lending offered by the central banks is
taking the edge off this problem to some degree.”  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars through
the swaps market is close to the highest level in almost three
years. The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars,
as measured by the one-year cross-currency basis swap, was 95.6
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor,
at 11:13 a.m. in Frankfurt, indicating a premium to buy the
dollar. It widened to as much as 112.5 basis points earlier
this month, the most since Dec. 2, 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  First-Half Loss  Lloyd’s, founded in a  London  coffee house in 1688, swung to
a 697 million-pound pretax loss in the six months to June 30
after the most expensive first half for natural disasters on
record. The market made a profit of 628 million pounds in the
same period a year earlier, the London-based market said in a
statement today.  “These are tough times for the  insurance industry , but we
are well positioned to handle them,” Chief Executive Officer
Richard Ward said in the statement. “While interest rates are
low and equity markets are volatile, we can’t rely on investment
income to subsidize our underwriting. We must decline under-
priced risks.”  Insurers’ profits have been hurt by natural catastrophes,
including the earthquake and tsunami that struck  Japan  in March,
causing record insured losses of $70 billion in the first half
of the year, according to broker Guy Carpenter & Co. At the same
time, record low  interest rates  are crimping investment returns.  Investment Income Falls  The insurance markets made 548 million pounds on its
investments in the period, 8.2 percent lower than in the first
half of 2010 as interest rates in the U.K., U.S. and the  euro
zone  neared record lows.  “I cannot see any reasonable prospect of making decent
investment income in the medium term,” Savage said.  Lloyd’s had a combined ratio of 113.3 percent in the first
half, meaning for every pound it took in premiums, it paid out
1.13 pounds in claims. That worsened from 98.7 percent in the
first half of 2010.  The loss was “much better than our peer group exposed to
the same catastrophes,” Savage said. Bermuda insurers’ combined
ratio was 117 percent for the period and U.S. reinsurers posted
a ratio of 116 percent, Lloyd’s said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  