-- 
HP’s Board Is Said to Be Reconsidering PC Spinoff Proposal

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-09-21T20:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/hp-s-board-is-said-to-be-reconsidering-pc-spinoff-proposal-amid-ceo-debate.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s board, which
is discussing replacing Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker ,
also is reconsidering a proposal to spin off the personal-
computer business, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  No decision has been made, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the talks are private. Board members
are open to re-examining the plan now because some of them think
the separation of the PC unit wasn’t studied as thoroughly as
other high-profile spinoffs, such as one by  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ,
the person said.  The directors plan to meet to consider whether to oust
Apotheker, less than 11 months after he took the job, two people
familiar with the situation said earlier today. Under one
scenario, the board may appoint Hewlett-Packard director and
former  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  CEO  Meg Whitman  as his successor, possibly on
an interim basis, one of the people said.  During Apotheker’s tenure, Hewlett-Packard has cut its
sales forecasts three times and his strategy shifts have left
shareholders doubting his credibility. The company’s stock
plunged 47 percent on his watch before today, and “investor
exasperation” with management is at its highest in more than a
decade,  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said in a research report last week.  The spinoff would involve Hewlett-Packard’s personal
systems group, which includes the PC business. When Hewlett-
Packard announced the proposal on Aug. 18, the company said the
move wasn’t necessarily a sure thing.  “There can be no assurance that any transaction regarding
PSG will be pursued or completed,” Hewlett-Packard said in a
statement at the time.  Hewlett-Packard rose $1.51, or 6.7 percent, to $23.98 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  