-- 
Palestinians Give UN Time Amid Pressure to Drop State Bid

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-22T15:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/palestinian-authority-may-delay-call-for-an-immediate-un-vote-on-statehood.html
The  Palestinian Authority  will push
ahead with its bid to get United Nations statehood recognition
though it won’t press for an immediate vote as support in the
Security Council appeared to be below the needed threshold.  The Palestinians have said at least eight of the council’s
members --  Russia ,  China ,  Gabon , Nigeria, South Africa,  Brazil ,
Lebanon and  India  -- will back them. The U.S. veto pledge
notwithstanding, that still leaves the Palestinians one vote
short of the nine needed for membership.  The U.S. and  Israel  have leaned on council members favoring
the statehood initiative to abstain from voting, leaving the
Palestinians fighting to retain support. Allowing the UN’s
administrative process to delay the consideration in the 15-
member body will permit the Palestinians to save face and buy
diplomats time to look for an alternative that restarts peace
talks.  “We will give some time to the  Security Council  to
consider first our full membership request before heading to the
General Assembly,” Palestinian negotiator Nabil Shaath told
reporters yesterday. “If we fail, we will keep knocking on the
door. We do not have a time limit.”  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas will address
the UN General Assembly tomorrow and formally submit his letter
of application for statehood recognition to UN Secretary-General
Ban Ki-Moon, who will then pass it on to Lebanon, which presides
this month over the Security Council. It’s the only Arab country
in the decision-making body and supports the bid.  ‘Going Forward’  “We are going forward with our application for a full
state,” Mohammad Shtayyeh, a senior member of Abbas’ Fatah
party who is on the special committee that prepared the UN bid,
told Bloomberg Television.  About 500 people waved Palestinian flags and chanted
slogans in support of statehood today, parading past the grave
of Palestine Liberation Organization founder  Yasser Arafat  in
Ramallah.  “We will not surrender,” said 26-year-old Niveen Abuez.
“We will continue our path to achieve our basic rights.”  Khalil Shikaki, director of the Palestinian Center for
Policy and Survey Research in Ramallah, said that Abbas has
“worked hard to manage expectations and I think people will
give him another two months, maybe longer.”  “They weren’t really expecting him to come back home
tomorrow with a state,” he said.  In what U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  referred to
as “extremely intense” diplomacy, Israel and the U.S. made
headway in eroding support for the membership initiative even
among countries the Palestinians had been counting on.  Nigerian Vote  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  met in  New York  with
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  and convinced him to stay
neutral in a possible vote on Palestinian statehood, according
to a statement released by his office.  Nigeria is among the nine nations on the Security Council
that have recognized a Palestinian state. The others are Brazil,
Russia, China, India, Lebanon,  South Africa , Bosnia and
Herzegovina, and Gabon.  Some countries have seldom received so much attention.
Bosnia and Herzegovina is the smallest country on the council.
Its UN envoy is a 36-year-old Croat, who says he’s been
contacted by Israel, the Palestinians and the U.S.  Delay Process  Once a membership application has been lodged, the Security
Council can delay the process. For South Sudan, it took three
days to make the African country the UN’s 193rd member while
Jordan had to wait five years. In the case of the Palestinians,
an admissions committee representing all 15 council members
might be set up to deliberate on the matter for days, weeks or
even months.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  underlined yesterday that his
position had not budged when he told the gathering of world
leaders that “peace will not come through statements and
resolutions at the UN.” There was little in his words to
encourage Palestinians or sway Abbas to change course.  “It didn’t really take us forward to anywhere,” said
Shtayyeh in a telephone interview. “The negotiations themselves
are in a crisis. We took this initiative to change the status
quo.”  Another option open to the Palestinians would be to pursue
an upgraded status at the General Assembly, from “entity” to
“non-member state,” such as the Holy See, the government of
the Roman Catholic Church, based in the Vatican. That could
enable them to sign international treaties and have cases heard
in the International Criminal Court.  Win Endorsement  Such a course could win the endorsement of some Europeans
in the council, such as  France  and Britain, which are
sympathetic to the Palestinian cause, yet want to see greater
recognition accompanied with a return to the negotiating table.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy, addressing the General
Assembly yesterday, supported the “intermediate step” of
observer-state status. He also proposed a one-year timetable for
resumed Israeli-Palestinian negotiations to lead to a full peace
accord. Talks should begin within a month without preconditions,
he said.  Peace negotiations collapsed last year following
Netanyahu’s decision not to extend a 10-month partial freeze on
construction in Jewish settlements in the West Bank. Abbas has
said he won’t resume talks while building continues. Netanyahu,
who hasn’t offered to resume the freeze in settlement building,
has repeatedly said that Abbas should restart direct talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  