-- 
Palestinians’ UN Statehood Effort Puts Their Economy in Jeopardy

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   L a r a   S e t r a k i a n
-- 
2011-09-21T21:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/palestinian-economy-may-sink-if-funds-withheld-mustafa-says-1-.html
The Palestinians’ economy may fall
apart if  Israel  retaliates against their bid for statehood at
the  United Nations  by withholding revenue collected on their
behalf, economic adviser Mohammad Mustafa said.  The danger of financial collapse won’t deter Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas from seeking full UN
membership from the  Security Council , said Mustafa, head of the
Palestine Investment Fund and a senior Abbas adviser.  “There is always a trade-off between pain and
achievement,” Mustafa said yesterday in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in  Washington . He said the Palestinian
economy could collapse within weeks without the funds from
Israel.  Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said his government
may withhold at least part of the $1.2 billion in funds it
collects for the  Palestinian Authority  -- as much as 40 percent
of its financial revenue -- if Abbas pushes for a UN vote.  Under the terms of the Oslo peace accords, Israel collects
customs duties on behalf of the Palestinian Authority and
forwards the money to it monthly. The transfer of the money,
which belongs to the Palestinians, requires approval from the
finance minister.  “It will be very difficult for us to continue to
collaborate with a hostile Palestinian entity,” Steinitz said
in an interview Sept. 20 in  New York .  U.S. President Barack Obama told the annual meeting of the
UN General Assembly that Palestinians must reach a negotiated
accord with Israel rather than seeking statehood through the UN.  ‘Unbearable’ Dangers  Israel has withheld the money in the past during disputes
with the Palestinians.  The U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate have
called on Obama to reduce the Palestinians’ annual $500 million
in foreign aid if they proceed at the UN.  “If the financial situation gets worse, the level of
frustration will go up and the dangers will be unbearable, so I
hope that we will not get to that level of frustration and that
people will get paid and the economy will continue to prosper,”
Mustafa said.  Economic growth in the  West Bank  probably will slow to 4
percent this year from 7.6 percent last year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Gaza’s growth is likely to
accelerate to 17 percent this year from 15.2 percent last year,
following the easing of some import controls by Israel in mid-
2010.  Saudi Arabia said on Sept. 20 that it would pay $200
million to help ease a financial crisis that has left the
Palestinian Authority struggling to pay employees and reliant on
foreign aid to narrow a budget deficit of about $1 billion.  If Israel cuts the funds, “growth would go down to zero
very quickly,” Mustafa said. “The growth has been driven
primarily by external assistance and government spending. If
that disappears, the growth would disappear too.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Lara Setrakian in Dubai at 
 lsetrakian1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  