-- 
Ron Paul Says He’s Realist on ’12 Chances

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-21T17:53:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/paul-says-he-s-realist-on-12-chances-voters-agree-on-fed-1-.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Ron Paul  said his party and the public have adopted his critical
views of the Federal Reserve, building his influence heading
into 2012.  “Who would have ever dreamed that after 100 years, we’d be
talking about the Federal Reserve at debates?” Paul said today
at a breakfast with reporters in  Washington . “Our success in
what we’re doing is beyond expectations. There’s no reason to
rule out the fact that this can’t just explode.”  Paul, a Texas congressman, trails the top-tier Republican
presidential contenders in public polls. He said he’s a
“realist” about his own prospects, and that his backers may
play an important role in the party’s nominating contest.  “I’m running hard. I’m encouraged. I’m a realist. I know
what the story’s all about,” Paul said at the breakfast,
sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor. While he said it was
“premature” to speculate on how his supporters could affect
the party’s nomination, he said, “If my momentum continues, I
think our delegates will not be insignificant, and they may play
an important role.”  Paul, 76, who has made criticizing the  Federal Reserve  his
hallmark for decades, said Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who is
leading the Republican primary polls, has adopted a similar
message because the public agrees with it.  ‘Treasonous’  Perry’s assertion in August that Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke ’s actions might be “treasonous” was “ a sign that he
knows that the Federal Reserve is a significant issue, so I’m
pleased that he says things like that,” Paul said. “There’s an
anti-Fed attitude,” he added, saying Perry’s remark “reflects
the changing attitudes, and it was good politics.”  Paul, who tied for third place among Republican contenders
in a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Sept. 9-12, said he is
often overlooked by the national media and political
establishment.  “I’m not surprised and I don’t get too annoyed. I know how
the system works, and it’s been that way for a long time,” Paul
said. Still, he said his message has struck a chord with the
public.  Americans “are sick and tired of the Fed, and the
spending, and the debt, and a 10-year-war that we’re not going
to win,” Paul said, referring to the U.S. military effort in
 Afghanistan .  He also said the U.S. shouldn’t intervene to help  Greece 
out of its financial crisis, and instead should “allow the
correction to occur.”  “Greece should declare bankruptcy, and we should not bail
them out,” Paul said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  