-- 
Pemex Says Cooperation With Repsol YPF Worth $4.27 Billion

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-09-21T17:14:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/pemex-says-cooperation-with-repsol-ypf-worth-4-27-billion-1-.html
Petroleos Mexicanos  said it valued
the benefits of closer cooperation with  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  at $4.27
billion, as increasing its stake in the Spanish driller will
improve access to technology.  Increasing its stake in Repsol will help Pemex take on
“highly complex” projects and deepwater drilling, underpinning
its goal to boost reserves and production, the Mexico City-based
company said in a filing to Spanish regulators today. It will
allow personnel exchanges and give it access to 800,000 barrels
a day of refining capacity, it said.  Pemex is increasing its stake in Spain’s largest  oil
company  to almost 10 percent as part of a shareholder agreement
signed with  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV) , the driller’s largest
shareholder. Pemex and Sacyr plan to coordinate their combined
29.8 percent voting rights to restructure management and boost
the company’s share price, they said on Aug. 29.  Pemex is accelerating exploration in deep water, where
 Mexico  estimates it may have 30 billion barrels of oil. The
state-owned company, which discovered mostly gas in 15 deepwater
wells drilled since 2005, plans to drill five more deepwater
wells this year and eight to 10 wells in 2012. Pemex is seeking
to increase output after six years of declines.  The oil company expects to boost the success of exploration
projects from 38 percent in 2010 to about 40 percent with the
help of Repsol, according to the filing today.  Pemex is evaluating its first foreign exploration project
to get more experience in the Gulf’s deep waters,  Carlos
Morales , head of exploration and production, said in a June 9
interview.  “The more advanced plans are in the U.S. waters of the
 Gulf of Mexico ,” he said, adding that the company hasn’t ruled
out projects in Colombia or Africa.  Pemex’s proved reserves dropped for a 12th consecutive year
to 13.8 billion barrels of oil in 2010, after the company faced
delays bringing new projects online.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  