-- 
U.S. $5.3 Billion Arms Sale for Taiwan Likely Deal China Can ‘Live With’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-22T19:23:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/pentagon-plan-gives-taiwan-f-16-upgrades-no-new-lockheed-jets.html
The U.S. rejected Taiwan’s request
for new  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 fighters, offering to sell
$5.3 billion in upgrades for existing jets in a move likely to
avoid a repeat of the Chinese backlash from earlier sales.  The retrofitting for the 145 F-16 A/B models is part of a
package including advanced radar, guided bombs and other
technology and training, the Pentagon said yesterday. Taiwan
said it needs new jets to replace an aging fleet as China
deploys missiles across the strait separating the civil war foes
as part of Asia’s biggest military spending program.  The U.S. proposal aims to meet the government’s legal
obligation to provide Taiwan arms without undoing repairs to
relations with China that were damaged by a weapons sale two
years ago.  China  condemned the announcement, stopping short of
threatening action that would mar a planned U.S. visit by Vice
President  Xi Jinping  this year.  “China should view this as, if not an outright victory,
then an outcome that they can live with,” said Frank Lavin, a
former U.S. ambassador to Singapore and chairman of public
affairs at Edelman Asia Pacific, a communications firm. “It
doesn’t behoove them to escalate this.”  China’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  urged the U.S. to
withdraw its offer, spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  said in comments posted
on its website. U.S. “wrong actions” will damage China-U.S.
relations and military ties, he said. Ambassador  Gary Locke  was
summoned to the foreign ministry, the U.S. Embassy said.  No Surprise  The U.S. decision was widely expected, according to Douglas Paal, vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in  Washington .  “The U.S. did not surprise China,” said Paal, former  Asia 
director at the National Security Council. “Since late 2010,
Beijing has been avoiding unnecessary friction. This time
Washington reciprocated.”  Obama, facing an election next year and a 9.1 percent
unemployment rate, was criticized by Republican challengers over
the agreement.  Kurt Campbell , assistant secretary of state for
Asia, said the more than $12 billion of weapons the Obama
government has sold to Taiwan equals or exceeds sales in any
other period in U.S. relations with Taiwan.  “President Obama has ignored Taiwan’s request and caved in
to the unreasonable demands of China at the cost of well-paying
American jobs,” former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney said
in a statement.  20,000 Jobs  U.S. Senator  John Cornyn , a  Texas  Republican, said Sept. 20
he’d seek to force the sale of 66 new F-16 C/D jets built in his
state by attaching a provision to a trade bill. The sale would
support more than 20,000 jobs, Rupert Hammond-Chambers,
president of the U.S.- Taiwan  Business Council, said in a Sept.
14 telephone interview.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , builds the F-16
fighter in  Fort Worth , Texas. The company had said that a Taiwan
sale would help keep the  production line  open past 2013.
Lockheed rose $1.22, or 1.7 percent, to $73.87 at 1:40 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading after falling 3.7
percent yesterday.  Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-Jeou, who has sealed historic
trade agreements with China during his term, encounters an
election in January. His call in May for the U.S. to provide new
fighters was designed “to remedy his domestic reputation as too
friendly to China,” said Jaushieh Joseph Wu, a former Taiwan
ambassador to the U.S.  ‘Blame the U.S.’  “By focusing only on F-16 C/Ds, Ma might be able to
sideline his responsibility as commander in chief and place the
blame on the U.S.” for not providing the fighters, he said.
“The general public image of President Ma is that he doesn’t
pay too much attention to Taiwan’s defense.”  Taiwan’s Deputy Defense Minister Andrew Yang called the
upgrades a “very significant symbol indicating the  United
States  is pretty much fully committed” to supporting the
island’s self-defense. The upgrades will take about 12 years to
complete, and Taiwan still wants new F-16 C/D jets to replace
its aging F-5 and Mirage aircraft, Yang said in an interview in
Washington today.  “We still continue to pursue this objective,” Yang said.
“The United States also made it abundantly clear the issue is
still under consideration.”  Taiwan also is interested in joining the list of potential
buyers of Lockheed’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter in the longer
term, Yang said. The island nation had sought unsuccessfully in
the past to participate in the fighter’s development, he said.  Marine Corps Jet  The most appropriate model probably would be the U.S.
Marine Corps’s short-takeoff, vertical landing version, Yang
said. Then-Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  put that version on
probation in January to resolve problems with its lift system.  When the U.S. announced arms sales to Taiwan in January
2009, China said it would “seriously damage” relations. The
government later suspended military talks and said it would
punish companies involved in the $6.4 billion package, which
included  Boeing Co. (BA)  Harpoon missiles.  This year, on the same day the new sales were disclosed,
Boeing Senior Vice President Ihssane Mounir said in Beijing that
the Chicago-based company was in discussions with “at least a
couple” of Chinese airlines on orders for the 787 Dreamliner.  Xi Succession  The 1979 Taiwan Relations Act requires the U.S. to arm
Taiwan for its self-defense. Congress has 30 days to object to
the proposed sale. As of December, China’s military had as many
as 1,200 short-range ballistic missiles deployed opposite
Taiwan, according to the U.S. Defense Department’s annual review
of the mainland’s military.  Xi is in line to succeed President  Hu Jintao  as head of the
ruling Communist Party next year. Hu, before assuming the top
job starting in 2002, made a trip to the U.S. as vice president.  Xi doesn’t want to appear “soft” before coming to power,
Jing Huang, a professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public
Policy in  Singapore , said in an e-mail.  “Although his position has become indisputable, his
leadership as well as his ‘team’ have yet to be established,”
he wrote. “I am not so optimistic this time.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  