-- 
PepsiCo Poised for 49% Gain Imitating Kraft Breakup: Real M&A

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d ,   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-09-21T20:23:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/pepsico-poised-for-49-gain-imitating-kraft-breakup-real-m-a.html
PepsiCo Inc. shareholders stand to
reap a 49 percent gain if Chief Executive Officer Indra Nooyi
splits the soft drinks business from snack foods, joining a wave
of breakups from  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  to  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)   PepsiCo, the world’s largest snack-foods maker and second-
biggest soda producer, fell 9.7 percent to $60.39 in the past
year through yesterday, wiping out almost $11 billion in market
value. The shares trailed a 22 percent jump for  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,
the largest soft-drinks maker, and a 9.3 percent advance for
Kraft, the No. 2 food company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Dividing Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo’s soda and
Gatorade unit from Doritos and Lay’s chips may value the
combined entity at $90 a share, Edward Jones & Co. said.  Breakups are accelerating as Kraft prepares the spinoff of
its North American grocery unit to focus on snack foods, Tyco
disclosed plans this week to split in three and McGraw-Hill Cos.
said it will separate education from financial ratings. With
U.S. soft drinks maker  Dr Pepper Snapple Group Inc. (DPS)  soaring more
than 52 percent since its 2008 spinoff, separating PepsiCo’s
more profitable snacks from drinks that are losing market share
in the U.S. may also lead to a higher valuation, according to
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “I’m sure Pepsi’s facing some pressure,” given Coca-
Cola’s stock outperformance, said  Jack Russo , an analyst for
Edward Jones in  St. Louis , in a telephone interview. “You go
through these cycles where you build empires and you break them
apart. We’re going through a cycle where the investment bankers
are convincing companies smaller is better and the sum of the
parts is worth more than the whole.”  New Snacks Initiative  PepsiCo’s shares climbed 40 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
$60.79 today for the second-biggest gain in the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Consumer Staples Index.  “The combination of our snack and beverage portfolios
creates significant value for our shareholders through synergies
driven by a common customer base and distribution platform,
supplier leverage and shared infrastructure,” PepsiCo said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The value of this combined
portfolio has been greatest in our international markets, which
share many activities; and we are now well positioned to realize
further benefits in  North America  following the successful
integration of our bottling business.”  PepsiCo also said it created two new groups to market
snacks and drinks together and guide snack innovation. The Power
of One - Americas Council and the Global Snacks Group will both
be run by John Compton, who will retain his role as PepsiCo
Americas Foods CEO. The company also reiterated its full-year
profit forecast from July.  Market Value  PepsiCo’s market value had dropped to $95.6 billion as of
yesterday from $106.4 billion a year ago, while Atlanta-based
Coca-Cola’s climbed $28.3 billion to $162.2 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. While PepsiCo shares have declined
in the past year, beverage rivals Coca-Cola and Dr Pepper and
food competitors including Kraft,  General Mills Inc. (GIS) , Hershey
Co.,  Kellogg Co. (K) , Danone and Unilever have all gained.  The S&P Consumer Staples Index increased 10 percent in the
past year through yesterday.  PepsiCo, which reached a peak market capitalization of $128
billion in January 2008, has faced rising commodity costs for
plastic packaging and ingredients, a declining share of the
American soft drink market and difficulty pushing prices higher
amid a slowing recovery in the wake of the U.S. recession.  The shares fell 7.5 percent through yesterday since Nooyi,
now 55, became CEO in October 2006, beating a 10 percent drop in
the  S&P 500 . Coca-Cola climbed 58 percent in the same period.  Commodity Prices  The company’s beverages and snacks would be worth more
apart because commodity price swings and market share losses in
one operation reduce the value of the entire company,  Ali Dibadj , a New York-based analyst for Bernstein, said in a phone
interview. The two units attract different types of
shareholders, he said.  “There’s a large chunk of the company that’s just
suffering, which is the North American beverage business, and
that’s dragging down the rest of the company, which is doing
OK,” Dibadj said. “The point of the split is that you’re not
getting the benefit of being together.”  In 2008, Cadbury Schweppes Plc, then the world’s largest
candy maker, spun off its American soft-drink business under
pressure from billionaire investor  Nelson Peltz . Since then,
shares of  Dr Pepper , the Plano, Texas-based maker of 7Up and
 Canada  Dry, gained more than 52 percent through yesterday,
giving it a market value of $8.3 billion.  McGraw-Hill, Tyco  McGraw-Hill, based in  New York , disclosed Sept. 12 that it
will divide its global markets, including Standard & Poor’s
ratings and J.D. Power and Associates, from its textbook
publishing. This week, Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based Tyco said
it will split into three companies focused on making industrial
valves, home security systems and commercial smoke detectors.  Kraft plans to separate its North American grocery unit to
give the Northfield, Illinois-based company’s snack foods
business, including Planters nuts and Oreo cookies, flexibility
to expand in emerging markets. The Aug. 4 announcement prompted
some equity analysts to explore the financial benefits of
PepsiCo following suit.  “We believe Pepsi management is watching Kraft’s strategic
moves to see how it unfolds,” Ann Gurkin, an analyst for
Richmond, Virginia-based Davenport & Co., said in a phone
interview. “A split would definitely unlock value for Pepsi
shareholders. They’re very valuable franchises.”  Sum of Parts  In a breakup, PepsiCo’s snacks could be worth about $50 a
share and the beverage business may be valued at $40 a share,
based on a sum-of-the-parts model from  Edward Jones ’ Russo. At
$90 a share, that’s 49 percent higher than the company’s closing
price of $60.39 yesterday.  Bill Pecoriello, CEO of  Stamford , Connecticut-based
Consumer Edge Research LLC, estimates that PepsiCo’s beverages
may command an enterprise value of as much as $55 billion and
the snacks business may be worth $80 billion, assuming it takes
on no debt. That means the pieces combined may be worth about
$70 a share, he said.  The company is worth at least $72 a share, based on a sum-
of-the-parts analysis by Bernstein’s Dibadj. That’s 19 percent
higher than the closing price yesterday.  Still, PepsiCo may reach $74.73 a share on its own in the
next 12 months if the company remains in its current structure,
based on analysts’ stock price estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Sluggish Period’  “Whenever you have a sluggish period in the market, there
are more calls for getting quicker gratification and quicker
returns,”  Hank Smith , chief investment officer of Haverford
Trust Co., which manages $6.5 billion in Radnor,  Pennsylvania ,
said in a telephone interview. “The shareholder that has a
three- to five-year outlook is probably better off with Pepsi
and Frito-Lay together as opposed to apart.”  He helps oversee about 900,000 shares of PepsiCo, which his
firm has invested in for 15 years, and more than 600,000 Coca-
Cola shares, an investment dating back to 1979.  More than half of PepsiCo’s $58 billion in revenue last
year came from the U.S., where soft drink sales are growing more
slowly than in emerging markets, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Coca-Cola generated 32 percent of its $35 billion in sales
from the U.S. and Canada.  “Coke is just so dominant outside the United States,” Don Yacktman, president of Austin, Texas-based Yacktman Asset
Management Co., which counts PepsiCo as its second-largest
holding, said in a phone interview. “Some places I like to say,
‘You can have a Coke or you can have a Coke.’”  Diet Coke  Coca-Cola, which doesn’t have a food unit, has performed
better in the stock market recently because it generates revenue
from more countries, said Haverford’s Smith.  Diet Coke surpassed Pepsi-Cola as the second-best-selling
soft drink in the U.S. last year, according to data from trade
newsletter Beverage Digest. Coca-Cola remained No. 1. Total
revenue at Coca-Cola is projected to climb 33 percent this year,
versus a 15 percent increase at PepsiCo, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  PepsiCo’s Frito-Lay business in North America, which sells
Ruffles potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips and Rold Gold
pretzels, brought in $13.4 billion in revenue last year, or 23
percent of the company’s total sales.  ‘Sensible for Years’  “I’d say if it was a standalone company, Frito-Lay North
America might well be the best consumer products company,”
PepsiCo CEO Nooyi said on the company’s July 21 earnings
conference call. On the other hand, the overall beverage
business in North America “is not a business that as a category
has been sensible for years,” she said.  A split would give the food division the capacity to pursue
global acquisitions and boost market share, said Consumer Edge’s
Pecoriello. PepsiCo will likely increase marketing spending to
shore up both businesses before weighing such a move, he said.  A breakup is “likely a consideration down the road,” he
said. “Investor concerns over the beverage business have
weighed down the valuation of PepsiCo as a whole. The valuation
of the two separate pieces is greater than the whole as it’s
currently valued today.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at +1-212-617-7261 or  rajello@bloomberg.net . 