-- 
Peru May Design ‘More Aggressive’ Stimulus, Castilla Says

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-21T20:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/peru-may-design-more-aggressive-stimulus-plan-castilla-says.html
Peru  will expand a stimulus package
worth 0.5 percent of gross domestic product if global markets
deteriorate, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said today.  “We are monitoring the situation overseas and obviously,
if things further deteriorate, we are going to put together a
more aggressive program,” Castilla told a press conference in
the Princeton Club in  New York .  The Andean nation this week approved a stimulus package
worth 1.29 billion soles ($471 million) to protect the
commodity-dependent economy from a slowdown in global growth.
Peru’s central bank signaled Sept. 8 it will lower rates if
international markets worsen and domestic activity slows.  Central bank president Julio Velarde said today the bank is
ready to inject liquidity into the financial system if it’s
needed. There are no signs of a deceleration in the $153 billion
economy as yet, he told the press conference.  Peru’s GDP expanded 6.5 percent in July from a year
earlier, beating central bank and analysts’ expectations, as an
increase in fishing and agriculture output offset a decline in
construction.  The country’s local currency and bonds fell today as
investors sold emerging market assets on concern  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis may worsen.  Sol Weakness  Peru’s sol fell the most in three months, dropping 0.8
percent to 2.7578 per  U.S. dollar  at 3:50 p.m. New York time,
from 2.7372 yesterday.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 climbed five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 5.77 percent, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  International debt markets are currently “too volatile”
for the country to raise the financing it needs for next year,
Castilla said. The government hasn’t taken a decision on
issuance, though his preference is for a sale of sol-denominated
bonds, he said.  The government sold 300 million soles ($110 million) of
bonds in the domestic market yesterday, after receiving demand
for twice the initial amount offered. The sale reflects investor
confidence in Peru’s economy amid the turmoil in the global
market, the  Finance Ministry  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 