-- 
Petrobras Says Real Slump May Hurt Profits on Debt Costs

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-09-21T18:12:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/petrobras-says-real-slump-to-hurt-profits-on-dollar-debt-costs.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  expects the
real’s 16 percent slump in the past two months may reduce profit
this quarter as the cost of servicing dollar-denominated debt
rises in local-currency terms.  The state-controlled oil producer will likely book a
financial loss, following a 2.9 billion-real ($1.6 billion) gain
in the second quarter, should the Brazilian currency hold below
1.7 per dollar, Chief Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said in
an interview in Rio de Janeiro today.  The Brazilian real, whose 48 percent rally in the past 10
quarters helped Petrobras pare dollar-denominated borrowing
costs, slumped in the past two months as  Greece ’s struggle to
avoid a debt default prompts investors to reduce holdings of
higher-yielding emerging-market assets. The real tumbled to as
low as 1.8451 per dollar earlier today, the lowest since June
10, 2010.  “If it is going to be in the range of 1.7, we’ll have some
loss,” Barbassa said at the company’s headquarters. “The debt
we have denominated in dollars is about 70 percent of total
debt, and if you adjust that regarding the  exchange rate 
variation, yes, the impact will come.”  Petrobras plans to spend $224.7 billion in the five years
through 2015, the oil industry’s largest investment program, as
it develops the Western Hemisphere’s largest oil discoveries in
more than three decades. It plans to more than double production
in the next 10 years.  Financing Needs  The oil producer may need between $7 billion and $12
billion of new financing per year, Barbassa said. The
international  capital market  will be “the most important source
we have” for financing, he said.  The rising cost of importing gasoline may also reduce
Petrobras’s profit in the third and fourth quarters, said
Eduardo Favrin, who oversees about $3.2 billion as head of
equities for HSBC Global Asset Management in  Sao Paulo .  “If the exchange rate during the fourth quarter stays at
this level, the fourth quarter will be much worse,” Favrin
said. “They have a huge rise in imports, in the case of
gasoline and ethanol, so the devaluation will not only be about
debt but the operating margins as well.”  The decline in  Brazil ’s real has been gradual and can be
absorbed by the economy, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said to
reporters in  Washington  today.  Petrobras gained 42 centavos, or 2 percent, to 21.02 reais
in Sao Paulo trading at 2:03 p.m. New York time. Before today,
the stock lost 25 percent this year, more than the 19 percent
decline for the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  