-- 
Philippine Bonds Rise on Rating Upgrade Optimism; Peso Weakens

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-09-21T09:04:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/philippine-bonds-rise-on-rating-upgrade-optimism-peso-gains.html
Philippine bonds snapped a four-day
drop on optimism the nation will achieve a higher  credit rating 
as the  budget deficit  narrows. The peso fell for a third day.  The country has “entered into an era of renewed stability
and confidence,” aided by efforts to curb tax evasion and end
wasteful spending, President  Benigno Aquino  said in a speech in
 New York  this week that was posted on the government’s website
yesterday. The  deficit  was 43.7 billion pesos ($1 billion) in
the first seven months of 2011, 20 percent less than in the same
period of 2010. August data are expected on Sept. 23.  “The selloff in the past few days was overdone,” said
Marcelo Ayes, senior vice president at Rizal Commercial Banking
Corp. in  Manila . “With yields having risen to a two-month high,
investors saw these as attractive levels.”  The yield on the 6.5 percent April 2021 peso bond fell 43
basis points, or 0.43 percentage point, to 6.17 percent,
according to Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.’s midday prices.
It climbed to 6.59 percent yesterday, the highest level since
July 12. The peso dropped 0.1 percent to 43.533 per dollar at
the close of trading, Tullett Prebon Plc data showed. It rose as
much as 0.2 percent earlier.  The nation is nearing its goal of achieving an investment-
grade credit rating, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said
on Sept. 19 as the government prepares to meet  Standard & Poor’s ,
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings in the U.S.  The government will probably sell 10-, and 15-year bonds
targeted at individuals next month and maintain the weekly debt
auction size at 9 billion pesos next quarter, Deputy Treasurer
Eduardo Mendiola said in an interview yesterday.  “The only threat of debt supply is the retail bonds and
there’s sufficient liquidity in the market to handle that,”
Rizal Bank’s Ayes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 