-- 
Pound Falls to Eight-Month Low as BOE Considers Extra Stimulus; Gilts Drop

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-09-21T15:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/pound-approaches-eight-month-low-versus-dollar-before-central-bank-minutes.html
The pound weakened to an eight-
month low against the dollar after  Bank of England  officials
said they may need to buy more bonds to keep borrowing costs
capped as the recovery falters.  Sterling fell for the first time in four days versus the
euro as policy makers said in minutes of their Sept. 8 meeting
that growth in the second half of 2011 may be “materially
weaker” than projected in August. U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable repeated a call for the central bank to buy assets other
than government bonds. The pound declined earlier after an
industry report showed  consumer confidence  dropped to a four-
month low in August. Ten-year gilts fell.  “The Bank of England is making clear that further measures
will be used if the situation worsens, and therefore the pound
reacted negatively to the minutes,” said You-Na Park, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“The outlook for the U.K. and the global economy is very
uncertain and there are a lot of downside risks.”  Sterling declined 0.8 percent to $1.5607 at 4:01 p.m. in
 London , after earlier falling to $1.5579, the weakest level
since Jan. 11. The currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 87.70
pence per euro, and slid 0.9 percent to 119.28 yen.  Most of the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee said an
expansion of the 200 billion-pound bond purchase program was
“increasingly probable,” the minutes showed. The committee
voted 8-1 to maintain the current size of the plan and was
unanimous in keeping the benchmark at a record low 0.5 percent.  Sterling ‘Exposed’  Officials considered ways of loosening policy, including
“changing the maturity of the portfolio of assets held” and
“revisiting the earlier decision” not to cut the  interest rate 
below 0.5 percent.  “The shift in the discussion of the MPC has moved more
than the market was anticipating,” said  Ian Stannard , London-
based head of European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan
Stanley. “Sterling is increasingly going to become exposed to
the global slowdown.”  The pound has depreciated 5.4 percent in the last 12
months, making it the worst performer among 10 developed-market
currencies according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. Morgan Stanley predicts the U.K. currency will weaken
to $1.53 by year-end.  Short-sterling futures extended gains after the minutes
were released. The implied yield on the June 2012 contract
dropped three basis points to 0.86 percent, signaling traders
added to bets for lower interest rates.  Buy Corporate Debt  “The Bank of  England  could do what the Americans did and
buy up corporate bonds or they could buy up bundles of SME
loans,” Cable said yesterday in Birmingham, central England,
referring to small and medium-sized businesses. “That’s an idea
that I think is an excellent one.”  Investors are betting the Bank of England will refrain from
raising interest rates until after July next year, data from
Tullett Prebon Plc on forward contracts for the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia, show.  Nationwide Building Society  said its index of consumer
sentiment slipped 1 point in August from the previous month to
48. A gauge of consumers’ future expectations for the economy in
the next six months declined 1 point to 65.  U.K.  government bonds  snapped a three-day gain with the 10-
year yield climbing one basis point to 2.39 percent. The two-
year rate was little changed at 0.53 percent.  Britain had its biggest  budget deficit  for any August since
modern records began in 1993 as  government spending  jumped and
income-tax receipts declined, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today. The shortfall of 15.9 billion pounds compared with
14 billion pounds a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 