-- 
Publisher of Spain’s El Pais Prisa Seeks Second Debt Restructuring in Year

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-09-21T15:08:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/prisa-seeks-to-restructure-4-billion-of-debt-for-second-time.html
Promotora de Informaciones SA (PRS) ,
 Spain ’s biggest media company, is seeking to restructure about 3
billion euros ($4.1 billion) of debt in its second rollover in
less than a year.  Lenders to Prisa, as the Madrid-based company is known, are
willing to collaborate with the company, Chief Executive Officer
Juan Luis Cebrian said in an interview.  “We’re in full conversations with banks for the
restructuring of the company’s debt and we see no problems amid
all the problems the sector and banks have,” Cebrian said on
the sidelines of a breakfast meeting hosted by the Nueva
Economia Forum at the Ritz Hotel in Madrid. “Banks are very
collaborative and the whole of the company’s policy is oriented
toward its deleveraging as urgent as possible without destroying
its consolidation perimeter.”  The shares dropped as much as 6.4 percent before trading at
82.5 euro cents as of 5 p.m. in  Madrid  today, valuing the
company at 911 million euros.  The publisher of El Pais newspaper got a debt extension
until May 2013 and looser borrowing conditions, it said in a
November 2010 filing to regulators. Prisa said in June it may
sell non-strategic assets valued at more than 500 million euros.
The company may also issue other non-banking debt instruments
for as much as 500 million euros, depending on market conditions
in order to lengthen loan maturities.  ‘It’s Impossible’  “Nobody, neither the company nor banks, believe they can
pay the 3.2 billion euros in debt maturing in May 2013,” Tiago Veiga Anjos, an analyst at Banco BPI SA in Porto,  Portugal , said
by telephone. “It’s not difficult, it’s impossible. Banks may
be willing to lose some money so that Prisa could restructure
its debt, but they may ask the company to cut its debt
further.”  The company expects to cut its debt to 2 1/2 to three times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in
two or two and a half years, Cebrian said.  “Recurrent Ebitda has deteriorated because of the economic
situation,” he said. “If the economy growth improves and
advertising increases the speed of the reduction of the ratio
will change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  