-- 
Centex, Horton, Lennar Must Face Claims They Inflated Home Prices in U.S.

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/pultegroup-s-centex-must-face-claims-it-inflated-home-prices-court-rules.html
Homebuyers who sued Centex Corp.,
D.R. Horton Inc. and  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  won a bid to proceed with
claims that the companies inflated the “housing bubble” in
neighborhoods they developed, leading people to pay more than
the properties were worth.  The buyers’ claims against the three companies and at least
five other homebuilders are “actual and concrete economic
injuries” that give them the right to sue, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in  San Francisco  ruled yesterday. Centex is a unit of
PulteGroup Inc., the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue. Horton
and Lennar are No. 2 and No. 3.  The appeals court reversed a lower-court judge’s ruling
dismissing lawsuits against the homebuilders on grounds that the
buyers lacked “standing.” The three-judge panel didn’t rule on
the merits of the case.  The cases arose against the backdrop of the national
housing crisis, the appeals court said. Individual homeowners
who bought property in new housing developments from 2004 to
2006 sued developers, claiming their practice of marketing homes
and offering financing to high-risk buyers created a “buying
frenzy” that artificially increased demand and home prices, the
panel said.  Foreclosures led to lower property values, abandoned homes,
transient neighborhoods and higher crime, the homeowner alleged,
according to the ruling.  ‘Injury and Causation’  “We hold that plaintiffs have established both injury and
causation sufficient to withstand a motion to dismiss on their
claims that (1) they paid more for their home than they were
worth and (2) they would not have purchased their homes had
defendants fully disclosed their practices,” the appeals court
panel wrote.  Jacque Petroulakis, a spokeswoman for  Bloomfield Hills ,
Michigan-based PulteGroup, and Kay Howard, a spokeswoman at
Miami-based Lennar, didn’t immediately return voice-mail
messages yesterday seeking comment on the ruling. Stacey Dwyer,
a spokeswoman for Horton, didn’t immediately return an e-mail
seeking comment.  The case is Maya v. Centex Homes, 10-55658, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  