-- 
R.E.M. Breaks Up After Three Decades, Thanks Fans for Listening

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-09-21T21:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/r-e-m-breaks-up-after-three-decades-30-million-record-sales-thanks-fans.html
U.S. rock band R.E.M. has announced
that it is breaking up after a three-decade career in which it
has sold more than 30 million albums.  The group, which became one of the biggest in the world
thanks to collections such as “Automatic for the People” and “Out
of Time,” made the announcement on its website.  “To our Fans and Friends,” read the  statement , “As
R.E.M., and as lifelong friends and co-conspirators, we have
decided to call it a day as a band. We walk away with a great
sense of gratitude, of finality, and of astonishment at all we
have accomplished. To anyone who ever felt touched by our music,
our deepest thanks for listening.”  The band won critical acclaim during its career and entry
to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. It has completed a five-album
agreement with Warner Brothers that was reported to be worth $80
million. The original quartet that made the 1983 debut “Murmur”
was reduced to a trio when drummer Bill Berry retired in 1997 
after suffering a brain aneurysm. Singer Michael Stipe, bassist 
Mike Mills and guitarist Peter Buck agreed to his wish to carry 
on without him.  The band sold about 20 million record units since 1991 in 
sales tracked by industry database Nielsen SoundScan, and at
least another 10 million in the years before that. Its most 
recent album, “Collapse Into Now,” sold 142,000 copies, 
according to Billboard. The CD produced some critical comments
that the band had run out of ideas.   “The skill in attending a party is knowing when it's time
to leave,” Stipe said in the statement. “We built something 
extraordinary together. Now we're going to walk away from it.”   To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 