-- 
RBA’s Battellino Says Australia Should Weather U.S. Slowdown

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-21T13:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/rba-s-battellino-says-australia-should-weather-u-s-slowdown.html
Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Deputy
Governor Ric Battellino said there are “grounds for optimism”
his nation’s economy will weather a U.S. slump and extend a two-
decade expansion driven by demand from  Asia .  “The expansion of  China  has had an overwhelmingly positive
impact on the Australian economy over the past 10 to 15 years,”
Battellino said in the text of a  speech  today in New York.
“That is not to say that U.S. developments no longer matter.”  Investors in RBA cash rate futures predict Australia’s
central bank will lower the developed world’s highest interest
rates by 1.25 percentage points over the next 12 months. In his
speech, Battellino likened the current situation to 2003, when
investors bet on cuts in borrowing costs that failed to
materialize.  “The bank’s approach will be to keep an open mind,”
Battellino told the Euromoney Australian and New Zealand Debt
Capital Markets Forum in  New York . “Markets do seem to have
reached a pessimistic assessment” based mainly on an assumption
that the U.S. and  Europe ’s economic problems will “flow
through” to Australia, he said.  Australia’s unemployment rate in August rose for a second
straight month, reaching a 10-month high of 5.3 percent.
Battellino said the trends could be an indication that the
economy has slowed to a pace “below its potential.”  “On the other hand, there are some aspects of labor market
numbers that have a stronger feel,” he said. “Contrary to the
slowing in the number of people employed, there has been solid
growth in total hours worked recently.”  Savings Rate  Australia’s economy grew 1.2 percent last quarter, the
fastest pace in four years, driven by recovery from natural
disasters in the northeast of the nation and rising consumer
spending. The report showed the household savings ratio declined
to 10.5 percent in the three months through June from 11.7
percent in the first quarter.  Australian  consumer confidence  rebounded this month after
falling to the lowest level in two years in August, driven by
turmoil in the global financial markets. Battellino called the
drop in consumer and business confidence “not surprising.”  “We will need to wait to see how these swings in
confidence affect spending,” he said in his prepared remarks.
“So far, recent liaison information from retailers does not
point to any further significant weakening.”  Clouding Australia’s outlook is concern the world’s largest
economy is slowing. Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly
stagnated in August as employers became less confident in the
strength of the recovery, according to a Sept. 2 report.  “It is too early at this stage to judge with any degree of
certainty whether Australia will catch cold from the U.S.,”
Battellino said. “However, given that over the past 10 to 15
years the Australian economy has been less vulnerable to severe
U.S. symptoms, there are reasonable grounds for optimism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  