-- 
RBA’S Lowe Sees ‘Persistent’ Increase in Australia Savings Rate

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-21T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/rba-s-lowe-sees-persistent-increase-in-australia-savings-rate.html
Australia’s household savings will
probably stay elevated for an extended period and extra income
will be used on services rather than goods as spending patterns
change, Reserve Bank Assistant Governor  Philip Lowe  said.  Consumers who are putting aside more income is “a positive
development from a national risk-management perspective,” Lowe
said in prepared remarks to a conference today in Sydney.
“These higher saving rates are likely to be quite persistent
and they represent a return to more traditional patterns.”  Lowe, who didn’t address monetary policy in the text of his
speech to the Australian Economics Forum 2011, said
“significant changes” in saving and spending patterns will
probably be most pronounced in the retail industry as the switch
toward services lessens growth in spending on goods.  The RBA boosted borrowing costs seven times from October
2009 to November 2010 to the highest level in the developed
world, tempering a rise in consumer debt, which more than
tripled in the past 20 years to 153.7 percent of disposable
income in the second quarter, according to central bank figures.
That’s higher than the 133 percent Americans accumulated at the
height of the U.S. subprime mortgage boom.  Australia ’s household savings rate held above 10 percent in
the three months through June, when the economy expanded 1.2
percent, the fastest pace in four years, spurred by household
spending and a recovery from natural disasters in the northeast.
In the past year, aggregate household disposable income has
risen by about 7.5 percent, and this has boosted spending on
those services that are quite sensitive to income growth, Lowe
said.  Rising Unemployment  Even so, the nation’s unemployment rate rose for a second
straight month in August, reaching a 10-month high of 5.3
percent as turmoil swept international financial markets.  “The largest increase in saving ratios is for those
households that have become a lot more concerned over time about
losing their job,” Lowe said today.  Lowe’s colleague, RBA Deputy Governor Ric Battellino, said
in a speech in  New York  yesterday that the trends in
unemployment could be an indication that the economy has slowed
to a pace “below its potential.”  “On the other hand, there are some aspects of labor market
numbers that have a stronger feel,” Battellino said. “Contrary
to the slowing in the number of people employed, there has been
solid growth in total hours worked recently.”  Investors in RBA cash rate futures predict Australia’s
central bank will lower the developed world’s highest interest
rates by 1.25 percentage points over the next 12 months. In his
speech, Battellino likened the current situation to 2003, when
investors bet on cuts in borrowing costs that failed to
materialize.  “The bank’s approach will be to keep an open mind,”
Battellino told the Euromoney Australian and New Zealand Debt
Capital Markets Forum in New York. “Markets do seem to have
reached a pessimistic assessment” based mainly on an assumption
that the U.S. and  Europe ’s economic problems will “flow
through” to Australia, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  