-- 
RBS Said to Get Bids From CIT, Jackson Square for Air Unit

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-09-21T15:49:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/rbs-said-to-get-bids-from-cit-jackson-square-for-aircraft-unit.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, received bids for its
aircraft-leasing operation from commercial lender  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) 
and Jackson Square Aviation LLC, three people familiar with the
sales process said.  RBS received more than 10 bids for the unit, which it is
seeking to sell for about $6 billion to $8 billion, said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. RBS will reject some of the bidders by Sept. 23, after
which the remainder will be given additional details on the
unit’s finances, the person said.  The Edinburgh-based lender has reduced so-called non-core
assets by more than half to 113 billion pounds ($176 billion)
since 2009. Assets already sold include bank branches and its
credit-card payment processing unit. If RBS succeeds in selling
the unit for $8 billion, it would mark the bank’s biggest single
sale since the 2008 financial crisis, when it needed 45.5
billion pounds of government funding.  RBS has also received offers from Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd.’s AWAS unit,  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Pacific Life
Insurance Co.’s Aviation Capital Group and a joint bid from Onex
Corp. and BBAM LLC, two of the people said.  RBS Aviation Capital is one of the biggest plane lessors
after General Electric Co’s Gecas and AIG’s International Lease
Finance Corp. It owns, manages or has orders for 335 commercial
jet aircraft and leases to 62 airlines in 23 countries.  Monthly Fees  The sale comes as aircraft operating lessors play an
increasingly important role in helping airlines fill their
fleets. Two decades ago they accounted for only about 10 percent
of all aircraft purchases. Today such lessors account for about
35 percent of direct purchases from  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS.  Lessors buy planes and then lease them to airlines for
monthly fees, seeking to profit from the residual value by
selling aircraft after about 15 years.  Spokesmen for RBS, Terra Firma, Macquarie, Pacific Life,
CIT and Onex declined to comment. A spokesman for Jackson Square
Aviation was not immediately available to comment. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., which is advising RBS on the sale, also declined to
comment. RBS gained 1.3 percent to 23.38 pence at the close of
trading in  London  for a market value of 25.8 billion pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  