-- 
RBS Considers Its First U.K. Credit Card Bond in Six Years

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-09-21T16:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/rbs-considers-its-first-u-k-credit-card-backed-bond-in-6-years.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  is
considering its first public sale of bonds backed by U.K. credit
cards in six years.  “We have just updated the documentation for our credit-
card program so we are in a good position to issue
opportunistically,” Stephen Hynes, the London-based head of
secured funding for the U.K.’s biggest government-owned lender,
said in an interview.  RBS last sold bonds secured on U.K. credit-card payments in
2005 when it raised $3.3 billion from the debt, Hynes said.
London-based Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Britain’s biggest
mortgage lender, sold card-backed bonds in June, while Barclays
Plc is said to be marketing an issue of at least 750 million
euros of the debt.  RBS is preparing the secured bonds as investors shun
riskier assets amid concern a Greek default may infect European
lenders. Top-rated bonds backed by U.K. credit cards yield about
1.65 percentage points more than benchmark lending rates,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. That compares with 2.62
percentage points for unsecured bank bonds in pounds, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Banks create asset-backed securities by pooling home and
consumer loans and selling them to investors as notes. The bonds
allow lenders to raise capital more cheaply than by issuing
unsecured debt.  The last public offering of the securities in  Europe  was
Lloyds’s $946 million issue of the notes three months ago,
Barclays Capital data show.  Investor Interest  RBS’s previous card-backed notes under its Arran Cards
Funding Master Trust have matured, freeing up capacity to issue
more of the debt, Hynes said.  “We are aware of the interest for U.K. credit card ABS as
we talk to investors,” Hynes said. The lender sold most of a
$6.1 billion mortgage-backed securities transaction in April and
has the capacity to issue more, he said.  Banco Santander SA’s U.K. unit sold $3.8 billion of
mortgage-backed securities last week, the first of its kind in
Europe in more than a month. Paragon Group Cos., Britain’s
third-largest lender to landlords, is preparing its first
securitization since 2007 with a 200 million-pound deal, Finance
Director Nicholas Keen said in an interview.  “We are seeing lot more new and less frequent issuers
starting to re-think securitization again as a way to fund
themselves,” said Oldrich Masek, the London-based head of
securitized products origination for Europe,  Middle East  and
 Africa  at JPMorgan, the largest arranger of securitizations in
the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  