-- 
Treasury Yield Is Seven Basis Points From Record Low Before Fed Decision

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-21T06:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/treasury-10-year-yield-approaches-record-low-before-fed-announces-policy.html
Treasury yields were seven basis
points away from a record low as economists said the  Federal
Reserve  will announce plans to buy long-term debt as part of
efforts to spur gross domestic product after a meeting today.  Rates on zero-coupon  government bonds , those most sensitive
to inflation, fell to a 30-month low of 3.49 percent as traders
bet costs in the economy will fall as growth slows. The U.S. may
slip into a recession, said Kent Smetters, a professor at the
University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School and a former
Treasury Department economic policy official.  “People will continue to purchase Treasuries,” said Kei Katayama, leader of the foreign fixed-income group in  Tokyo  at
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., home to Japan’s second-biggest bond
fund. “The market is risk averse. The flight-to-quality flows
will continue.”  Benchmark 10-year rates were little changed at 1.95 percent
as of 7 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 2.125 percent note maturing in August 2021 changed
hands at 101 18/32. The rate was 1.877 percent on Sept. 12, the
least ever based on Fed data.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will decide to replace
short-term Treasuries in its portfolio with long-term bonds,
according to 71 percent of 42 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The move has been called Operation Twist because it aims
to bring down long-term yields.  Daiwa SB swapped two-year Treasuries for four-year notes
last week, Katayama said. Two-year rates, which set a record low
of 0.1431 percent yesterday, are unattractive, while 10-year
debt will be vulnerable if central bank efforts to spur the
economy are successful, he said.  Yield Curve  The extra yield Treasury investors get to hold 30-year
bonds instead of two-year notes was the lowest in more than a
year yesterday as traders bet the Fed’s purchases will extend to
the longest maturities. The gap narrowed to 3.04 percentage
points, the least since August 2010 based on closing levels.  Japan ’s 10-year securities yielded 0.985 percent. The rate
has held in a range of 0.97 percent to 1.08 percent since the
start of August.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
growth yesterday and predicted repercussions if  Europe  fails to
contain a debt crisis or if U.S. politicians deadlock over
fiscal plans.  Greece  is working to avoid defaulting on its
borrowings, and  Italy  had its rating cut by Standard & Poor’s
this week. In the U.S., President Barack Obama is asking
Congress to approve a $447 billion job-creation plan.  IMF Forecasts  The world economy will expand 4 percent this year and next,
the IMF said, compared with June forecasts of 4.3 percent in
2011 and of 4.5 percent in 2012. The U.S. growth projection for
2011 was cut to 1.5 percent from 2.5 percent in June.  “The risk of a double dip is definitely there” in the
U.S.,  University of Pennsylvania ’s Smetters said in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up” with Susan Li.
“The long-term outlook is even more scary.”  There is a possibility the Fed statement today will lead
some investors to bet the  U.S. economy  is going to pick up, said
Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman in Tokyo at CIBC World Markets
Japan Inc., a unit of Canada’s fifth-largest lender.  “Money may go back to equities from the  bond market ,” he
said.  The 10-year yield will advance to 2.96 percent by the end
of September 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies, with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  Treasuries have returned 8.48 percent this year, the most
since 2008 when during the last U.S. recession, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show.  The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks has handed
investors an 8.43 percent loss including reinvested dividends,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  