-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yields Touch Record Low Before Fed Statement

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-21T17:41:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/treasuries-pare-losses-before-fed-expected-to-announce-debt-purchases.html
Treasury 10-year note yields
touched a record low on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
announce plans to buy longer-maturity debt under what is known
as Operation Twist to support the economy.  The extra yield Treasury investors get to hold 30-year
bonds instead of two-year notes was the lowest in more than a
year before today’s conclusion of the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s two-day meeting. Moody’s Investors Service cut the
long-term credit ratings of Bank of America Corp. and  Wells
Fargo & Co ., renewing concern the banking system is weakening.  “Moody’s decision to cut the Bank of America credit rating
pushed Treasury yields lower and weighed on the equity market
ahead of this afternoon’s FOMC announcement,” said  Ian Lyngen ,
a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The market is susceptible to this type
of headline risk.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.92 percent at 1:37 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities due in August 2021 increased 5/32, or $1.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 26/32. Yields fell as low as 1.8765
percent, the lowest in Fed figures going back to 1953.  The 30-year yields were little changed at 3.21 percent
after touching 3.1561 percent, the lowest since January 2009.
Two-year yields were little changed at 0.15 percent after
falling yesterday to a record low 0.1431 percent. The difference
in yield between two- and 30-year debt was 302 basis points, the
narrowest on a closing basis since August 2010.  Bank Ratings Cut  Moody’s cut Bank of America’s ratings to Baa1 from A2 for
long-term senior debt, with the outlook remaining negative.
Wells Fargo’s ratings were lowered to A2 from A1 by the ratings
company, with the outlook staying negative. Citigroup Inc. had
it short-term credit ratings cut to Prime 2 from Prime 1.  “The banking downgrades did provide a bit of a bid in
Treasuries as investors liquidate stocks,” said  Sean Murphy , a
trader in New York at  Societe Generale , one of the 20 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed.  The central bank will decide today to replace short-term
Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio with longer
maturities, according to 71 percent of 42 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The program will probably fail to reduce the 9.1 percent
jobless rate, said 61 percent of the economists. Among those, 15
percent predict it will be “somewhat harmful.”  Fed Outlook  U.S. 10-year notes will rally after the Fed announces a
$360 billion program under which it sells $60 billion of one- to
three-year Treasuries and buys the same amount of seven- to 10-
year U.S. debt each month for six months, Credit Suisse Group AG
strategists including  Carl Lantz  in  New York  said yesterday in a
research report.  More purchases may push 10-year note yields down as much as
35 basis points, James Caron, global head of interest-rate
strategy in New York at the primary dealer Morgan Stanley, wrote
in a report yesterday.  “Operation Twist appears well-priced into the market,”
John Briggs, a U.S. government bond strategist in Stamford,
Connecticut, at the primary dealer RBS Securities Inc., wrote in
a research note to clients. “The underlying global fundamentals
that took Treasuries to these yield levels have not changed,
however, so any moves to higher yields should be bought.”  Economists at the primary dealers Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. have said policy makers may also choose
to reduce the 0.25 percent interest rate paid on the excess
reserves that banks hold at the Fed. Policy makers are due to
issue their statement at about 2:15 p.m. in  Washington .  Chubby Checker  Operation Twist gets its name from a policy conducted by
the Fed in cooperation with the Treasury Department in 1961,
when the central bank bought long-term securities as the
government concentrated its issuance in shorter-maturity debt.  While Fed staff called it Operation Nudge, it became known
as Operation Twist, after Chubby Checker’s hit The Twist,
according to a report published March 14 by Eric Swanson, an
economist at the San Francisco Fed. The move lowered long-term
Treasury yields by about 15 basis points, according to Swanson.  Treasuries have returned 8.5 percent in 2011, heading for
their best year since the depths of the financial crisis in
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
growth and predicted repercussions if  Europe  fails to contain
its debt crisis or U.S. politicians become deadlocked over
fiscal plans.  IMF Outlook  The world economy will expand 4 percent this year and next,
the IMF said yesterday, compared with June forecasts of 4.3
percent in 2011 and 4.5 percent in 2012. The U.S. growth
projection for 2011 was lowered to 1.5 percent this year from
2.5 percent.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is pressing for
accelerated budget cuts to ensure the next tranche of an
international rescue package is delivered next month to stave
off default. U.S. President  Barack Obama  is asking Congress to
approve a $447 billion job-creation plan.  Republican lawmakers urged Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to
refrain from additional monetary easing in a letter signed by
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker  John Boehner , Senator Jon Kyl and House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor .  “We have serious concerns that further intervention by the
Federal Reserve could exacerbate current problems or further
harm the  U.S. economy ,” they wrote in the Sept. 19 letter.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from New York, in a
letter yesterday called the note “a heavy-handed attempt to
meddle in the Fed’s independent stewardship of monetary policy”
and said it should be “ignored by Chairman Bernanke and the
Fed’s policy makers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  