-- 
Treasury 30-Year Bonds Rally on Fed’s Plan to Buy Longer-Term Securities

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-09-21T20:54:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/treasuries-rally-as-fed-announces-purchases-of-longer-term-debt.html
Treasury 30-year bonds surged,
pushing the yields below 3 percent for the first time since 2009,
after the  Federal Reserve  said it will purchase longer-term debt
and sell shorter maturities to sustain the economic recovery.  The extra yield investors get to hold 30-year securities
instead of 10-year debt was 1.14 percentage points, compared
with an average of about 0.75 percentage point over the past
five years, giving policy makers latitude to drive borrowing
costs down. Yields on two-year notes rose after the Fed said it
will replace much of its short-term debt in its portfolio.  “This is a stronger policy action than the market was
expecting, given their aggressiveness further out the yield
curve, and so you are seeing Treasuries rally as a result,”
said Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank
AG’s private wealth management unit in  New York .  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point, to 3 percent at 4:48 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.75 percent
securities due in August 2041 gained 4 12/32, or $43.75 per
$1,000 face amount, to 114 26/32. The yields last dropped below
3 percent in January 2009 during the midst of the global
financial crisis.  Maturities of five years or less fell, with two-year note
yields rising three basis points to 0.19 percent after
decreasing yesterday to a record low 0.14 percent. The
difference in yield between two- and 30-year debt was 280 basis
points, the narrowest on a closing basis since April 2009.  Ten-Year Yields  Benchmark 10-year note yields slid eight basis points to
1.86 percent after falling to 1.85 percent, the lowest in Fed
figures beginning in 1953.  Thirty-year bonds have returned 26 percent this year,
triple the 8.5 percent gain in the broader Treasury market, for
the best year since the 2008 financial crisis, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  The central bank will buy $400 billion of bonds with
maturities of six to 30 years through June while selling an
equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less under a
program known as Operation Twist.  The Fed will also reinvest maturing mortgage debt into
mortgage-backed securities, the  Federal Open Market Committee 
said today in  Washington  after a two-day meeting. Three
officials dissented, the same as at the prior meeting in August.  “The belief is that the Fed is going to be a very large
buyer of much of the new production in agency mortgage-backed
instruments,” said Tad Rivelle, who oversees about $65 billion
as head of fixed-income investments at Los Angeles-based TCW
Group Inc.  Fannie Mae   Yields on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage securities
that guide home-loan rates tumbled relative to Treasuries after
the Federal Reserve said it will reinvest proceeds from past
purchases of housing debt into the bonds.  Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
securities fell about 0.15 percentage point to 1.07 percentage
point more than 10-year  U.S. government debt , the largest drop
since March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About 32 percent of the purchases will be in Treasuries
maturing from six to eight-years, 32 percent will be in debt due
in eight to 10 years, 4 percent will be in securities maturing
in 10 to 20 years, 29 percent will be in bonds due in 20 to 30
years and 3 percent will be in Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities maturing in six to 30 years, according to a statement
from the New York Fed.  ‘Another Bullet’  “The Fed’s firing another bullet should continue to bring
rates down further,” said  Andy Richman , who oversees $10
billion as a strategist in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , at SunTrust
Banks Inc.’s private wealth management division. “It’s not a
silver bullet, but it should help over the longer term.”  Policy makers were projected to replace short-term U.S.
debt in its $1.65 trillion portfolio with longer-term securities
by 71 percent of 42 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
program will probably fail to reduce the 9.1 percent jobless
rate, said 61 percent of the economists. Among those, 15 percent
predict it will be “somewhat harmful.”  Treasuries rose before the Fed’s decision after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the long-term credit ratings of Bank of
America Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co.  Moody’s cut Bank of America’s ratings to Baa1 from A2 for
long-term senior debt, with the outlook remaining negative.
Wells Fargo’s ratings were lowered to A2 from A1 by the ratings
company, with the outlook staying negative. Citigroup Inc. had
it short-term credit ratings cut to Prime 2 from Prime 1.  Policy Tools  Operation Twist is among a few untested policy tools that
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the Fed may use as risks
to the U.S. recovery rise and unprecedented easing falls short
of fulfilling the central bank’s mandate for full employment.  The Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries through June
under the second round of quantitative easing, following the
$1.7 trillion first round of purchases that ended in March 2010.  “QE2 didn’t seem to do a lot for the economy,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates  in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald
LP, one of 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed, before
the central bank’s statement.  Operation Twist gets its name from a policy conducted by
the Fed in cooperation with the Treasury Department in 1961,
when the central bank bought long-term securities as the
government concentrated its issuance in shorter maturity debt.  While Fed staff called it Operation Nudge, it became known
as Operation Twist, after Chubby Checker’s hit The Twist,
according to a report published March 14 by Eric Swanson, an
economist at the San Francisco Fed. The move lowered long-term
Treasury yields by about 15 basis points, according to Swanson.  August Pledge  Treasuries rose on Aug. 9, when the Fed pledged for the
first time to keep its target rate for overnight lending between
banks at a record low at least through mid-2013 to revive a
recovery that’s “considerably slower” than anticipated. The
yield on 10-year notes fell to what was a record low.  The central bank’s decision came after  Standard & Poor’s 
unprecedented cut of America’s credit rating on Aug. 5 to AA+
from AAA.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service affirmed
their top grades for  U.S. debt .  Treasuries have rallied this year on speculation  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis is worsening and concern the U.S. economic
recovery is stalling.  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its global growth
forecast, citing European turmoil and the potential for an
American fiscal impasse.  The world economy will expand 4 percent this year and next,
the IMF said yesterday, compared with June forecasts of 4.3
percent in 2011 and 4.5 percent in 2012. The U.S. growth
projection for 2011 was lowered to 1.5 percent from 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net  