-- 
Regeneron Surges on VA Order to Drop Avastin for Eyes

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-09-22T13:02:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/regeneron-surges-on-u-s-va-decision-to-eliminate-avastin-for-eye-disease.html
(Corrects story published yesterday to add word
Pharmaceuticals to name in first paragraph.)  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) 
shares surged to a 20-year high on a Department of  Veterans
Affairs  decision to stop using Roche AG’s cancer drug Avastin to
treat an eye disease as it investigates reports of serious
infections and blindness.  Regeneron, the developer of a rival drug for the condition,
rose $5.93, or 9.2 percent, to $70.28 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, after reaching $79.90, the highest since April
3, 1991. Roche rose less than 1 percent to close at 138.9 Swiss
francs before the VA decision was reported.  Regeneron, based in Tarrytown,  New York , is developing
Eylea, a more convenient injectible drug for wet age-related
macular degeneration, an eye disorder that affects more than 1
million Americans. The  Food and Drug Administration  in August
extended its target date to complete its review of the medicine
by three months to Nov. 18.  “It’s a positive for Eylea,” said  Yaron Werber , an
analyst with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in New York, by
phone. “The question is whether the VA is comfortable from this
point onwards using an off-label product that needs to be
compounded by the pharmacy.”  Avastin has to be repackaged in a process known as
compounding so it can be injected to treat the eye disease.
Pharmacies may face strict new regulations surrounding the
process, Werber said.  “The bar is going to be raised on where doctors are
getting compounded Avastin from,” he said.  Off-Label Prescribing  Avastin is only approved in the U.S. to treat certain
cancers. Once a drug is cleared, though, it can be prescribed
off label by doctors for any ailment. Lawmakers have been
pressuring U.S. health programs such as Medicare to expand
Avastin’s use for the potential savings. Avastin costs about $50
a dose compared with $2,000 for Lucentis.  The medicine, with $6.4 billion in 2010 sales, works in
both cancer and the eye disease by preventing blood-vessel
growth. Roche makes very little off of Avastin for the eye
disease, between $30 million to $40 million last year, Werber
said. The VA decision, announced in an e-mail to Bloomberg News,
comes after the FDA rejected the drug’s use in  breast cancer 
because of the risk of deadly bleeding.  The VA decision may chill future calls to expand Avastin’s
uses, said Scott Gottlieb, a former deputy commissioner for
medical and scientific affairs at the FDA.  Expanded Uses  “I don’t think doctors are getting their cues from the VA,
but I think you’ll see implications on the policy side,”
Gottlieb, who consults for  Genentech , the unit of Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche that developed the drug. “You’ll see
proponents less likely to stand up for it.”  Democratic Senator  Herb Kohl  of  Wisconsin  and  Sherrod Brown 
of  Ohio  have pushed the Medicare program to declare Avastin
necessary to fight wet age-related macular degeneration.  Medicare can’t take cost into account in making such
determinations and doesn’t have to issue the recommendations.  The VA is investigating eye infections and in the meantime
is no longer using Avastin, the department said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Once the investigation is complete, VA will reassess how
Avastin and similar therapies may be made available for
ophthalmologic use and will issue further guidance,” the
statement said.  The FDA last month  linked  at least a dozen serious eye
infections in the Miami area to repackaged Avastin. Some of the
cases resulted in blindness.  Roche is aware of reports of patients in Miami, Nashville
and  Los Angeles  who have developed severe eye infections, some
resulting in permanent vision loss, after receiving Avastin,
Terence Hurley, a spokesman for the company, said. In Miami, the
syringes were contaminated with bacteria and the FDA found no
evidence of contamination in vials of Avastin, Hurley said.  The FDA also is investigating the serious eye infections,
Shelly Burgess, an agency spokeswoman, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 