-- 
India RBI Currently Not Intervening in Rupee, Mukherjee Says

-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-09-22T07:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/reserve-bank-not-currently-intervening-in-rupee-mukherjee-says.html
India ’s central bank will intervene
in the currency market to curb excessive swings in the rupee,
though it isn’t doing so at the moment, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told reporters yesterday in  New York .  The rupee, Asia’s worst performer this year, fell to a two-
year low today as investors favored the dollar’s relative safety
over emerging-market assets after the  Federal Reserve  said there
are “significant downside risks” to the  U.S. economy . A gauge
of expected fluctuations in the Indian currency, which traders
use to price options, climbed to a 15-month high today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “At the moment, it sounds more like verbal intervention,”
said Nick Verdi, a Singapore-based currency strategist at
 Barclays Capital , referring to Mukherjee’s comment. “The extent
to which India would intervene depends on whether the rupee
slides further and how currencies are doing regionally.”  The rupee slid 0.8 percent to 48.79 per dollar as of 11:53
a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 48.8500 earlier, the weakest level since Sept. 4, 2009,
and lost 8.4 percent this year. South Korea’s won is the
region’s second-worst performing currency with a 5.8 percent
decline.  Implied volatility on one-month, dollar-rupee options
jumped to 12.5 percent today, the highest level since June 2010,
from 11 percent yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Overseas funds withdrew a net $2.3 billion from Indian stocks in
August, the most since October 2008, according to exchange data.  Asian Dollar Index  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, fell 0.9
percent today to 114.90, the lowest level this year.  “If the rest of the region continues to be sold off
there’s little incentive for the Indian authorities to step in
independently,” said Verdi. The rupee may rebound to 47 per
dollar by the end of 2011, he predicted.  The Reserve Bank of India will sell dollars to control
movements in the  exchange rate , though “right now there is no
such situation,” Mukherjee said. The rupee’s exchange rate may
remain volatile for the next six months, trade secretary Rahul
Khullar said in Kolkata today.  The monetary authority didn’t buy or sell foreign
currencies in the eight months through July after purchasing a
net $870 million in November 2010, according to data on the
central bank’s website. Central banks intervene by buying or
selling their currencies to influence exchange rates.  The  Reserve Bank  sold dollars after the rupee fell below 48
against the greenback on Sept. 14 for the first time in two
years, a trader at a state-owned bank said that day, declining
to be identified as he is not authorized to speak to the media.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Benson in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  