-- 
Rethink Police Procedures to Save Innocent, Convict Guilty: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-21T00:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/rethink-police-procedures-to-save-innocent-convict-guilty-view.html
If there is cause to doubt the
justice of the execution this week of Troy Davis by the state of
 Georgia , it stems in part from the fact that seven witnesses
recanted after Davis’ trial. A  study  released Monday provides
additional confirmation that rules on eyewitness evidence in
criminal trials must change.  The study, co-sponsored by the Innocence Project, the
American Judicature Society and the Police Foundation, follows a
unanimous decision last month by the  New Jersey Supreme Court ,
which ruled that the state’s procedures for handling eyewitness
evidence must be upgraded to reflect the findings of decades of
social science research.  As Chief Justice Stuart Rabner wrote, current rules on
eyewitness evidence provide neither “adequate measure for
reliability,” nor a sufficient deterrent to “inappropriate
police conduct.”  The failings have been  exposed  through some 2,000 studies
of eyewitness identifications over the past three decades. As
investigations of human psychology, the studies are fascinating;
as assessments of American justice, however, they are deeply
disturbing, documenting an extraordinarily high prevalence of
error in eyewitness identifications in both lab experiments and
cases in the field. As a  report  from New Jersey’s court-
appointed special master concluded, “At a minimum, almost one
third of witnesses who make identifications are wrong.”  If that seems implausibly high, consider this: Three-
quarters of convictions overturned on the basis of DNA evidence
involved eyewitness identifications. In more than a third of
those cases, multiple eyewitnesses identified the same innocent
suspect. (There is no way of knowing how high the rate of
eyewitness error might be in cases where DNA is not a factor,
though there is no reason to think it is lower.)  Witness Stress  Some witness errors result from faulty memories that have
been further clouded by the stress that often accompanies seeing
a crime. Witnesses are especially prone to error when
identifying a suspect of a different race. Other
misidentifications are a product of everyday human frailty
combined with substandard -- yet widespread -- police
procedures. This is where the  New Jersey  court has rendered an
important service, demanding that police adopt higher standards
to maintain the credibility of eyewitness evidence.  For example, police lineups should be supervised by
officers who are not involved in the investigation. Instructions
for witnesses should be purposefully neutral, because research
has shown that witnesses can be swayed by even unconscious,
nonverbal cues from officers.  The study released Monday makes a strong case for
organizing suspect lineups sequentially, so witnesses are shown
photos one by one. Such an arrangement discourages witnesses
from selecting a suspect on the basis that he or she simply
looks more like the perpetrator than any of the others. (In the
Davis case, police in Savannah showed Davis’s photo to some
witnesses even before the lineup and re-enacted the crime in
front of four witnesses.)  Witnesses should be instructed that a suspect may or may
not be in a given lineup and that they shouldn’t feel compelled
to make a choice. Officers should avoid giving any kind of
confirmatory feedback after a selection is made, in order to
avoid transforming an uncertain witness into a highly confident
-- yet no less erroneous -- one.     More than a decade ago, the
 National Institute of Justice , an arm of the  U.S. Department of
Justice , issued updated guidelines for handling eyewitness
testimony to every police department in the country. The
International Association of Chiefs of Police issued its own
training guidelines in 2006, stating that “erroneous
identifications create more injustice and cause more suffering
to innocent persons than perhaps any other aspect of police
work.”  Jury Instructions  Yet the changes have been hard to put in place given the
decentralization of U.S. law enforcement, which includes 16,000
independent agencies.  In  California , courts have used their leverage to prod some
police departments to adopt better procedures. Departments that
use substandard procedures risk a California trial judge
informing a jury of just how unreliable eyewitness evidence
obtained under sub-optimal circumstances can be. If judges go
too far with such instructions, they can prejudice a jury
against legitimate evidence. But the risk of poor police
procedures leading to contaminated evidence is at least as
great.  By producing statewide guidelines for handling eyewitness
evidence, New Jersey has issued a challenge that should be
answered nationwide. Police departments across the U.S. must now
adopt the necessary changes. These sensible measures are not
efforts to hamstring police and prosecutors; they are designed
to prevent the conviction of the innocent, the effect of which
is to let the truly guilty go free.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 