-- 
Rice May Drop as Indian Shipments Intensify Competition for Export Orders

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j ,   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-09-21T08:32:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/rice-may-drop-as-indian-shipments-intensify-competition-for-export-orders.html
Rice, which has beaten corn and
soybeans in the past year, may drop as India restarts non-
basmati exports after lifting a ban, buyers including  Indonesia 
purchase less than expected and global harvests gain to a record.  The Indian shipments will have a bearish impact and futures
may average $16 per 100 pounds in  Chicago  in the fourth quarter,
according to Abah Ofon, an analyst at  Standard Chartered  Plc.
That compares with $16.988 so far this quarter. Prices may fall
as India’s shipments cut Thailand’s market share in  Africa , said
Mohammad Ismet, a senior adviser to Indonesian food agency Bulog.  Cheaper rice may improve the lives of the 1.1 billion the
 World Bank  says live on less than $1 a day, while restraining
food inflation and cutting the pressure on central banks to
raise  interest rates . Global food prices have rallied 26 percent
in the past year, bolstered by a plan by Thailand, the largest
exporter, to buy rice from farmers at above-market rates.  “There will be some short-term fears on India entering the
white-rice market,” said Jeremy Zwinger, chief executive
officer of The Rice Trader, a weekly industry report based in
 California . Still, “with Thailand staying strong on the price
intervention, there may be a reversal of ideas as India sells
quantity very quickly.”  Rice has surged 42 percent in Chicago in the past 12 months,
beating rallies in corn and soybeans, while wheat has declined.
The November-delivery contract climbed 0.2 percent to $17.225 at
4:20 p.m. in Singapore. The price touched $18.54 on Sept. 12,
the highest since October 2008. The weekly rate for 100 percent
grade-B Thai rice was quoted at $619 per metric ton today.  Indian Exports  India’s government, which banned private companies from
shipping non-basmati rice in April 2008 amid a global food
crisis, lifted that restriction on Sept. 8. Exports from the
world’s second-largest producer may total 4 million tons in the
year from April 1, Vijay Setia, president of the All  India  Rice
Exporters Association, said on Sept. 13.  Indian shipments will account for 11 percent of global
trade this calendar year, overtaking the U.S. and  Pakistan  to
become the third-largest shipper, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture , or USDA, in a Sept. 12 report.  Shipments from Pakistan may exceed 4 million tons in 2011-
2012, beating a USDA estimate for exports, Shamsul Islam Khan, a
board member of the Rice Exporters Association of Pakistan, said
at a conference in Singapore today. Production may surge 38
percent to 6.5 million tons in 2011-2012, he said.  “I don’t see rice prices running away,” Ofon, the analyst
at Standard Chartered, said in an interview in Singapore today.
“Prices will moderate.”  ‘Quite Dangerous’  The end of India’s curbs, coupled with Thailand’s plan, may
add to volatility, exposing traders to potential losses, said
Amit Gulrajani, general manager for rice trading and shipping at
 Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , one of the world’s three biggest rice
traders. “Going long or short could be quite dangerous,” said
Gulrajani, referring to bets on gains and losses.  Imports by Indonesia may be capped at 1.2 million tons this
year, said Bulog’s Ismet. That’s less than a forecast of 2.2
million tons from the USDA. Imports include the 400,000 tons
bought from Vietnam last week, Ismet said.  Bangladesh , South Asia’s biggest buyer, may cut its
forecast for imports by half as local output climbs, according
to the Bangladesh Directorate General of Food. Shipments may
total 400,000 tons in the year from July 1 compared with 800,000
tons estimated two months ago, according to Badrul Hasan,
director for procurement at the Bangladesh Directorate General
of Food. Imports were 1.26 million tons in the year to June 30.  Record Production  Global output may climb to a record 458.4 million tons in
2011-2012, buoyed by larger harvests in  China , the  Philippines 
and the U.S., according to the Sept. 12  report  by the USDA. That
would be a second year of record supply, outpacing demand and
lifting so-called ending stockpiles to the highest level in nine
years, the USDA said.  Thailand  plans to pay 15,000 baht per ton ($493) for
unmilled white rice and 20,000 baht for Hom Mali fragrant rice,
as much as 50 percent above current rates, according to
Bloomberg News calculations based on data from the  Thai Rice
Mills Association . The country is willing to give up its
position as largest exporter to boost rural incomes, Deputy
Prime Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said on Sept. 12. State
purchases are due to start on Oct. 7.  Thailand’s rice-buying policy may “create problems” for
the government as it will inflate stockpiles and the state may
be unable to sell them on the open market without losses,
 Abdolreza Abbassian , senior economist at the Food & Agriculture
Organization, said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday.  The Thai export price may gain to about $650 a ton by the
yearend, said Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat, a director at Novel
Commodities SA’s Thai office, who correctly forecast a rally
late last year. “That is the level that buyers can accept.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  