-- 
Riverstone-Backed Cuadrilla Makes U.K.’s Largest Shale-Gas Find

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-09-21T17:49:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/riverstone-backed-cuadrilla-makes-u-k-s-largest-shale-gas-find.html
Cuadrilla Resources Ltd., a
private-equity backed shale-gas explorer in the U.K., said
drilling results indicated its license area in northwest  England 
may hold 200 trillion cubic feet of the fuel.  “We’ve got a very sizable resource in place,” Dennis
Carlton, executive director of Cuadrilla Resources, said in a
phone interview from Blackpool, England. “Without drilling
individual units within the thick shale we don’t know what the
recovery factor will be.”  Two exploration wells near the seaside resort of Blackpool
found shale formations almost 10 times as thick as typical U.S.
deposits, Carlton said. Hydraulic fracturing, a process that
uses water, sand and chemicals to smash apart rocks and release
trapped fuel, reversed declines in U.S. natural-gas output and
made it the world’s largest producer.  As many as seven exploration wells may need to be drilled,
fractured and tested before more information can be given about
recoverable reserves, he said. Investors in Cuadrilla include
Riverstone Holdings LLC, led by former BP Plc Chief Executive
Officer  John Browne , and  AJ Lucas Group Ltd. (AJL)   “In the Marcellus, if you have a 300- to 400-foot
interval, that’s on the high side,” he said, referring to one
of the largest U.S. shale-gas basins. “We’ve got 3,000 foot of
shale.”  The U.K.’s largest shale resource found to date is
equivalent to 5.6 trillion cubic meters, or about three times
 Norway ’s existing, proved reserves. Norway is the second-largest
gas exporter to Europe and the biggest foreign supplier to
Britain.  Recover Fraction  Cuadrilla is likely to be able to recover only a fraction
of the gas trapped in the rocks. The U.K.’s technically
recoverable shale resources are 20 trillion cubic feet, the U.S.
department of Energy said in an April report.  The company has 1,200 square kilometers (300,000 acres)
under license in northwest England, covering 80 to 90 percent of
the shale in the area, he said.  “We’ve got the best of the best, at least in the Bowland
basin,” he said.  North Sea gas production is declining and the U.K. is
increasingly reliant on imports to meet  Europe ’s highest demand
for natural gas.  Cuadrilla voluntarily halted fracking at its operations  in
June after “small tremors” were reported in the area,
according to its website. The company will submit a report to
the Department of Energy and Climate Change in October, Carlton
said.  Carlton estimated a “mid-case” scenario of drilling 400
production wells from 40 well pads in the future. To date they
have drilled two exploration wells and have historical data from
three 10- to 15-year-old wells drilled by British Gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  