-- 
Rousseff Like Lula on Mideast Keeps Brazil-U.S. Ties Chilled

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-09-21T15:24:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/rousseff-like-lula-on-mideast-keeps-brazil-u-s-ties-chilled.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
seemed to signal that she would be less accommodating to
dictators than her predecessor when she criticized Iran’s human
rights record even before taking office in January.  So far, the shift from former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva  has been more style than substance, according to former
Foreign Minister Luiz Felipe Lampreia.  In March, Brazil, which is serving a two-year term as a
United Nations  Security Council  member, voted against
authorizing air strikes in Libya. Then in June, Rousseff
declined to meet with Iranian dissident and Nobel Peace Prize
winner Shirin Ebadi. Two months later, Brazil joined  South
Africa  and India in blocking a move in the UN to pressure the
Syrian government as it cracked down on protesters.  Rousseff cited her own experience as victim of torture and
said she supports letting  Palestine  into the UN in her speech
opening the General Assembly today. She also said developing
nations need to have a bigger say in the operations of
multilateral institutions, anti-poverty efforts and plans to
fight the global financial crisis.  “As a woman that suffered corporal torture, I know how
important are the values of democracy, justice, human rights and
liberty,” she said. “The reform of multilateral financial
institutions should, without a shadow of a doubt, continue to
increase participation of emerging countries, which are
principally responsible for global economic growth.”  Permanent Seat  Brazil’s campaign for a permanent seat on the Security
Council is ill-served by its failure to confront “destabilizing
countries” like  Iran , Libya and  Syria , said Rep. Eliot Engel,
the top Democrat on the House subcommittee overseeing  Latin
America .  “While President Rousseff has pulled Brazil away from the
coziness with Iran that was evident under her predecessor Lula,
Brazil still seems to coddle and make excuses for these
dangerous regimes,” Engel, who co-chairs the Congressional
Brazil Caucus that works to strengthen bilateral ties, said in
an e-mailed statement before Rousseff’s speech.  Lula visited more than 100 countries during his eight-year
term; Rousseff, 63, instead has focused on domestic concerns
such as shoring up growth in Latin America’s biggest economy.
While she has parted company with Lula on issues including
containing spending and corruption, her foreign-policy apparatus
resembles Lula’s: Foreign Minister Antonio Patriota was Lula’s
No. 2 diplomat.  ‘Marketing Tool’  “Lula looked to foreign policy as a big marketing tool to
project Brazil’s growing economic power,” Lampreia said.
“Dilma has other problems to solve.”  Rousseff’s foreign policy isn’t intended to provoke, said
 Alexandre Barros , head of Brasilia-based political risk
consulting firm Early Warning.  “It was always an American fantasy that Brazil would align
itself with the U.S.,” said Barros in a telephone interview.
“It’s not about being against something. Brazil just has its
own interests.”  In the case of  Libya , those interests include investments
such as Salvador-based Odebrecht SA’s building of a new terminal
at Tripoli’s airport and Rio de Janeiro-based Petroleo
Brasileiro SA’s exploration for oil. Under Lula, trade with Iran
more than doubled to $1.2 billion a year and the Islamic
Republic is now the second-biggest buyer of Brazil’s beef,
account for 20 percent of $2 billion in exports.  Economic Growth  After expanding 7.5 percent last year, the most in two
decades, growth is Brazil’s economy is expected to grow less
than 4 percent this year, according to central bank. The
nation’s benchmark Bovespa stock index sank 19 percent this year
on concern the global recovery may be faltering and inflation
hit a six-year high. The real has fallen 11 percent this month,
to 1.7839 per  U.S. dollar , easing manufacturers’ fears over a
flood of Chinese imports after a 30 percent rally in the
currency since end of 2008.  Rousseff will be the first woman to open the General
Assembly in the UN’s 66-year history. Her speech will be closely
watched for clarification of policies that have sometimes
appeared contradictory, said Matias Spektor, an international
relations professor at  Rio de Janeiro ’s  Getulio Vargas
Foundation .  Last November, after being elected, Rousseff criticized
Lula’s abstention on a UN resolution condemning human rights
abuses in Iran, including a plan to stone a woman to death for
alleged adultery. “I do not agree with the way  Brazil  voted,”
she told the Washington Post in a Dec. 2 interview.  The statement, coming from a woman who was herself tortured
while jailed during Brazil’s 1964-1985 military regime, fueled
speculation that she would distance herself from her mentor’s
 Middle East  policies, said Spektor.  Iran Ties  Lula, 65, angered Brazil’s Jewish population and the Obama
administration by pursuing close ties with Iran, first hosting
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2009 and then visiting Tehran.
Brazil-U.S. ties reached a nadir last year when Brazil’s UN
ambassador voted against tighter sanctions on Iran’s nuclear
program and Lula helped Turkey broker a deal to provide the
country with nuclear fuel.  Lula, pushed by his Workers’ Party, also maintained
friendly relations with such U.S. adversaries as Libya’s  Muammar Qaddafi , former Cuban President  Fidel Castro , and Venezuelan
President Hugo Chavez.  Rousseff, in contrast, hosted  Barack Obama  in Brasilia less
than three months after taking office, likening her election as
Brazil’s first female president to his historic win as the first
black U.S. head of state.  Less Rhetoric  While Rousseff has avoided the rhetoric of her former boss,
who compared the crushing of pro-democracy protests in Tehran to
a fight between rival Rio de Janeiro soccer fans, her government
has taken positions unwelcome to the U.S.  In addition to abstaining on the UN vote on Libya, Brazil
in August teamed with  India  and South Africa to block UN moves
to freeze foreign assets of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
family and impose an arms embargo on the country after he sent
out troops and used artillery to suppress protestors.  The three countries, all of which aspire to a permanent
seat on the Security Council, issued a statement Aug. 10 urging
restraint on all sides. Lampreia said the move was “tantamount
to an endorsement” of Assad’s killing of thousands of
civilians. The positions by the three countries drew criticism
from  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN.  “Let me just say, we’ve learned a lot and, frankly, not
all of it encouraging,” Rice told reporters Sept. 13.  Palestine Recognition  On Iran, Rousseff angered Brazil’s opposition and human-
rights groups by declining to meet with dissident Ebadi when she
visited Brazil in June. Rousseff also backed Lula’s recognition
of Palestine based on borders before  Israel  seized control of
the West Bank in 1967, a position that may pit her against the
U.S. if Palestinian authorities seek full UN membership.  As a rising global power, “Brazil needs to define its
principles now and stick to them,” Rep. Connie Mack, the
Florida Republican who chairs the House subcommittee on Latin
America, said in an e-mailed statement.  Rousseff, speaking to Brazilian foreign service graduates
in April, called for a “truly multi-polar” international
system, one that reflects the changing balance of power in the
21st century. While Rousseff may shy away from foreign policy,
Brazil is more relevant to the global economy than when Lula
took office in 2003 and the government is likely to use its
growing heft to make its voice heard, said Spektor.  “There’s been a change of style since Lula, but I’m not
sure it’ll amount to anything more than that,” he said.  “The
more powerful countries like Brazil become, the more tensions
we’ll see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  