-- 
Trump to Expand Brand With China, Japan Projects After Manila, Seoul Entry

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-09-21T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/trump-to-expand-brand-with-china-japan-projects-after-manila-seoul-entry.html
Donald J. Trump , the U.S.
billionaire real-estate developer, is planning to put his name
on projects in  China  and  Japan  as he expands his brand in Asia
after developments for  South Korea , the Philippines and India.  China’s 300 million middle-class population and their
aspirations for brands and lifestyles make it an attractive
market, said Eric Trump, executive vice president of development
and acquisitions at Trump Organization. Japan is similar, he
said, adding that the company is in talks with various partners
in both markets.  “Asia is very powerful, it’s booming and it really values
brands and lifestyles associated with brands,” Trump, who is a
son of Donald Trump, said in a phone interview from  New York  on
Sept. 20. “We had some very successful projects in the Korean
market which made us start looking at Asia as a whole.”  The New York developer and reality TV star is seeking to
build his brand by putting his name on luxury properties in Asia
to appeal to a growing number of millionaires. Asia-Pacific
millionaires outnumbered those in  Europe  for the first time in
2010, according to a survey by Capgemini SA and Bank of America
Corp. Asia’s 3.3 million high-net-worth individuals had $10.8
trillion in assets, compared with the $10.2 trillion accumulated
by their 3.1 million counterparts in Europe, according to the
report in June.  ‘Aspire for Brands’  “Developed markets have matured and reached a certain
level of brand consciousness, now its  Asia ’s turn to aspire for
brands,” said Ashutosh Limaye, director of strategic consulting
at the Indian unit of Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. “In Asia, we have
seen the demand for branded consumer goods and products, now
that’s extending to branded real estate.”  Trump’s latest venture in Asia is a luxury residential
tower in Manila that’s being constructed by Century Properties
Inc., a Philippine developer, which has the license to use the
brand. It will be called  Trump Tower Manila .  Asian buyers “can afford to buy the best,” Trump said,
citing the developer’s Waikiki project where Japanese buyers
accounted for 15 percent of the more than $700 million in sales
in just four hours. “We appeal to the top 1 percent in terms of
demographics.”  The 55-story  Manila  building, expected to be completed by
2016, will be part of a 3.4 hectare development in the financial
capital of Makati, Robbie Antonio, managing director at Century
Properties, said in an e-mailed response to queries from
Bloomberg News. The 220 apartments ranging from 600-square-foot
units to 4,300-square-foot penthouses will be priced between
$208,000 and $2 million, he said.  Spa, Yoga Studio  The tower will include a fine-dining restaurant, spa,
fitness center, a yoga studio, as well as a juice bar, sun deck
and lap pool, according to a statement from the developer.  Trump has apartment projects in  Seoul , the only Asian
location where it has developments, according to its website.  The Trump brand has licensed projects from the U.S. to
Panama and Turkey, and has buildings from skyscrapers in
Manhattan to condominiums in Tijuana, Mexico.  In  India , Trump is planning a luxury residential tower in
 Mumbai , where he has tied up with a local developer for the
company’s first venture in the south Asian nation. Trump will
also lend his brand to apparel and fashion accessories in the
country. Sales for the Mumbai tower will start fairly soon,
Trump said in the interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  