-- 
Russia Faces Recession for Two Years With $50 Oil, IMF Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-21T09:26:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/russia-faces-recession-for-two-years-with-50-oil-imf-says-1-.html
Russia’s economy would slip into
recession for one to two years if  oil prices  fall to $50 a
barrel next year and stay at that level, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  The worst-case scenario “illustrates the continuing
vulnerabilities of the Russian economy” because of its
dependence on commodity exports, said Odd Per Brekk, the IMF’s
senior representative in Moscow.  Russia will grow 4.3 percent this year and 4.1 percent in
2012, less than previously forecast because of a worsening
outlook for oil prices, the Washington-based lender said
yesterday in a report. In June, the IMF had estimated growth of
4.8 percent and 4.5 percent.  “We expect a continuation of the fairly tentative recovery
in the Russian economy combined with fairly high inflation,”
Brekk told a round-table today in Moscow, after the forecast
cut. “But even with those downward adjustments, we still
consider the risks to be on the down side.”  The global recovery is faltering and  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis is roiling markets, clouding growth prospects for
the world’s biggest energy exporter. Finance ministers and
central bankers are preparing to travel to  Washington  this week
for the annual meeting of the 187-member IMF to discuss the debt
crisis and the world slowdown.  Oil Prospects Dim  Prospects for oil, Russia’s chief export earner, have
deteriorated since the IMF reviewed its economic forecasts in
June, the report said.  Urals, Russia’s benchmark export blend, gained about 0.5
percent to $112.15 in northwest Europe, up about 45 percent from
a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The crude
dropped as low as $32.34 in December 2008 after a high of
$142.50 in July of that year.  Russia ’s non-oil deficit, or the shortfall excluding
revenue from oil and gas sales, remains a “source of concern”
and is a better measure to gauge budget stability, Finance
Minister Alexei Kudrin said today.  The non-oil deficit reached 12.6 percent of gross domestic
product last year, 4 to 5 percentage points above an acceptable
level, Kudrin told lawmakers in Moscow today. That compared with
a total budget gap of 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 