-- 
Saab Automobile Reorganization Request Approved by Swedish Appeals Court

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-21T14:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/saab-auto-gets-chance-to-reorganize-after-court-halts-bankruptcy.html
Saab Automobile  staved off
bankruptcy after a Swedish court granted the struggling
carmaker’s appeal for protection from creditors, giving it a
chance to restart production.  The Court of Appeal for Western Sweden today approved
Saab’s request for voluntary reorganization, overturning a lower
tribunal’s ruling, according to a decision posted on the
Gothenburg-based court’s website. The decision halts pending
bankruptcy petitions filed by creditors.  Saab’s chances “have increased quite drastically as they
have the time now to reorganize and get possible funding from
 China ,” said Martin Crum, an analyst at Amsterdams
Effectenkantoor BV. “It’s essential now that they figure out a
way to deal with the suppliers. There’s still huge
uncertainty.”  Saab, which  General Motors Co. (GM)  sold last year, first halted
production in late March after suppliers stopped delivering
parts because they hadn’t been paid. Assembly at the main
factory in Trollhaettan has been quiet since early June. In
August, it delayed paying wages for the third consecutive month,
prompting unions to try and force the carmaker into bankruptcy
in an effort to secure state coverage of their salaries.  ‘Huge Challenge’  Swedish Automobile, Saab’s owner, surged as much as 41
cents, or 46 percent, and was up 29 percent at 1.15 euros as of
4:43 p.m. in Amsterdam. The share has plunged 67 percent this
year, valuing the Zeewolde, Netherlands-based company at 31.1
million euros ($42.5 million).  As part of its reorganization, Saab will begin an effort to
establish a “more flexible and more competitive cost
structure” that may involve cutting jobs, Swedish Automobile
NV, the carmaker’s Dutch owner, said in a statement.  “This is fantastic news, not the least for the employees
that will get their salaries,”  Eric Geers , a Saab spokesman,
said by phone about the court decision. “But while this
improves our circumstances a lot, we’re still facing a huge
challenge.”  Saab will now restart payment and delivery negotiations
with its suppliers, which the company has said it owes 150
million euros ($205 million), Geers said. It’s “very hard to
judge” whether Saab will be able to restart production this
year, he said.  State Wage Guarantee  The reorganization ensures that the Swedish state will
cover salary payments for at least three months, a period that
could be extended up to a year, Geers said. The workers should
get their missing August salary “in a few days,” he said.  The Vaenersborg District court today named Swedish attorney
Guy Lofalk to head the reorganization effort, approving Saab’s
request.  Lofalk also oversaw Saab’s previous reorganization in
2009.  Darko Davidovic, counsel at IF Metall, Saab’s biggest union
with about 1,500 members, said it’s crucial that Saab resumes
assembly lines as fast as possible.  “Now it’s about restarting production and making money,”
Davidovic said by phone. “They must sell cars. It doesn’t help
how much financing they get if they don’t earn money.”  IF Metall filed a petition yesterday to put Saab into
bankruptcy, becoming the fourth creditor after Japanese seat-
belt and air-bag maker Takata Corp. and two other unions
appealed to the courts. The ruling by the appeals court in
Gothenburg today overrides those petitions for at least three
months, according to Swedish law.  Financing Plans  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is prepared to extend Saab a 70 million-
euro bridge loan after Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile
offered collateral to back the payment, two people familiar with
the matter said Sept. 19. Swedish Automobile said on Sept. 12
that it agreed to sell the rights to use its new vehicle
platform to Youngman for 70 million euros, providing the basis
for the collateral.  Saab has other financing agreements in place. Swedish
Automobile, formerly known as Spyker, agreed in June to sell a
29.9 percent stake to Youngman for 136 million euros. Pang Da
Automobile Trade Co., China’s biggest dealer by market value,
offered to pay 109 million euros for a 24 percent stake.
Regulators and GM must still approve the deals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  