-- 
SABMiller to Buy Foster’s After Raising Bid

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-09-21T15:06:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/sabmiller-agrees-to-acquire-foster-s-after-boosting-bid-to-10-2-billion.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB)  clinched  Foster’s
Group Ltd. (FGL)  with a sweetened A$9.9 billion ($10.2 billion) offer
for Australia’s biggest brewer after three months of pursuit.  SABMiller will pay A$5.10 a share in cash for Melbourne-
based Foster’s, the U.K. company said today. Foster’s
shareholders will also get 30 cents a share as part of a
previously announced capital return and a 13.25-cent final
dividend. The offer was previously for A$4.90 minus dividends.  The purchase will be the biggest ever by London-based
SABMiller and give it access to about half of the Australian
beer market. SABMiller’s initial attempts to buy the maker of
Victoria Bitter were rebuffed by Foster’s management as
undervaluing the brewer, one of the world’s most profitable.  “The deal makes strategic and financial sense for SAB,”
said Simon Hales, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London.
“It’ll be taken well even though the headline offer price is
slightly more than we would have hoped.”  SABMiller fell 66.5 pence, or 3 percent, to 2,154.5 pence
as of 4.05 p.m. in London. Foster’s fell 2 cents to A$4.89 at
the close of trading in Sydney today. The agreement between the
companies was announced after Australian markets closed.  The bid values Foster’s at 12.5 times estimated earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, SABMiller
Chief Financial Officer Jamie Wilson said on a conference call.
The average for comparable transactions in the brewing industry
is 11.5 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Younger Customers  SABMiller said the revised offer gives Foster’s an
enterprise value, equal to the sum of its stock and debt minus
cash, of A$11.5 billion. That’s only 2.8 percent higher than the
A$11.2 billion value of its original bid, it said.  “They haven’t been daft,” Julian Chillingworth, who helps
manage 16 billion pounds including SABMiller shares at Rathbone
Brothers Plc in  London , said of the price for Foster’s.  “It’s not just about price here, it’s what they can or
can’t do with the business,” Chillingworth said.  SABMiller’s acquisition of Foster’s will be the biggest
takeover of a brewer since InBev NV acquired Anheuser-Busch Cos.
for $52 billion in 2008.  Foster’s had previously resisted the offer as too low,
instead focusing on Chief Executive Officer  John Pollaers ’ plan
to return at least A$500 million to investors and revive
earnings. Pollaers is introducing new brands to appeal to
younger consumers and win back customers who switched to sweeter
drinks like pre-mixed spirits. He ran the beer unit for 13
months before the company spun off Treasury Wine Estates Ltd.,
the world’s second-largest wine business, to focus on reviving
beer earnings.  Profit Margins  SABMiller said the takeover will have a positive effect on
its per-share earnings in the first full year of ownership.  Foster’s beer operating profit margin, or earnings before
interest and tax as a proportion of sales, was 36 percent last
year, higher than the 30.8 percent at Anheuser-Busch InBev NV,
the world’s biggest brewer, in the year ended December, and the
23.5 percent of SABMiller in the year ended March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  SABMiller will aim to improve Foster’s profitability by
“reinvigorating and repositioning” some of its brands,
including possibly selling some brands outside  Australia ,
although not at a “significant” level, CEO Graham Mackay said
today on a conference call. The Foster’s brand is also sold by
SABMiller in  India .  Emerging Markets  SABMiller said it has internal resources and committed
financing to fund the takeover and expects to maintain a
“strong” investment-grade credit profile. The brewer hired
banks to raise $12.5 billion of loans for the bid, a person with
knowledge of the deal said last month.  SABMiller has a higher exposure to emerging markets than
most rivals and is therefore considered to have less to lose by
increasing its presence in developed markets with Foster’s. The
percentage of earnings from markets outside the U.S. and western
 Europe  will drop to about 70 percent after the takeover, from
more than 80 percent now, MF Global analysts estimate.  The maker of almost 200 brands from Miller High Life to
Lech and Chairman’s Extra Strong Beer became the second-largest
brewer by volume after at least 30 deals in developing nations
from  Colombia  to Poland and India.  SABMiller said it has entered into swap contracts that will
give it about 4 percent of Foster’s shares, reducing the cash
cost of the acquisition by about A$69 million.  Break Fee  Mackay said he didn’t anticipate a competing bid for
Foster’s. “If there is anyone, we don’t know who he is, or of
him, but you can never say never.”  Foster’s must pay SABMiller a break fee of A$99 million in
the event that it walks away from the deal.  SABMiller has retained JPMorgan Chase & Co., Moelis & Co.,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Morgan Stanley as financial
advisers and  Allen & Overy  and Hogan Lovells International LLP
as legal advisers, the U.K. brewer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 