-- 
Mackay Snares Foster’s Without Australia Trip

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r ,   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-09-22T08:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/sabmiller-ceo-mackay-clinched-foster-s-deal-without-a-visit-to-australia.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB)  Chief Executive
Officer Graham Mackay managed to snare the biggest Australian
brewer without setting foot in the country.  Following a three-month pursuit that turned hostile, Mackay
met  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  Chairman David Crawford at a conference
in Istanbul last week, two people with direct knowledge of the
negotiations said. The meeting came after Foster’s approached
its suitor following indications from some of its largest
investors that they’d accept a higher bid, one of the people
said, declining to be identified because the talks were private.  Crawford and his board had rebuffed Mackay since June, when
the London-based company offered A$4.90 a share to buy the maker
of Victoria Bitter. Foster’s agreed yesterday to be bought for
A$5.10 a share, or about A$9.9 billion ($9.93 billion), in cash,
driving the stock 7.6 percent higher today. The purchase is
SABMiller’s biggest and will boost earnings per share in the
first full year of ownership, the company said yesterday.  “A couple of weeks ago, it became obvious our positions
weren’t irreconcilably far apart,” Mackay said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television, referring to the offer price. “We’ve
thought for a while that this was an attractive deal at the
right price.”  Andrew Butcher , a spokesman for Foster’s external media
adviser Butcher & Co. in Melbourne, declined to comment on the
negotiations, as did SABMiller’s  Nigel Fairbrass .  Due Diligence  After the executives hammered out broad lines of the deal,
SABMiller did due diligence on the assets, the people said. A
final deal was reached about an hour before the purchase was
announced after the close of Australian trading yesterday.  Advisers to Melbourne-based Foster’s approached SABMiller
after the U.K. maker of Grolsch had said it would take its offer
directly to shareholders. Before SABMiller could file its formal
bidding document to finalize the hostile offer, Foster’s asked
it to put its final bid forward, the people said.  Foster’s said the total agreed offer is worth A$5.5325 a
share to investors, after including a payment of 30 cents a
share as part of a capital return and a 13.25-cent final
dividend as a result of the talks.  The 30-cent payment is conditional on  Australia ’s tax
office ruling it as a capital return to investors and not a
dividend. If that can’t be achieved, SABMiller will increase its
bid to A$5.40 in cash, according to Foster’s.  ‘Full Price’  “This represents a full price and is a very favorable
outcome for Foster’s shareholders,” Andy Bowley, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc., said in a note today. “Given the full price and
lack of apparent action from other potential suitors, the
probability of a counter-bid at this stage is low.”  Foster’s rose 37 cents to A$5.26, the biggest percentage
gain since first disclosing SABMiller’s approach on June 21.
SABMiller fell as much as 124 pence, or 5.7 percent, to 2,061
pence in London trading as European stock markets tumbled.  “The market is treating this as a bid worth A$5.40, but
there is a discount being taken as it’s going to take a few
months to get the money,” said  Theo Maas , who helps manage $5.4
billion at Arnhem Investment Management in Sydney. “There is
hardly any uncertainty about this deal not being done.”  Mackay, 62, has built SABMiller from a South African brewer
to the world’s second-biggest by volume by making acquisitions
from  Colombia  to Poland and  India . The company has a higher
exposure to emerging markets than rival beermakers, making a
purchase of an asset in a developed country more appealing.  Rating Review  SABMiller said it has internal resources and committed
financing to fund the takeover and expects to maintain a
“strong” investment-grade credit profile. The brewer hired
banks to raise $12.5 billion of loans for the bid, a person with
knowledge of the deal said last month.  Foster’s had its BBB long-term corporate credit rating
placed on review for a possible upgrade with SABMiller’s debt
rated one notch higher at BBB+,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a
statement today. Moody’s Investors Service also flagged a
potential upgrade to Foster’s debt.  SABMiller has retained  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Moelis & Co.,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Morgan Stanley as financial
advisers and  Allen & Overy  and Hogan Lovells International LLP
as legal advisers, the U.K. brewer said. Foster’s was advised by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Gresham.  Foster’s resisted SABMiller’s initial offer, rejecting it
as too low and instead focused on Chief Executive Officer  John Pollaers ’ plan to return cash to investors and reverse market
share losses and falling earnings.  “A combination of a very weak consumer, soft beer market
and volatile equity markets have likely increased the
attractiveness of the offer,” Paul Van Meurs, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in a note to clients today.  Pollaers called Mackay on Sept. 20 to pledge a smooth
transition, one of the people said. He declined to say if he
would stay with the company once the deal is complete, when
asked on a conference call yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in  Melbourne  at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  