-- 
Company Bond Sales in Europe Post Busiest Day in 20 Months

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 
2011-09-21T16:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/saint-gobain-leads-europe-bond-sales-to-busiest-day-since-july.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA,  Europe ’s
biggest building materials supplier,  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) 
and Renault SA led 3.4 billion euros ($4.6 billion) of bond
sales in Europe’s busiest day of issuance since January 2010.  Saint-Gobain raised 1.75 billion euros from a two-part
issue in the largest company offering since July 5, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. RCI Banque SA, the financing arm of
carmaker Renault, sold 600 million euros of bonds, while
Imperial Tobacco, the owner of the Dutch Masters and Davidoff
brands, and yogurt-maker Danone SA also tapped bond markets.  Sales of corporate bonds dried up in August amid concern
Europe’s sovereign crisis will stifle the economic recovery and
drain corporate earnings. Investors demand 194 basis points of
extra yield to buy non-financial corporate bonds instead of
benchmark German government debt, down from a 27-month high of
199 basis points on Sept. 13, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  “We do feel some nervousness about future economic
conditions and rather than waiting another three or four months,
which we could have done, we thought we’d act now to get this
done,” said  Imperial Tobacco  spokesman Simon Evans. The
Bristol, England-based company sold 500 million pounds ($783
million) of 15-year bonds, Bloomberg data show.  Dutch phone company Royal KPN NV reopened the market
earlier this month with the first benchmark-size bond sale in
euros since Bayerische Motoren Werke AG issued debt on July 22,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields Drop  Yields on investment-grade securities in Europe have
dropped to 3.3 percent, down from 3.52 percent on average for
the year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  “In an environment of low underlying yields, issuers
continue to be attracted by the absolute rate of financing,”
said Jeff Tannenbaum, the London-based head of European
syndicate at Bank of America Corp., which arranged Imperial
Tobacco’s sale.  Saint-Gobain, based in Courbevoie near Paris, sold 1
billion euros of four-year bonds yielding 190 basis points more
than the benchmark mid-swap rate, Bloomberg data show. It also
sold 750 million euros of eight-year securities at a spread of
230 basis points.  Paris-based  Danone (BN)  sold 500 million euros of five-year
notes yielding 68 basis points more than swaps, while RCI
Banque’s bonds were priced at a spread of 400 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 Hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  