-- 
Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Probably Rose

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/sales-of-previously-owned-u-s-homes-probably-climbed-from-eight-month-low.html
An increase in sales of previously
owned U.S. homes in August probably failed to make up for the
prior month’s decline as rising unemployment and foreclosures
weighed on the industry, economists said before today’s report.  Purchases climbed 1.7 percent to a 4.75 million annual rate
after falling to a 4.67 million pace in July that was the
slowest since November 2010, according to the median of 74
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Companies like  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  say weaker  consumer confidence 
and limited access to financing remain constraints on demand,
even with  mortgage rates  at record lows. Concern over housing
and the slowdown in the economy may prompt the  Federal Reserve 
today to propose new measures to shore up the recovery.  “We can expect a modest pop in sales for August, though
this is certainly not the beginning of a new lease on life for
housing,” said  Millan Mulraine , senior U.S. strategist at TD
Securities Inc. in  New York . “For demand to improve, homebuyers
need to have more clarity and certainty on the direction of the
economy and on what’s happening to the job market.”  The National Association of Realtors’ data are due at 10
a.m. in  Washington . Economists’ estimates ranged from 4.5
million to 4.99 million.  The residential real estate industry, which helped trigger
the recession, is struggling more than two years into the
economic recovery that began in June 2009. Housing starts in
August dropped 5 percent to a 571,000 annual rate, the slowest
in three months, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  Builder Profits  Miami-based Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, reported a 31 percent drop in profit in the quarter
ended Aug. 31 as sales fell. The housing market remains
“challenging,” with “already skittish customers” being
driven away by burdensome mortgage-qualification rules, Chief
Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said on a conference call.  At the same time,  home prices  that have decreased to
attractive levels and  interest rates  on 30-year loans at record
lows are reviving interest among potential buyers, he said.  “Demand remained constrained however by the availability
of financing and general consumer confidence,” Miller said on
the Sept. 19 conference call. There’s also “evidence that the
consumer is beginning to return in earnest to the homebuilding
market.”  Most builders remain pessimistic. The National Association
of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index dropped to 14 in
September, a three-month low, from 15 the prior month, the
Washington-based group reported this week. Readings less than 50
mean more respondents said conditions were poor. Gauges of
prospective buyer traffic, current sales and purchase
expectations declined.  Builder Index  That helps explain why builders have fared worse than the
broader stock market. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index, which includes Toll Brothers Inc. and
Lennar, has declined about 25 percent so far this year, compared
with a 4.4 percent drop for the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this month said that while the
housing sector was a significant driver of recovery from most
U.S. recessions since World War II, this time it has fallen
short. He cited an overhang of distressed and foreclosed houses,
tight credit conditions for builders and potential homebuyers,
and concerns by borrowers and lenders about price declines.  “The weakness of the housing sector and continued
financial volatility are two key reasons for the frustratingly
slow pace of the recovery,” Bernanke said in a speech in
 Minnesota  on Sept. 8.  Bernanke and fellow members of the Fed’s Open Market
Committee are expected to release a statement around 2:15 p.m.
Economists project the Fed will announce a program for monetary
easing.  The central bank will decide to replace short-term
Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio with long-term bonds,
according to 71 percent of 42 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The move, known as “Operation Twist” for its goal to bend the
yield curve, will probably fail to reduce the 9.1 percent
unemployment rate, 61 percent of the economists said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  