-- 
SAS Asks EU Court for Software Copyright Protection in Dispute

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-09-21T15:25:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/sas-asks-eu-court-for-software-copyright-protection-in-dispute.html
SAS Institute Inc. asked the
European Union’s highest court to extend copyright protection to
computer programs in a case that may limit the ability of
companies to work with competing software.  World Programming Ltd. infringed SAS’s copyright by
developing a system seeking to imitate SAS’s system by copying
from the company’s manuals, SAS told the  EU Court of Justice  in
Luxembourg today. The case seeks to clarify the scope of
copyright protection where software copies the functions of a
competing program without access to its source code.  WPL’s contention that what it copied is exempt from
copyright protection would “deprive the copyright owner of a
significant part of the value of the protection given to
computer programs,” Henry Carr, the lawyer for SAS told a 13-
judge panel. “There is no warrant for excluding that type of
intellectual creativity.”  It’s the first time the EU’s top court has been asked to
define the scope of copyright protection for computer software.
Any ruling will affect the EU’s 27 nations. The  High Court  in
 London  in 2010  referred the case  to the EU tribunal for guidance
on how to interpret the region’s  software  and  copyright  laws.
The court said WPL’s system didn’t breach SAS’s copyright.  “The extension of copyright to cover such a situation
would have greatly detrimental effects on competition, and would
prevent the development of new and better ways of achieving
those functions” of a competing program, Martin Howe, the
lawyer for WPL, told the court today.  Structural Design  WPL “did not have access and did not copy either any of
the text of the source code of the SAS program, or importantly,
any of its structural design,” said Howe.  Closely held SAS argued WPL’s infringement consisted of
copying elements of the SAS program into its own system
indirectly based on the SAS manuals.  WPL’s program doesn’t interoperate with the SAS system, it
is a “drop in” substitute and “even reproduces bugs and
faults from the SAS System,” said Carr. “There are many
programs which compete with the SAS System which do not copy the
SAS manuals.”  “So detailed are the SAS manuals in describing the
contents of the SAS System that they were effectively used by
WPL as the preparatory design material which enabled WPL to
create its competing software,” said Carr.  WPL argued there is “a clear dividing line” between the
functions a computer program performs and which aren’t protected
under copyright law, and the form of expression of a program,
which is protected.  The case is:  C-406/10 , SAS Institute Inc. v. World
Programming Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  