-- 
Scania Sales Chief Lundstedt Predicts Firm Truck Demand in Shaky Economy

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-21T10:42:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/scania-sales-chief-sees-firm-truck-demand.html
Truck demand is holding up amid the
global economic slowdown as  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China
continue to drive growth,  Scania AB (SCVB) ’s sales chief said.  While customers of the Swedish truckmaker controlled by
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  are increasingly nervous about economic
uncertainty, that has yet to translate into a decline in orders,
Martin Lundstedt said in an interview yesterday at the company’s
headquarters in Soedertaelje.  “Everyone is thinking especially about how the EU’s
problems will affect the global economy the next few quarters,”
Lundstedt said. As emerging-market orders grow, the truckmaker’s
share of sales from western Europe has steadily decreased.
Scania generated 52 percent of its revenue in western Europe
last year, down from 65 percent in 2006.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s largest maker of heavy-duty
vehicles, said Sept. 19 that it expects truck sales to keep
growing even as economies show signs of cooling. “The trend is
unequivocally positive,” said  Andreas Renschler , head of
Daimler’s trucks division.  “A lot of the turmoil with the truck stocks over the
summer was due to fears about us heading into a new crisis
situation where we see a sharp decline in orders,” Morten Imsgard, an analyst at Sydbank A/S with an “underweight”
recommendation on Scania stock, said by phone.  Share Performance  Scania’s shares recovered from a 1.9 percent decline and
were up 0.2 percent at 103.1 kronor as of 12:38 p.m. in
 Stockholm . Swedish rival  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the world’s second-biggest
truckmaker, pared a 1.8 percent decline and was down 0.1
percent. The OMX Stockholm 30 Index fell 0.4 percent.  “This is a pretty solid comment from Scania and it’s in
line with what we’ve heard from other companies,” Imsgard said.
“The demand situation isn’t that bad at the moment.”  Still, Scania is preparing to better tackle another
slowdown after it “learned the lesson” from the crisis in
2008, when demand plunged about a third, said Lundstedt, who
also leads the company’s marketing efforts.  Scania implemented a new agreement with Swedish unions this
year that lifts the share of factory workers that can be
temporarily employed to 30 percent from 20 percent. It has also
cut truck delivery times to six weeks to eight weeks, from 10
months in 2008, Lundstedt said.  Preparation for Downturn  “We’re asking ourselves, how can we retain maximum
flexibility to be as prepared as possible for a downturn,” the
executive said.  Scania expects to meet a goal to double sales in  China  to
about 1,000 trucks this year, and aims to reach about 5,000
vehicles in three to four years, Lundstedt said. The
manufacturer may try to produce trucks in China when it hits
about 10,000 sales a year in the country, he said.  Scania plans to start selling buses in India in the next
year or two, Lundstedt said, reiterating comments he made in
March. The truckmaker probably will establish an assembly plant
in the country in “the next few years,” he said.  Lundstedt also reiterated that Scania aims to sell 150,000
trucks and buses by the next “peak in demand,” up from 63,712
deliveries in 2010.  In Europe, the truckmaker is having “fine development” in
the northern portion of the continent, while southern  Europe  is
struggling, the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  