-- 
Scotiabank CEO Says Don’t Rely on Technology After UBS Loss

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-09-21T16:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/scotiabank-s-waugh-says-don-t-rely-on-technology-after-ubs-loss.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  Chief Executive
Officer Richard Waugh said financial institutions should rely
less on technology for trading operations after  UBS AG (UBSN)  had a
$2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading.  “You get too comfortable that that computer image is
correct and you start to believe the numbers and the technology,
rather than challenging the numbers and technology,” Waugh said
today in an interview. “Rely on business judgment, floor
supervision and things that have worked for you in the past.”  UBS’s trading problems “couldn’t have come at a worse
time” for financial reform, Waugh said today at the SWIFT
International Banking Operations Seminar in Toronto. The initial
reaction to the unauthorized trading at Zurich-based UBS “will
be more regulation,” said Waugh, 63, head of  Canada ’s third-
largest bank by assets.  Banks should be allowed to fail in an orderly and systemic
manner, said Waugh, who is a vice chairman of the  Institute of
International Finance . Waugh plans to attend the International
Monetary Fund meetings in Washington this weekend.  Technology should be used as a tool in making business
decisions, Waugh said in the interview. He said he embraces
technology throughout Toronto-based Scotiabank and wants to
expand its use for mobile devices and social media. Waugh said
he uses Research In Motion’s PlayBook tablet and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPad and receives about 200 “controlled” e-mail messages each
day.  Scotiabank has operations in more than 50 countries, with
international banking representing 20 percent to 30 percent of
its overall profit. The bank will continue to expand, including
in  Asia  and Latin America, Waugh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  