-- 
SEC Considering Curbs After Surge in Number of Quotes in U.S. Stock Market

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-09-21T20:49:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/sec-considering-curbs-after-surge-in-quotes-in-u-s-stock-market.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission may ask stock markets to impose fees on trading firms
that submit a high number of quotations in relation to executed
transactions, an executive at the regulator said.  The SEC is considering whether to urge exchanges to impose
a fee for exceeding a certain order-to-execution ratio or for
sending messages, which include quotes, updates, cancellations
and executions, said David Shillman, associate director at the
regulator’s division of trading and markets. That’s because they
impose a cost on brokerages who must buy that data, said
Shillman, who spoke in an interview at a Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association conference in New York.  Computers are replacing humans as market makers in U.S.
equities, and one way they try to entice investors is by sending
quotes to exchanges and rapidly updating them. Ashok Krishnan,
head of execution services for  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa at
Bank of America Corp., said at a Bloomberg Link event in  London 
on May 19 that some firms send more than 500 orders for every
execution they receive.  “The idea is to make them bear some of the costs of the
infrastructure exchanges build” to attract them, Shillman said
today, referring to high-frequency traders, who often update or
cancel and resubmit bids and offers at different prices. The SEC
could tap rules that require exchanges to “equitably allocate
fees” to address the issue of increasing data and technology
costs for market participants, he said.  Higher Proportion  Firms that produce many messages should shoulder a greater
proportion of the resulting costs, Matthew Lavicka, a managing
director at New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said during
a panel discussion at the conference. Currently, those expenses
are distributed industrywide, he said.  There should be a “realigning of incentives and
disincentives,” Lavicka said. He suggested limits on the number
of quotations trading firms can submit to exchanges.  Any rule should apply consistently across all exchanges,
Joseph Mecane, executive vice president and chief administrative
officer for U.S. markets at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , said during the panel
discussion. His company runs the New York Stock Exchange.  The commission recognizes the difficulty exchanges face in
imposing fees on brokers and trading firms that “could divert
flow elsewhere,” Shillman said during the panel. If the SEC
pursues the idea of fees, it may issue a statement or guidance
to exchanges suggesting they impose charges for excessive
quotations, he said.  ‘Too Much’  “There is something that can be viewed as too much
messaging,” Elizabeth King, a former SEC executive who’s head
of regulatory affairs at Chicago-based Getco LLC, said today at
the conference.  If exchanges impose fees for quote traffic, the threshold
should vary for different products and across market conditions,
allowing for more flexibility, she said. Getco is an automated
trading firm that makes markets in equities, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  “I don’t think there has to be uniformity to address some
of the extreme situations around message rates,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  