-- 
Sino-Forest Victims Span Paulson to Retirees

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/sino-forest-victims-span-paulson-and-chandler-to-retirees-as-shares-halted.html
Ron Salmon first invested in Sino-
Forest Corp. as a speculative stock. He bought more shares even
after they tumbled 83 percent in June, when the company was
accused of fraud.  Salmon, a teacher of English as a second language who is
semi-retired after a car crash left him quadriplegic, said he
carried out his own research into Sino-Forest and was encouraged
by other investors buying the stock after its initial plunge.
Now he’s unable to recover any of his C$42,000 ($42,300)
original investment because regulators imposed a trading ban.  “It’s gut-wrenching,” Salmon, 43, said in a telephone
interview from Richmond Hill, Ontario. “I’ve just been blind-
sided.”  Other investors caught out by the storm that has engulfed
Sino-Forest over the past three months include hedge fund
manager  John Paulson  and billionaire New Zealander Richard Chandler. Sino-Forest has lost at least C$3.3 billion of market
value since Muddy Waters LLC, a firm founded by short seller
Carson Block, issued a report saying the Hong Kong- and
Mississauga, Ontario-based forestry company was exaggerating its
Chinese timber holdings.  “It now seems quite likely it’s a fraud,” said Jaap van der Hart, a money manager at Robeco Groep NV in Rotterdam, which
owns 627,100 Sino-Forest shares after selling 272,900 in June.
“The key question is to what extent they have defrauded and
whether there’s potentially still some value.”  ‘Difficult Time’  Sino-Forest has denied the allegations and established an
independent committee of directors to examine and respond to
them. Stan Neve, a spokesman for the company in  New York , said
in a telephone interview yesterday that the company won’t
comment on the substance of the allegations until after its
review is completed.  “The independent committee recognizes that this has been a
difficult time for the company’s stockholders and we appreciate
their continued patience,” Neve said.  Paulson, president of New York-based Paulson & Co., sold
all his Sino-Forest shares in June and took a C$462 million
loss, the firm said in a letter to clients. Paulson, who made
$15 billion for his backers in 2007 betting against subprime
mortgages, had been Sino-Forest’s largest shareholder, with a
12.5 percent stake.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman at Paulson,
declined to comment.  John Goldsmith , a Toronto-based  money manager  at Montrusco
Bolton Investments Inc., also exited his Sino-Forest position,
after examining data released by the company following the
publication of the Muddy Waters report.  Montrusco Exit  His Montrusco Bolton Canadian Equity Fund held 75,200
shares at the end of May, which he said were bought at an
average cost in the “high teens.” Goldsmith sold his holding
June 9, seven days after the report came out, at C$5.22 a share.  “We definitely lost money, but we’re not stuck with a
piece of paper that’s worthless,” Goldsmith said in an
interview. “I would have been insane to hold onto that name.”  While Paulson and Montrusco got out, Sino-Forest
represented an opportunity for other investors. Wellington
Management Co., a Boston-based investment firm, said in July it
owned an 11.5 percent stake.  Chandler, who profited in the previous decade as a
shareholder in  SK Group  by successfully pushing for reform at
the South Korean company, boosted his Sino-Forest stake to 19
percent, making him its biggest investor according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Chandler declined to comment through
 Richard Barton , a Hong Kong-based spokesman.  ‘Confidence Bolstered’  Those purchases swayed Salmon, who had carried out research
on the Internet and by looking through Sino-Forest statements.  “After doing my research and seeing what had happened with
those other big fund managers getting involved, my confidence
was bolstered,” he said.  The Ontario Securities Commission,  Canada ’s main securities
regulator, halted Sino-Forest shares before the start of trading
on Aug. 26 and said there may have been fraud at the company.
The OSC is poring over tens of thousands of documents as it
investigates the company.  The stock closed at C$4.81 on Aug. 25 on the Toronto Stock
Exchange, down 74 percent since June 1, the day before the Muddy
Waters report was released. It continued to trade over the
counter in the U.S. on Aug. 26 before being halted, falling to
$1.38 and giving the company a market value of $338.4 million.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Allen Chan  resigned Aug.
28.  ‘Domino Effect’  “Carson Block has just started a domino effect that
everybody has jumped on,” said Warren Perzel, a 66-year-old
retired chief financial officer for a Calgary-based aviation
company who invested C$10,000 after the shares plunged. Perzel
said he doesn’t think Sino-Forest is a fraud.  Other investors also facing loses include Tucson, Arizona-
based Davis Selected Advisers LP, the second-largest shareholder
with 30.9 million Sino-Forest shares, or 13 percent. Laura
Berger, a spokeswoman for Davis, didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail request for comment.  Ivy Investment Management Co., which is based in  Overland
Park ,  Kansas , held 15 million shares, or 6.1 percent, through
its Ivy Global Natural Resources Fund as of June 30, according
to filings. Frederick Sturm, the fund’s manager, didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Put Contracts  “If it’s really a fraud, then it’s a big shame, a big
disgrace this could have happened and for so long,” said Van
der Hart. He said Sino-Forest’s impact on Robeco “was limited”
as it represents 0.3 percent of the company’s holdings, which
includes 10 billion euros ($13.7 billion) in emerging-market
equities.  Block said in an Aug. 26 interview he was still betting
Sino-Forest would drop further. Block said Sept. 18 in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News that he doesn’t
disclose trading positions.  Some holders of Sino-Forest put contracts also have gained
from the stock’s plunge. There were 8,993 outstanding put
contracts, which collectively entitled the holders to sell about
899,300 Sino-Forest shares “at prices substantially in excess
of their current values,” the Canadian Derivatives Clearing
Corp. said in a Sept. 12 letter.  The CDCC successfully petitioned the securities commission
on Sept. 15 to modify the trading ban to allow some outstanding
options to be exercised.  That’s little comfort for Salmon.  “It’s painful,” Salmon said. “I’m considering it a
write-off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  