-- 
Slovak Cabinet Backs Bank Levy, Tobacco Tax to Increase Revenue

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-09-21T14:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/slovak-government-approves-bank-levy-from-2012-to-boost-revenue.html
The Slovak government approved a
new bank levy and a faster increase in tobacco taxes to boost
revenue as the slowing economy threatens its budget goals.  The changes, which parliament must endorse, combined with
other measures ensure that the 2012 budget deficit target of 3.8
percent of gross domestic product is achievable, Finance
Minister Ivan Miklos said.  The administration of Iveta Radicova is seeking to collect
additional revenue after the government revised its target for
economic growth next year to 3.4 percent from 4.4 percent, on
which the budget draft was based. Slower-than-forecast growth, a
reflection of a projected deceleration in the euro region’s
economy, will cut revenue in Slovakia by about 240 million ($328
million) euros, the Finance Ministry estimates.  “In principle, this should cover” the shortfall, Miklos
said today after a government meeting in the capital,
Bratislava.  The bank tax, proposed as a 0.2 percent levy on lenders’
liabilities excluding insured deposits starting next year, will
raise 41 million euros, Miklos said. The proceeds will be used
as reserves against any future bank crisis in Slovakia, which
unlike some other European Union nations didn’t need to bail out
any lender during the global financial crisis.  The decision to speed up the tobacco-tax increase to the
level the EU requires will add an extra 31 million euros to the
budget, Miklos said. The levy will be raised in two
installments, from February 2012 and January 2013.  The rest of the revenue shortfall will be covered by higher
dividends from state-owned companies, savings on debt-servicing
costs and other measures, Miklos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  