-- 
Somali Militant Commander Surrenders After Accepting Amnesty

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-09-21T10:22:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/somali-militant-commander-surrenders-after-accepting-amnesty.html
Somalia’s National Security Agency
said an al-Shabaab commander in charge of an area on the
outskirts of the capital, Mogadishu, surrendered to the
government after accepting an amnesty offer.  Mustafa Hassan Mohamed, head of the rebel group’s fighters
in KM13, a district 13 kilometers (8 miles) southwest of the
city, was presented to the public today in Mogadishu.  “We have given him amnesty,” Ahmed Mohamed Fiqi, director
of the agency, told reporters at a briefing. He urged all other
combatants to “turn their backs on the wrong paths.”  Somalia’s government, which has been battling the al-Qaeda-
inspired militants since 2007, offered a general amnesty to the
rebels in August, three days after al-Shabaab withdrew from
Mogadishu. Al-Shabaab still controls most of southern and
central Somalia, including areas where the  United Nations  has
declared a famine amid the worst drought in 60 years.  “I am happy to join the government and return back from al-
Shabaab,” Mohamed said at the briefing.  Earlier this month, political leaders in Somalia signed a
so-called road map that calls for elections in August 2012 to
replace Somalia’s Western-backed transitional government. The
administration was established in 2004, the 14th attempt to
create a functioning central administration since the fall of
Mohamed Siad Barre’s dictatorship in 1991.  The government today established a technical committee to
implement the road map, which also includes writing a new
constitution and reforming the country’s 550-member parliament.
Its members will include representatives from President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s administration, officials from the semi-
autonomous regions of Puntland and Galmudug and the pro-
government Ahlu Suna Wal Jama’a militia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 