-- 
South African Inflation, Retail Sales Data Add to Call on Unchanged Rate

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-21T13:08:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/south-african-inflation-retail-data-add-to-unchanged-rate-call.html
South African consumer prices rose
less than economists forecast last month, while retail sales
gained in July, adding to expectations the central bank will
keep its benchmark rate at a 30-year low tomorrow.  Inflation was unchanged at 5.3 percent, compared with a
median estimate of 5.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 20
economists. Retail sales growth accelerated to 2.8 percent from
a revised 2.4 percent in June, the Pretoria-based Statistics
 South Africa  said today.  “There’s little risk of a sustained break of the inflation
target” band of 3 percent to 6 percent, Jean-Francois Mercier,
an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg, said in a
telephone interview. “The  Reserve Bank  will probably feel that
the economic situation has deteriorated over the last two
months.”  A weakening economic recovery may outweigh concerns of
rising price pressures, prompting the Monetary Policy Committee,
led by Governor  Gill Marcus , to keep its benchmark lending rate
at 5.5 percent tomorrow, according to 18 of the 19 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Growth in Africa’s biggest economy slowed to a two-year low
of 1.3 percent in the second quarter as manufacturing and mining
output plunged, the statistics office said on Aug. 30. Budget
cuts by European governments to ease a debt crisis is reducing
demand from a region that consumes about a third of South
 Africa ’s manufactured goods.  ‘Loss of Momentum’  “There is a loss of momentum in economic activity,”
Mercier said. “I wouldn’t be surprised if the central bank
reduces its economic growth outlook” of 3.7 percent expansion
for this year.  Inflation was unchanged after food prices increased 0.3
percent in August from the previous month, less than forecast,
Elize Kruger, an economist at KADD Capital in Johannesburg, said
in a telephone interview today.  Marcus, who will announce the rate decision after 3 p.m. in
Pretoria tomorrow, said on July 21 inflation will probably
average 5.1 percent this year and 6 percent in 2012.  Retail sales increased for a second consecutive month in
July as  interest rates  at a 30-year low helped to support
 consumer spending . The median estimate of 16 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for sales to expand 2 percent.  “Looking forward, South African consumer activity is
likely to face increasing strain,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at
Stanlib Asset Management in Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed
note to clients. Rising energy, food and education costs are
“eroding the household sectors’ spending power.”  The rand weakened as much as 3.2 percent to 7.9648 against
the dollar today and was trading at 7.9251 as of 2:49 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The currency has plunged 16 percent this year, the
worst performer of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  