-- 
Marcus May Keep South Africa’s Lending Rate at 30-Year Low to Spur Economy

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-09-22T07:57:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/south-africa-may-keep-key-rate-at-30-year-low-to-spur-economy.html
South Africa ’s central bank will
probably keep its benchmark lending rate unchanged at a 30-year
low today, while indicating it’s ready to ease policy to spur a
faltering recovery in Africa’s biggest economy, economists said.  Governor  Gill Marcus  will keep the repurchase rate at 5.5
percent for a fifth consecutive meeting, the longest period the
rate has been on hold since 2006, according to 18 of 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Marcus is scheduled to
announce the decision in a televised press conference starting
at about 3 p.m. local time in Pretoria.  Central banks from Turkey to  Brazil  are cutting  interest
rates  as the European debt crisis spreads, threatening the
global recovery. South  Africa ’s  Reserve Bank  may have room to
keep its key rate unchanged and possibly lower it in coming
months as economic growth slowed to a two-year low in the second
quarter and inflation stays inside the 3 percent to 6 percent
target range.  “The solution for now is to leave interest rates
unchanged,” Kgotso Radira, an economist at Investec Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in a telephone interview. “Should the growth
outlook deteriorate significantly then a cut would be likely.”  Rand Slumps  South Africa is struggling to meet the 7 percent annual
growth projection the government says is needed to reduce the
jobless rate to 14 percent in the next decade, from 25.7 percent
currently. The economy expanded an annualized 1.3 percent in the
second quarter as manufacturing and mining output plunged, the
statistics office said on Aug. 30.  Europe  buys about a third of
South Africa’s manufactured goods.  The rand weakened to its lowest level in more than two
years against the dollar today, dropping as much as 5.2 percent
to 8.3264, after the  Federal Reserve  said the  U.S. economy  faces
“significant downside risks,” spurring a selloff of riskier,
emerging market assets. The currency was trading at 8.1728
against the dollar as of 9:51 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Inflation was unchanged at 5.3 percent in August, lower
than economists expected, giving the central bank room to keep
interest rates unchanged.  “I don’t think inflation is making the Reserve Bank overly
worried in the short term,” Carmen Nel, an economist at Rand
Merchant Bank, said in a phone interview from  Cape Town . “They
will keep rates unchanged, which clearly signals that the door
is open for rate cuts if the need arrives.”  Recovery Stalling  In the two years through November 2010, the MPC cut the
lending rate by 6.5 percentage points as the economy fell into
recession. Since then, the bank has held the rate for four
straight meetings as food and energy costs climbed and the
economy showed signs of recovery.  Recent economic data indicates the recovery is stalling.
Manufacturing contracted 6 percent in July from a year earlier,
while consumer confidence dropped to a two-year low in the third
quarter.  “There is a real risk of South Africa heading into a
recession,” said  Colen Garrow , an economist at Brait SA in
Johannesburg and the only analyst in a Bloomberg survey to
forecast a cut at today’s meeting. “If the stats are bad now,
in another quarter they aren’t going to be any better. It is a
very difficult economic environment we find ourselves in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  