-- 
South African Inflation Stays at 5.3%, Adding to Calls For Unchanged Rate

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-09-21T09:52:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/south-african-inflation-stays-at-5-3-adding-to-call-for-unchanged-rate.html
South Africa ’s inflation rate was
unchanged at 5.3 percent in August, lower than economists had
forecast, adding to expectations the central bank will keep its
benchmark rate at a 30-year low tomorrow.  Prices rose 0.2 percent from a month earlier, the Pretoria-
based statistics office said on its website today. The median
estimate of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for
inflation to accelerate to 5.5 percent.  The Reserve Bank will probably hold the benchmark lending
rate at 5.5 percent tomorrow, according to 18 of the 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, as a weakening economic
recovery outweighs concerns about price pressures. Growth in
 Africa ’s biggest economy slowed to an annualized 1.3 percent in
the second quarter as manufacturing and mining output plunged,
the statistics office said on Aug. 30.  “Price pressures have been muted in the past month,”
Elize Kruger, an economist at KADD Capital in Johannesburg, said
in a telephone interview today. “There will be some relief in
the pressure on CPI and the outlook is now slightly lower than
expected. The  Reserve Bank  would rather be conservative
tomorrow.”  Food prices increased 0.3 percent on a monthly basis, less
than forecast, Kruger said. Gasoline prices increased 1.7
percent on Aug. 3, while the price of white corn, a staple in
South Africa, jumped 18 percent last month on the South African
Futures Exchange.  Weaker Rand  Inflation is “expected to resume its upward trend in the
coming months,”  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , the country’s fourth-
largest lender, said in e-mailed comments. “The earlier surge
in global oil and fuel prices and a weaker rand will slowly
filter through to consumer prices.”  The central bank has forecast inflation, which it aims to
keep within a range of 3 percent to 6 percent, will probably
average 5.1 percent this year and 6 percent in 2012.  The rand weakened 1 percent to 7.7895 against the dollar at
11:20 a.m. in Johannesburg. The currency has plunged 15 percent
this year, the worst performer of the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  is scheduled to announce
the rate decision at 3 p.m. local time tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  