-- 
Most Swiss Stocks Drop as Nobel Declines; Zurich Financial Gains

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-09-21T16:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-syngenta-falls-as-credit-suisse-climbs.html
Most Swiss stocks fell as investors
awaited an announcement from the  Federal Reserve  that may signal
more stimulus for the  U.S. economy .  Nobel Biocare AG, the second-biggest maker of dental
implants by sales, dropped to its lowest price since 2001 after
being named as one of Deutsche Bank AG’s least-preferred shares.
 Barry Callebaut AG (BARN) , the world’s largest maker of bulk chocolate,
slipped 1.5 percent after Jefferies Group Inc. downgraded the
stock.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s largest
insurer, gained 1 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the largest and most actively
traded companies advanced 0.1 percent to 5,475.34 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Zurich as two stocks dropped for every one that
rose. The gauge has still tumbled 18 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 18 as the Swiss franc’s strength curbed exports and
concern mounted that the global economic recovery is stalling.
The broader Swiss Performance Index retreated less than 0.1
percent today.  “Investors are eagerly waiting to see which arrows the Fed
still has in the quiver,” said  Manfred Hofer , a senior
investment analyst at LGT Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon,
 Switzerland . “Depending on what will be announced, sentiment
will change -- we will have to wait and see.”  The Fed may decide today to replace short-term Treasuries
in its $1.65 trillion portfolio with long-term bonds in a bid to
lower rates for mortgages, auto and consumer loans, according to
71 percent of 42 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The move
is known as “Operation Twist,” for its goal to bend the yield
curve. The central bank is scheduled to issue its statement at
2:15 p.m. in Washington.  U.S. Home Sales  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose more than
forecast in August. Purchases of existing houses climbed 7.7
percent to 5.03 million annual rate, a five-month high, figures
from the National Association of Realtors showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 4.75 million rate.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos made “good
progress” in a second round of talks aimed at staving off a
default, the EU said after a telephone call late yesterday. The
EU said a “full mission” will return to Athens next week after
Venizelos holds talks at the IMF’s annual meeting in Washington.  “Further steps on the difficult road to reforms are
necessary -- and not only on increasing pressure from the
markets,” said Hofer. “The muddling through must end. The debt
crisis is by no means over, and for the market to see the mood
on the markets brightening, unified actions in politics are
necessary.”  Euro-Area Bonds  Policy makers battling  Europe ’s debt crisis shouldn’t rule
out issuing joint euro-area bonds and must develop tools to make
that possible, even if German opposition means it can’t be done
immediately, European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said.  “The commission believes we should look also at that
option,” Barroso said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York. “We are not saying it is immediately.
This is a matter that must be discussed, but we should not
exclude that option, either.”  Nobel Biocare dropped 2.4 percent to 8.71 francs, its
lowest price since September 2001, after Deutsche Bank named the
company as one of its least-preferred stocks.  Barry Callebaut slid 1.5 percent to 736 francs after Simon Marshall-Lockyer, an analyst at Jefferies, cut the company’s
shares to “underperform” from “hold.”  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s biggest producer of crop-
protection chemicals, declined 1.4 percent to 250.60 francs as a
gauge of European chemical companies was among the worst
performers of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the world’s biggest producer of cosmetics
chemicals, retreated 1.5 percent to 736.50 francs.  Zurich Financial rallied 1 percent to 175.90 Swiss francs.
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  climbed 3.5 percent to 22.37 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  