-- 
U.K. Posts Biggest August Budget Deficit on Record on Spending

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-21T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-k-posts-record-august-budget-deficit.html
Britain had its biggest budget
deficit for any August since modern records began in 1993 as
 government spending  jumped and income-tax receipts declined.  The shortfall of 15.9 billion pounds ($25 billion), which
excludes government support for banks, compares with 14 billion
pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said
in  London  today. The median of 17 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a deficit of 13 billion pounds. Revenue rose 5.9
percent and spending increased 7.2 percent.  Doubts over whether Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  can hit his deficit-reduction goals increased yesterday
after the  International Monetary Fund  slashed its growth
forecasts for Britain, the U.S. and the euro region, warning
that strong action was needed to prevent a return to recession.  “We’re on a long hard road and the obstacles in terms of
growth are probably higher than we might have anticipated,”
 Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in London, said
before the release. “The deficit process is going in the right
direction but it may not necessarily get to where they want it
to be.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has staked his premiership on
a five-year plan to all but wipe out a deficit of more than 9
percent of economic output last year, saying the cuts are
shielding Britain from the euro-region debt crisis and holding
down borrowing costs.  The Labour opposition says the squeeze  may prove self-
defeating by harming the growth needed to reduce the deficit and
public-sector unions plan to strike in November over proposed
cuts to their pensions.  IMF Plea  Piling pressure on Cameron, the IMF yesterday cut its 2011
growth forecast to 1.1 percent, a third less than predicted by
the Treasury, and urged countries with “historically low
yields” such as Britain and  Germany  to delay fiscal adjustment
if conditions get worse.  In the first five months of the fiscal year, the budget gap
was 51.5 billion pounds compared with 55.3 billion pounds in the
same period of 2010. In March, the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  predicted a 122 billion-pound deficit for the
full year.  Revenue for the five-month period rose 4.6 percent from a
year earlier, behind the 7.2 percent forecast for the full
fiscal year by the Office of Budget Responsibility. Spending
rose 3.7 percent, in line with the OBR’s full-year forecast.  The deficit in August including government support for
banks was 13.2 billion pounds. The cash measure of the budget
was in deficit by 11.8 billion pounds. Net debt held at 61.4
percent of gross domestic product.  The  budget deficit  in the fiscal year that ended in March
was 136.7 billion pounds, 5.9 billion pounds lower than
previously estimated. The bulk of the revision related to
better-than-expected budget outturns at local authorities, the
statistics office said.  Last month, a tax on bank balance sheets raised 200 million
pounds and is expected to contribute 2.4 billion pounds in the
fiscal year as a whole.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  