-- 
U.K. Ministers Urge Stimulus as Bank of England Sees Likelihood of More QE

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-21T10:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-k-ministers-urge-stimulus-as-boe-sees-likelihood-of-more-qe.html
U.K. ministers pressed the case for
more stimulus measures to boost the economy as  Bank of England 
officials said an expansion of their 200 billion-pound ($314
billion) bond purchase program is “increasingly probable.”  Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  said the government should
speed up capital spending after the  International Monetary Fund 
lowered U.K. growth forecasts and said the government may need
to consider delaying some of its fiscal squeeze to narrow the
 budget deficit . Business Secretary Vince Cable repeated a call
for the central bank to expand beyond its government bond
purchases, known as quantitative easing.  “The Bank of England could do what the Americans did and
buy up corporate bonds or they could buy up bundles of SME
loans,” Cable told a fringe event last night at his  Liberal
Democrat party ’s annual conference in Birmingham, central
 England . “That’s an idea that I think is an excellent one.”  Minutes of the bank’s Sept. 7-8 Monetary Policy Committee
meeting published today showed the panel voted 8-1 to maintain
the current size of its bond plan and were unanimous in keeping
the benchmark rate at a record low of 0.5 percent. Even so, most
policy makers said it was “increasingly probable that further
asset purchases to loosen monetary conditions would become
warranted at some point,” according to the minutes.  No Objections  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  signalled Sept.
11 he had no objections to the Bank of England buying private-
sector assets in an expansion of the bond program. The bank’s
governor,  Mervyn King , is free to request an extension, Osborne
said at a Group of Seven meeting in Marseille, France.  “The arrangements put in place by my predecessor are
arrangements that in practice and in spirit I would intend to
follow,” Osborne said.  The Treasury said it had no comment on today’s Bank of
England minutes.  U.K. gross domestic product will rise 1.1 percent this year
and 1.6 percent in 2012, the Washington-based IMF said in its
World Economic Outlook yesterday, cutting previous projections
of 1.5 percent and 2.3 percent respectively. U.K. consumer
confidence fell to a four-month low in August as Britons grew
more pessimistic about the outlook for the economy,  Nationwide
Building Society  said today.  “We’ve got to be creative and imaginative about bringing
forward more spending,” Huhne told another fringe event in
Birmingham. He said the option of “pump-priming” the economy
by increasing expenditure is “blocked off to us” because of
“the scale of our budget deficit.”  Deficit Widens  Britain had its biggest budget deficit for any August since
modern records began in 1993, the Office for National Statistics
said in  London  today, as  government spending  jumped and income-
tax receipts declined. The shortfall of 15.9 billion pounds,
which excludes government support for banks, compared with 14
billion pounds a year earlier.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , the Liberal Democrat
leader, said Sept. 14 the government was going to “unblock” 40
infrastructure projects in an effort to spur growth. He said the
coalition wanted to “put its foot on the accelerator.”  BBC television  reported yesterday evening that ministers
were  discussing increasing spending on projects  such as roads,
rail and broadband by as much as 5 billion pounds, without
saying where it got its information. The deficit between April
and July was 4.6 billion pounds less than previously estimated,
giving Osborne room for maneuver should he wish to add stimulus.
The Treasury denied the report.  ‘Stick to Our Plans’  “I don’t recognize the numbers involved or the process as
described,” the Liberal Democrat chief secretary to the
Treasury,  Danny Alexander , said in an interview with BBC Radio
4’s “Today” show this morning. “We’re not changing our
spending plans.”  Alexander said the message he had taken from the IMF report
yesterday “is we should stick to our plans.”  “What we need to have across the world is countries taking
action that’s appropriate to their own circumstances to deal
with the problems that they face,” Alexander said. “We have a
great asset; we have clear spending plans and we’re sticking to
them.”  The fiscal target the government is working to “is the
structural current balance,” Huhne said. “It is current not
 capital spending . That is an important distinction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Birmingham, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Birmingham, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 