-- 
U.K. Has Biggest August Budget Deficit on Record on Spending

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-21T11:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-k-has-biggest-august-budget-deficit-on-record-on-spending-1-.html
Britain had its biggest  budget
deficit  for any August since modern records began in 1993 as
 government spending  jumped and income-tax receipts declined.  The shortfall of 15.9 billion pounds ($25 billion), which
excludes government support for banks, compares with 14 billion
pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said
in London today. The median of 17 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a deficit of 13 billion pounds. Revenue rose 5.9
percent and spending increased 7.2 percent.  Doubts over whether Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  can hit his deficit-reduction goals increased yesterday
after the  International Monetary Fund  lowered its growth
forecasts for Britain, the U.S. and the euro region, warning
that strong action was needed to prevent a return to recession.  “It’s increasingly looking as though the public finances
are reacting to the slowdown in the economy and it’s looking
unlikely” borrowing “will hit the  Office for Budget
Responsibility ’s forecast for the year,” said  Philip Shaw , an
economist at Investec Securities in London. “The public
finances are adding to the case for more quantitative easing”
by the  Bank of England .  The pound weakened to an eight-month low against the dollar
after Bank of England officials said they may need to buy more
bonds to keep borrowing costs low as the recovery falters. The
U.K. currency was trading at $1.5650 as of 12:27 p.m. in London,
down 0.5 percent on the day.  Deficit Plan  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has staked his premiership on
a five-year plan to all but wipe out a deficit of more than 9
percent of economic output last year, saying the cuts are
shielding Britain from the euro-region debt crisis and holding
down borrowing costs.  The Labour opposition says the squeeze may prove self-
defeating by harming the growth needed to reduce the deficit and
public-sector unions plan to strike in November over proposed
cuts to their pensions.  Piling pressure on Cameron, the IMF yesterday cut its 2011
growth forecast to 1.1 percent, a third less than predicted by
 the OBR , and urged countries with “historically low yields”
such as Britain and  Germany  to delay fiscal adjustment if
conditions get worse.  Revisions meant that borrowing between April and July was
4.6 billion pounds lower than previously estimated, leaving the
deficit in the  first five months  of the fiscal year at 51.5
billion pounds, down from 55.3 billion pounds a year earlier.  Room for Maneuver  There was also a 5.9 billion-pound downward revision to the
deficit in the year that ended in March, which is now estimated
at 136.7 billion pounds. The bulk of the change related to
better-than-expected outturns at local authorities, the ONS
said.  With Osborne predicting a deficit of 122 billion pounds in
the current fiscal year, analysts said the revisions gave the
chancellor some room for maneuver should he wish to add stimulus
to the economy. BBC television reported yesterday evening that
ministers were discussing increasing spending on projects such
as roads, rail and broadband by as much as 5 billion pounds,
without saying where it got its information. The government 
denied the report.  The average of  independent forecasts  compiled by the
Treasury this month is for a deficit of 126.8 billion pounds
this year.  ‘Challenging Times’  Revenue in the first five months rose 4.6 percent from a
year earlier, behind the 7.2 percent predicted for the full
fiscal year by the OBR, which oversees forecasting for the
Treasury. Spending climbed 3.7 percent, in line with the OBR’s
full-year forecast.  Last month, a tax on bank balance sheets raised 200 million
pounds and is expected to contribute 2.4 billion pounds in the
fiscal year as a whole, the statistics office said.  “These are challenging times, but despite economic growth
being lower than the OBR’s forecast earlier this year, tax
receipts have continued to grow and spending so far this year
has grown at the rate the OBR forecast in the budget,” the
Treasury said in a statement. It also welcomed the “substantial
downward revision” to borrowing in the last fiscal year and so
far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  