-- 
U.S. Influence in Middle East Hits New Low Under Obama: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-21T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-s-influence-in-middle-east-hits-a-new-low-under-obama-leadership-view.html
One reason the U.S. is scrambling
to find a compromise that would spare it the need to veto
Palestinian membership in the  United Nations  is the fear of
sparking a new round of anti-Americanism in the  Middle East .  Great powers wield influence in the world as a result of
being admired, respected or feared. The U.S. is now suffering
from an unprecedented loss of influence in this important region
because all three indicators are at an all-time low.  In truth, the U.S. has never been wildly popular in the
Middle East. But distrust hit new highs during the George W. Bush administration, largely because of the invasion of  Iraq ;
the decision during Bush’s first term to ignore the Israeli-
Palestinian issue; the illegal treatment of detainees; and the
unfair perceptions that the war on terrorism was really a war on
Islam and that Bush’s policies were incompatible with Arab
aspirations. Taken together, polls by  Zogby International  (July,
2011) and the  Pew Research Center  (May, 2011) indicate that in
2008 less than 25 percent of respondents in a broad range of
Arab countries had a favorable view of the U.S.  The hope was that the election of  Barack Obama  would change
all that. And from the beginning of his administration, Obama
made reconciliation with the Muslim world one of his highest
foreign policy priorities. In his June 4, 2009,  speech  at Cairo
University, he called for “a new beginning between the  United
States  and Muslims around the world” based on common interests,
respect and principles.  Given those sentiments, it is troubling in the extreme
that, some 2 1/2 years later, the U.S. is actually more
unpopular in the Middle East than it was in the last year of the
Bush administration. According to the Pew poll, the U.S.’s
favorability rating in  Egypt  dropped to 20 percent in 2011 from
22 percent in 2008, and in  Jordan , in that same period, fell to
13 percent from 19 percent. The Zogby poll had similar results.  Views of Obama personally are also starkly negative. In the
Pew poll, only 35 percent of Egyptians and 28 percent of
Jordanians expressed confidence in him, and majorities
disapproved of his handling of issues they care about, such as
political change in the Middle East, the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict and  Afghanistan . Zogby found that in five of six Arab
countries surveyed, at most 11 percent of respondents said that
Obama has met the expectations he set in the Cairo speech.  Even worse, Obama’s unpopularity has been accompanied by a
sense that the U.S. can be defied with impunity, as doing so
will have no negative consequences. The most recent example is
Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s decision to ignore U.S.
objections and proceed with a  UN Security Council  resolution
recognizing a Palestinian state -- even though the U.S.
threatens to veto it, and even though such a veto would endanger
Obama’s ability to promote Israeli-Palestinian peace
negotiations.  But Abbas is not alone. While Obama has called on  Syria ’s
Bashar al-Assad to step down, Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al- Maliki, who owes his survival and that of his government to the
U.S., received Assad’s emissaries and publicly urged Syrian
demonstrators to not “sabotage” their country.  On Aug. 18, al-Maliki went even further, stating in a
speech that “Zionists and  Israel  are the first and biggest
beneficiaries” of the democratic revolutions threatening
autocracies throughout the Arab world. This mimicked Iranian
statements on Syria. Although there are some indications that
al-Maliki is changing his position, until now, when faced with a
choice of saying nothing, siding with the Americans or agreeing
with  Iran , it seems he felt that heeding Tehran was the safest
course.  Administration officials have asserted that recent polls
still reflect region-wide opposition to the  Bush administration ,
not Obama. It is fair to point out that Bush left his successor
with a deep hole to climb out of, but that is not the whole
story. Although we don’t accept the idea that simple polling can
reflect the complicated emotions U.S. policy generates in the
region, polling data is a significant indicator.  In our view, there are three main reasons for the drop in
support for the U.S. First and foremost, Arab commentators
generated unrealistic expectations after Obama’s election for
what any president can do for the Middle East.  Second, in the one case where the West could have provided
unique assistance to the Arab Spring -- that is, air power to
help the rebels in Libya defeat  Muammar Qaddafi  -- the Obama
administration limited its involvement in favor of supporting
Britain and  France . And third, with respect to both the Israeli-
Palestinian issue and the Arab Spring, the U.S. president has
generally made grand policy announcements but provided little
follow-through.  There is no magic solution that will restore U.S. influence
in this volatile region. One thing is certain: Promising more
than you can deliver is no way to start. As Abbas has noted, it
was Obama who first mentioned the goal of  Palestine  becoming a
member of the UN by September 2011. Rather, it is the
accumulation of small successes over a considerable time that
will have the best chance of restoring U.S. standing.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 