-- 
Republican Defections Kill U.S. Bill Needed to Avoid Government Shutdown

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-09-22T14:11:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-s-lawmakers-headed-for-showdown-over-financing-disaster-aid.html
The U.S. House, in a surprise
setback to Republican leaders, defeated a spending bill
providing $3.65 billion in aid to victims of recent natural
disasters and needed to prevent a government shutdown.  Republicans unhappy with the measure’s overall cost joined
Democrats opposed to a proposed cut in an auto industry-loan
program to  derail  the measure yesterday, 230-195. Opposing the
legislation were 48 Republicans and 182 Democrats; backing it
were 189 Republicans and six Democrats.  The defeat raises the prospect of a government shutdown
because the bill would fund the government until Nov. 18. The
current fiscal year ends Sept. 30, and Congress is in recess
next week.  House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a
Kentucky Republican and the measure’s main author, said he
doesn’t know what will happen next. “This is the sausage
factory,” he told reporters before heading into his office,
using the phrase with which lawmakers often describe the bill-
crafting process.  Legislative leaders rarely schedule a vote on a major bill
without being assured of the outcome, and the House’s top
Republicans had expressed confidence the spending bill would
pass.  Michael Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner 
said after the vote that the Ohio Republican and other leaders
would “continue to work on a responsible plan that can pass.”  Tea Party Influence  The vote was the latest evidence of Boehner’s sometimes
tenuous grasp on a House stocked with Tea Party-backed freshmen
as well as veteran lawmakers determined to cut spending. Many of
those who broke ranks in yesterday’s vote were the same ones who
forced Boehner to postpone a July 28 vote on his proposal for
raising the U.S. debt ceiling while reducing spending.  The eventual compromise reached with President  Barack Obama 
on the debt-ceiling dispute only passed the House on Aug. 1 with
support from 95 Democrats, while 66 Republicans opposed it.  The defeat of the stopgap funding measure also hints at the
trouble Republicans will likely face later this year in
attempting to pass a catch-all “omnibus” bill needed to fund
the government for the entire 2012 fiscal year.  ‘Work With Us’  House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat, said
after yesterday’s vote that to pass the current bill, Republican
leaders would have to be more responsive to Democrats. “If they
expect our votes, they have to work with us,” Hoyer said.  Representative Rob Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat, said
“Republicans again showed how far out of the mainstream they
are.”  Many rank-and-file Republicans objected to provisions in
the bill that would allow discretionary spending next year to
reach $1.043 trillion, which was part of the deal to raise the
federal debt ceiling.  Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who
opposed the measure, complained the figure was $24 billion more
than the party agreed to spend when it passed a 2012 budget in
April.  “Why in the world would we add $24 billion?” Flake asked.
“It’s a disaster.”  Representative Tim Huelskamp, a freshman Republican from
 Kansas  who voted against the measure, said that because he
didn’t support the debt-ceiling measure he felt no compunction
to agree to the spending levels in the current bill.  “Not nearly good enough,” Huelskamp said of his
leadership’s legislation.  Auto Industry  Provision  Democrats lined up against the measure because it would be
partly financed by a $1.5 billion cut to a program offering
loans to automakers and parts manufacturers to help develop more
fuel-efficient technologies. Along with arguing the cut would
hurt the auto industry, they said disaster aid has traditionally
been treated as an emergency need that is financed with borrowed
money.  “We warned them -- we told them that an anti-jobs
provision would not work,” Representative Sander Levin, a
Michigan Democrat, said after the vote. “When we’re working for
jobs, you can’t vote for an anti-jobs bill.”  Stocks tumbled and Treasury 30-year yields dropped amid
concern central banks are running out of tools to prevent
another recession. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was down
31.77, or 2.7 percent, to 1,134.99 at 10:08 a.m. Yields on 30-
year Treasury bonds decreased 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 2.88 percent at 9:34 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Emergency Relief  The legislation includes $3.4 billion for the  Federal
Emergency Management Agency  and $226 million for the  Army Corps 
of Engineers -- funding to help victims of  Hurricane Irene  and
the earthquake centered in  Virginia  that occurred Aug. 23, as
well those affected by tornadoes and wildfires that have struck
the nation’s midsection.  Republicans have promised more aid later after they had
more time to examine the administration’s funding requests.  The bill’s defeat may strengthen the hand of Senate
Democrats who have called for an additional $3 billion in
assistance now, as well as jettisoning the auto-loan cuts.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  said the House
was being "spiteful" and shouldn’t “renege” on the budget
agreement reached earlier this year.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the chamber’s No. 3
Democrat, called on  House Republicans  to approve the Senate’s
draft of the legislation. He said Democrats won’t renegotiate
spending levels for 2012, calling that a “nonstarter” in the
Senate.  Shutting the Government  “It will not get anywhere and it will risk shutting the
government down,” Schumer told reporters.  Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, urged
Republicans to drop plans to offset the cost of disaster aid,
saying the funding should be considered an emergency. Landrieu,
who heads the appropriations panel responsible for  disaster
relief , said FEMA officials have told her they will run out of
existing funds for disasters as early as Sept. 27.  “There are many people in many states who are wondering
how in the world Congress could spend $1.3 trillion on wars and
rebuilding Iraq and  Afghanistan  without one offset,” said
Landrieu, while “we’re having difficulty getting a vote on $6.9
billion for Americans rebuilding their own farms, homes, bridges
and communities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  