-- 
Republicans Urge Bernanke to Refrain From Further Stimulus to U.S. Economy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-21T10:26:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-s-republicans-urge-bernanke-to-refrain-from-further-stimulus.html
Republican lawmakers urged  Federal
Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to refrain from additional
monetary easing to avoid “further harm” to the  U.S. economy ,
saying Americans have reason to be “skeptical” of his plans.  “Although the goal of quantitative easing was, in part, to
stabilize the price level against deflationary fears, the
Federal Reserve’s actions have likely led to more fluctuations
and uncertainty in our already weak economy,” according to a
letter to Bernanke signed by Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker John Boehner, Senator Jon Kyl and House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor .  Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from  New York , in a
statement yesterday called the letter “a heavyhanded attempt to
meddle in the Fed’s independent stewardship of monetary policy”
and said it should be “ignored by Chairman Bernanke and the
Fed’s policy makers.”  Bernanke has said the Fed has more tools available to
stimulate the economy as risks to the U.S. recovery rise and
unprecedented easing falls short of fulfilling the Fed’s mandate
for full employment. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
already fell to a record low this month on concerns global
growth is flagging and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will
intensify.  “We have serious concerns that further intervention by the
Federal Reserve could exacerbate current problems or further
harm the U.S. economy,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter dated
Sept. 19. “Such steps may erode the already weakened U.S.
dollar or promote more borrowing by over-leveraged consumers. To
date, we have seen no evidence that further monetary stimulus
will create jobs or provide a sustainable path towards economic
recovery.”  FOMC Meeting  The Federal Open Market Committee today will probably
announce it has decided to replace short-term Treasuries in its
$1.65 trillion portfolio with long-term bonds, according to 71
percent of 42 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The move
will probably fail to reduce the 9.1 percent unemployment rate,
61 percent of the economists said. Among those, 15 percent
predict it will be “somewhat harmful.”  The senators and congressmen asked that a copy of their
letter be shared with each member of the committee.  “The American people have reason to be skeptical of the
Federal Reserve vastly increasing its role in the economy if
measureable outcomes cannot be demonstrated,” the letter
stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  