-- 
U.S. Investigation of News Corp. Is Said to Expand From Hacking to Bribery

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-21T08:03:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-s-investigation-of-news-corp-said-to-expand-from-hacking-to-bribery.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , already facing three
police inquiries in the U.K. as well as a Parliamentary probe of
phone hacking by its employees, now faces an investigation into
three matters on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean.  U.S. prosecutors are examining whether employees of  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. tried to access the voicemails of 9-11
victims, broke antitrust or related laws and, according to a
person familiar with the probe, bribed U.K. police for
information.  The third line of inquiry was disclosed yesterday with news
of a U.S. letter to the company requesting information on any
bribes paid by its News of the World unit, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public. The
letter is part of a  Justice Department  effort to determine
whether News Corp. violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
or FCPA, the person said.  “In any investigation you try to be as thorough as
possible,” said Anthony Barkow, executive director of the
Center on the Administration of Criminal Law at  New York
University School of Law  and a former federal prosecutor. “They
would try to uncover a pattern.”  News Corp. has come under scrutiny since revelations in
July that its News of the World tabloid targeted the mobile-
phone messages of murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler  in 2002. The
company is also being probed over whether it paid police for
story tips and used access to sensitive personal information to
intimidate politicians.  Fallout From Disclosures  The disclosures led to the shutdown of the 168-year-old
newspaper, resignations of News Corp. executives and the
company’s abandonment of a bid for control of British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc, a pay-television broadcasting service.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment on the probes.
 Suzanne Halpin , a spokeswoman for New York-based News Corp.,
declined to comment on the bribery inquiry.  The FCPA, enacted in 1977, makes it a crime for U.S.
companies or their employees to pay agents of another government
in an effort to win commercial advantage. Federal prosecutors
have broad discretion to interpret the law and its definition of
who qualifies as a government official.  News Corp. fell 1.7 percent yesterday on news of the
letter, which doesn’t carry the same legal force as a grand jury
subpoena. The company closed down 7 cents to $16.82 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. Its shares have fallen 6.9 percent since
July 4.  FCPA Investigations  In July, News Corp. retained attorney Mark Mendelsohn of
Paul Weiss Rifkind & Garrison LLP, according to the Wall Street
Journal, which is owned by News Corp. Prior to joining the  law
firm , Mendelsohn had overseen the Justice Department’s FCPA
investigations.  News Corp.’s New York Post that month told employees to
retain files related to any attempts at unauthorized access to
third-party data, or illegal payments to government officials
made to obtain information, according to a memorandum reproduced
on The Poynter Institute’s Romenesko website.  Earlier this year, it was reported that reporters at News
of the World had hacked the voicemail accounts of celebrities
and Dowler, who had been kidnapped and murdered. U.K.
investigators subsequently began looking into allegations that
the tabloid’s staffers made payments to police officers in
return for confidential information.  Hacking 9-11 Victims  Subsequently, in July, it was reported that the U.S.
Federal Bureau of Investigation was reviewing allegations that
News Corp. employees tried to access the voicemail of Americans
killed in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on  New York .  A U.K. newspaper reported that News Corp.’s reporters
unsuccessfully tried to get a former New York City police
officer to hack into the voicemail of victims. A person familiar
with that probe said prosecutors have so far uncovered no
evidence to support the claim.  Murdoch told the U.K. Parliament he has “seen no evidence
of these allegations.”  Last week, the same Manhattan prosecutors who initiated the
bribery probe and are pursuing the 9-11 inquiry asked to
interview Robert Emmel, a former employee of News Corp.’s News
America Marketing unit, according to a person familiar with that
matter.  Emmel previously alleged “widespread illegal activity” at
the company, according to court papers.  Coupons, Promotions  In papers filed in a News America Marketing lawsuit against
him, Emmel described evidence given to lawmakers and regulators
in 2006 as “substantial oral and documentary” information of
the company’s “extensive billing and revenue-sharing fraud
against its customers; its predatory and anticompetitive schemes
against competitors” and “fraudulent inflation of its reported
earnings unbeknownst to its shareholders.”  News Corp. has denied allegations of wrongdoing at the
division, which prints and distributes coupons and in-store
promotions for consumer packaged goods companies.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  