-- 
U.S. Holiday Retail Sales May Slow: ShopperTrak

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-09-21T14:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-s-holiday-retail-sales-may-slow-shoppertrak.html
Holiday retail sales in the U.S.
may have the slowest growth in two years as high unemployment
and gas prices restrain  consumer spending .  Retail sales may rise 3 percent in November and December,
compared with a 4.1 percent gain a year earlier, according to a
report released by ShopperTrak, a Chicago-based consulting firm.
Sales dropped 1.3 percent in 2009. Traffic at stores may
decrease 2.2 percent.  Confidence among U.S. consumers plunged to the lowest in
more than two years in August as Americans’ outlook for
employment, incomes and business conditions soured. The
 unemployment rate  was 9.1 percent last month and has been 9
percent or higher for 26 of the past 28 months. Holiday sales
and traffic make up about 20 percent of annual retail activity,
according to ShopperTrak.  “The persistently high unemployment and fuel rates, along
with consumers’ conservative purchasing attitudes will affect
spending this holiday season, more than in recent years,” said
Bill Martin, co-founder of ShopperTrak.  Shoppers this holiday season may have the same frugal
approach taken in 2009,  Ellen Davis , vice president of the
Washington-based National Retail Federation, said in an
interview.  Making Investments  “Shoppers are very calculated and careful about what they
are purchasing,” Davis said. “They especially want things that
will last, so they may be willing to spend on longer-term
investments.”  Lower-end apparel and accessories retailers may face
pressure to mark down items to compete with discount chains,
while high-end stores may have an advantage because shoppers are
more likely to spend for better value, ShopperTrak said.  Luxury companies like jeweler  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  and handbag-
maker  Coach Inc. (COH)  will do well, said Paul Lejuez, an analyst at
Nomura Securities in New York. Discount chains such as  Ross
Stores Inc. (ROST)  and T.J. Maxx may also have strong sales, he said.  Specialty retailers such as  Gap Inc. (GPS) , Abercrombie & Fitch
Co. and  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  are in a “standoff” as
they compete for the same struggling customers, he said.  “This year, we’ve seen the strong stay strong and the weak
stay weak,” Lejuez said. “Nothing is going to change that this
holiday season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 