-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Vaults Fill Up on Bullion’s Rally

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-21T11:48:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-vaults-fill-up-on-bullion-s-rally.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  TOP STORY:  Bullion Vaults Run Out of Space as Gold Rallies: Commodities  Deep in the 7.4-acre  Singapore  FreePort next to Changi
International Airport’s runways is the bullion vault of Swiss
Precious Metals, behind seven-metric-ton steel doors built to
survive a plane crash or earthquake.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  India Said to Lift Curbs on Coal Mining in Dense Forests (2)  A group of Indian ministers agreed to allow companies to
seek approval to mine coal in some dense forest areas,
overturning an environment ministry ban, according to two
government officials.  Rice to Drop as Indian Exports Intensify Export Competition (2)  Rice, which has beaten corn and soybeans in the past year,
may drop as India restarts non-basmati exports after lifting a
ban, buyers including Indonesia purchase less than expected and
global harvests gain to a record.  European Naphtha Exports Sinking to Year’s Low: Energy Markets  Production cuts at refineries in  Europe  may reduce naphtha
exports bound for Asia to the lowest level in almost a year,
lifting benchmark prices in Japan.  Parrilla Hires Ex-CastleBay Manager for Commodity Hedge Fund  Diego Parrilla hired Belgacem Zerguine, formerly at
CastleBay Capital Management Pte, for his commodity hedge fund
that will start in the fourth quarter.  Cheapest Gas Buoys Kirby Shipping Dow Chemicals: Freight Markets  The world’s cheapest natural gas means Kirby Corp. barges
are making more trips along the Mississippi River and Quality
Distribution Inc. tanker trucks are rolling along America’s
highways more frequently.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Climbs in  New York  on Speculation Fed Will Support Growth  Copper rose in New York on speculation  Federal Reserve 
policy makers will take steps to boost U.S. growth, supporting
demand for industrial metals.  LME Lead Stockpiles Rise to Highest Since at Least 1970 (1)  Lead stockpiles in warehouses monitored by the  London  Metal
Exchange climbed the most in eight months to the highest level
in at least 41 years.  Copper Imports by  China  Climb for Third Month on Low Stocks (1)  Refined-copper imports by China, the largest user, gained
for a third month in August on increasing arbitrage trade
between London and Shanghai amid low domestic stockpiles.  MINING:  Anglo American Faces Miners’ Silicosis Claims in U.K. Court (1)  Anglo American Plc faces claims for “hundreds of millions
of pounds” from former miners suffering deadly lung diseases
after working in South African  gold mines , according to the law
firm that filed suit in a London Court.  Zambia’s Banda Takes Early Lead in Presidential Vote Count  Zambian incumbent President Rupiah Banda took an early lead
in the vote count after yesterday’s election in Africa’s biggest
copper producer, the country’s electoral commission said.  BHP Says Global Imbalances, High Debt Creating Uncertainty (2)  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, said
short-term global imbalances and high levels of debt in Europe
and the United States are creating economic uncertainty.  India  Said to Lift Curbs on Coal Mining in Dense Forests (1)  A group of Indian ministers agreed to allow companies to
seek approval to mine coal in some dense forest areas,
overturning an environment ministry ban, according to two
government officials.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Gain for Second Day on Growth Concerns, Fed Speculation  Gold may gain for a second day in London as concerns about
economic growth and speculation the Federal Reserve may announce
further stimulus measures boost demand for bullion as an
alternative investment.  India’s Gold Imports to Slump on Prices This Month, Group Says  Gold imports by India, the world’s largest bullion
consumer, may decline 50 percent this month as higher prices
cool demand, according to the Bombay Bullion Association.  Iridium Climbs to $1,085 an Ounce, Highest Since at Least 2001  Iridium for immediate delivery climbed 0.9 percent to
$1,085 an ounce by 8:02 a.m. in London, the highest price since
at least 2001, according to Johnson Matthey Plc data on
Bloomberg.  AGRICULTURE:  India’s Sugar Output May Total 24.6 Million Tons, Minister Says  Sugar output in India, the world’s second-biggest producer,
may total 24.6 million metric tons in the 2011-2012 crop season,
Food Minister K.V. Thomas told reporters in  New Delhi  today.  India’s Wheat Harvest May Advance to a Record for Fifth Year (1)  Wheat production in India, the world’s second-largest
grower, may climb to a record for a fifth year in the 2011-2012
season, as favorable monsoon rains boost planting prospects, a
unit of state-trader MMTC Ltd. said.  Wheat Advances for a Second Day on Unfavorable Crop Conditions  Wheat rose for a second day in Chicago on speculation that
adverse weather in the U.S., the biggest exporter, may hurt
yields for the grain as well as corn and soybeans.  Coffee Falls as Supply May Improve as Crops Start; Cocoa Steady  Coffee fell in London on speculation supplies may improve
as the harvest in Colombia, Central America and Vietnam starts
on Oct. 1. Cocoa and sugar were little changed.  India’s Rice Output May Advance to as Much as 100 Million Tons  India’s rice production this year may gain to between 99
million metric tons and 100 million tons, while wheat output may
advance to as high as 90 million tons, Asheesh Majumdar, chief
general manager at MMTC Transnational Pte., said at a conference
in Singapore today.  Rubber Gains From Six-Week Low as Stimulus Outlook Spurs Demand  Rubber rebounded from a six-week low on speculation that
the Federal Reserve may take additional steps to bolster the
 U.S. economy , supporting demand for the commodity used in tires
and gloves.  SHIPPING:  Russia  to Maintain Urals Exports From Primorsk Oct. 1 to Oct. 11  Russia, the world’s largest oil producer, will maintain
exports of Urals crude from its Baltic Sea port of Primorsk from
Oct. 1 to Oct. 11 at 23 cargoes, according to a preliminary
loading schedule obtained by Bloomberg News.  Surgutneftegas Said to Sell Urals Crude Oil to BP for October  OAO Surgutneftegas, a Russian oil producer, sold 100,000
metric tons of Urals crude for loading in October from the
Baltic Sea port of Primorsk to BP Plc through a tender, said two
traders who participate in the market.  ECONOMIES:  China Faces ‘Hot-Money’ Surge on Financial Market Turmoil (1)  Turmoil in global financial markets may be spurring a surge
in flows of speculative capital into China as investors bet on
the nation’s growth and prospects for gains in the yuan.  China Endorsing Tobacco in Schools Adds to $10 Trillion GDP Cost  In dozens of rural villages in China’s western provinces,
one of the first things primary school kids learn is what made
their education possible: tobacco.  Loan Curbs Help Push Short-Term Yields to Record: China Credit  Companies in China face record interest rates on short-term
debt as curbs on lending force them to rely on commercial paper
to pay back loans.  China-Like Growth Fails to Stem Warrant Slide: Argentina Credit  Argentine warrants tied to gross domestic product are
falling to a six-month low on concern the global economic
slowdown will curb output in a country growing faster than all
major developing nations outside China.  BOE Says Most Officials See More QE as Increasingly Probable (2)  Bank of England officials said they may need to buy more
bonds to bolster a faltering recovery after holding off adding
stimulus this month in a decision that was “finely balanced.”  Papandreou Convenes Cabinet on Accelerating Cuts to Get Aid  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  convenes his Cabinet
to press for accelerating budget cuts to ensure the next tranche
of an international rescue package is delivered next month to
stave off default.  Barroso Says Euro Bonds Should Be Preserved as an Option (2)  Policy makers battling a European debt crisis shouldn’t
rule out issuing joint euro-area bonds and must develop
integration tools to make that possible, even if German
opposition means it can’t be done immediately, European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said.  Fed Has Few Tools to Heal Economy Weakened by Housing Market  U.S. mortgage rates are the lowest in at least four
decades, with a 30-year fixed loan available at 4.09 percent.
That didn’t help Alexis Wolf buy a townhome in Beaverton,
 Oregon .  OTHER MARKETS:  European Stocks Retreat on Greek Debt Talks; U.S. Futures Gain  European stocks retreated as officials said they plan to
return to  Athens  next week to complete a review of the  Greek
economy . Asian shares and U.S. index futures gained.  Most Asian Stocks Rise on China Optimism; Hong Kong Shares Drop  Most Asian stocks rose after a gauge of economic indicators
signaled growth in China is withstanding Europe’s debt crisis
and a faltering U.S. economy. The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index
trimmed advances in late trading as European markets opened
lower.  Oil Drops in New York on Bets of Lower Demand, Higher Supplies  Oil fell in New York as investors bet that fuel demand in
the U.S. is waning as stockpiles rise, while supplies from the
Middle East and Africa grow.  Brent crude  in London widened its
premium over U.S. futures.  Libya Forming Cabinet Amid Struggle to Take Holdout Towns (1)  Libya’s new rulers extended talks to form a government
while their troops fought to oust Muammar Qaddafi’s loyalists
from Bani Walid and Sirte.  U.S. Nationals Held in  Iran  to Be Freed Today, Lawyer Says (2)  Two U.S. nationals held in Iran on charges of espionage and
illegal entry into the country will be released today, the
state-run Fars news agency said, citing Masoud Shafiei, their
lawyer.  SPORTS:  Tonga Defeats  Japan  31-18 to Break Rugby World Cup Losing Streak  Tonga defeated Japan 31-18 in their Rugby World Cup Pool A
match to end its four-match losing streak at the tournament.  Nottingham Forest to Sign QPR Defender Clint Hill: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  No Men as 50,000 Women, Children Watch Fenerbahce, Hurriyet Says  A full stadium of almost 50,000 women and children watched
Fenerbahce draw 1-1 with Manisaspor yesterday after Turkish
soccer authorities banned men from the match as a punishment for
bad behavior, Hurriyet newspaper reported.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  