-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Sept. 16 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-09-21T14:38:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-sept-16-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.3 million barrels per
day during the week ending September 16, 283 thousand barrels
per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated
at 88.3 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production decreased last week, averaging nearly 9.1 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased slightly
last week, averaging just under 4.5 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 8.4 million barrels per
day last week, down by 191 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged about 8.8 million barrels per day, 469 thousand barrels
per day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 692 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 158 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 7.3 million barrels
from the previous week. At 339.0 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are in the upper limit of the average range for this
time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by 3.3
million barrels last week and are above the upper limit of the
average range. Finished gasoline inventories decreased while
blending components inventories increased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories decreased by 0.9 million barrels last week and
are in the upper limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 0.6 million
barrels last week and are below the lower limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 5.3
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged about 19.2 million barrels per day, down by 0.9 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged just under
9.0 million barrels per day, down by 1.7 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
nearly 3.9 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up
by 0.5 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 3.3 percent lower over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  