-- 
Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Increased More Than Forecast

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-21T18:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-s-existing-home-sales-rise-7-7-to-5-03-million-rate-a-five-month-high.html
Sales of previously owned U.S.
homes rose more than anticipated in August as investors scooped
up distressed properties with cash.  The 7.7 percent increase left purchases at a five-month
high 5.03 million annual rate, the National Association of
Realtors said today in Washington. The August pace compares with
a peak of 7.08 million in 2005, before the housing boom turned
into a subprime-mortgage bust that dragged the economy into an
18-month recession.  “Housing’s been down for so long, we should take whatever
good news we can get,” said  Brian Jones , an economist at
 Societe Generale  in  New York , whose forecast was among the
highest in the Bloomberg survey. “Interest rates are low and
pricing is attractive and people are responding.”  While foreclosure-driven price declines and record-low
 mortgage rates  are preventing a renewed slump in sales,
companies like Lennar Corp. say weaker confidence and limited
access to financing are limiting demand. The Federal Reserve
today employed another round of unconventional monetary policy
aimed at preventing the economy from relapsing into recession.  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 4.75 million rate. Forecasts in the survey of
74 economists ranged from 4.5 million to 4.99 million.  Fed Meeting  The Fed said it will buy $400 billion of bonds with
maturities of six to 30 years through June, while selling an
equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less. The action
is intended to “put downward pressure on longer-term  interest
rates  and help make broader financial conditions more
accommodative,” the Fed said in a statement after its two-day
meeting. Policy makers will also reinvest maturing mortgage debt
into mortgage-backed securities instead of Treasuries.  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed statement said.  Stocks tumbled, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
down for a third day. The  S&P 500  dropped 1.3 percent to
1,185.97 at 2:41 p.m. in New York. Treasuries rose, pushing down
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 1.87 percent from
1.94 percent late yesterday.  The median price of a previously owned home dropped 5.1
percent to $168,300 from $177,300 in August 2010, today’s report
showed.  Existing-home sales, tabulated when a contract closes, rose
19 percent from the same month last year.  Housing Inventory  The number of previously owned homes on the market declined
3 percent to 3.58 million. At the current sales pace, it would
take 8.5 months to sell those houses, down from 9.5 months at
the end of the prior month.  Month’s supply in the seven months to eight months range is
consistent with stable  home prices , the group said.  Of all purchases, cash transactions accounted for about 29
percent, the same as in July, Jed Smith, managing director of
research at the NAR, said in a news conference today as the
figures were released.  Distressed sales, comprised of foreclosures and short
sales, in which the lender agrees to a transaction for less than
the balance of the mortgage, accounted for 31 percent of the
total in August, up from 29 percent in the prior month.  “Investors were more active in absorbing foreclosed
properties,”  Lawrence Yun , the group’s chief economist, said in
a statement. Investors accounted for 22 percent of purchases in
August, up from 18 percent the previous month.  Contract Cancelations  Contract cancelations were reported by 18 percent of the
group’s members in August, up from 16 percent a month earlier.
The cancelations reflected mortgage applications that were
refused or because appraised home values were coming in below
the sales price, the group said.  Sales of existing single-family homes increased 8.5 percent
to an annual rate of 4.47 million, the highest since January.
Purchases of multifamily properties, including condominiums and
townhouses, rose 1.8 percent to a 560,000 pace.  Purchases climbed in all four regions, led by an 18 percent
jump in the West. Demand increased 5.4 percent in the South, 3.8
percent in the Midwest and 2.7 percent in the Northeast.  The residential real estate industry, which helped trigger
the recession, is struggling more than two years into the
economic recovery that began in June 2009. Housing starts in
August dropped 5 percent to a 571,000 annual rate, the slowest
in three months, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  Lennar Corp. (LEN)   Miami-based Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, reported a 31 percent drop in profit in the quarter
ended Aug. 31 as sales fell. The housing market remains
“challenging,” with “already skittish customers” being
driven away by burdensome mortgage-qualification rules, Chief
Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said on a conference call.  At the same time, home prices that have decreased to
attractive levels and interest rates on 30-year loans at record
lows are reviving interest among potential buyers, he said.  “Demand remained constrained however by the availability
of financing and general  consumer confidence ,” Miller said on
the Sept. 19 conference call. There’s also “evidence that the
consumer is beginning to return in earnest to the homebuilding
market.”  Most builders remain pessimistic. The National Association
of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index dropped to 14 in
September, a three-month low, from 15 in August, the Washington-
based group reported this week. Readings less than 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor. Gauges of prospective
buyer traffic, current sales and purchase expectations declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  