-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall as Fed Plans Bond Purchases, Sees Economic Risk

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-21T21:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/u-s-stock-index-futures-climb-as-oracle-adobe-systems-rally.html
U.S. stocks slumped, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its biggest decline in a month, as
the  Federal Reserve  announced plans to buy $400 billion of long-
term debt and cited risks to the economic outlook.  Caterpillar Inc. and Dow Chemical Co. fell more than 5.1
percent, pacing losses among companies most-tied to the economy.
Financial shares in the S&P 500 slid 4.9 percent as a group, to
a two-year low, as Moody’s Investors Service cut its ratings on
Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co. The
Dow Jones Transportation Average slid 5.3 percent as railroad
shares tumbled after two coal companies cut their forecasts.  The S&P 500 fell 2.9 percent to 1,166.76 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The benchmark gauge for American equities has dropped 4.1
percent in three days. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost
283.82 points, or 2.5 percent, to 11,124.84 today.  “The markets apparently were hoping for a large, magic
pill for an anemic economy that feels like it’s catching the
flu,”  Barton Biggs , managing partner and co-founder of hedge
fund Traxis Partners LP in New York, said in an e-mail. The firm
has $1.4 billion in assets.  The  S&P 500  had tumbled as much as 18 percent from a three-
year high at the end of April amid concern the economic recovery
was weakening. The index has rebounded 4.2 percent after sinking
to an 11-month low on Aug. 8.  Treasury 30-year bonds surged, pushing the yields below 3
percent for the first time since 2009, after the Fed said it
will purchase longer-term debt and sell shorter maturities to
sustain the economic recovery, confirming market speculation
that the central bank was planning an “Operation Twist”
similar to one of the central bank’s programs in the 1960s.  ‘Significant Downside Risks’  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed statement said.  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said in an Aug. 26 speech that
the central bank still has tools to stimulate the economy
without signaling he will use them. He echoed comments of
dissenting members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  who said
then that U.S. economic data aren’t pointing to a recession.  “Markets took note of the Fed’s downward revision of the
economic outlook and upgrading of downside financial risks,”
Mohamed A. El-Erian, the chief executive officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach , California, wrote in
an e-mail. Pimco is the world’s largest bond-fund manager.
“They recognize that while Fed purchases can influence Treasury
and mortgage valuations, it is limited in its ability to deliver
economic outcomes.”  Caterpillar, Dow Chemical  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
economic growth lost 4.2 percent. Caterpillar declined 5.1
percent to $79.36. Dow Chemical lost 6.3 percent to $25.54.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  declined 5.5 percent. Bank of America
fell 7.5 percent to $6.38. Wells Fargo lost 3.9 percent to
$23.71, and Citigroup slipped 5.2 percent to $25.52.  Bank of America and Wells Fargo had their long-term credit
ratings downgraded by Moody’s, which cited a decreasing
probability that the U.S. would support the lenders in an
emergency. Citigroup’s short-term credit rating was cut.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, closed below $100 for the first time since March 2009.
The shares dropped 4.6 percent to $97.86. Morgan Stanley, the
sixth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, sustained the biggest decline
in the S&P 500 Financials Index as the stock fell 8.6 percent to
$13.82.  European Banks  Banks also fell following declines in European lenders. The
European debt crisis has generated as much as 300 billion euros
($410 billion) in credit risk for European banks, the
 International Monetary Fund  said, calling for capital injections
to reassure investors and support lending.  Coal companies tumbled, pacing losses in railroad shares.
 Walter Energy Inc. (WLT)  reduced its second-half sales forecast,
citing delays at mines in British Columbia and Alberta.  Alpha
Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  pared its outlook for full-year
production because of a drop in Asia demand and lower-than-
expected output at some mines.  “That’s a point of evidence that the global economy is
slowing down,” Peter Tuz, who helps manage $1 billion as
president of Chase Investment Counsel Corp. in Charlottesville,
Virginia, said in a telephone interview. “One of the real
strengths of the market of the last few years has been the
upward push of commodities driven by global demand.”  Walter Energy slumped 12 percent to $66.25. Alpha decreased
17 percent to $22.30.  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the biggest eastern U.S.
railroad, slumped 8.1 percent to $18.59.  Hewlett-Packard Rallies  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  rallied 6.7 percent, the only gain in
the Dow, to $23.98. The company’s board plans to meet to
consider whether to oust  Leo Apotheker  as chief executive
officer after less than 11 months on the job, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Under a scenario being considered, Hewlett-Packard’s
directors may appoint former EBay Inc. CEO  Meg Whitman  as his
successor, possibly on an interim basis, said one of the people,
who asked not to be named because the plans aren’t public.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  rose 4.2 percent to $29.54. The software maker
reported profit that topped analysts’ estimates, boosted by
increased spending on database programs and applications that
help run businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  