-- 
UBS Moved Executive in FSA Risk-Management Case to Zurich

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-21T16:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ubs-moved-executive-facing-fsa-risk-management-fine-to-zurich.html
A  UBS AG (UBSN)  executive accused of risk-
management failures and facing a potential fine by the U.K.
finance regulator was moved as early as 2008 from London to
Zurich by  Switzerland ’s biggest bank.  John Pottage, the former chief executive officer of UBS’s
wealth-management division in London, will challenge the
Financial Services Authority at a court  hearing  in November over
its attempt to fine him for not ensuring the unit had controls
to prevent unauthorized trades that began in 2006, according to
three people familiar with the case. He now works in risk
management, two people with knowledge of his role said.  The FSA fined UBS 8 million pounds ($12.5 million) in 2009,
at the time the third-largest penalty imposed by the regulator,
for failing to prevent employees in the international wealth-
management business from making as many as 50 unauthorized
trades a day with funds from at least 39 customer accounts. The
case is an example of UBS failing to police errant trading in
 London  years before the bank said this week it lost $2.3 billion
from unauthorized trades.  “Now that the machine has got going, every single bad
thing is going to come out,” said Fred Ponzo, a capital markets
adviser at Greyspark Partners in London.  Pottage was authorized by the FSA until Dec. 15, 2008,
according to the watchdog’s website. He had authorization for
roles including chief executive, significant management,
director, apportionment and oversight, investment adviser and
insurance mediator.  ‘Reasonable Steps’  Pottage declined to comment when reached at a UBS number in
Zurich. Yves Kaufmann, a UBS spokesman in Zurich, also declined
to comment. UBS shares rose 0.8 percent to 10.29 Swiss francs in
trading today.  Pottage was obligated to “take reasonable steps to ensure
the right systems and controls were in place and to take dutiful
care over the running of the business,” Richard Everett, a
former FSA senior legal adviser who now works at law firm
 Lawrence Graham LLP , said in a telephone interview. “It’s a
question of what constitutes reasonable steps here.”  UBS trader Kweku Adoboli was charged with fraud and false
accounting last week after the bank discovered unauthorized
trades that it said caused $2.3 billion in losses. The loss in
the case came from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and
EuroStoxx index futures over the past three months, according to
the bank. The risk of the trades was masked by fictitious
positions, UBS said.  FSA, Finma  The FSA and the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority opened a joint investigation into control failures at
UBS that allowed the trades to go undetected.  Chris Hamilton , an FSA spokesman, declined to comment.
Tobias Lux, a spokesman at the Swiss regulator, declined to
comment on the case. Pottage’s lawyer, John Fordham, also
declined to comment.  Adoboli worked at UBS’s investment bank on its Delta One
desk, which handles trades for clients, typically helping them
to speculate on or hedge the performance of a basket of
securities. He will appear at a court hearing in London
tomorrow. UBS has said that no client positions were affected.  The $2.3 billion loss is the largest since former Societe
Generale SA derivatives trader  Jerome Kerviel  caused a 4.9
billion-euro ($6.7 billion) loss in 2008.  Kerviel Case  Kerviel amassed 50 billion euros in unauthorized positions,
concealed with faked hedges. A Paris court ordered him last year
to repay the full amount of the loss and sentenced him to three
years in jail. He’s appealing that verdict.  Britain’s FSA has said it had discussed the Kerviel case
with as many as 50 banks in London and that “many had already
put in place reviews to ensure they identify any gaps in trading
controls and close them as soon as possible,” according to a
policy document from March 2008.  When UBS was fined in 2009, the regulator said the bank had
already paid more than $42 million to compensate customers. The
FSA found that four UBS employees on one desk made unauthorized
foreign exchange and precious metals trades over a two-year
period. All four left the bank. Pottage isn’t accused of having
been involved in any trades or having known about them.  In the 2009 case, UBS failed to adequately supervise
employees who dealt with customers, manage and control risks in
its international  wealth-management  business, or to respond to
warning signs, the regulator said. The breaches came to light
when a whistleblower notified the bank’s compliance department
about a proposed transfer of funds from a customer’s account to
a desk head’s personal account, according to the FSA.  The agency said in its  final report  detailing the failures
that UBS corrected the problem and hired a third-party firm that
determined the bank made “very significant changes” and that
their controls in wealth management were adequate.  UBS’s bonus policy “created a tension between employees’
personal interests and their risk and compliance obligations,”
the FSA said in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  