-- 
UBS Bankers Said to Golf in Pebble Beach After $2.3 Billion Trading Loss

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-09-21T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ubs-bankers-said-to-golf-in-pebble-beach-after-trading-loss.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  senior bankers are heading
to  Pebble Beach  for a golf tournament with clients as a division
of the firm draws criticism after a $2.3 billion trading loss,
according to a person familiar with the event.  Employees from UBS’s Americas investment-banking division
will spend part of the week golfing at the California resort
with the company’s top clients, said the person, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the event is private. The bank,
Switzerland’s largest, has been hosting the event for 10 years,
the person said.  UBS, led by Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , 67,
said last week that it suffered the loss from unauthorized
trading in London and may be unprofitable in the third quarter.
The advantages of hosting the annual golf event may outweigh any
“negative” publicity for the Zurich-based firm, said  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of Chicago’s Booth School
of Business.  “If it made business sense a month ago, it makes business
sense today,” Kaplan said in a phone interview yesterday.
“There’s a benefit to getting in front of your clients. Given
what happened, there’s an additional benefit to reassure them.”  Aryeh Bourkoff, head of investment banking for the
Americas, is the host for the event, the person said. Top
clients and their families are invited, according to the  New
York  Post, which reported on the golf outing yesterday.  “The 2011 Invitational is a long-standing tradition at UBS
where clients of our investment-banking practice have an
opportunity to confer with one another and their advisers in a
relaxed and informal setting,”  Peter McKillop , a bank
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  