-- 
UBS Trader Adoboli May Seek Bail in $2.3 Billion Unauthorized Trades Case

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-21T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ubs-trader-adoboli-may-seek-bail-in-2-3-billion-unauthorized-trades-case.html
Kweku Adoboli, the  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader
accused of fraud and false accounting that led to a $2.3 billion
loss for  Switzerland ’s largest bank, may ask a court to be
released on bail while he awaits trial.  Adoboli’s lawyers may offer that he surrender his passport,
get an electronic tracking device, stay confined to his home, or
get a letter from the Ghanaian embassy promising not to issue
him any travel documents, said Steven Francis, a regulatory
partner at Reynolds Porter Chamberlain who isn’t involved in the
case. Adoboli, 31, holds a Ghanaian passport.  “I don’t think it’s an open and shut case as to whether
he’ll get bail,” Francis said in a London telephone interview.
“He’s so high-profile now that the prospect of him disappearing
off the face of the Earth is slim. On the other hand, no
magistrate ever got fired for keeping someone in custody.”  Police have held Adoboli since his Sept. 15 arrest on
suspicion of making the unauthorized trades. Prosecutors charged
the trader with fraud and false accounting and a magistrates
court ordered him held in custody until today’s hearing. If
convicted of fraud, he faces as many as 10 years in prison,
according to prosecutor sentencing guidelines. Time spent in
custody beforehand would be deducted from any sentence.  Adoboli’s lawyers at Kingsley Napley declined to comment,
Melanie Riley, a spokeswoman for the firm, said.  The alleged $2.3 billion loss is the largest discovered at
a bank since former Societe Generale SA derivatives trader
 Jerome Kerviel  caused a 4.9 billion-euro ($6.7 billion) loss in
2008.  Kerviel Hedges  Kerviel amassed 50 billion euros in unauthorized positions,
concealed with faked hedges. A Paris court ordered him last year
to repay the full amount of the loss and sentenced him to three
years in jail. He’s appealing that verdict.  Adoboli worked for UBS’s investment bank on its Delta One
desk, which handles trades for clients, typically helping them
speculate on, or hedge the performance of, a basket of
securities. The group also trades with the bank’s own money. 
Zurich-based UBS has said that no client positions were affected.  Adoboli “dishonestly abused” his position as a senior
trader, which required him “to safeguard, or not to act
against, the financial interests of UBS,” according to court
documents.  The loss came from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX
and EuroStoxx index futures over the past three months,
according to the bank. Risk on the trades was masked by
fictitious positions, UBS said.  The FSA and the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority last week opened a joint investigation into control
failures at UBS that allowed the trades to go undetected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  