-- 
Mumbai Road Builders Ready First Dim Sum Bonds to Cut Costs: India Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T05:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/mumbai-road-builders-ready-first-dim-sum-bonds-to-cut-costs-india-credit.html
Indian companies may turn to Hong
Kong’s yuan bond market to raise funds at 40 percent the cost of
top-rated companies at home after the South Asian nation eased
borrowing rules.  The government agreed for the first time last week to allow
Indian companies raise as much as $1 billion of debt in the
Chinese currency, bolstering the yuan’s challenge to the dollar
as a funding currency. Mumbai-based Infrastructure Leasing &
Financial Services Ltd., an Indian lender to road projects,
plans to raise $100 million in yuan bonds and developer  Unity
Infraprojects Ltd. (UIP)  said it may consider a sale.  Yields on so-called dim sum bonds fell 3 basis points in
September to 2.8 percent, while three-year AAA-rated corporate
notes in  India  climbed 7 basis points this month to an average
yield of 9.46 percent, after the  Reserve Bank of India  raised
 interest rates  12 times since March 2010 to slow inflation. U.S.
dollar bonds from India pay an average 6.25 percent, an index
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. shows.  “Most of the India issuers, including the banks, are high
yield, but they still can save some money in the yuan market,”
 Steve Wang , the head of fixed-income research in  Hong Kong  at
BOCI Securities, a unit of Bank of China Ltd., said in a
telephone interview on Sept. 16. Top-rated Indian companies
would be able to sell yuan debt for around 3 to 4 percent, he
said.  Dim Sum Bonds  International bond sales by Indian companies stalled this
month, while sales in rupees dropped 79 percent to 52 billion
rupees ($1.1 billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In Hong Kong, companies have raised 8.9 billion yuan ($1.4
billion) in the dim sum bond market this month, with sales
tripling this year to a record 118.9 billion yuan.  China, which was the biggest contributor to world growth
last year, according to the  International Monetary Fund , is
promoting the yuan’s use in global trade and finance.  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong probably totaled a record 572.2
billion yuan at the end of July, almost double the level at the
end of 2010, according to Hong Kong Monetary Authority data.  “The IL&FS group is to raise an equivalent of $100 million
in yuan-denominated bonds,” Milind Patel, the Mumbai-based
deputy managing director of IL&FS Financial Services Ltd., a
unit of lender Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services, said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  The company retained Deutsche Bank AG, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG to manage the issue.  ‘Attractive Proposition’  Rural Electrification Corp., India’s state-controlled
lender to power projects, has applied to  China  Export and Credit
Insurance Corp., the state-owned export credit agency known as
 Sinosure , for a guarantee on a $350 million loan, Chairman Hari Das Khunteta said in an interview on Sept. 16.  “Borrowing in yuan-denominated debt is an attractive
proposition and we will consider it soon to offset rising
interest costs in India,” Madhav Nadkarni, chief financial
officer at Mumbai-based Unity Infraprojects, said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 19 in Mumbai. “Allowing issuance of debt
denominated in many currencies is becoming a necessity and not
an option.”  Power companies such as  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI)  and Adani
Power Ltd. have also said they’re talking to Chinese banks for
loans after  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  borrowed $1.1 billion from China
Development Bank Corp. in December.  Growth, Inflation  “Yuan is a strong currency and China has reserves of more
than $3 trillion,” Khunteta said. Rural Electrification will
borrow in yuan “if the terms are good and taking into account
interest rates,” Khunteta said.  Annual trade between the world’s most populous countries
will touch $60 billion in 2011, the  Federation of Indian Export
Organisations , a government-affiliated trade group, said in a
statement on April 15.  The  Asian Development Bank  cut its forecast for India’s
economic expansion in the year ending March 31 to 7.9 percent
last week from 8.2 percent estimated in April. Gross domestic
product gained 7.7 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the
smallest gain since 2009, a government report showed on Aug. 30.  Benchmark inflation in India is the highest among the so-
called BRIC nations, increasing to a 13-month high of 9.78
percent in August, according to government data.  Consumer prices rose 7.2 percent in  Brazil , 8.2 percent in
 Russia  and 6.2 percent in China last month from a year earlier.
In  South Africa , they climbed 5.3 percent in July.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against default the debt of
government-owned  State Bank  of India, seen as a proxy for the
nation, climbed 43 basis points this month to 318 yesterday,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated
markets. The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on India’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell one basis
point to 8.33 percent today in Mumbai, according to the central
bank’s trading system. The extra yield investors demand to hold
five-year company debt rather than similar-maturity  government
securities  has risen 6 basis points this month to 95, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s
largest bank by market value, may provide dim sum bond services
to Indian companies, Yang Kaisheng, president of the Beijing
based bank, said in Mumbai on Sept. 15.  Yuan Appreciation  Indian companies can now see how the yuan is appreciating
and might want to hold some renminbi funds, Yang said. The yuan
is the only currency among the biggest emerging nations to
strengthen against the dollar this quarter, and yuan-denominated
notes in Hong Kong are the only domestic bonds among the so-
called BRICs to provide positive returns, according to indexes
compiled by HSBC and JPMorgan.  “The moment China delinks the renminbi, the currency will
appreciate,” Prabal Banerji, chief financial officer at  Adani
Power Ltd. (ADANI)  in the western Indian city of Ahmedabad, said in an
interview on Sept. 13. “It will be inadvisable and not
appropriate for Indian corporates to borrow renminbi at this
point of time. A rising yuan means all borrowers will be out of
money.”  The rupee declined 6.8 percent this quarter, the second-
worst performer of the 10 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
India’s currency climbed 0.3 percent to 47.9150 per dollar today
in Mumbai, according to Bloomberg data. The yuan appreciated 1.4
percent this quarter to 6.3776 per dollar in  Shanghai , according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  ‘New Animal’  Investors will be interested in Indian dim sum bonds to tap
potential for growth in the South Asian nation without taking a
 currency risk , said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “Indian yields may be more
attractive,” he said.  Dim sum bonds returned 0.6 percent this quarter, compared
with losses of 11 percent for local-currency bonds in Brazil,
10.1 percent for Russia and 6.3 percent for India, according to
indexes compiled by HSBC and JPMorgan.  “Yuan debt from India is a new animal,” said Hong Kong-
based Atul Gharde, a credit analyst at SJS Markets Ltd. “This
is more of a diversification strategy for Indian dim sum issuers
and a new market opening up for Chinese investors.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net 
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  