-- 
Hungary Central Bank’s Foreign Reserve Offer May Prompt Advance in Forint

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-09-21T08:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/hungary-reserve-offer-game-changer-for-forint-unicredit-says.html
The Hungarian central bank’s offer
to use its foreign-currency reserves to help borrowers repay
mortgages may prompt a gain in the forint, according to
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and BNP Paribas SA.  Magyar Nemzeti Bank would allow domestic lenders to tap the
reserves to cope with an expected increase in demand for foreign
currency after a law approved this week allowed early repayment
of loans at below market rates, central bank President Andras Simor said yesterday.  “We believe the announcement might be a game changer for
euro-forint,”  Gyula Toth , a Vienna-based strategist at
UniCredit, wrote in a research report today.  Legislation approved on Sept. 19 would allow the repayment
of Swiss-franc denominated mortgages, covering a majority of the
loans, at a fixed exchange rate of 180 forint per franc, and
euro-denominated mortgages at 250 forint per euro, provided the
loans were taken out at lower exchange rates. Losses will be
assumed by banks.  The forint fell 5 percent against the euro in the 10 days
from Sept. 9, when  Hungary ’s ruling Fidesz party announced the
mortgage repayment plan and rallied 1.4 percent yesterday
following Simor’s announcement, the second-best performance
among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Guinean
franc. The forint depreciated 1 percent to 290.03 per euro as of
10:11 a.m. in Budapest and fell 0.5 percent to 237.4 per franc.  Forint Short  “We think that a lot of investors went short on the forint
after the announcement of the foreign exchange programme and
unwinding of these positions could help the forint outperform
the region in the near-term,” strategists at BNP Paribas SA led
by Bartosz Pawlowski in  London  wrote in a research report today.  The central bank’s move may allow the banking system to
absorb potential losses from the repayment plan without
increasing Hungary’s vulnerability by depleting too much of its
foreign currency reserves,  Murat Toprak , head of foreign
exchange strategy for Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa at
HSBC, said by phone yesterday.  Hungary’s foreign reserves stood at 34.7 billion euros
($47.5 billion) at the end of August, according to central bank
data.  The central bank’s move however “won’t be enough” to
prevent a decline in the forint “if risk sentiment deteriorates
sharply,”  Henrik Gullberg , a London-based currency strategist
at Deutsche Bank AG, said over the phone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  