-- 
Hungary Recognizes Budget Risk as Orban Overturns Flat Tax

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-21T12:26:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/hungary-recognizes-budget-risk-as-orban-overturns-flagship-tax.html
Hungary ’s surprise decision to
effectively scrap its flat rate of income tax may show Premier
 Viktor Orban  has recognized the threat to public finances from
weaker economic growth and heeded criticism he favors the rich.  From next year, a “temporary contribution” will be levied
on gross monthly incomes of more than 202,000 forint ($964) to
compensate those worse off under the 16 percent flat rate,
overturning Orban’s flagship tax policy, the  Economy Ministry 
said late yesterday in an e-mailed statement. It didn’t specify
the size of the contribution or how long it would last.  As Hungary’s economy slows, Orban is raising taxes and
cutting spending to trim the 2012  budget deficit  to 2.5 percent
of gross domestic product. Critics say his policies cater to the
wealthy after a plan to allow homeowners to repay mortgages
denominated in foreign currencies ahead of schedule at below-
market exchange rates, providing they have the full amount.  “The surrender of the flat tax was a logical recognition
that, much like the early repayment plan, it favors the rich,”
 Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based economist at Raiffeisen Bank
International AG, said in a phone interview. “There has been a
huge revenue drop because of the flat tax.”  Minimum Wage  Even after announcing the new contribution, the Economy
Ministry reaffirmed plans to enshrine the flat tax later this
year in a so-called cardinal law that would need the support of
two-thirds of parliament to change.  To blunt the tax’s effect on the poor, the government
yesterday proposed raising the  minimum wage  from 2012 by 18
percent to 92,000 forint, the biggest increase in a decade. It
also wants private companies to raise salaries by 5 percent next
year, above the government’s 4.2 percent inflation estimate.  The proposed increase in the minimum wage would be
“unbearable and unpayable for the business sector,” Ferenc
David, secretary-general of the National Association of
Entrepreneurs and Employers, said yesterday, the  Origo  news
portal reported.  The government will “partly compensate” employers for
wage increases above the level it determines with employers and
employees, the Economy Ministry said yesterday.  The scope of the proposed wage increases “undermines the
business climate” and together with the mortgage plan, may
cause the forint to weaken to 300 per euro,  Benoit Anne , London-
based head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA,
said in an e-mail. The forint dropped to as low as 293.64 per
euro today, the weakest since April 2009.  Erosion of Confidence  “We are seeing a significant erosion of investor
confidence in Hungary,” Anne said. “The risk of policy error
has risen dramatically after the misguided policy moves on the
part of the government over the past few days.”  Hungary is raising excise taxes this year and will increase
value-added tax to a European Union-high 27 percent from 25
percent in 2012. Economic growth is forecast at 1.5 percent in
2012, down from an earlier prediction of 3 percent.  The revision of the flat-tax rate highlights the failure of
economic policies aimed at fueling domestic consumption and
growth through tax cuts, Csaba Toth, a political analyst at the
 Republikon Institute  in Budapest, said by phone. Retail sales
fell 1.3 percent in July, dropping for the fourth time this
year.  ‘Appears Confused’  “The flat tax showed economic policy based on high
economic growth rates generating sufficient budget revenue
doesn’t work,” Toth said. “The government looks like it’s
starting to lose its footing, it’s rushing and appears
confused.”  The tax plan isn’t the first controversial measure Hungary
has imposed. As it seeks to narrow this year’s budget shortfall,
the eastern European nation has levied extraordinary taxes on
energy, financial-services, retail and telecommunication
companies, and effectively nationalized private pension funds.  The government also is allowing early repayment of Swiss-
franc denominated mortgages at a fixed  exchange rate  of 180
forint per franc, more than 20 percent below market rates, and
forcing banks to swallow the losses.  All three opposition parties have criticized the government
for helping those who can muster funds to repay the mortgages,
while hurting the less well-off who suffered as the measure
sparked declines in the forint, raising borrowers’ monthly
repayments.  Mortgage Plan  About 10 percent of Hungary’s 1 million foreign-currency
mortgage holders will be able to take advantage of the program,
the government estimates. The central bank sees 20 percent
taking part.  The plan, which has weakened the forint and boosted
country-risk levels to their highest in two and a half years,
may also hurt borrowers who are unable to repay mortgages ahead
of schedule, the Hungarian Banking Association said today.  “The increasing sovereign risk and deteriorating forint
exchange rate will most probably lead to an increase in  interest
rates , causing an increase in the funding costs of national debt
and a rise in corporate and retail lending rates,” it said in a
statement. “This may adversely affect millions of Hungarian
corporate and retail debtors with forint loans.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  