-- 
Muni Ratings Won’t Face Immediate Impact From Cuts, Fitch Says

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-09-21T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/muni-ratings-won-t-face-immediate-impact-from-cuts-fitch-says.html
State and local government credit
ratings won’t be immediately affected by federal budget cuts
because Medicaid wasn’t included in the first round of
reductions,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Medicaid, the health-insurance program for the poor,
accounts for the bulk of U.S. aid to states, Fitch said in a
report released today. Last month, Congress and President  Barack
Obama  agreed to slice $917 billion from the budget over the next
10 years, Fitch said. Only $25 billion of those cuts will occur
in fiscal 2012.  Because Medicaid was left out, “federal reduction measures
are unlikely to have a meaningful deleterious effect on state
and local government budgets in the near term,” the Fitch
report said.  The “most significant risk” for states would be if the
congressional supercommittee charged with slashing the deficit
finds savings in Medicaid, the report said. The supercommittee
is tasked with finding another $1.2 trillion in cuts, and
Medicaid is likely to be a target, Fitch said.  “If they do cut Medicaid, the question is how much and how
do they allocate it,” Richard Raphael, a Fitch analyst and one
of the report’s authors, said in a telephone interview.  An across-the-board cut to Medicaid funding would be most
harmful to states such as  Mississippi  and  West Virginia , which
rely on the U.S. for more than 70 percent of their Medicaid
budgets, the report said. Wealthier states such as  New York  and
 Colorado , which receive the minimum matching funds of 50 percent
of spending, would be hurt the most if those minimums were
lowered, the report said.  The best possibility for state budgets could be for
Congress not to pass legislation written by the supercommitte,
according to the report. If there’s no agreement, automatic
federal cuts would be triggered on Jan. 15, though Medicaid
would be left untouched.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  