-- 
United Technologies’ Goodrich Bid Tops $125 a Share

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-09-22T00:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/united-technologies-bid-for-supplier-goodrich-said-to-exceed-125-a-share.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s all-
cash offer for  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  may value the aerospace supplier
at more than $15.6 billion, with a bid exceeding $125 a share,
said three people with knowledge of the discussions.  The companies’ boards will meet separately tonight and may
announce a deal as soon as tomorrow, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private. Talks
could still break down and an agreement may not be reached.  United Technologies and Goodrich were discussing a price of
$110 to $120 a share at the end of last week, one person said.
At $125 a share, Goodrich would fetch 45 percent more than its
closing share price on Sept. 15, the day before Bloomberg
reported the companies were in talks.  A spokesman for Hartford, Connecticut-based United
Technologies and spokesmen for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Goodrich didn’t immediately return phone calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  Goodrich jumped 11 percent to $122 at 7:59 p.m. in extended
trading, after closing at $109.49 on the New York Stock
Exchange. United Technologies slid to $74 in late trading. It
closed at $74.87 in the regular session.  Buying Goodrich would add the world’s largest maker of
aircraft landing gear to an aerospace portfolio at United
Technologies that includes Sikorsky helicopters, Pratt & Whitney
 jet engines  and the Hamilton Sundstrand unit, whose products
include aviation electronics.  Goodrich’s aerospace lineup includes nacelles, the casings
that hold jet engines; electronics; and temperature-control
systems.  ‘Good Price’  “If United Technologies were able to acquire Goodrich for
$125 a share, that would be a good price for both sides,”
Robert Stallard, an RBC Capital Markets analyst in  New York ,
said this week in a note to investors. He recommends buying the
shares of both companies.  Goodrich’s market value was $13.7 billion as of the close
of trading today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while
United Technologies’ was $68 billion.  United Technologies had $5.4 billion in cash and near-cash
items at the end of last quarter, and posted sales of $54.3
billion in 2010. Goodrich reported revenue of $6.97 billion last
year.  Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  signaled his
interest in having United Technologies pursue acquisitions when
he named William Brown as senior vice president of corporate
strategy in March. Brown completed more than 40 purchases as
head of UTC Fire & Security.  Chenevert, 54, hasn’t made a large aerospace acquisition
since becoming CEO in 2008. He ran the Pratt & Whitney unit
before being promoted to chief operating officer and president
of the parent company in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  