-- 
United Sweetens Frequent-Flier Perks From Continental Merger

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-09-21T22:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/united-sweetens-frequent-flier-awards-after-continental-merger.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  is
adding rewards to lure high-fare corporate travelers as it
blends the frequent-flier programs of the carriers that merged
to create the world’s largest airline.  The highest-level members of the MileagePlus program will
receive confirmed upgrades to business class sooner and more
bonus miles when they purchase first-class or full-fare business
or coach tickets starting in 2012, the Chicago-based company
said today in a statement.  United, formed in last year’s tie-up between United
Airlines and Continental Airlines, is working to align the
carriers’ programs and lure customers from rivals such as  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  Business passengers are airlines’ most profitable
customers because they fly often and pay the highest ticket
prices.  The aim was “number one, to include better recognition and
reward for our top-value customers” and to add more benefits as
passengers achieve higher levels, said Jeff Foland, president of
MileagePlus.  The program, which is keeping the MileagePlus name it had
at  United Airlines , has about 85 million members combined. The
carrier did several focus groups with members in all of its key
cities, such as its hometown of  Chicago  and New York. The
airline wanted to determine their wants and frustrations, and
why they stay loyal to a particular carrier, Foland said.  Silver Status  MileagePlus will adopt a four-tier system, where those
flying 25,000 miles earn silver status, 50,000-milers achieve
gold, 75,000-milers get platinum and 100,000-mile status is
called 1K.  MileagePlus and Continental’s OnePass program currently
have three tiers, with 100,000 miles and 75,000 miles as the
highest levels, respectively.  Higher-level elite fliers will receive more bonus miles
starting in 2012 when they buy the most expensive tickets on the
plane.  For example, a person with 1K status who buys a first-class
international ticket on a 1,000-mile route now receives 2,500
miles: 1,000 for the distance flown, 1,000 just for being a 1K
elite and a bonus of 500 miles. Under the new plan, that same
person gets an additional 1,000 bonus miles, for a total of
3,500, or 40 percent more miles than the same ticket would earn
today.  Challenging Competitors  That reward is a salvo at competitors. Delta, which doesn’t
have three-cabin service and instead offers just business and
coach, has a premium cabin bonus amount of 50 percent.  AMR
Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  offers a 50 percent bonus to its most
elite customers who buy first-class international tickets.  “We intend to compete for the top customers in the
industry and the  loyalty program  is an important component,”
Foland said. The mileage plans “provide an incentive to those
passengers who have a choice on which cabin and which airline
they fly.”  United is also making changes to the Million Miler program,
which grants lifetime benefits to passengers who reach certain
markers. United’s program counted only paid miles flown by the
passenger on its own planes, while Continental’s program also
counted miles flown on partner carriers such as  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG. (LHA)   United will combine all the miles customers have earned
over their lifetimes on each carrier, and retroactively add
miles that United passengers have accrued on partners to mimic
Continental’s program in a one-time adjustment.  Bump in Balance  The result is that most Million Miler passengers will see a
bump in their outstanding balance, said Rahsaan Johnson, a
spokesman for the carrier.  United will also extend a Million Miler’s status to spouses
or domestic partners, which Continental’s program did and
United’s previously didn’t. Travelers who reach 1 million miles
will have gold status for life, 2 million will mean platinum for
life and 3 million will be 1K for life.  Flying 4 million miles earns an invitation to United’s
Global Services program, which is dedicated to its top spenders
and includes a dedicated reservation hotline and concierge
service to escort them through airports and help speed gate
changes.  Some passengers will see their rewards or perks diminish.
United is restricting lower-tier silver elite passengers’
opportunity to get EconomyPlus coach seats with more legroom.  Mid-level elites also will get smaller mileage bonuses
under the plans for gold and platinum levels.  United shares fell 94 cents, or 4.5 percent, to $19.83 at
4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange trading as the Bloomberg
U.S. Airlines Index tumbled 3.8 percent for the biggest drop in
a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 