-- 
Murchison, Mitsubishi Consider Funding Plans for Ore Port

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-09-21T05:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/murchison-mitsubishi-consider-funding-plans-for-ore-port-1-.html
Murchison Metals Ltd. (MMX)  and Japanese
partner  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  are revising plans for their A$5.94
billion ($6.11 billion) Oakajee  iron ore  infrastructure project
in Western Australia after failing to secure key agreements.  Options include revising tariff models and a broader-based
restructure of Mitsubishi and Murchison’s Oakajee Port & Rail
Pty venture, the Perth-based company said in a statement to the
Australian stock exchange today.  Mitsubishi and Murchison, planning to spend A$3.7 billion
expanding the Jack Hills iron ore mine in the area, want to
develop the Oakajee port and rail project to open up the Mid-
West region for iron ore exports to Asia. State Premier  Colin
Barnett  visited China last week in a bid to lure financial
backing for the project.  Expenditure and short-term work programs for Oakajee and
Crosslands Resources Ltd., responsible for the Jack Hills
project, “are being scaled back whilst a commercial solution is
being sought,” today’s statement said.  Murchison’s strategic review of the projects, announced
July 4, to help the company meet funding obligations or
“otherwise unlock value for its shareholders” is ongoing, it
said. Iron ore is used to make steel.  Oakajee Port & Rail in August 2010 signed initial
agreements with potential customers of the project including
Karara Mining Ltd., a venture between  Gindalbie Metals Ltd. (GBG)  and
China’s Anshan Iron & Steel Group and Sinosteel Midwest Corp., a
unit of Sinosteel Corp. The operation had a planned export
capacity of 45 million tons.  Sinosteel Midwest on June 23 said it was suspending work on
its proposed A$2 billion Weld Range mine because of uncertainty
about the Oakajee development.  Murchison, which today announced a full-year loss of A$16.6
million, fell 3.7 percent today to 52.5 Australian cents at 3:14
p.m. in Sydney trading. It’s lost 59 percent this year.
Mitsubishi rose 0.6 percent to 1,756 yen in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  