-- 
VA Drops Roche’s Avastin for Eye Disease on Infection

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-09-22T12:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/va-drops-roche-s-avastin-for-eye-disease-citing-infection-risks.html
(Corrects story published yesterday to add word
Pharmaceuticals to name in second paragraph.)  The Department of  Veterans Affairs ,
a provider of health care to more than 5 million people, said it
will cease using Roche AG’s Avastin to treat an eye disease as
it investigates reports of serious infections and blindness.  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) , the developer of a rival
drug for the condition known as wet age-related macular
degeneration, rose $10.21, or 16 percent, to $74.56 at 2:16 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading in reaction.  Avastin is only approved in the U.S. to treat certain
cancers. Once a drug is cleared, though, it can be prescribed by
doctors for any ailment. Lawmakers have been pressuring
U.S. health programs such as Medicare to expand Avastin’s use
for the potential savings. Avastin costs about $50 a dose
compared with $2,000 for Lucentis, a rival treatment that is
approved for the eye disorder.  The medicine, with $6.4 billion in 2010 sales, works in
both cancer and the eye disease by preventing blood-vessel
growth. The VA decision, announced in an e-mail to Bloomberg
News, comes after Food and Drug Administration advisers rejected
the drug’s use in  breast cancer  because of the risk of deadly
bleeding. The VA decision may chill future calls to expand
Avastin’s uses, said Scott Gottlieb, a former deputy
commissioner for medical and scientific affairs at the FDA.  “I don’t think doctors are getting their cues from the VA,
but I think you’ll see implications on the policy side,”
Gottlieb, who consults for  Genentech , the unit of Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche that developed the drug. “I think
you’ll see proponents less likely to stand up for it.”  VA Investigation  The VA is investigating eye infections at facilities around
the country and is no longer using Avastin, the department said
in an e-mailed statement.  “Once the investigation is complete, VA will reassess how
Avastin and similar therapies may be made available for
ophthalmologic use and will issue further guidance,” the
statement said.  The FDA last month  linked  at least a dozen serious eye
infections in the Miami area to repackaged Avastin. Some of the
cases resulted in blindness.  Roche is aware of reports of patients in Miami, Nashville
and  Los Angeles  who have developed severe eye infections, some
resulting in permanent vision loss, after receiving Avastin,
Terence Hurley, a spokesman for the company, said. In Miami, the
syringes were contaminated with bacteria and the FDA found no
evidence of contamination in vials of Avastin, Hurley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 