-- 
Visa Urges Ukraine to Drop Draft Law on Card Payments

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-09-21T09:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/visa-urges-ukraine-to-drop-draft-law-on-card-payments.html
Visa Inc. (V) , which faces slower
growth in the U.S. in the wake of new regulations, is urging
 Ukraine ’s central bank to drop a draft law that restricts
foreign card issuers’ operations in the former Soviet republic.  The draft law envisages that only a newly created Ukrainian
national network can process electronic payment transactions by
Ukrainians in Ukraine, according to Joshua R. Floum, the general
council of the world’s largest payments network. He spoke in a
Sept. 16 interview in Yalta, Ukraine, after meeting central bank
management.  “The legislation concerns our business, we have a strong
disagreement over the domestic monopoly issue,” said Floum, who
was attending a conference at Black Sea resort. “If we were
excluded from Ukraine, it does take away a lot of incentive to
do business here.”  Visa and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest payment
network, are both active in Ukraine, which has a population of
46 million. Card transactions totaled 20.47 million hryvnia
($2.56 million) in the first half of this year, compared with
29.5 million hryvnia in 2010, according to central bank data.  “If the (draft) law is changed, the outlook is very
good,”  Floum said. “For growth, the sky is the limit.  Floum said the payment network is ‘‘very anxious’’ to
provide the central bank with technical support as they work
through the rulemaking process, noting that Visa has an
advantage over any ‘‘domestic scheme’’ due to its global network
capabilities.  U.S. Regulations  San Francisco-based Visa is dealing with regulatory issues
in the U.S. after the  Federal Reserve  in July completed new
rules to cap debit-card swipe fees charged to merchants. Floum,
who testified in front of the  U.S. Congress , said the company
has ‘‘a very good strategy to mitigate’’ consequences of new
regulation on debit-card transaction fees that is set to take
effect in October.  ‘‘We will modify our fee structure,’’ he said. ‘‘We are
going to move from a variable fee that the merchants pay to the
banks for the visa fees. We are going to ask merchants and their
banks to pay a fixed fee rather than a variable fee based on the
transaction.’’  Visa has also ‘‘a strategy to win decisions from merchants
for both’’ signature and pin debit transactions, Floum said.  The Fed limited debit fees to 21 cents per swipe in June.
The system replaces a formula based on a percentage of the
purchase price that averaged 44 cents.  Big Merchants  ‘‘We opposed the law, it was not a good idea and we
continue to have that feeling,’’ Floum said.  Floum blamed the bigger U.S. merchants, including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., for pushing U.S. lawmakers to include the rule in
last year’s Dodd-Frank Act, the financial regulatory overhaul
signed into law by President  Barack Obama .  Banks and payment networks came close to halting the new
rules this year as lawmakers pushed to delay their
implementation. In the end, the merchants won, largely due to
the lobbying of Congress, Floum said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  