-- 
VW Said to Get EU Antitrust Clearance for German Truckmaker MAN Takeover

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-21T15:05:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/vw-said-to-get-eu-antitrust-clearance-for-german-truckmaker-man-takeover.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s biggest car
manufacturer, is likely to get European Union regulatory
clearance by next week for acquiring German truckmaker  MAN SE (MAN) , a
person familiar with the matter said.  The deal should get antitrust approval without the need for
asset sales or other remedies, said the person, who declined to
be identified because the talks are confidential. The European
Commission deadline to rule on whether it will start an in-depth
investigation into the merger is Sept. 26.  “VW is clearing a major hurdle on its way toward exerting
control over MAN,” said  Frank Schwope , a NordLB analyst in
Hanover,  Germany  who recommends buying VW and MAN stock.  The maker of the Golf hatchback triggered a mandatory bid
for MAN by raising its stake to 30.5 percent from 29.9 percent
on May 9 to pave the way for closer cooperation between Munich-
based MAN and  Sweden ’s  Scania AB (SCVB) , which VW already controls. A
three-way truck alliance may save as much as 1 billion euros
($1.37 billion) in annual costs, according to VW.  The Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker will own 55.9 percent
of MAN’s voting rights after the deal closes. VW said on Aug. 23
that “numerous” national authorities already approved the
planned combination. The company sought 40 percent of MAN’s
voting rights in May when it started the bid.  MAN Climbs  MAN rose as much as 3.2 percent to 61.55 euros, the highest
in three weeks, and was trading at 60.12 euros in  Frankfurt  as
of 5:04 p.m. VW’s preferred shares fell as much as 3 percent to
110.60 euros and were trading at 111.25 euros, valuing the
manufacturer at 48.7 billion euros.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission’s antitrust
department, declined to comment on a possible approval of the
deal, as did VW spokesman Marco Dalan. MAN spokesman Stefan Straub said “it’s not completely unrealistic” to expect a
first-phase approval of the merger by the commission. The EU
clearance was reported earlier today by Reuters.  The combination of MAN and Scania would leapfrog
Gothenburg, Sweden-based  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and Daimler AG to create
Europe’s largest truckmaker. MAN and Scania together had 30
percent of the European heavy-truck market last year, according
to the  European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association . Volvo and
Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler each had 21 percent.  Backed Off  Volkswagen backed off plans in June to name Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn , Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch and  Jochem Heizmann , the carmaker’s commercial-vehicle
division chief, to MAN’s supervisory board before gaining
approval of the planned merger. The reversal was prompted by
guidance from the European Union’s executive arm during
antitrust talks, VW said at the time.  Schwope said VW, which had net liquidity of 19.4 billion
euros at the end of June, will “successively” increase its
holding to at least 75 percent, a threshold that would give VW
access to MAN’s cash and a right to more directly influence
operating decisions.  Winterkorn told reporters on Sept. 13 that
the carmaker is “well positioned” with a 56 percent stake.  “I don’t believe that at all,” Schwope said. “They’ll
strive to dominate MAN. That way, VW can ensure that MAN and
Scania cooperate in the best possible way to create the highest
possible synergies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  