-- 
Alpha Natural, Walter Energy Plunge After Cutting Coking Coal Forecasts

-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 
2011-09-21T20:12:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/walter-energy-drops-after-cutting-coal-forecast-on-mine-delays.html
Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  and
 Walter Energy Inc. (WLT) , two U.S. producers of coal used in
steelmaking, tumbled after they respectively cut output and
sales forecasts because of mining disruptions.  Shares of Alpha fell $4.62, or 17 percent, to $22.30 at 4
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Walter
declined $8.75, or 12 percent, to $66.25.  Alpha’s full-year production will be 102.5 million to 109.5
million tons, compared with a previous prediction of 104 million
to 112 million tons, the Abingdon, Virginia-based company said
today in a statement. Alpha cited “unexpectedly curtailed
customer activity” in  Asia  and lower-than-expected output from
some mines.  Walter’s second-half sales will be “similar” to the 5.2
million metric tons recorded for the first half, the Birmingham,
Alabama-based company said in a statement. Its previous forecast
for second-half sales was 5.9 million tons.  Alpha and Walter are both trying to integrate mines bought
earlier this year in separate acquisitions. Alpha bought Massey
Energy Co. for $7.1 billion in June and said today output from
some Central Appalachian Massey mines has disappointed. Walter
purchased Western Coal Corp. for C$5.3 billion ($5.31 billion)
in April, giving it production in British Columbia. Rainfall in
the Canadian province has curbed output, Walter said today.  ‘Difficult’ Geology  Walter said third-quarter earnings will be $1 to $1.16 a
share. The average of 15 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was for $3.24. Walter forecast fourth-quarter earnings
of $2.63 to $2.95 a share. The average from the analysts’
estimates was for $3.17.  The company said it’s dealing with “difficult” geology at
its Mine Number 7 in  Alabama .  “It is possible these challenges could tempt a large
company to look to buy Walter’s world-class assets ‘‘on the
cheap,’’  Jeremy Sussman  and Lucas Pipes, analysts at Brean
Murray Carret & Co. in New York, said in a note today. They
maintained their ‘‘hold’’ rating for Walter and ‘‘buy’’
recommendation for ‘‘Alpha.’’  Walter jumped 21 percent on Sept. 7 after the London-based
Times said Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd. may be
considering takeover bids. Walter investor Audley Capital
Advisors LLP said in July that the company should explore a
sale.  The company said Sept. 12 it appointed Walter J. Scheller
III as chief executive. Keith Calder resigned as CEO on June 30,
citing differences of opinion with the board concerning
‘‘management philosophy.’’  Alpha completed the Massey acquisition 14 months after an
explosion at Massey’s Upper Big Branch mine in  West Virginia 
killed 29 people, the deadliest coal accident in 40 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  