-- 
Wheat Falls to Two-Month Low as Demand May Ebb on Global Economic Concerns

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-09-21T20:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/wheat-rises-as-great-plains-rain-may-fail-to-revive-drought-damaged-crops.html
Wheat futures fell to a two-month
low on concern that the global economy will falter, diminishing
demand for commodities.  After Chicago grain markets closed, the U.S. Federal
Reserve said there are “significant downside risks” to the
economic outlook. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped as
much as 3 percent, and the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index
of raw materials slid 1.1 percent.  “The economy, not only in the U.S., but the global economy
continues to struggle,” Jerod Leman, a broker at Wellington
Commodities in Carmel,  Indiana , said in a telephone interview.
“There is concern that we’ll slip back into recession, and that
would slow down demand for commodities.”  Wheat futures for December delivery dropped 8 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $6.6675 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price touched $6.66, the
lowest for a most-active contract since July 13. The grain
tumbled in the final 15 minutes of trading, just before the Fed
announcement, after rising as much as 1.2 percent.  Wheat has tumbled 16 percent this month amid mounting U.S.
economic concerns and European debt woes. Increasing competition
for U.S. grain exports also pushed prices lower, as countries
including Russia and Canada boost output following adverse
weather last year.  “There are growing world wheat stocks, and so wheat
basically has just been supported by the corn market,” Jim Hemminger, a risk-management specialist at Top Third Ag
Marketing in  Chicago , said in a phone interview.  Corn futures have climbed 9 percent this year, while wheat
has dropped 16 percent. The grains are ingredients in livestock
feed.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  