-- 
U.S. Hikers Arrive in Oman From Two Years in Iran After Paying $1 Million

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-09-22T11:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/two-u-s-nationals-freed-from-iranian-jail.html
Two U.S. nationals held in  Iran  on
charges of espionage and illegal entry were released from prison
and arrived in Oman, where they were met by family members who
had worked for their release for more than two years.  Shane Bauer  and  Josh Fattal , both 29, left Evin prison
yesterday and were handed over to the Swiss Embassy in Tehran.
The Swiss mission represents the interests of the U.S., which
doesn’t have diplomatic ties with Iran.  “We’re so happy we’re free,” Fattal, dressed in a blue
shirt, told reporters at the Muscat airport in coverage by
Iranian state television.  The Americans were released after an Iranian judge signed
documents approving the payment of $500,000 each on their
behalf, according to Massoud Shafiei, their lawyer, who said in
a phone interview yesterday that  Oman  had arranged for the money
to be paid. Bauer and Fattal had said that they were hiking in
Iraq in July 2009 and mistakenly wandered across the border.  The U.S. repeatedly called for an end to their detention,
which added to tensions with Iran and highlighted friction among
Iran’s ruling elite amid contradictory statements on their case
by the judiciary and President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad . The men’s
release was announced yesterday by Iranian state media shortly
before Ahmadinejad arrived in New York for the annual meeting of
the  United Nations General Assembly .  Obama’s Thanks  U.S. President  Barack Obama , in a statement, welcomed Bauer
and Fattal’s release and thanked Omani leader Sultan Qaboos bin Said al-Said, Iraqi President Jalal Talabani, the Swiss
government and others who worked on their behalf.  “All Americans join their families and friends in
celebrating their long-awaited return home,” Obama said.  Today, the Iranian Foreign Ministry renewed its requests
for the U.S. to also show goodwill by determining the fate of
Iranians detained in U.S. jails.  “It is necessary to remember the difficult and inhuman
conditions in which tens of Iranians are kept in U.S. jails or
in other countries upon the request of the U.S.,” the ministry
said in a  statement  on state television’s website.  At least 10 Iranians are held in the U.S. after being
convicted of violating trade sanctions, said William Beeman, a
professor and chairman of the Department of Anthropology at the
 University of Minnesota  who has researched the detentions. They
are “being held largely incognito,” Beeman wrote in an e-mail
two days ago. “When defense lawyers try to locate them, they
are moved.”  Oman’s Help  Oman also acted as a facilitator last year by organizing
payment for the release of  Sarah Shourd , a U.S. citizen who was
with Bauer and Fattal when they entered Iran and was also
arrested. Shourd, who became engaged to Bauer while they were in
jail, was released in September 2010 on $500,000 bail. She left
for the U.S. immediately via Oman and didn’t return to Iran to
stand trial. The men were sentenced by the Revolutionary Court
on Aug. 21 to eight years in prison.  Shourd joined Bauer’s parents and sisters and Fattal’s
parents and brother in Muscat, Oman’s capital. “We have waited
for nearly 26 months for this moment and the joy and relief at
Shane and Josh’s long-awaited freedom knows no bounds,” the
families said in a statement.  High-Level Meetings  Retired U.S. Ambassador William G. Miller was among the
individuals and groups who worked to arrange high-level meetings
that led to the Americans’ release through  Search for Common
Ground , a Washington-based organization that focuses on conflict
resolution.  The timing of Bauer’s and Fattal’s release “may very well
have something to do with the timing of Ahmadinejad’s presence
in  New York ,” said Miller, who served in Iran for five years
and was ambassador to the Ukraine.  “This is a signal from the Iranians that they’re
interested in talking,” Miller said in a telephone interview.
After 32 years of mutual isolation, he said, the Iranian move is
important.  “It’s a good gesture and compassionate gesture,” he said.  Search for Common Ground said its efforts “culminated in
last week’s trip to Iran by Bishop John Bryson Chane of the
Episcopal Diocese of  Washington  and Cardinal Theodore McCarrick,
archbishop emeritus of Washington” who met with senior
officials, including an hour-long meeting with Ahmadinejad,
according to an account on the group’s website.  The organization said it has worked toward improved U.S.-
Iranian relations since 1996.  Internal Conflicts  The release process was complicated by internal conflicts
between the Iranian president and other political bodies.  Ahmadinejad told NBC News in an interview broadcast on
Sept. 13 that he was arranging for Fattal and Bauer to be
released “in a couple of days” on humanitarian grounds. The
following day, Iran’s judiciary said that their release wasn’t
“imminent” and that legitimate information on the matter would
only come from the judiciary.  Prior to their detention, Shourd and Bauer had lived
together in  Syria ’s capital, Damascus, where she learned Arabic
and taught English, according to  freethehikers.org , a website
set up to help gain their freedom. Fattal is an environmentalist
who was visiting Damascus before the three headed to  Iraq ,
according to the website.  Bauer is a Minnesota native, Fattal is from Pennsylvania
and Shourd is from  California .  In 2007, Iran sparked a crisis when it seized 15 U.K.
sailors and marines it accused of trespassing in Iranian waters
and held them for two weeks. Two years earlier, Iran jailed a
Frenchman and a German citizen who had strayed into Iranian
waters during a fishing trip. Sentenced to 18 months in jail,
they were freed after being granted clemency by Iran’s supreme
leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 