-- 
World Bank Upgrades Economic Growth Forecast for Mideast

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-09-21T18:08:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/world-bank-upgrades-economic-growth-forecast-for-mideast-1-.html
The economies of the  Middle East 
and North Africa may expand more than initially forecast this
year because of increased public spending and oil output, the
 World Bank  said today.  Gross domestic product for the region may grow 4.1 percent,
half a percentage point higher than the bank’s earlier forecast
in May, the lender said in a report distributed in  Washington .
It revised upward economic growth forecasts for countries
including Egypt, Iran and Saudi Arabia.  “This positive development is due to increases in public
spending that have boosted demand across the region, increased
oil production in most Middle East and North Africa oil
exporters, and quicker than expected pickup in industrial
production in Egypt,” the World Bank said in the report.  The economies of  Egypt  and Tunisia are struggling to
recover from the aftermath of the popular uprising that toppled
the two countries’ leaders this year. Persian Gulf oil
producers, notably Saudi Arabia, have boosted output to make up
for lost production in Libya, which was rocked by a conflict to
end the four-decade rule of  Muammar Qaddafi .  Egypt’s gross domestic product may expand 1.8 percent this
year according to the report, up from an estimate of 1 percent
in May. The economy may grow 3.5 percent in 2012, the World Bank
said.  “We are being quite optimistic about resolving the
political and economic uncertainty,” Caroline Freund, chief
economist for the Middle East and North Africa at the World
Bank, told a news conference. “If they are resolved, we could
see stronger growth.”  The economy of  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil
exporter, may grow 5 percent this year. Iran, another member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, may see 2.5
percent growth, the World Bank said.  Regional growth may slow to 3.8 percent in 2012 because of
“the expected low global growth and oil prices,” Freund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Washington at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  