-- 
Yankees Clinch AL East With Sweep Over Tampa

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-22T03:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/yankees-clinch-baseball-postseason-berth-with-4-2-victory-over-tampa-bay.html
The  New York Yankees  clinched the
American League East title for the 12th time in 17 years by
sweeping a doubleheader against the  Tampa Bay Rays  while the
 Boston  Red Sox were losing at home to the Baltimore Orioles.  Jorge Posada pinch-hit a two-run single to break a 2-2
eighth-inning tie as the Yankees won 4-2 tonight to wrap up the
Major League Baseball division crown.  In Boston, Vladimir Guerrero’s two-run single in the eighth
inning broke a 4-4 tie. The Orioles trailed 4-1 in the sixth
before scoring five unanswered runs off Josh Beckett (13-6).  In their first game today at Yankee Stadium, Robinson Cano
hit a two-run double in the bottom of the eighth inning and
seven relievers combined for 6 1/3 shutout innings as the
Yankees won 4-2.  Cano doubled off Rays reliever J.P. Howell to drive in
 Brett Gardner  and  Derek Jeter  in the opening game.  Eduardo Nunez 
started the eighth inning with a solo home run to tie the score
2-2.  Yankees starter Hector Noesi allowed two runs in 2 2/3
innings filling in for Phil Hughes, who was scratched before the
game because of back spasms. Mariano Rivera earned the save to
extend his major-league record to 603 for his career.  “The pitching was wonderful,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi
told reporters. “Hector did a nice job and then the bullpen did
a tremendous job getting outs. They had some base runners but
our guys got big outs when they needed them.”  The Yankees have made the playoffs each of the past 17
years except 2008, winning five World Series championships
during that span.  Early Lead  In the first inning of the opening game today the Yankees
took a 1-0 lead on a run-scoring double by  Alex Rodriguez . Rays
rookie Desmond Jennings hit a two-run home run, the 10th of his
career, in the top of the third off Noesi.  Rays starter James Shields took a 2-1 lead into the eighth
inning and was chased with two on, one out and Cano coming to
bat.  The Yankees are now 42-12 in day games this season, the
best daytime record in the major leagues  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  