-- 
Yankees Beat Tampa 5-0, Stop Rays From Pulling Within One Game of Red Sox

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-09-21T05:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/yankees-beat-tampa-5-0-stop-rays-from-pulling-within-one-game-of-red-sox.html
The  New York Yankees  moved within
one victory of a Major League Baseball playoff spot with a 5-0
win against the  Tampa Bay Rays .  Ivan Nova pitched 7 2/3 innings and Curtis Granderson drove
in four runs as New York helped the  Boston Red Sox  with the
shutout win at Yankee Stadium.  Nova improved to 16-4 this season as the Yankees pushed
their record to an American League-best 93-60. The defeat
prevented the Rays from pulling within one game in the AL wild-
card race of  Boston , which lost 7-5 at home to the Baltimore
Orioles.  Robert Andino hit a three-run double in the eighth inning
as the Orioles rallied to win at Fenway Park, sending the Red
Sox to their 15th loss in 20 games this month. Red Sox reliever
 Jonathan Papelbon  gave up Andino’s decisive hit, blowing a save
for the second time this season and allowing a run for the first
time since July 16.  “I let my team down,” Papelbon told reporters. “This is
on me, nobody else.”  The Red Sox (88-67) have seven games remaining and trail
the Yankees by a season-high six games in the AL East division.
Tampa Bay (85-68) has nine games remaining. The Yankees can
clinch their 16th playoff spot in 17 years by winning either
game in today’s day-night doubleheader against the Rays.  “It’s just a matter of time,” Yankees outfielder Nick Swisher said. “It’s something we’ve all got our minds set on.”  The Detroit Tigers already clinched the AL Central title
and the  Texas Rangers , who beat the Oakland Athletics 7-2 last
night, lead the Los Angeles Angels by five games in the AL West.  Braves Keep Lead  Randall Delgado pitched five scoreless innings for his
first victory as the Atlanta Braves won 4-0 at the Florida
Marlins to maintain a 2 1/2-game lead over the St. Louis
Cardinals for the National League wild-card spot.  The Cardinals got a three-run triple from pinch-hitter
Adron Chambers in a six-run seventh inning to win 11-6 at home
against the  New York  Mets.  The World Series champion  San Francisco  Giants lost 2-1 to
the Los Angeles Dodgers and trail the Braves by 4 1/2 games for
the wild card.  The Milwaukee Brewers maintained their 5 1/2-game lead over
St. Louis in the NL Central division by winning 5-1 at the
 Chicago Cubs . The Arizona Diamondbacks lead the NL West by 5 1/2
games over the Giants.  The Philadelphia Phillies, who already have clinched the NL
East title, lost both games of a home doubleheader to the
Washington Nationals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  