-- 
Myanmar Opposition Leader Suu Kyi Sees the ‘Beginning of Change’

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-21T18:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/myanmar-opposition-leader-suu-kyi-sees-the-beginning-of-change-.html
Aung San Suu Kyi, the Myanmar
opposition leader, said today she sees the possibility of change
in her country and progress in her struggle to bring democracy
there.  “It’s not easy, but it’s getting on,” Suu Kyi said via
satellite during an event organized by the Clinton Global
Initiative, the Sept. 20-22 gathering of former and current
world leaders in New York led by former U.S. President  Bill Clinton . “I’m cautiously optimistic that we’re going forward,”
she said. “We are beginning to see the beginning of change.”  Suu Kyi spoke at a seminar along with fellow Nobel Peace
Prize winner Archbishop Desmond Tutu of  South Africa , who told
the opposition icon that seeing and hearing her left him “like
a smitten young man -- I love you!” Tutu turns 80 next month.  The feeling, she told him, was mutual.  The audience applauded as moderator  Charlie Rose  chuckled.  Suu Kyi, 66, said she hadn’t expected her struggle to take
so long. The activist has been either imprisoned or under house
arrest off-and-on for almost a combined 15 years since she
returned to Myanmar, formerly known as  Burma , from  England  in
1988. She was most recently released in November 2010.  After her political party, the National League for
Democracy, won a landslide victory in 1990 elections, the
military junta refused to hand over power. More recently, the
junta suppressed 2007 protests, killing at least 13, according
to the Central Intelligence Agency, and arresting thousands.  Homes Raided  The regime has continued to raid homes and monasteries,
arresting anyone suspected of taking part in pro-democracy
protests, according to the CIA website.  Suu Kyi expressed optimism about the eventual success of
her cause and said people all over the world, regardless of
culture or country, understand and appreciate basic ideas
enshrined in the U.S. Constitution.  “Everyone can understand ‘life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness,’” she said. “The idea of freedom and security,
beautifully balanced, is a concept that is acceptable to human
beings across the world. This is what we know: people want to be
free and they want to feel secure as well.”  When she talks about democracy, she said, she is really
talking about the creation of institutions.  One reason for Suu Kyi’s optimism was in the crowds that
greeted her 2010 release. “I noticed the very first day I was
released, there were so many young people in the crowd to greet
me, so many more than I’ve ever seen in a crowd,” she said.  ‘More Can Be Done’  She thanked the U.S. for its support of the democracy
movement in Myanmar, adding, “but we always think more can be
done.”  The U.S., the European Union and  Canada  have imposed
sanctions that bar most financial transactions with Burmese
businesses, impose travel bans on those connected to the junta
and block Burmese imports.  The country, rich in natural resources, including lumber,
semi-precious gems and natural gas, trades extensively with
 China ,  Thailand ,  Singapore  and  India , its fourth-largest trading
partner.  Rose asked what India could do to help Suu Kyi’s cause.
“They should listen to the people of Burma,” she said.  As the event drew to a close, Tutu told her that he looked
forward to coming to Myanmar when she is “inaugurated as head
of your government.”  Suu Kyi threw him a compliment in return and had the crowd
laughing once again. “I’ll have to be very, very ambitious,”
she said, “because I do want Desmond to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  New York  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at  msilva34@bloomberg.net  