-- 
Dollar Strengthens on Concern Growth Slowing; Commodity Currencies Decline

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-22T21:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/yen-gains-versus-major-peers-on-concern-global-economic-growth-is-slowing.html
The dollar jumped and currencies of
commodity exporters tumbled on concern global growth is stalling
after the  Federal Reserve  said yesterday it saw “significant
downside risks” to the  U.S. economy .  The Dollar Index climbed to a seven-month high as the Fed’s
statement stoked concern the global economy is headed for a
recession and currency volatility surged to a 16-month high. The
euro reached a fresh decade-low against the yen after region’s
services and manufacturing contracted. Brazil’s real erased
losses against the dollar as the central bank sought to stem the
decline.  “We’re seeing a disproportionate amount of buying in the
dollar right now because there really is no other choice for a
safe haven,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist
in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. “Investors have
finally recognized that the deterioration in the Group-of-Seven
outlook is going to have negative consequences for emerging
markets.”  The dollar appreciated 0.8 percent to $1.3465 per euro at 5
p.m. in  New York , after reaching $1.3385, the strongest since
Jan. 19. The yen strengthened 1.1 percent to 102.64 per euro,
after reaching 102.22, the most since June 2001.  Japan ’s
currency rose 0.3 percent to 76.24 per dollar.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, increased 1.4 percent to 78.447, after rising
to 78.798, the highest level since Feb. 14.  Volatile Trade  Implied volatility for currencies of the Group of Seven
nations advanced to 15.64, the highest since May 2010, a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index showed. One-month implied volatility
for the euro-yen  exchange rate  jumped to 20.29, the highest
since June 2010. It was at 14.16 at the beginning of the month.  Brazil ’s real pared earlier losses as the central bank
sought to stem the currency’s biggest five-day loss against the
dollar since 1999 by selling dollars in the futures market.
Concern policy makers’ surprise rate cut last month signals they
are giving up on their goal of slowing inflation was compounding
the real’s decline as  Europe ’s debt crisis erodes demand for
emerging-market assets.  “Brazil has always been buying dollars to stem the
strength of the real,” said  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at
FOREX.com, a unit of online currency trading firm Gain Capital
in Bedminster,  New Jersey . “This is a total risk-off moment and
the emerging markets get hit the hardest, the commodity
currencies get hammered.”  The real declined 1.6 percent to 1.9055 per dollar after
falling as much as 4.2 percent to 1.9549.  Markets Tumble  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was down 3.2 percent,
falling for the fourth day. Yields on Treasury 10-year notes
declined to records as investors demanded the perceived safety
of the debt and anticipated extra demand after the Fed said
yesterday it will buy bonds due in six to 30 years through June
while selling debt maturing in three years or less.  Commodities prices fell, with Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of 24 raw materials slumping 4.9 percent and erasing this year’s
gains.  Canada ’s dollar weakened to 2 percent to 1.0284, after
touching the weakest level since May 2010.  The Australian dollar dropped below parity with its U.S.
counterpart for the first time since Aug. 9 after an index from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics predicted  China ’s
manufacturing may shrink for a third month in September, the
longest contraction since 2009. China is  Australia ’s largest
trading partner.  Aussie Drops  The Aussie slid 3 percent to 97.42 U.S. cents after falling
to 96.92, the weakest since Dec. 2.  New Zealand ’s dollar sank
2.6 percent to 78.05 U.S. cents, a fourth straight day of losses
against the greenback.  The New Zealand economy almost stalled last quarter,
reinforcing the case for central bank Governor Alan Bollard to
maintain record-low  interest rates  until 2012. Gross domestic
product rose 0.1 percent in the three months through June from
the previous quarter, a Statistics New Zealand report showed
today in Wellington. The median estimate was for a 0.5 percent
gain.  The U.S. central bank will extend the average maturities of
the Treasuries in its portfolio by purchasing $400 billion of
long-term debt, while selling an equal amount of shorter-term
securities.  Re-pricing Assets  “The market intended to freak about the world being a
scary place but was holding off to see if the Fed had some
miracle, and it doesn’t, so therefore it’s time to re-price
everything,” said  Greg Anderson , a senior currency strategist
at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “In a panic, people are always
buying dollars because they are looking for cash.”  The seven-day relative strength index for the Dollar Index
surged above the 70 for the first time in more than a week to
78. A reading over that level indicates an asset may have
strengthened too quickly and may be due for a correction.  The Fed will also reinvest maturing home-loan debt into
mortgage-backed securities instead of Treasuries. The action
“should put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and
help make broader financial conditions more accommodative,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said.  “The market is piling into dollars big time,” said Chris Huddleston, a trader at Investec Bank Plc in  London , which
oversees about $95 billion in assets. “Equities are selling off
and there’s a big move away from risk.”  The euro weakened for a fifth day against the yen after
data showed euro-area services and manufacturing output shrank
for the first time in more than two years in September as the
region’s worsening debt crisis added to concern that the economy
could slide back into a recession.  The 17-nation currency has declined 1.7 percent this year
against the nine developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has gained 9.7
percent and the dollar has weakened 2.1 percent and.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  