-- 
Lynas Shares Slump Most in Two Years

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-09-21T03:52:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/lynas-shares-slump-most-in-two-years.html
Lynas Corp., an Australian rare
earth developer, fell the most in more than two years in Sydney
trading following declines in prices for the elements used in
electronics and magnets.  The shares dropped 13 percent to A$1.27 at 1:49 p.m. local
time, the most since May 14, 2009. The Sydney-based company is
the biggest loser today on the MSCI AC Asia Pacific Index.  Molycorp Inc., the owner of the world’s largest rare-earth
deposit outside  China , yesterday in  New York  fell the most since
its 2010 initial public offering after JPMorgan Chase & Co.
lowered its rating, citing declines in rare-earth prices. Inner
Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co., China’s biggest
producer of rare earths, has started to stockpile some products.  The decline in prices “is now being reflected in Lynas’s
share price,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion
in equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne . “It’s exactly
the same dynamic that Molycorp’s suffering that Lynas’s share
price is reflecting today.”  Rare earths, a group of 17 elements, have dropped in price
because of selling by speculators, Michael Gambardella, a New
York-based analyst at JP Morgan, said in the report downgrading
Molycorp to “neutral” from “overweight.”  Cerium oxide has dropped 30 percent since its peak in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lanthanum oxide and
neodymium oxide prices have also fallen, according to the data.  Lynas isn’t aware of any reason for the price change, the
company said in a filing to the Australian stock exchange. It
didn’t believe its expected full-year loss would affect the
share price as the company hasn’t yet started output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  