-- 
Typhoon Roke Crosses Japan, Leaving Widespread Flooding; 6 Dead

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-09-22T03:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/typhoon-roke-moves-away-from-japan-on-northern-path-toward-kuril-islands.html
Typhoon Roke crossed  Japan , killing
at least six people and causing widespread flooding, power cuts
and transport disruption before weakening on a path toward the
Kuril islands.  Roke was about 10 kilometers (6 miles) east of Nemuro on
Japan’s northern island of Hokkaido and about 980 kilometers
northeast of Tokyo at 9 a.m. local time, the  Japan
Meteorological Agency  said on its website. The storm’s winds
weakened to 120 kilometers per hour, just above the threshold
for the weakest Category 1 on the five-step Saffir Simpson
scale.  The storm lashed parts of Japan with as much as 500
millimeters (20 inches) of rain in less than 24 hours, causing
flooding in towns and cities including Nagoya, which has a
population of 2.3 million in central Japan. Roke also dumped
heavy rain on  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s crippled nuclear plant
Fukushima, which escaped the strongest winds.  Japan’s weather agency maintained warnings for landslides
and flooding in northern areas of the main island of Honshu,
including the Tohoku region hit by an earthquake and tsunami on
March 11, which killed almost 20,000 people. Public broadcaster
NHK showed footage of damaged buildings, submerged cars and
fallen trees. Roke comes three weeks after typhoon Talas killed
67 people, the nation’s deadliest storm in seven years.  Six Dead  Six people, including a 45-year-old bus driver who died of
electric shock from a falling telegraph pole, were killed and
eight people are still missing after Roke passed overnight,
public broadcaster NHK reported. Another 216 people are injured
from accidents in strong winds and flying debris.  Tokyo Electric, Japan’s largest utility, said about 32,000
homes in its service area, mainly in Shizuoka and Kanagawa
prefectures to the southwest of Tokyo, remained without power as
of 8 a.m. local time. Chubu Electric Power Co.  said  68,210 homes
were without power in Hamamatsu, where the storm came ashore in
central Japan yesterday, and other areas.  Japan Airlines Co. and All Nippon Airways Co. warned of
delays and cancellations to flights to and from Hokkaido after
canceling more than 200 domestic flights yesterday.  Central
Japan Railway Co. (9022)  resumed bullet train services linking Tokyo
and  Osaka  with delays of up to 30 minutes, while other local
lines in central Japan remained closed.  Roke is forecast to weaken to tropical storm status later
today as it moves northeast away from Hokkaido toward the Kuril
Islands between Japan and  Russia ’s Kamchatka peninsula.  Rain in Fukushima  In Fukushima, Roke dumped  204.5 millimeters  of rain on
Namie, a town near the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, raising water
levels by about 10 centimeters overnight, Masashi Kato,
spokesman for the utility known as Tepco, said today by phone.
The company is still compiling data on water levels, he said.  Tepco found about 4 tons per hour of rain water is leaking
through a gap between a pipe and a wall into the basement of No.
6 turbine building yesterday, Kato said. The leak won’t affect
the cooling system of the No. 6 reactor, he said.  The utility has been injecting water into Dai-Ichi’s
reactors since the earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling
systems, causing the worst nuclear accident in 25 years. Reactor
buildings contained 102 million liters of radioactive water as
of Sept. 13, according to Tepco estimates.  In addition, as much as 500 tons, or 500,000 liters, of
underground water is leaking into Dai-Ichi buildings every day
through cracks in walls and trenches, Tokyo Electric spokesman
Hajime Motojuku said this week.  Japan is regularly hit by cyclones during the northern
hemisphere’s summer. Typhoon Talas killed 67 people and left 26
missing when it dumped as much as 1.8 meters of rain in central
Japan earlier this month. Talas was the deadliest storm since
2004, when Typhoon Tokage left 95 people dead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 