-- 
Typhoon Roke Weakens Over Japan as Wind, Floods Kill Three

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-09-21T12:18:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/typhoon-roke-to-pass-tokyo-area-head-toward-fukushima-as-flights-canceled.html
Typhoon Roke made landfall in
central  Japan , causing flooding and disrupting transport links
as it weakened on a path toward the stricken nuclear power plant
in Fukushima. At least three people were reported killed.  Roke was over Kofu city, 100 kilometers (64 miles) east of
Tokyo, at 5 p.m. local time. It was moving northeast at 50
kilometers per hour, the  Japan Meteorological Agency  said. The
storm’s winds are expected to weaken to 120 kph from 148 kph as
it approaches Fukushima today as a Category 1 hurricane, the
weakest on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale.  Japan’s weather agency issued warnings for landslides and
flooding throughout the main island of Honshu, with high waves
in coastal areas. Public broadcaster NHK showed footage of
fallen trees, damaged buildings and flooding across central
Japan, where rainfall exceeded 80 millimeters (3.1 inches) per
hour. Roke comes three weeks after typhoon Talas killed 67
people, the nation’s deadliest storm in seven years.  “We need to be on alert for landslides and swelling
rivers,” Mamoru Akita, an information officer at the Shizuoka
Meteorological Observatory, said by telephone. “The wind and
rain is going to get stronger.”  Six Dead  One person died in Nagoya after falling from the third
floor of a building in strong winds, Japan’s Fire and Disaster
Management Agency said in a  statement . One man died in Saga
prefecture as he was checking the mooring on a fishing boat,
while another drowned in a swollen river in Ehime prefecture,
the agency said. Kyodo News Agency reported 6 people have died.  About 1.1 million people in Aichi, Gifu and other
prefectures in central Japan were ordered or advised to leave
their homes as of 9 a.m. today, national broadcaster NHK  said  on
its website. Nagoya, the capital of Aichi prefecture 260
kilometers west of Tokyo, lifted evacuation orders at 11:15
a.m., according to the city’s website.  Japan Airlines Co. canceled 112 domestic flights, the
carrier said in a faxed statement. All Nippon Airways Co. said
it canceled 116 domestic flights and two international flights
while  Skymark Airlines Inc. (9204) , Japan’s biggest discount carrier,
said it had 43 cancellations.  Central Japan Railway Co. (9022)  suspended bullet train services
linking Tokyo and  Osaka  and local services on other lines, the
operator said on its website.  East Japan Railway Co. (9020)  partially
suspended bullet train services linking Tokyo with the northern
part of Honshu. Some local lines around Tokyo were also closed.  Power Cuts  Tokyo Electric Power Co., Japan’s largest utility whose
nuclear plant was crippled by an earthquake and tsunami in
March, said power was cut to 19,610 homes. Chubu Electric Power
Co. said 7,950 homes were without power and Kansai Electric
Power Co., which serves the industrial region around Osaka, said
8,390 homes were without electricity.  “Several works and operations at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
were affected due to wind and heavy rain brought by the
typhoon,” Takeo Iwamoto, a spokesman at the utility, said by
phone today. “We halted sea-water sampling, sea-water treatment
and works to build water shields.”  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  suspended today’s afternoon shift at 11
factories in Aichi prefecture due to the typhoon,  Shiori Hashimoto , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman said by phone. Honda Motor
Co. said it will change working hours at its Hamamatsu factory
in central Japan for safety reasons.  Factories Operating  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  and  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  are
operating factories in the region as normal and don’t plan to
shut them, Mitsubishi spokeswoman Namie Koketsu and Suzuki
spokesman Ei Mochizuki said today.  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. stopped berthing operations at
six refineries across the country, said a spokeswoman who
declined to be identified, citing company policy. Refining
operations and truck shipments are operating as usual, she said.  Professional baseball games were canceled in  Tokyo ,
including between the league-leading Tokyo  Yakult Swallows  and
the Hiroshima Carp. Games in Saitama and Sendai north of the
capital were also called off, according to team websites. A road
in central Tokyo was blocked by a fallen tree in the busy
district of Shibuya, according to footage on NHK.  As much as 400 millimeters of rain has fallen in parts of
the country today, according to the weather agency.  Weaken Further  Roke is forecast to weaken further as it moves northeast
past the Greater Tokyo area. It may cross Tokyo Electric’s Dai-
Ichi nuclear power plant after 9 p.m., according to the weather
agency. Roke is expected to weaken into a tropical storm as it
tracks the eastern coast of Japan’s northern Tohoku region.  The storm may hinder work to control leakage of water into
the basements of the Dai-Ichi reactor buildings, which contained
102 million liters of radioactive water as of Sept. 13,
according to  Tokyo Electric  estimates.  “Water level at the basement floors of the number 1 to 3
reactor buildings were at Onahama point plus between 2,825 and
2,948 millimeters as of 11 a.m. We expect the water level may
rise as much as 140 millimeters tonight, but this will not bring
it to a dangerous level,” he said.  Much of Tokyo Electric’s work in Fukushima since July has
focused on decontaminating highly radiated cooling water that
ran off into basements and trenches at the damaged reactors.  In addition, as much as 500 tons, or 500,000 liters, of
underground water is leaking into Dai-Ichi buildings every day
through cracks in walls and trenches, Tokyo Electric spokesman
Hajime Motojuku said yesterday.  Injecting Water  The utility has been injecting water into Dai-Ichi’s
reactors since a March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out
cooling systems, causing the worst nuclear accident in 25 years.
Reactors need to be cooled below 100 degrees Celsius (212
degrees Fahrenheit) to shut down the plant.  Levels of contaminated water in Dai-Ichi basements have
fallen more than 14 percent in the last month as Tepco sped up
water decontamination by adding a system supplied by  Toshiba
Corp. (6502)  and  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)   Japan is regularly hit by cyclones during the northern
hemisphere’s summer. Typhoon Talas killed 67 people and left 26
missing when it dumped as much as 1.8 meters (5.9 feet) of rain
in central Japan earlier this month. Talas was the deadliest
storm since 2004, when Typhoon Tokage left 95 people dead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 Cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 