-- 
Yuan Options Most Bearish Since ’09 as Global Recovery Wanes: China Credit

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-22T04:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/yuan-options-turn-more-bearish-on-global-slump-china-credit.html
Options traders are the most
bearish on the Chinese yuan since March 2009 amid concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis and stalling U.S. economic growth will cut
demand for goods from the world’s biggest exporter.  The premium earned on three-month put options granting the
right to sell the yuan was 0.725 percentage point more than call
options on buying it today, according to the currency’s three-
month risk-reversal rate tracked by Bloomberg. The contracts
favored yuan purchases by as much as 0.3 percentage point in
June. Risk-reversal rates for the currencies of  Brazil ,  Russia 
and  India  were the most bearish in more than a year this week.  The bleaker outlook for the currency may dent demand for
assets denominated in yuan, the best performer this quarter
against the dollar among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. UBS AG, Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG have
pared their forecasts for China’s economy since Aug. 1, saying a
slowdown in developed nations will reduce demand for exports.
The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011 growth projection
on Sept. 20 to 9.5 percent, from a June estimate of 9.6 percent.  “The yuan is tied to global growth, so if there is another
crisis situation, the only currency that is a safe haven is the
dollar,” said Steven Chang, head of foreign-exchange trading in
 Asia  at State Street Bank & Trust Co. in Hong Kong. “Most are
expecting a drop in the inflation rate as well as the growth
rate for China and that’s a bit negative for the yuan.”  Top Performer  Dim sum bonds, debt denominated in yuan and sold in Hong
Kong, have lost 0.6 percent this quarter following a 0.4 percent
decline in the previous three months, HSBC Holdings Plc data
show. Developing nations’ local-currency government debt are
poised for a 13th quarterly gain, having returned 3.1 percent
since June, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.  Wagering against the yuan has become more expensive
relative to backing its appreciation since July as deepening
debt turmoil in Europe dimmed the outlook for sales of goods
overseas, which rose 24.5 percent from a year earlier to $173
billion in August. The debt crisis has generated as much as 300
billion euros ($410 billion) in credit risk for European banks,
the IMF said yesterday.  The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday there are “significant
downside risks” to the  U.S. economy  and said it will replace
$400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-
term Treasuries to reduce borrowing costs and counter the rising
risk of a recession.  China  halted yuan gains for almost two years from July 2008
to help exporters weather a global financial crisis that saw the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The currency had
jumped 21 percent in the previous three years after the
government got rid of a currency peg. The risk-reversal rate
rose to 6.50 percent at the height of the crisis in October 2008,
the most it’s been in Bloomberg data going back to 2003.  Lehman-Like Scenario  The yuan’s risk-reversal rate has climbed in each of the
last four months, indicating traders are becoming more bearish
on the currency, as European officials failed to reassure
markets Greece will avoid defaulting on its debt, spurring
demand for dollars. Italy,  Spain , Portugal and Ireland have all
had their credit ratings cut this year.  “Dollar demand is increasing and the impact is spreading
to many markets, including options,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond
and currency dealer in  Tokyo  at Okasan Securities Co. “It’s
possible to see the risk-reversal rate going to its 2009 high
because a  Greece  default could evoke a Lehman-like scenario.”  The yuan has dropped 0.2 percent against the dollar since
the end of August in Shanghai, poised for its first monthly
decline since January. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards
slumped 0.6 percent today, the biggest decline in 11 months, to
6.3848 per dollar. That’s the smallest premium to the spot rate
since March 2009. The one-month contract fell 0.3 percent,
trading 0.2 percent weaker than the onshore exchange rate.  ‘Unhealthy’ Price Moves  “The price moves in non-deliverable forwards were very
unhealthy in recent days,” said  Matthew Huang , a currency
strategist in  Singapore  at Macquarie Group Ltd. “The activity
suggests short-covering of long yuan positions,” he said,
referring to the unwinding of bets that the yuan would gain.  The People’s Bank of China set its daily reference rate
0.06 percent weaker at 6.3808 per dollar today. The currency
declined 0.1 percent to 6.3907 as of 12:48 p.m. in Shanghai.  China’s economy grew 9.5 percent in the second quarter, the
fastest of the biggest emerging markets and ahead of the U.S. at
1.5 percent and the euro area at 1.6 percent. The country’s
foreign-currency reserves, the world’s largest, increased $153
billion in the second quarter to a record $3.2 trillion.  ‘Safe Haven’  “Recent market action confirmed that the yuan remains a
key safe haven,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist in  Hong
Kong  at Credit Agricole CIB. “Massive foreign-exchange reserves,
limited foreign-portfolio investments and a strong external
position will allow the yuan to continue appreciating.”  Financial institutions’ yuan positions stemming from
central bank purchases of foreign currency entering the nation,
had a net gain of 377 billion yuan ($59 billion) in August, 72
percent more than in July and the biggest increase in five
months, central bank data yesterday showed.  New York  University economist Nouriel Roubini said at a
forum in Shanghai on July 26 that chances of a “hard landing”
in China will increase after 2013 as the nation grapples with a
rising debt burden.  The cost of insuring Chinese sovereign bonds against
default is climbing. Five-year credit-default swaps on
government debt climbed nine basis points yesterday to 146, the
highest level since April 2009, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Economy to Slow  China’s economy  will probably slow in 2012 and efforts to
spur expansion will be constrained by inflation and debt burdens,
 Wu Xiaoling , a former People’s Bank of China deputy governor,
said in comments published in the central bank’s Financial News
publication on Sept. 19. Consumer prices rose 6.2 percent from a
year earlier in August following a 6.5 percent advance in July
that was the biggest since June 2008.  The IMF also cut its 2012 economic growth projection for
China to 9 percent from 9.5 percent in its Sept. 20 report. The
U.S. and European Union were the destinations for 37 percent of
Chinese shipments in August, government data show.  Standard &
Poor’s  estimates that as much as 30 percent of China’s lending
to local governments may go sour, while Moody’s Investor’s
Service said in July that regional authorities may owe about 14
trillion yuan.  “The European debt crisis may very well be the exact
global scenario needed to cool China’s economy,” said Michael A. Gayed, chief investment strategist in New York at Pension
Partners LLC, which advises on over $140 million in assets. “A
rising dollar vis-à-vis the euro could ultimately be the straw
that can break inflation’s back” since the yuan tends to move
in tandem with the greenback, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  