-- 
Zambian Electoral Officials Set to Announce Election Results

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-09-21T06:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/zambian-electoral-officials-set-to-announce-election-results.html
Zambian electoral authorities plan
to start releasing results from yesterday’s presidential
election later today and a final count should be announced by
the end of this week, officials said.  Initial results from constituencies should begin to
“trickle in” at about 9 a.m. in Lusaka, the capital,  electoral
commission  spokesman Cris Akufuna said in a statement read on
Zambia’s national broadcaster earlier today. “Several results
are in from around the country, but none make up an entire
constituency,” he said.  Final results are expected Sept. 22 or Sept. 23, Electoral
Commission of Zambia spokeswoman Sylvia Bwalya told Bloomberg
News in an interview in the capital, Lusaka.  More than 5.1 million Zambians registered to vote in
parliamentary and presidential elections that are expected to be
closely contested. The vote pitted incumbent President Rupiah Banda and his Movement for  Democratic Party  against  Michael Sata 
and the Patriotic Front party.  Sata, 73, has narrowly lost the past three elections he has
contested. The PF party leader, known as “King Cobra” for his
aggressive style, has campaigned on the promise of giving
Zambians a greater share of the economy in  Africa ’s biggest
copper producer.  Riots in Lusaka yesterday resulted in 10 arrests after
“teenagers” attacked police and election officials, the state-
owned Zambia National Broadcasting Corp. reported. Problems were
reported at fewer than 12 of the country’s 6,455 polling
stations, it said.  Investment  Banda, 74, has said he will continue to attract investment
and create jobs in Zambia, where companies such as  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED) ’s Konkola Copper Mines Plc and  First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. (FM)  could see Zambia’s copper output double to 1.5
metric million tons a year by 2015, the government has said.  While Banda may win the presidential vote, the Patriotic
Front could form an alliance with the United Party for National
Development, led by Hakainde Hichilema, to take the lead in the
country’s 158-seat parliament,  Leon Myburgh , sub-Saharan Africa
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg, said Sept. 15.  Zambia may become the fifth-largest copper-mining country
in the world by 2013, according to Sophie Chung, an analyst at
Wood Mackenzie unit Brook Hunt in  London . Producers are planning
more than $6 billion in investment over that period, she said.
Chile is the world’s biggest copper producer, with annual
production of more than 5 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 