-- 
Zloty Retreats to Weakest in 26 Months on Europe Crisis Concern

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-21T15:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/zloty-retreats-to-weakest-in-26-month-on-europe-crisis-concern.html
The zloty tumbled to the weakest
level in more than 26 months on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will damp Polish economic growth and on speculation the nation’s
policy makers won’t attempt to curb the slide.  The Polish currency retreated 1.2 percent to 4.4276 per
euro as of 5:28 p.m. in Warsaw, the weakest intraday level since
July 2009.  Poland’s policy makers wouldn’t react to investors’
attempts to “provoke” them to enter the market, central bank
Governor Marek Belka said on Sept. 9, adding “somebody will
definitely lose money” betting against the zloty.  “The primary reason, other than the obvious deterioration
of external conditions and risk willingness, at this point seems
to be the  market sentiment  that zloty sell-off does not face a
very high risk of a monetary policy makers’ counter-reaction,”
said Antero Atilla, an emerging-market strategist at Danske Bank
A/S in Copenhagen. “But as we move higher in the euro the
risk” of policy makers’ taking steps to stop zloty’s
depreciation “is growing as well.”  The zloty was the second-worst performer among global
currencies this quarter against the euro on concern that
Europe’s debt crisis will slow  Poland ’s economic growth and
complicate the government’s plan to reduce next year’s deficit.
The country sends 55 percent of its exports to the euro area.  A “full mission” will return to  Athens  next week after
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos made “good
progress” in talks with the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund , the EU said after a telephone
conference late yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  