-- Activision, Electronic Arts Settle Modern Warfare Claims
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/activision-electronic-arts-settle-modern-warfare-claims.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  reached a
settlement of its $400 million claim against rival video-game
publisher  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  that was part of a lawsuit
scheduled for trial May 29 with the developers of “Call of
Duty: Modern Warfare 2.”  “Activision and Electronic Arts have decided to put this
matter behind them,” Activision lawyer  Beth Wilkinson  said
yesterday after a hearing in  Los Angeles  Superior Court.  The settlement removes Electronic Arts from a trial that
pits Activision against the former heads of its Infinity Ward
studio who created the billion-dollar “Call of Duty”
franchise. Activision fired the developers,  Jason West  and  Vince
Zampella , in 2010, alleging they plotted with Electronic Arts to
leave Activision and set up a new independent studio.  Activision had accused Electronic Arts of disrupting
Infinity Ward by trying to lure away the two developers while
they still had two years left on their contract. West and
Zampella sued Activision after they were fired and seek more
than $1 billion in damages.  The companies will ask the court to dismiss the claims,
Wilkinson said, declining to comment further on any settlement
terms. Richard Kendall, a lawyer for Electronic Arts, also
declined to comment.  Activision, based in  Santa Monica , California, the biggest
U.S. publisher of video games, had added Electronic Arts in its
counterclaims to a lawsuit brought by West and Zampella.  False Promises  Zampella and West in their complaint allege that Activision
strung them along with false promises of royalties and creative
control so that they would complete “Modern Warfare 2,” the
game that helped Activision leapfrog Electronic Arts as the
biggest video-game publisher.  Activision said in a May 9 regulatory filing that the
developers’ damages claim has increased to more than $1 billion,
from the $36 million the two sought in unpaid royalties when
they first sued two years ago.  In its counterclaims, Activision sought to hold  Redwood
City , California-based Electronic Arts and the two developers
liable for $400 million in damages from delays and disruptions
at Infinity Ward.  ‘Wretched Conduct’  “Activision dragged EA into the case hoping to distract
from Activision’s wretched conduct towards West and Zampella,”
 Robert Schwartz , a lawyer for the two developers, said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. “In dismissing EA today, Activision
admits that it was never going to convince anyone that EA
conspired with West and Zampella to breach their contracts or
did anything else improper.”  Wilkinson said at a May 15 hearing that Activision had paid
$42 million in launch bonuses owed for “Modern Warfare 2” to
former Infinity Ward employees who left after West and Zampella
were fired and who filed their own lawsuit that was combined for
trial with West and Zampella’s.  The former employees, who seek $350 million in damages for
unpaid royalties and bonuses, will be part of the trial on their
other claims.  Wilkinson, who was hired May 10 by Activision as its new
lead lawyer, asked  California  Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle
at a May 15 hearing to postpone trial for 30 days so she can get
up to speed. Berle yesterday denied that request.  The case is West v. Activision, SC107041, California
Superior Court (Los Angeles County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 