-- Advanced Nations Should Skip Quantitative Easing, Kim Says
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-05-16T05:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/advanced-nations-should-skip-quantitative-easing-bok-s-kim-says.html
South Korea’s central bank governor
urged developed nations to resist another round of quantitative
easing even as a slide in global stocks underscored the concern
that  Greece  may exit the euro, causing turmoil in markets.  “Additional quantitative easing will have more of an
adverse effect than a positive effect,” Bank of Korea Governor
Kim Choong Soo said in a speech prepared for a lecture at Hallym
University, Chunchon, north of Seoul. “If liquidity remains
ample for too long, it could lead to speculative activities.”  Asian stocks fell for a sixth day today and commodities
dropped as talks to form a new Greek government failed. The U.S.
Federal Reserve is likely to start a third round of stimulus in
June, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s commodity research team, led by
 Jeffrey Currie  in  New York , wrote in a report May 9.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid almost 3 percent at 2:48
p.m. in Tokyo, while Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slumped by the
most in six months and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures
declined 0.2 percent. South Korea’s Kospi fell 3 percent and the
won weakened 0.9 percent to 1163.95 per dollar.  Emergency Meeting  South Korean officials from the  finance ministry , the
central bank and financial regulators will hold an emergency
meeting at 7:30 a.m. tomorrow in Seoul to discuss the European
debt crisis and financial markets, according to a text message
from the Finance Ministry.  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing, or QE, from December
2008 to June 2011. The Fed is also replacing $400 billion of
short-term Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to
keep borrowing costs down, under a program scheduled to end next
month.  Meanwhile,  South Korea ’s export-dependent economy is
recovering very slowly as most advanced countries are still
struggling following the global financial crisis, Kim said.
Gross domestic product expanded at the fastest pace in a year
last quarter, mostly boosted by  government spending  and
investments by semiconductor chipmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  