-- AIG Wagers on Subprime Betting Second Time is Different
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n ,   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-16T21:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/aig-wagers-on-subprime-betting-second-time-different-mortgages.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that needed a $182.3 billion bailout from the U.S.
government in 2008 after failed mortgage investments, is betting
this time it’s different.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  has increased non-
government-guaranteed residential and commercial-mortgage backed
securities holdings by $11.1 billion since 2010 to $28.4 billion
at the end of March, according to regulatory filings. The New
York-based insurer has acquired debt sold by the  Federal Reserve 
that the central bank acquired from AIG when the company was
rescued, including $600 million of CMBS last month.  AIG, which is also bolstering its unit that insures home
loans with low down payments, is wagering that a more than 35
percent plunge in property values, cheaper prices for the
securities and fewer competitors justify returning to
investments that four years ago required the government to step
in when it was unable to meet margin calls to banks.  “This is massively illiquid, under-loved asset risk that’s
actually really attractive,” Josh Stirling, an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said. “The one thing this doesn’t do
for AIG is help simplify the story.”  Jim Ankner, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment.  Benmosche is targeting debt that may yield in excess of 10
percent as the Fed pledges to hold  interest rates  near zero
through the end of 2014 to bolster the economy and help lower
the 8.1 percent  jobless rate .  Investment Income  Fed policy makers and  Europe ’s debt crisis have pushed down
benchmark bond yields to below 1 percent, weighing on returns at
insurers and forcing them to buy lower-rated or longer-duration
securities to maintain profits. AIG has put more cash to work
after repaying most of its bailout funds, regaining access to
 capital markets  through debt and equity sales and having its
outlook lifted by ratings company A.M. Best.  It reported pretax investment income of $7.1 billion in the
quarter ended March 31, a 28 percent increase from a year
earlier. That was the most AIG earned from its holdings since
2007 before the financial crisis.  Pressure to generate profit from bonds held to back claims
has increased as the company’s property-casualty insurer Chartis
posted underwriting losses in 2010, 2011 and for the first
quarter of this year, meaning the business spent more on claims
and expenses than it earned in premiums.  Chartis, which sells coverage in the U.S., Europe and  Asia ,
is AIG’s largest unit, followed by the SunAmerica life insurer.  Shareholder Meeting  AIG, which held its annual shareholder meeting in  New York 
today, fell 51 cents to $30.45 at 4:15 p.m., trimming its return
this year to 31 percent. The shares may rise 24 percent to
$37.77 in the next 12 months, according to the average of 13
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “AIG today is far different from the risky pre-crisis
AIG,” according to a May 7 presentation from money manager
 Whitney Tilson  of T2 Partners LLC. He estimates the shares may
be worth as much as $75 and will rise as the Treasury reduces
its stake.  AIG has sold more than $50 billion in assets including non-
U.S. life insurers and American General Finance Inc., which
originated residential mortgages, to raise cash to repay the
government.  The insurer was forced in September 2008 to take a bailout
after it was unable to meet collateral calls from banks
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Societe Generale SA. An
AIG unit in  London  led by  Joseph Cassano  sold protection to
banks against defaults on collateralized debt obligations, which
are pools of assets such as home loan bonds or CMBS. Values
decreased after  property prices  began to fall in 2006 and
mortgage delinquencies rose.  Maiden Lane Rescues  The Fed and AIG later agreed to create Maiden Lane III to
purchase $62.1 billion in CDOs and  Maiden Lane II  to buy about
$39 billion in residential mortgage-backed securities owned by
AIG. The securities were purchased at about half their face
value, reflecting markdowns AIG had already taken. Under the
agreement, AIG can share in profits once the Fed is repaid.  AIG offered to pay $15.7 billion for Maiden Lane II in
March 2011 when debt prices were rising. The Fed rejected the
offer and began auctioning the securities piecemeal, fueling a
selloff in credit markets that worsened as Europe’s sovereign
fiscal crisis erupted. The central bank halted sales in June.  The Fed resumed disposals in January and February when it
sold $19.2 billion of home-loan bonds to  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and Goldman Sachs, helping the central bank unwind Maiden Lane
II at a profit of $2.8 billion for taxpayers.  MAX CDOs  Last month,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  bought $7.5
billion of CDOs, dubbed MAX, that were filled with CMBS. They
broke the deals apart and sold the underlying debt.  “It was a very successful sale,” with AIG buying $600
million, Benmosche said on a May 4 conference call discussing
first quarter results.  The most junior types of originally  AAA rated CMBS , among
the debt underlying the MAX CDOs, typically offered yields about
17 percentage points over Treasury rates as of last week,
according to a Morgan Stanley index.  AIG didn’t seek to purchase these CDOs before its bailout.
It became involved through an option that Cassano’s unit issued
to Deutsche Bank in 2005, which allowed the Frankfurt-based
lender to create CDOs the insurer would be obligated to buy,
according to a 2008 regulatory filing. Deutsche Bank exercised
those options in 2007 and 2008, after the types of top-rated
CMBS that would fill the CDOs had tumbled in value, the filing
shows.  Largest Additions  AIG’s more than $250 billion bond portfolio increased its
CMBS holdings to $8.3 billion on March 31 from $7.3 billion at
the end of 2010. Home loan bonds without government backing
climbed to $20.1 billion from $10 billion over that period,
according to regulatory filings. The largest additions were
prime debt, with subprime securities rising $900 million to $2.2
billion.  Hedge funds  and insurers have been buying property debt,
including subprime bonds, which sparked the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression, as the U.S. housing market
recovers from the worst slump in seven decades. Builders broke
ground on more home than anticipated in April with housing
starts rising 2.6 percent to a 717,000 annual rate, Commerce
Department figures showed today.  With some bonds trading for as little as 30 cents on the
dollar, senior securities tied to  subprime home loans  with
expected lives of more than seven years will yield about 8
percent after accounting for projected losses, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  data.  AIG’s investing “obviously doesn’t make any sense if the
world relapses and there’s a massive recession and unemployment
goes to 30 percent,” said Sanford C. Bernstein’s Stirling.  Protocols Created  Protocols created by the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners starting in 2009 have also enabled greater buying
of mortgage bonds by insurers. Under the rules, their  capital
requirements  are no longer tied to credit ratings on the
securities, which have mostly fallen to speculative grades.  Instead, regulators compare loss estimates from Pacific
Investment Management Co. and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  against the values
at which the debt is being carried.  AIG has also added to its business that guarantees home
loans against default. Its United Guaranty Corp. unit said last
week it hired Donna DeMaio, the former head of  MetLife Inc. (MET) ’s
bank, to be chief operating officer.  United Guaranty has become the second-largest U.S. private
mortgage insurer, according to industry newsletter Inside
Mortgage Finance with a 23.7 percent market share in the first
three months of 2012. That’s up from 14.6 percent a year
earlier.  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  is the largest.  The unit is “putting very good business on the books as we
grow,” Benmosche said on a May 4 conference call with analysts.  While AIG is having to move out of traditional investment-
grade bonds for yield, they’re not taking so much risk they’ll
“blow themselves up again,” said Rob Haines, an analyst at
debt research firm CreditSights Inc. in New York. “If they get
a bloody nose again, the company will be punished very severely
in terms of their stock price and their credit spreads, and I
think they’re very cognizant of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net 
Rob Urban at +1-212-617-5192 or
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 