-- China’s Hong Kong Home-Buying Influx Wanes, Midland Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-05-16T04:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/mainland-chinese-occupy-less-in-hong-kong-s-new-home-market.html
Mainland Chinese investors accounted
for a smaller percentage of  Hong Kong ’s new home sales for a
second quarter as the nation’s banks tightened lending while
local buyers returned to the market,  Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200)  said.  Mainland purchasers made up 36.8 percent of all new home
sales by value in the first quarter, from 37.9 percent in the
previous three months, Hong Kong’s biggest publicly traded
realtor said in an e-mail yesterday. The figure reached 53.9
percent in the third quarter last year, Midland said.  China’s gross domestic product expanded 8.1 percent in the
first three months of 2012 from a year earlier, the fifth
straight quarterly deceleration, as Premier  Wen Jiabao  cracked
down on property speculation and exports were hurt by  Europe ’s
debt crisis. Hong Kong’s home prices have gained almost 80
percent since early 2009 on record low mortgage rates, an
undersupply of new units and an influx of Chinese buyers.  “With credit tightening, Chinese homebuyers are having
more difficulties borrowing to invest,” said Angela Wong, an
 executive director  at Midland in Hong Kong. “There’s also a
huge pent-up demand being released among local Hong Kong buyers,
who have waited on the sideline during the previous six
months.”  Slower Transactions  Hong Kong home transactions began slowing in the second
half of last year, with monthly deals dropping below 5,500 for
eight straight months from July 2011, as buyers became concerned
over a potential slowdown in the  U.S. economy  and the European
debt crisis, Wong said. Before that, more than 7,000
transactions had been recorded every month since March 2009.  Transactions rose to 11,358 in March before slowing to
8,217 in April, according to Land Registry figures.  The value of new home sales from mainland Chinese buyers
was HK$7.9 billion in the first quarter, down from HK$9.3
billion in the previous quarter, Midland said.  The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks Hong Kong’s
seven biggest developers, fell 2.6 percent at the noon trading
break today to its lowest in four months.  Savills Plc said Hong Kong is the world’s costliest place
to buy an apartment, with prices about 55 percent higher than
London, where the property broker is based. Moscow is 7.4
percent more expensive than London and  New York  is 15 percent
cheaper, Savills said.  Leung Chun-ying, who in July will take over as Hong Kong’s
new leader, has vowed to increase housing supply to quell public
discontent over a widening wealth gap in the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  