-- Air Force Not Ready to Ground F-22 Fleet, Schwartz Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-16T21:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/air-force-not-ready-to-ground-f-22-fleet-schwartz-says.html
The  Air Force  isn’t considering
grounding the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-22 fighter for the second
time in a year during an investigation into the cause of
potential oxygen deprivation among pilots, the service’s chief
said.  “Based on what we know now, I would say no,” Air Force
Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz said today, without
elaboration, after speaking at a Brookings Institution event in
 Washington .  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has directed the Air Force
to impose new safety measures on the F-22, including limiting
flight durations and speeding the installation of back-up oxygen
systems, the Pentagon announced yesterday.  The stealthy F-22 Raptor, which has never flown in combat,
was grounded for four months last year as the Air Force sought
to diagnose what was causing hypoxia, oxygen deprivation
producing pilot symptoms such as dizziness and blackouts. The
plane was deemed operational in December 2005.  An Air Force-appointed scientific advisory board continues
to delve into the potential causes. Two pilots went public with
their concerns about the F-22’s safety, citing oxygen
deprivation and disorientation, in a report last week on CBS’s
“60 Minutes” program.  The Air Force has had 11 incidents since the four-month
grounding was lifted. While each pilot experienced unique
symptoms, “there is generally disorientation, perhaps some
dizziness, a feeling of nausea in some cases,” Air Force
General  Janet Wolfenbarger  told a Senate Armed Services
Committee panel May 9.  “In the meantime, we have initiated 17 life-support
enhancements to the F-22 as direct risk-mitigation steps,” she
said. “Many of these enhancements are already fielded,
including a modification to the emergency oxygen activation
handle and an aircrew blood-oxygen sensor.  Operational F-22s are based at Langley Air Force Base,
 Virginia ; Elmendorf Air Force Base,  Alaska ; Holloman Air Force
Base, New Mexico, and Hickam Air Force Base, Hawaii.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  