-- Airbus A380 Wing Cracks Threaten on Deliveries as Costs Rise
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-05-16T11:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/airbus-a380-wing-cracks-threaten-on-deliveries-as-costs-rise-1-.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. cautioned that delivering 30 Airbus A380 superjumbos this
year will be a challenge and that fixing wing cracks on the
double-decker airliner will occupy the company for years.  EADS booked 158 million euros ($200.1 million) in charges
in the first quarter for a “permanent fix” of A380 wings, it
said today when posting earnings. It had already booked 105
million euros against 2011 earnings to fix planes in service,
and Chief Financial Officer Hans Peter Ring estimated total
charges this year of 260 million euros.  “The good news is that we have fully understood the root
causes, we have proposed and decided internally on a final fix
and repair,” Ring said on a call with journalists. “It’ll keep
us busy for a couple of years likely.”  Airbus is being forced to devote more attention to its
flagship aircraft just as the manufacturer struggles to keep its
A350 wide-body program on track and the company prepares for a
management switch at the beginning of next month. Airbus said
the A350 program, aimed at competing with  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new 787
and bestselling 777 aircraft, remains “very challenging”  Rising Stock  Airbus handed over four A380s in the first quarter, the
same amount as in the year-ago period. The company delivered 26
of the aircraft to customers in all of 2011. While fixing the
wings turned out to be more complex than originally believed in
March, Airbus still aims to break even with the program at the
start of 2015, EADS reiterated today.  EADS rose as much as 75 cents, or 2.6 percent, to 29.78
euros in Paris, and traded at 29.03 euros as of 1:11 p.m. The
stock has gained 21.3 percent this year, compared with a 1.1
percent drop for Chicago-based Boeing in the same period.  First-quarter earnings before interest tax, goodwill and
exceptional items doubled to 480 million euros, EADS said. The
company raised its guidance for earnings per share to “above
1.85 euros” for this year from more than 1.65 euros, and
maintained a goal to lift jet deliveries to a record 570.  EADS also reiterated guidance for operating profit before
special items to rise above 2.5 billion euros. Ring said the
guidance would be reviewed at the end of the second quarter, by
which time EADS is under new management.  Tom Enders , now chief
of Airbus, will become CEO of EADS from May 31.  Manufacturing Process  After discovering the cracks last year, Airbus diagnosed
the issue, saying it stemmed from a combination of manufacturing
processes and materials, and is now working on a two-step fix
for cracked wing brackets.  For now, the approach involves inserting a piece where the
wing bracket isn’t sufficiently strong. Eventually, Airbus will
address the issue by changing the materials and process used to
manufacture the wing. It can’t put that change into practice
until the European Aviation Safety Agency gives approval.  The wings for the A380 are built in Broughton in the U.K.,
where Airbus employs more than 5,000 people. The structures are
partly made from carbon fiber material and are transported by
road and river to the sea from where they are shipped to the
Airbus headquarters in Toulouse in  France  for final assembly.  Airbus is now in discussions with A380 customers about
deliveries, Ring said.  Airlines eager to put their new A380s into service can fly
the planes without immediately fixing wing brackets, as EASA
directives require fixes only after a certain number of landings
and takeoffs. Some airlines may prefer to insist that Airbus
make the fix first, before they accept delivery.  A total of 253 A380s have been ordered by 19 customers,
with 71 planes delivered so far to customers including  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA) ,  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Emirates,  Air France (AF)  KLM
Group, Deutsche Lufthansa,  Korean Air Lines  Co. (003490)  and  China
Southern. (1055)   “It’s the same problem we’ve seen on many aircraft
programs before,” said  Nick Cunningham , managing director at
London-based Agency Partners. “If you build a plane with a
fault, then you have to go through a change process, and that’s
very, very expensive because you’ve got to take the part and fix
it and put the plane back together again. And then you’ve got a
$300 million plane sitting there, using your cash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  