-- Malaysian Palm-Oil Refiners Urge Reform to Counter Indonesia
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-05-17T05:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/malaysian-palm-oil-refiners-urge-tax-overhaul-as-indonesia-gains.html
Malaysia , the world’s second-largest
 palm-oil  producer, needs to reform the industry’s tax structure
to counter new rates in Indonesia that improved the
competitiveness of refiners there, according to a trade group.  Without changes to create a so-called level playing field,
there will be “a slow death of the refining industry when the
independent refiners move away,” said Mohammad Jaaffar Ahmad,
chief executive of the Palm Oil Refiners Association of Malaysia.  The tax changes by Indonesia last year made local crude
palm oil, or CPO, cheaper than in Malaysia, cutting costs for
refiners, according to Jaaffar.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy
is seeking to boost the value of commodity shipments, including
metals, to raise investment flows and spur economic growth.
Bernard Dompok, Malaysia’s plantation industries and commodities
minister, said that changes are being drawn up.  “The problem is that the refiners are  feeling the pinch  of
the tax changes in  Indonesia  and they want a level playing
field,” Dompok told Bloomberg on May 11. “We will be proposing
to the government a solution to the problem for the producers
and the refiners,” he said, without giving details.  Palm oil, the world’s most-consumed cooking oil, is used in
everything from candy bars to biofuel. Malaysia and largest
producer Indonesia account for about 89 percent of global
shipments. Crude palm oil, which has more than doubled in the
past decade, traded at 3,130 ringgit ($1,007) a metric ton on
the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange at the midday break.  ‘Very Bleak’  “If nothing is done then the industry will face very bleak
prospects over time with potential closures,” Ivy Ng, an
analyst at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., said in an e-mail,
referring to Malaysian refiners. The country may face difficulty
attracting investment given the less appealing tax structure
compared with Indonesia, Ng wrote in a report dated April 6.  The association wants the Malaysian government to end the
practice of allowing the annual tax-free export as much as 3.5
million tons of crude palm oil, boosting raw supplies for local
refiners, Jaaffar said in an interview. At the same time, tax
rates on Malaysian crude shipments should be cut to less than
Indonesia’s rate from about 21 percent to 22 percent, he said.  “This will give some breathing space to our refiners,”
said Jaaffar, who spoke in Selangor state on May 15 and last
month. “We’re not depriving our  CPO exporters  to export but
they must pay tax. But it will be lower than our current duty
and the duty that Indonesia pays.”  Sime Darby  The association represents about 80 percent of the nation’s
refining capacity and members include  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the
world’s biggest listed palm-oil producer. Increased consumption
of crude palm oil within Malaysia may cut stockpiles and help to
increase prices in the long term after an initial drop, he said.  Indonesia, the largest tin exporter and a producer of
copper and bauxite, wants to raise the value of commodity
shipments by promoting processing. The country banned shipments
of 14 raw minerals including copper and silver from May 6, while
introducing a 20 percent tax on exports from companies exempted
from the curb on condition they build processing facilities.  Last October, Indonesia reduced the maximum export tax on
refined, bleached and deodorized, or RBD, palm oil to 10 percent
from 23 percent, according to a  Finance Ministry Decree . The
rate for RBD palm olein was cut to 13 percent from 25 percent,
while the highest tax for crude palm oil was set at 22.5 percent.  ‘Best Policy’  “This is without a doubt the best policy from President
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono for the palm-oil industry and
Indonesia,” said Sahat Sinaga, second deputy chairman at the
Indonesian Palm Oil Board. Refining capacity may surge to 25
million tons next year from 18.5 million tons as new plants are
built and existing operations are expanded, Sinaga said.  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s biggest palm-oil
processor, plans to spend more than $100 million to boost
refining capacity in Indonesia by 50 percent, Chief Operating
Officer Martua Sitorus said on May 10. The company won’t cut
capacity in Malaysia, he said. There will be “significant
additions” to refining capacity in Indonesia over the next 18
months after the tax changes, according to Adrian Foulger, head
of food & beverage research at Standard Chartered Plc.  Mewah International Inc. (MII) , Malaysia’s second-biggest refiner,
reported first-quarter  net  income slumped 51 percent to $8.3
million as margins fell, according to a May 11 statement. The
company said in January it planned to build a refinery in East
Java to boost capacity in Indonesia, while delaying completion
of a plant in Sabah in eastern Malaysia.  As of last month, Malaysia had 50  refineries  with total
capacity of about 22.7 million tons, according to the nation’s
palm-oil board. Processed exports last year accounted for 14.5
million tons out of 18 million tons of total palm-oil shipments
from the country,  data from the board  show.  Malaysia is expected to amend its tax policies to respond
to the challenge from Indonesia, said Sinaga at the Indonesian
Palm Oil Board. About 70 percent of the extra refining capacity
that’s planned in Indonesia will come from new investments, with
the balance from the expansion of existing plants, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  