-- Ambac Judge Asked by Wisconsin Insurance Chief to Allow Payments
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/ambac-claim-payments-sought-by-wisconsin-insurance-chief-1-.html
Wisconsin  Insurance Commissioner
Theodore Nickel said he’s seeking permission from a state judge
to begin making interim payments on more than $3 billion in
claims made by clients of Ambac Assurance Corp.  Nickel’s office in 2010 undertook the rehabilitation of a
segregated portfolio of Ambac policies insuring as much as $50
billion in mortgage-backed securities and other corporate
liabilities.  Dane County Circuit Court Judge William Johnston in Madison
last year approved a plan to pay some of those policy holders 25
percent of their claims in cash, with the balance deferred for
nine years with interest.  “While the work on implementation of the plan continues,
we are pleased to begin making interim payments to policyholders
in the near-term, subject to the approval of the court,” Nickel
said in a press statement yesterday.  The commissioner’s filing couldn’t immediately be confirmed
by the Dane County Circuit Court clerk’s office in the state’s
capital city, Madison.  Ambac Assurance, a unit of New York-based  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , was the second-biggest U.S. bond insurer before the
2008 financial crisis, after which mounting claims spurred by
mortgage defaults swamped the company with claims and threatened
its viability.  2010 Filing  The insurer was paying out as much as $150 million a month,
exceeding its revenue, Nickel’s predecessor,  Sean Dilweg , had
said.  Ambac Financial Group filed for bankruptcy court protection
in 2010. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in March granted
final approval to the parent company’s reorganization of $1.7
billion in debt, under which its own shareholders receive
nothing.  Both Ambac Financial and Ambac Assurance have yet to
receive final court approval of the resolution of a dispute with
the U.S. Internal Revenue Service over the companies’ $708
million tax refund claim.  The Wisconsin rehabilitation plan too is awaiting
resolution of tax issues relating to the issuance of the notes
and is not yet effective, Nickel said yesterday.  The case is In re The Rehabilitation of Segregated Account
of Ambac  Assurance Corp., 2010-cv-001576,  Dane County ,
Wisconsin, Circuit Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  