-- Hamburg Port Container Volumes Rise as Baltics Offset Asia Drop
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-05-16T09:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/hamburg-port-container-volumes-rise-as-baltics-offset-asia-drop.html
The Port of Hamburg ,  Europe ’s second-
largest container harbor, reported a 5.2 percent increase in
first-quarter container volumes as rising trade with the  Baltic
Sea  countries and  North America  offset a decline in Asia.  The number of standard containers, known as TEU, handled in
 Germany ’s largest port increased to 2.2 million in the three
months through March, according to a statement handed to
reporters at a press conference in Hamburg today. Asian
container volumes declined 5 percent to 1.2 million boxes, while
trade with the countries around the Baltic Sea and North America
rose 19.6 percent and 61 percent, respectively, the port said.  “The decline in Asian traffic is a snapshot of the
restructuring of different regular services,” Port of Hamburg
Marketing Chief Executive Officer Claudia Roller said in the
statement, adding that some lines have cut capacity between  Asia 
and Europe. “During the first half of this year, we expect new
Far East container services in the Port of Hamburg again.”  The world’s largest container shipping lines lost money
last year because of high fuel expenses, overcapacity and a
price war on routes between Asia and Europe that depressed
freight rates. In response, companies such as Hamburg-based
Hapag-Lloyd AG have raised rates and formed vessel-sharing
alliances with other shipping lines to try to return to profit.  Container volume growth in Hamburg has declined for six
consecutive quarters, after advancing 24 percent in the three
months through September 2010, amid a slowdown in the global
economic expansion and container volume growth. Still, Hamburg
stole market share from its main rivals Rotterdam, Europe’s No.
1 container port, and Antwerp in the first quarter and said
today it expects growth in its container volumes in 2012.  Hamburger Hafen & Logistik AG (HHFA) , which handles more than two-
thirds of cargo containers in Hamburg, cut its sales forecast
for 2012 after reporting a 41 percent drop in first-quarter
profit because of terminal modernization costs. The port
operator predicts sales will decline to 1.1 billion euros
($1.4 billion) from 1.22 billion euros last year, compared with
a March 30 forecast of 5 percent growth, it said on May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  