-- American Decline a Mirage in a World That’s Rising
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-05-16T23:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/american-decline-a-mirage-in-a-world-that-s-rising.html
“Anyone who tells you that America
is in decline or that our influence has waned,” said President
 Barack Obama  in his 2012  State of the Union  address, “doesn’t
know what they’re talking about.”  It was a “rah-rah America!” applause line for a president
who needed to get the assembled Republicans out of their seats a
few times over the course of the evening. But the line works
literally, too. Whenever someone tells me that the U.S. is in
decline, I don’t have any idea what they’re talking about. And
neither, I tend to think, do they.  The claim is maddeningly vague. What does it mean for the
U.S. to be in decline? Are we talking about our geopolitical
influence relative to other world powers? Our standard of living
relative to other nations? Our current standard of living
compared with some assumption about its appropriate rate of
improvement?  Let’s flip the question: What does it mean for the U.S. to
be on the rise? If it’s growing at a perfectly respectable 3.5
percent a year while  China  is growing at 8.5 percent a year,
enabling China’s  economy  to surpass the U.S. in a decade or so,
does that mean the U.S. is in decline?  My hunch is that’s how most Americans define decline.
That’s a problem. Consider a different scenario: Let’s say the
U.S. is growing at 3 percent annually, and China’s growth slows
to 4 percent. In that case, China won’t surpass the U.S. for
decades, forestalling American “decline.” Yet that’s a worse
outcome for everybody. It means more impoverished Chinese and
more impoverished Americans -- who will, incidentally, be
competing with those low-wage Chinese workers who still can’t
afford to buy American-made goods and services. It means fewer
life-improving innovations will be developed in both countries.
It may also mean less geopolitical stability as the Chinese
people channel their frustrations against their political
system, or their political system tries to distract them by
channeling their frustrations against competitor nations.  If American preeminence relies on the continued
immiseration of  Brazil , China and India, then, even in the most
selfish terms, I’m not sure that it’s worth having. Yet it seems
that some Americans would prefer to be the only superpower in
hell than the foremost member of a more prosperous Group of 20
in heaven.  A world in which global growth slows so much that countries
with three or four times our population never surpass the U.S.’s
economic output is a world in which much is going wrong. Even
now, many Chinese think that 8 percent annual growth is
necessary for their society to remain stable. If growth falls to
4 percent, the Chinese system could crack, with untold
geopolitical and human consequences. Perhaps it would lead to a
more pluralistic, open political system. But I wouldn’t bet on
it. More likely, it would lead to increased nationalism,
xenophobia and internal repression.  If hundreds of millions of Chinese and Indians continue to
be stuck on unproductive farms or in unskilled jobs rather than
being freed to develop their human capital, the rest of the
world will be denied access to the endless innovations they
otherwise might have developed. Put another way, the sun may now
set on the British Empire, but the average British citizen lives
much better because of the medical and computer technologies
developed in Britain’s former colonies. If those colonies hadn’t
grown rich and strong enough to throw off the mother country’s
yoke, the result would be a worse world for everyone --including
the British.  So, yes, the U.S. has its problems. But I wouldn’t trade
our problems for anyone else’s. Europe, China and  Japan  face
immense demographic challenges. All three are aging rapidly and,
for cultural and political reasons, immigration is unlikely to
swell their workforces. Japan, with a median age of 44.6, is one
of the oldest countries in the world. In China, the birth rate
has fallen from 2.6 births per woman 30 years ago to 1.56 today.  Political challenges loom equally large. The euro area
looks irredeemably flawed -- perhaps even unsalvageable. It’s
unclear how China’s political system will evolve as the country
grows richer, or how it will survive if the rapid growth of the
past few decades slows dramatically. As for India, its political
system makes the euro area look like a model of farsighted
governance.  Then there are the economic challenges. Brazil, China and
 India  are becoming middle-income countries. Historically, that
is a harbinger of slower growth. Ruchir Sharma, head of  emerging
markets  at Morgan Stanley and author of the book “ Breakout
Nations ,” says the “gold medalists of growth” all experience
a similar fate. “Japan and  Korea  and  Taiwan , at a similar stage
to where China is today in economic development, all slowed
down,” he says. “It’s much easier to grow from a low base.
Once your base becomes bigger, it’s much more difficult to
grow.”  If Europe gets back on track, and if Brazil, China and
India manage to sustain their high growth rates, then it’s true
that more nations will be vying for influence on the world
stage: America’s unquestioned geopolitical dominance could
decline. At that point, ensuring that the values the U.S. has
imperfectly promoted -- liberal democracy, human rights, open
capitalism -- continue to hold sway becomes a matter of
statecraft. Diplomacy will have to achieve what being the only
superpower on the block once assured. But that’s why we have the
State Department, not to mention a  military budget  larger than
the next dozen or so states combined.  The problems associated with expansive global economic
growth are real, but they’re problems in the context of an
improving world. Conversely, if the BRICs can’t rise out of
poverty, and  Europe  and Japan can’t right their economies,
that’s a world we don’t want, with problems we may well not be
able to solve. Those who yearn for a form of American
preeminence that can only exist due to economic stagnation
elsewhere really do not know what they’re talking about.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read More Online from  Bloomberg View :  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Eduardo Saverin’s
citizenship  and  stopping Somali pirates ;  Amity Shlaes  on  supply-
siders and austerity ; Caroline Baum on  digging out of debt ;
Harry L. Davis on  what makes a good leader ;  Steven Greenhut  on
why  California is still golden ; Rachelle Bergstein on
 countercultural footwear   To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  