-- Amgen Revives Defunct Drug as Old Therapies Seek New Cure
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-05-17T20:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/amgen-revives-defunct-drug-as-old-therapies-seek-new-cure.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s experimental drug
rilotumumab, set aside by the company after it disappointed in a
study, has been revived after a fresh look at data in gastric
cancer found it helped a group of patients.  Rilotumumab used with chemotherapy almost doubled the
survival rate for patients with high levels of c-Met, a protein
linked to cancer growth,  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen
said yesterday in a statement. The data, released in advance of
the  American Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting that starts
June 1 in  Chicago , have spurred the company to pursue a late-
stage trial of the drug, said  David Chang , Amgen’s vice
president of oncology development.  The results are part of a significant shift taking place in
how drugs are discovered and who they’ll work best for, said
Marc Boutin, executive director of the  National Health Council ,
a Washington-based group of patients’ advocates and health-care
companies. This personalized medicine approach is becoming more
important for drugmakers to reduce the time and cost of testing
therapies and increase the chances of success, he said.  “Some of the early studies that were done with rilotumumab
did not give us the level of evidence that would make us advance
the program,” Chang said in an interview. “When the biomarker
data came out, that tipped the balance.”  Amgen declined less than 1 percent to $70.54 at the close
of  trading  in  New York . The shares had gained 16 percent in the
past 12 months.  Personalized Medicine  Personalized medicine involves determining whether a
patient is genetically susceptible to a particular disease or
would be especially responsive to certain treatments. More than
72 such therapies are available now, a fivefold increase from
the 13 available in 2006, according to the Personalized Medicine
Coalition, an industry advocacy group based in  Washington .  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s breast cancer drug Herceptin was one of
the first cancer medicines aimed at patients whose tumors have a
particular genetic abnormality, known as HER2. In August, Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche won U.S. regulatory approval for
Zelboraf, a melanoma drug that works on patients whose tumors
have a certain gene mutation. Both have companion diagnostic
tests to determine if patients have the biomarkers.  The initial results from Amgen’s rilotumumab study in
gastric cancer patients, released last year, showed the drug in
combination with chemotherapy improved progression-free survival
33 percent, to 5.6 months from 4.2 months. Chang said that alone
didn’t seem to warrant a larger, costlier study of the therapy,
which Amgen, the world’s biggest biotechnology company, acquired
a decade ago when it purchased Immunex Corp. for $16.8 billion.  Closer Review  The company analyzed the data further and found patients
with high levels of c-Met, or MET, showed better results. C-Met
is a protein that plays a vital role in spurring embryos to grow
as well as healing wounds in adults. It is activated when bound
together with another protein, hepatocyte growth factor/scatter
factor. The process can go awry and create runaway cancer cells.
Rilotumumab blocks the two from attaching.  Gastric, or  stomach, cancer  killed 736,000 people worldwide
in 2008, second only to lung cancer, according to the World
Health  Organization . The  American Cancer Society  estimates there
will be 21,320 new cases in the U.S. this year.  Rilotumumab and chemotherapy drugs extended the survival
rate for gastric cancer patients with high MET expression to
11.1 months compared with 5.7 months for similar patients taking
a placebo and the chemotherapy drugs, Amgen said in the
statement and a summary of the study. Individuals with low MET
expression tumors did worse on the therapy.  “That’s when we had a little bit of an ‘ah ha’ moment,”
Chang said.  Different Targets  Len Lichtenfeld, deputy chief medical officer for the
 American Cancer Society , said advances in gene sequencing mean
new cures may be found among older medicines or compounds that
companies may have given up on.  “There are a whole slew of drugs and chemicals sitting on
the shelves of companies, that have been looked at in the past,
and probably need to be re-examined,” Lichtenfeld said in a
telephone interview.  Pfizer’s  lung cancer  drug, Xalkori, approved last year,
also only works for patients with a certain gene abnormality.
While 1 percent to 7 percent of non-small cell lung cancer
patients have this genetic aberration, the medicine reduced
tumor size in 57 percent of those patients and stopped
progression of the disease in 87 percent.  Journal Article  Pfizer only refocused its clinical trials on patients with
this particular abnormality after reading an article in the
medical journal Nature detailing it in 2007, said Robert
Sweetman, the New York-based drugmaker’s senior director of U.S.
medical affairs, oncology.  “We were totally able to stop the ship in mid-ocean and
reverse course,” Sweetman said in an interview.  Pfizer’s drug also appears to stop several deadly
children’s cancers driven by the same gene abnormality,
according to initial study results reported yesterday in advance
of the cancer meeting.  Prior to having the tools to sequence tumors quickly and
cheaply, researchers might look at demographic data to determine
why some patients did better than others on certain medications,
he said. Now they can try to figure out beforehand which
patients will respond best.  “I think there’s pretty wide agreement that the days of
finding medicines that will work for tens, in not hundreds of
millions of people at a time are probably over,” said Boutin,
of the National Health Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  