-- AMR Wins Ruling in Fight With Agents Before Union Vote
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-16T20:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/amr-wins-ruling-in-fight-with-agents-ahead-of-union-election-1-.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines ,
seeking to reduce labor costs while in bankruptcy, defeated an
effort by some employees to block wage and benefit cuts as they
consider joining a union.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  today denied a
request from passenger service agents for an order prohibiting
the airline from imposing changes to employment terms with a
union-representation election set to take place.  The ruling is a win for AMR as it seeks $1.25 billion in
annual labor savings it says it needs to restructure and exit
bankruptcy. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based airline is in court this
week seeking to void labor contracts with unions representing
pilots, flight attendants and mechanics.  The agents, who include those who book reservations and
work at airport ticket counters, were scheduled to begin voting
tomorrow on whether to be represented by the Communication
Workers of America. Voting has been delayed as American refuses
to turn over to the  National Mediation Board  names and addresses
of employees eligible to vote, according to the union. American
has about 10,000 passenger service agents.  “American Airlines should not be able to make the kind of
drastic cuts it’s proposing while agents’ election process is
under way,” Candice Johnson, a spokeswoman for the CWA, said in
a statement. “American Airlines has been doing everything it
can think of, both legal and not, to block agents from voting on
union representation.”  Collective Bargaining  A committee of passenger service agents said in court
papers that American wants to cut their jobs, wages and benefits
before the employees have a union to negotiate a collective
bargaining agreement. Thomas Kennedy, an attorney for the
passenger service agents, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Lane declined a request from the passenger service agents
to order AMR to provide the names and addresses to the mediation
board. That matter should be decided by a federal court in
 Texas , where a separate lawsuit is pending, Lane said. In that
case, American is suing the board over the election.  Missy Cousino, an airline spokeswoman, said the company is
pleased with Lane’s decision.  “While the changes required are difficult, all employee
groups are being called on to share fairly and equitably in
reaching American Airline’s cost reduction targets on our path
to be more competitive and successful in the future,” Cousino
said in a statement.  Brazil Routes  Separately today, American sought approval from the U.S.
Transportation Department to add 17 weekly flights between the
U.S. and  Brazil  later this year, the carrier said in a
statement. Such additions are part of the airline’s plan to
shift more capacity to overseas routes, including  Latin America ,
where the company leads U.S. peers.  The cases are In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan); American
Airlines v. National Mediation Board, 12-00276, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort Worth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  