-- Apple, Google, Oracle, AstraZeneca: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-05-16T11:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/amylin-said-to-attract-interest-from-pfizer-astrazeneca.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and five book publishers
lost their bid to have a private antitrust lawsuit over
electronic book pricing dismissed.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  Manhattan  yesterday
denied a request by the defendants to throw out the complaint by
plaintiffs seeking to represent a class of consumers. They claim
Apple and the publishers violated federal and  California  state
law by conspiring to raise the price of e-books.  Last month, the U.S. government sued Cupertino, California-
based Apple and the publishers, Hachette SA, HarperCollins,
Macmillan, Penguin Group and Simon & Schuster, claiming they
broke the law in setting prices for e-books. Cote is overseeing
the government suit and private antitrust suits filed in federal
court.  The case is In Re: Electronic Books Antitrust Litigation,
11-MD-2293, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  Copyright  One Juror in Oracle-Google Trial Is Dismissed By Judge  A juror in Oracle Corp.’s lawsuit against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  over
Android software was dismissed by the trial judge, who said the
case will proceed with 11 jurors.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup dismissed the juror after
she said car trouble forced her to miss a session in federal
court in  San Francisco .  The jury has begun deliberating over patent-infringement
claims related to the development of Android software for mobile
devices.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patent  AstraZeneca Antitrust Fine Should Stand, EU Court Aide Says  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker,
shouldn’t get a further reduction in an antitrust fine of 52.5
million euros ($67.5 million), an adviser to the European
Union’s highest court said.  Jan Mazak, the advocate general to the EU’s Court of
Justice, said the tribunal shouldn’t re-examine a reduction of
the penalty, according at a non-binding opinion yesterday.  According to a 2005 antitrust decision, the company misled
patent officials and flouted antitrust rules to block a generic
version of its Prilosec heartburn medicine. Prilosec was the
world’s best-selling drug in the late 1990s.  In 2010, a lower court ruling cut AstraZeneca’s fine from
the 60 million euros initially levied by EU regulators.  “The General Court correctly examined all the elements
relevant to the calculation of the fine,” Mazak said in the
opinion. The higher court shouldn’t “substitute, on grounds of
fairness, its own assessment” to replace the legal reasoning
underpinning the previous ruling.  Mazak also advised the court to reject challenges from
regulators, AstraZeneca and the European Federation of
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, or EFPIA, an
industry group.  The European Commission, the region’s antitrust regulator,
has said AstraZeneca blocked cheaper versions from 1993 to 2000
to keep prices high. AstraZeneca provided the patent offices in
 Belgium , Denmark,  Germany , the Netherlands,  Norway  and the U.K.
with incorrect data to extend patent protection on Prilosec,
according to the EU.  AstraZeneca is “disappointed” with the legal adviser’s
opinion that its appeal should be dismissed, said  Sarah
Lindgreen , a spokeswoman for the company. AstraZeneca takes
“compliance with all laws seriously” and has “a fundamental
commitment to doing business in an ethical and proper manner,”
she said in an e-mail.  The case is  C-457/10  P AstraZeneca v Commission.  Novartis, Pfizer’s Wyeth Seek Delay in Hemophilia Patents Case  The diagnostics unit of  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Wyeth
filed a joint motion on May 14 to stay the deadlines in a drug-
patent trial scheduled to begin June 4 in  Texas , saying that the
delay “is expected to facilitate closure in this matter.”  Novartis sued Wyeth and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  in 2008, saying their
drugs violated patents related to treatments for hemophilia.
Novartis and Bayer settled their case in 2010.  The case is Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics Inc. v.
Wyeth, 2:08-cv-00067, U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas (Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Austria, Slovenia to Settle Smoked Sausage Squabble, APA Reports  Austria  is set to settle a dispute over  plans  by its
southern neighbor Slovenia to  protect the name  of a sausage
popular in both nations, the Austrian Press Agency reported.  Austria’s Agriculture Minister Nikolaus Berlakovich and his
Slovene colleague Franc Bogovic reached a compromise in the
dispute, APA said, citing the Austrian ministry. An experts’
commission will meet next week to work out the deal, the agency
reported.  Slovenia will pursue its plan to restrict the right to sell
the smoked pork sausage under its traditional name --“Kranjska
klobasa” in Slovenia or “Krainer Wurst” in Austria -- under
European Union regulations that also protect Italian  Parma ham 
or Greek  Feta cheese . Under the deal the ministers reached,
Austrian producers would still be allowed to use the name
Kaesekrainer for a variety of the sausage that contains bits of
cheese and is the most popular in Austria.  Austria and Slovenia, both part of the Austro-Hungarian
Empire before World War I, are embroiled in several disputes
over their common cultural heritage. A 56-year debate over
minority rights for ethnic Slovenes in southern Austria ended
with a deal for dual-language road signs only last year.  Nationalist Austrian politicians including the late Joerg Haider objected to the use of some motifs on Slovenia’s euro
coins, arguing Slovenia was misusing Austrian symbols. Austria
gained a protected status like the one sought for the sausages
by Slovenia for  pumpkin seed oil , which is equally popular and
traditional in Slovenia.  For more trademark news, click here.  In the Courts  Activision Seeks Delay as ‘Warfare’ Trial Claims Hit $1 Billion  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  is seeking to delay a trial
against the creators of its blockbuster game “Call of Duty:
Modern Warfare 2” to bring in a new lead lawyer as the possible
damages it faces have ballooned to $1 billion.  Activision asked California Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle in Los Angeles in a filing May 14 to postpone the May 29
trial date for 30 days so that its new attorney,  Beth Wilkinson ,
can get prepared.  “Modern Warfare 2,” was released in November 2009, and
broke all sales records in the entertainment industry, selling
4.7 million copies in the U.S. and U.K. Activision, based in
Santa Monica, California, surpassed Electronic Arts, based in
Redwood City, California, as the biggest U.S. video-game
publisher by revenue in 2009.  Activision contends Electronic Arts conspired with Jason
West and Vince Zampella, the developers of “Modern Warfare 2”
as early as July of 2009 to disrupt its “Call of Duty”
franchise, according to Activision’s December 2010 amended
cross-complaint. The company fired the two men in 2010.  Activision has agreed to pay $42 million to a group of
former employees who left in 2010 after West and Zampella were
fired and who filed their own lawsuit for unpaid bonuses and
royalties for their work on “Modern Warfare 2,” a person
familiar with the matter said.  The payment of the so-called first-quarter launch bonuses
aren’t a settlement and the group of 40 former employees are
still part of the case going to trial, said the person who
didn’t want to be identified because the payments haven’t been
disclosed in a public record.  Bruce Isaacs, a lawyer for the former employees, declined
to comment on the payments.  At a hearing, Richard Kendall, a lawyer for Electronic
Arts, said “Activision had the gears in motion already to fire
these guys well before EA surfaced in any way as communicating
with West and Zampella or any of their representatives.”  The case is West v. Activision, SC107041, California
Superior Court (Los Angeles County).  For more, click here.  Deals  Amylin Said to Attract Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Sanofi in Sale  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  has lured suitors such as
Pfizer Inc., AstraZeneca Plc and  Sanofi (SAN) , which signed
confidentiality agreements on the drugmaker’s sale process, said
people familiar with the matter.  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ,  Roche Holding AG (ROG) 
and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  also signed agreements to get
access to confidential financial and product information for
Amylin, said the people, who declined to be identified as talks
are private. The drug developer is seeking a buyer following its
rejection of an unsolicited offer from Bristol-Myers, people
with knowledge of the matter said earlier this year.  First-round bids are due in the next two weeks, said two of
the people. Amylin, the maker of the diabetes drugs Bydureon and
Byetta, has a market capitalization of more than $4 billion and
generated more than $650 million in  revenue  last year.  “Diabetes is an area companies either want a position in
or want a stronger position in,” said Mark Clark, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank in  London .  Amylin received regulatory approval for Bydureon, a once-
weekly formulation of its earlier diabetes drug Byetta, in
January, and the therapy may draw $1.5 billion in peak annual
sales in the U.S., according to Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst
with Deutsche Bank. The drugmaker had been seeking a partner to
help market Bydureon outside the U.S. since November, when it
ended a collaboration with  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)   For more, click here.  IP Moves  Patent Litigator Lavelle Joins DLA Piper from Dewey LeBoeuf  Joseph Lavelle joined DLA Piper LLP’s intellectual property
and technology practice and patent litigation group as a partner
in the Washington office.  Previously a partner at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, Lavelle’s
practice focuses on patent litigation and matters where
intellectual property and antitrust law intersect. He has
experience in federal district court proceedings, as well as
cases before the U.S. Court of Federal Claims and the Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit, according to a statement.  Lavelle also has tried several investigations before the
U.S. International Trade Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  