-- Man Worst as Private Funds Trail Markets: Riskless Return
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2012-05-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/man-worst-as-private-funds-trail-markets-riskless-return.html
Man Group (EMG)  Plc is leading declines
among global investment firms as private-equity and  hedge funds ,
the best-paid money managers, produce the worst returns for
public shareholders.  Shares of London-based Man Group, the biggest publicly
traded hedge fund, have declined 63 percent in the past year,
including reinvested dividends, the most of 32 money managers in
the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING, and they had the highest
volatility. Buyout and hedge-fund firms including  Och-Ziff
Capital Management Group LLC  and  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) 
ranked near the bottom, while mutual-fund firms led by  Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc (ADN)  dominated the top.  Managers of private funds, marketed to the richest
investors, have proven to be poor picks for public shareholders
because of their reliance on performance-based fees, which have
been eroded by volatile  capital markets  since the 2008 financial
crisis. All six alternative-asset firms that have held initial
share sales in the U.S. since 2007 are trading below their offer
price.  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , which sought to buck that trend with a
discounted stock sale, failed when the shares sank below the
offering price on May 9.  “There is a limited understanding of these firms as their
business models are more complicated and earnings streams are
more volatile,” Daniel Fannon, a San Francisco-based analyst
covering asset-management stocks at Jefferies & Co., said in a
telephone interview. Until the markets improve and the firms can
show some gains, “they’re still a ‘show-me’ story for
investors.”  Conflict of Interest  Investors buying the stock of a money manager share in the
fees the manager receives for running funds. They don’t
participate directly in the returns of the funds, instead
competing with investors in the pools, whose aim is to minimize
fees. That potential conflict of interest has been an issue for
public asset managers since Dreyfus Corp. was sued by fund
investors over its 1965 initial public offering.  Earnings of buyout and hedge funds, so-called alternative
asset managers, can be difficult to predict because they get the
vast majority of their fees from carried interest, or a cut of
profits from fund investments, according to Fannon. Those fees
can swing violently as financial markets move up or down, making
the shares more volatile. The median volatility of hedge-fund
and private-equity firms in the ranking was 43.6, compared with
a median volatility of 41.5 for the traditional money managers.  The appeal of alternative managers may also be limited
because many list on the public markets as limited partnerships
rather than corporations, which gives them more leeway in
restricting shareholder claims.  Carried Interest  Most private-equity and hedge funds typically take 20
percent of investment gains as carried interest, on top of 2
percent of assets as a management fee to cover expenses.
Traditional asset-management firms, which offer products such as
mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, get most of their income
from management fees, which are more stable.  Man Group, the  worst performer  in the U.K. benchmark  FTSE
100 Index (UKX)  over the past 12 months, slumped as losses in its
flagship AHL hedge fund strategy and Europe’s debt crisis
prompted clients to withdraw money. Clients pulled a net $1
billion in the three months ended March 31. The shares had the
biggest price swings of the asset managers in the ranking, with
a volatility of 60.1. That’s almost three times as much as the
volatility of the FTSE 100 Index.  Laura Humble, a spokeswoman for Man Group, declined to
comment on the company’s share performance, as did officials for
Blackstone and Och-Ziff. A spokesman for Fortress didn’t reply
to an e-mail and a voice message seeking comment.  ‘Client Needs’  The firm’s Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  said on May
1 that Man Group is “focused on the key priorities of
delivering performance for our investors, meeting client needs
and improving operational efficiency across the business.”  Och-Ziff, based in  New York , had the 13th-highest
volatility and the second-worst total return after slumping 46
percent in the past year, including reinvested dividends.
Fortress, also based in New York, fell 34 percent in the past
year and its volatility was second only to Man Group at 56.8.  In the Bloomberg ranking, eight of the 10 worst firms by
total return were alternative-asset managers. One the other side
of the spectrum, nine of the 10 top performers by risk-adjusted
and by total return were traditional asset managers. Shares of
alternative managers declined, on average, by 33 percent in the
past year, compared with 15 percent for stock-and-bond managers.  Aberdeen Top  Private-equity firms pool money from investors such as
pension plans and endowments, with a mandate to buy companies,
overhaul and then sell them, and return funds with a profit
after about 10 years. The firms use debt to finance the
transactions and amplify returns. Hedge funds raise money from
many of the same investors and have a similar fee structure.
They usually don’t lock up capital for long periods, buy more
liquid assets, and can bet on rising and falling securities.  Aberdeen, the top performer with a 9.7 percent total
return, had the third-lowest price swings. The combination
produced a risk-adjusted return of 0.3 percent, the best among
the 32 companies. The company has attracted investors into
higher-fee products including global and emerging market stocks.  Affiliated Managers Group Inc., a firm that acquires stakes
in a diverse mix of asset managers, produced the second-best
total return for the No. 2 spot in the risk-adjusted return
ranking after shares were about unchanged in the past year.  Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM) , a U.K. fund manager that invests in
 emerging markets , produced the second-best total return and the
sixth-lowest volatility, for the No. 3 spot in the risk-adjusted
return ranking. The firm benefited from client deposits into its
funds.  Janus’s Redemptions  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price variation,
giving a measure of income per unit of risk. A higher volatility
means the price of an asset can swing dramatically in a short
period of time, increasing the potential for unexpected losses.  One traditional asset manager ranking at the bottom is
 Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , the Denver-based mutual-fund company.
Janus is an exception, in part because like managers of hedge
funds and private-equity funds, the firm charges performance-
based fees that rise or fall based on returns. The firm has also
been hurt by declining assets and 11 straight quarters of
redemptions as performance at its stock funds faltered. Janus
had the third-highest volatility over the past year and the
sixth-worst return.  Beating the Market  Asset management firms have tapped the public markets for
capital for almost half-a-century, and for much of the past
decades have outperformed the stock market.  Franklin Resources
Inc. (BEN) , the manager of the Franklin and Templeton mutual funds,
has delivered about 23 percent in average annual gains to
investors, excluding dividends, since it went public in 1971,
according to the firm. T. Rowe Price Group Inc. shares have
risen at an average annual rate of about 19 percent since the
firm’s IPO in 1986.  “Asset managers were viewed by a lot of people like a
public utility, earning fees for the adviser every day of the
week,”  Geoff Bobroff , a fund consultant in  East Greenwich ,
 Rhode Island , said in an interview. That’s not the case for
alternative managers because they’re so dependent on
performance-based fees, he said.  Dreyfus, which is now owned by Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., was one of the first U.S. money managers to go public in
1965. After the IPO, a group of fund investors sued Dreyfus
executives and the company over their profits from the sale. The
selling shareholders eventually agreed to settle the lawsuit
without any admission of wrongdoing.  Man’s Peak  Most alternative managers in the U.S. didn’t go public
until 2007, meaning they don’t have a long track record as a
shareholders’ company, and their performance could turn around
if stock markets strengthen. Man Group and buyout firm 3i Group
went public almost two decades ago and were able to benefit from
rising markets in the 1990s and the early part of the 2000s.  Man Group, which went public in 1994, handed shareholders
an average annual gain of 27 percent from the time of its IPO
until mid-2007, when the stock peaked, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Since then, the shares have slumped at an
average rate of 35 percent. 3i shares have declined an average
annual 1.2 percent since the firm’s IPO, also in 1994.  Fortress was the first of the U.S. private equity and hedge
fund managers to go public in 2007, and was followed that same
year by Blackstone and Och-Ziff. Fortress has declined 82
percent since its February 2007 IPO, and Och-Ziff has lost 76
percent.  ‘Valuations Were Great’  Blackstone, the largest private-equity manager, went public
at the peak of the leveraged-buyout market to raise $4.75
billion. Blackstone’s IPO, which generated a combined $2.6
billion for executives Steven Schwarzman and  Peter Peterson , has
provided public shareholders with a 61 percent decline since the
IPO.  “The valuations were great in 2007 and the markets were
very receptive to the investment story,” Benjamin Phillips, a
partner at consulting firm Casey, Quirk & Associates LLC in
Darien, Connecticut, said in a telephone interview. “Liquidity
for the executives was also a key issue,” Phillips said.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , which is traded on the New York Stock Exchange,
didn’t hold an IPO, choosing instead to combine with its
publicly traded European fund. The firm moved its listing to the
U.S. from Amsterdam in 2010 and the shares have gained 18
percent since then.  Carlyle had sought to avoid the fate of Blackstone and
others with an offering price that was below the proposed range
of $23 to $25 a share. The stock has fallen 4 percent since its
May 3 IPO.  Big Investors  “We firmly believe Carlyle’s status as a public company
will strengthen our capabilities,” co-CEO  David Rubenstein  said
on a call with investors yesterday. “No doubt as a public
company there will be times when we face challenges, just as
there will be times when we see considerable opportunities.”  Pension fund, endowments and other big investors in private
equity and hedge funds typically push for lower management fees,
and prefer that the firms focus on generating performance fees.
Carlyle earlier this year lowered fees for investors ready to
put in $500 million or more for its latest buyout fund, people
familiar with the matter said at the time.  There may not be a compelling reason to own shares of these
companies largely because of the “vagaries” of the market and
the fluctuations in quarterly earnings, according to consultant
Bobroff.  “On the private equity side, it might not turn out too
well for investors,” Bobroff said. “Clearly, Blackstone, and
more recently, Carlyle haven’t been rewarding for investors who
bought in at the IPO.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  