-- Land Securities Asset Values Rise on London Property Gains
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-05-16T08:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/land-securities-full-year-asset-value-rises-on-london-properties.html
Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) , the U.K.’s
largest real estate investment trust, said the value of its
properties rose 4.5 percent in the year through March on demand
for shops and offices in central London.  Adjusted net asset value increased to 863 pence from  826
pence  a year earlier, the London-based company said in a
statement today. Adjusted earnings per share gained 8.5 percent
to 38.5 pence, exceeding the 38 pence average of 17 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Properties in central London are the only U.K. commercial
property type rising in value, Investment Property Databank Ltd.
said yesterday. Land Securities has 1.2 million square feet
(111,200 square meters) of retail and office projects under way
in the British capital and the largest is the 250 million-pound
tower at 20 Fenchurch Street nicknamed the Walkie-Talkie. Chief
Executive Officer Robert Noel is betting on capturing higher
rents and values from the shortage of new space under
development.  “The Noel plan is to develop value rather than ride the
cycle and it’s working,” said Mike Prew and  Robert Duncan ,
analysts at Jefferies Group Inc., in a note to investors that
repeated their buy recommendation.  Land Securities shares declined 11 pence, or 1.5 percent,
to 723.5 pence at 9:20 a.m. in London trading. The decline
mirrored the drop in U.K. stocks and lowered the company’s
market value to 5.65 billion pounds.  Walkie-Talkie  The company said today that it’s negotiating contracts with
a prospective tenant to lease 8 percent of 20 Fenchurch Street
in the City of London financial district, which is known as the
Walkie-Talkie because its rectangular-block shape. The tower,
which Land Securities is developing with Canary Wharf Group Plc,
will have 696,000 square feet of space and is scheduled for
completion in 2014.  “We are in advanced negotiations for significantly more
than that,” Noel said on a conference call with journalists
today, declining to identify the potential tenant. “It
reinforces confidence in our plan. People are realizing that
their choices are evaporating” for new  office space  to lease.  Land Securities in February signed a joint-venture deal
with Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, the country’s second-
biggest retirement fund, to build the 900,000 square-foot
Victoria Circle development of offices, shops and housing near
 Buckingham Palace  in London.  Lowered Vacancies  Revenue profit increased 9 percent to 299.4 million pounds
as Land Securities lowered its interest payments by paying back
more expensive loans, lowering vacancies and lifting rents by
1.2 percent before the impact of acquisitions and disposals.  Net income dropped to 522.9 million pounds from 1.24
billion pounds as the value of the company’s properties
increased more slowly than a year earlier.  Net debt dropped to 3.55 billion pounds, or 38 percent of
the value of its real estate. That figure will fall to 33.4
percent of its assets once asset sales are completed, the
company said.  Land Securities increased its final dividend to 7.4 pence a
share from 7.2 pence a year earlier, taking the total payout for
fiscal 2011 to 29 pence a share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  