-- Anne Hathaway, Henry Cornell, Stephanie Seymour: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n   a n d   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-05-16T14:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/anne-hathaway-henry-cornell-stephanie-seymour-scene.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managing
director Henry Cornell, at the Whitney Museum American Art Award
dinner last night, talked about art and work.  “Art allows you to think abstractly, so you can think
concretely,” said Cornell, chief operating officer of the
merchant-banking division at Goldman, who is treasurer of the
Whitney’s board  Cornell and his wife, Vanessa, were co-chairmen of the
event held at the Waterfront, the space that was once a
nightclub called the Tunnel. Cornell presented an award to the
advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather North America, accepted by
the chief executive and chairman, John Seifert.  Peter Brant , chairman and chief executive of White Birch
Paper Co., also received an award. The Brant Foundation Art
Study Center, a short ride from his Greenwich, Connecticut,
mansion, has regular exhibitions. He also is the owner and
chairman of Brant Publications, which publishes Interview,
Modern, Art in America and the Magazine Antiques.  “Art affects me in everything I do, not just work,” Brant
said at his table, where he sat with artists  Julian Schnabel  and
Urs Fischer, and with his wife, Stephanie Seymour, to whom he
had said “I love you” at the lectern.  Brant credited his parents for teaching him that there are
other things in life besides war and sports.  “Growing up I was only interested in sports,” he said.
Now he plays polo on a lawn that also contains a Jeff Koons
puppy.  The Henry Luce Foundation, which recently gave the Whitney
$1.5 million toward the installation of works from the permanent
collection at its new building in the Meatpacking district, was
also honored.  The evening ended with  John McEnroe  introducing “the love
of my life,” his wife, Patty Smyth, and her band Scandal.
McEnroe joined in on guitar.  Lapham’s Quarterly  Paul Volcker, economics sage,  Leonard Riggio , founder of
 Barnes & Noble (BKS)  Inc., and venture capitalist Alan Patricof were
among those Monday evening who relived the spirit of the 1920s
with  Anne Hathaway  and Sam Waterston.  The occasion was the Decades Ball, a fundraising gala for
Lapham’s Quarterly, a magazine devoted to history and edited by
Bloomberg News contributor  Lewis Lapham .  On the stage of the event space 583 Park Avenue, Hathaway,
in a pixie haircut and blue dress, quoted Dorothy Parker.  “Never trust a round garter or a Wall Street man -- that’s
what life has taught me,” read the actress, who is engaged to
actor Adam Shulman.  Waterston read Don Marquis, the newspaperman who wrote a
column about cockroach Archy and cat Mehitabel. Maude Maggart
sang  Noel Coward  to the crowd, who sat at tables decorated with
peacock feathers.  J.P. Morgan biographer Ron Chernow, accepting the first
Lapham’s Quarterly Janus Prize, gave some financial history.  “You will be grimly amused to know that one of the main
firms tarnished by the crash of 1929 was Goldman Sachs,”
Chernow said.  The goody bag contained a B&N Classic, a copy of  F. Scott Fitzgerald ’s “On Booze” and a history of the Bloody Mary by
Jeffrey M. Pogash. There was also Clove gum and a “Hemingway”
cigarette pack containing a miniature copy of “The Snows of
Kilimanjaro.”  (Amanda Gordon and James Tarmy are writers and
photographers for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and  Jorg
von Uthmann  on Paris arts.  To contact the writers on this story:
 Amanda Gordon  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon;
James Tarmy in  New York :  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 