-- Anti-Putin Protesters to Set Up Camp After Police Crackdown
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-05-16T06:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/anti-putin-protesters-to-set-up-camp-after-police-crackdown.html
Russian protesters against President
Vladimir Putin plan to set up a new camp in Moscow after police
broke up a week-old non-stop demonstration in a dawn raid.  Riot police arrested about 20 people when they dismantled a
camp in a central Moscow square, modeled on the tactics of the
 Occupy Wall Street  movement, a duty officer at the Moscow police
press service, who declined to be identified as per policy, said
by phone. A Moscow court yesterday ordered the closing of the
protest site.  About 20 people gathered in another square near the Moscow
Zoo this morning, protest organizer Ilya Yashin said on his
Twitter Inc. account. The Moscow police said they would act
again if necessary.  Police detained hundreds of people on May 6 after clashes
between riot officers and thousands of demonstrators who rallied
against Putin 24 hours before his inauguration to a third
Kremlin term. Several people were held after a series of
unauthorized gatherings in the next three days.  Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , had called for police to
disperse the encampment near the Chistye Prudy metro station,
which became a focal point for opposition activity. Thousands of
people marched through Moscow last weekend to converge on the
protest camp.  Mass demonstrations against alleged fraud in parliamentary
elections erupted in Moscow and other cities in December,
sparking the largest unrest during Putin’s 12 years in power.
Opposition leaders pledged to keep up protests after Putin’s
disputed election to a new Kremlin term in March.  Russia’s ruling party plans to pass a law soon that would
impose fines of as much as 1.5 million rubles ($50,000) on
people violating the law at protest meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  