-- Harbert Outperforming Falcone With 11% Return Suffers Asset Drop
-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/harbert-outperforming-falcone-with-11-return-suffers-asset-drop.html
Raymond Harbert, chief executive
officer of Birmingham, Alabama-based Harbert Corporation, had a
radical proposal for his father. It was 1992, and the company
that had made his dad, John M. Harbert III, a billionaire was
eking out small profits and was $300 million in debt. Raymond
proposed selling the core construction business, which dated
back to the company’s 1946 founding. The elder Harbert threw his
son out of his office, an associate recalls.  Raymond, then 33, eventually persuaded his father to sell.
Once the debt was extinguished, he presented his father with
another big idea: shifting the family business into finance.
John Harbert not only gave his approval this time, he loaned his
son $3 million against his inheritance to launch the investment
firm, Harbert Management Corp. Father, son and four lieutenants
celebrated by draining a bottle of Sheep Dip scotch, a whisky
that bills itself as “rich, warming, malty, young and
sprightly,” Bloomberg Markets reports in its June issue.  John Harbert died three weeks after that 1995 celebration
and so didn’t live to see the results. Harbert Management funds
averaged an aggregate 11 percent return for the 16 years ended
on Dec. 31, 2010, compared with 6.1 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, according to data supplied by the firm to
investors. Harbert’s U.S. and European real estate funds enjoyed
combined returns of 17 percent in 2011, according to the firm’s
annual report.  Harbinger Capital  And Raymond’s first crack at launching a hedge fund
produced Harbinger Capital Partners -- the firm run by  Philip Falcone , who in 2001 took seed capital of $25 million and by
mid-2008 had turned it into $26 billion of assets.  Harbert and Falcone parted ways in April 2009, when Falcone
bought a controlling stake in Harbinger for an undisclosed sum.
The Alabamian remains an investor in Harbinger’s flagship fund,
whose main investment is in a company called LightSquared Inc. The
high-speed wireless  Internet company  filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy on May 14 after U.S. officials concluded its proposed
service would interfere with the global-positioning system.  Last year, that primary fund lost 47 percent, according to
investors, and as of April 5 Falcone said he was managing just
$4 billion.  To Harbert’s frustration, his assets under management have
also dropped, to $3.1 billion in mid-April from as much as $29
billion in 2008, despite stellar returns. The firm manages money
in 10 asset classes, including hedge funds, private equity and
venture capital, with much of its money invested in property.  $500 Million Invested  Harbert, who had $500 million of his own money tied up in
the firm at the end of March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, says he’s been unable to attract more money because
institutional investors, chastened by the 2008 meltdown, are
shunning smaller shops in favor of big, name-brand firms.  About two-thirds of the money flowing into hedge funds
since 2009 has gone to firms with $5 billion or more in assets,
according to Chicago-based  Hedge Fund Research  Inc.  “You’re not going to get fired for investing with a big New
York shop,” Harbert says. Even if you lose money, he says,
investors prefer that a fund’s performance tracks its peers:
“They’re not paid to take risks; they’re judged by how their
fund does on a relative basis.”  The clients Harbert does attract are investing in a firm
with considerable financial sophistication and global reach. The
company has offices in London, Madrid and Paris and runs a
private-equity fund in  Melbourne . Some of Harbert’s most
successful investments have been in  France  and in the U.K.,
where he bought commercial real estate at post-financial-crash
discounts in 2009 and flipped it for quick profits in 2010.  Quail Shooting  For example, he put $39.9 million of equity into five
retail and food warehouses north of London in June 2009 and sold
them for $72 million in November 2010.  Harbert offers clients one perquisite they can’t get in New
York. He takes them turkey and quail shooting on his 10,000-acre
(4,050-hectare) south  Alabama  plantation. He also can get the
best seats in the house at  Auburn University  football games. The
Alabama school, the alma mater of both Raymond and his father,
won the NCAA Division 1 football championship for the 2010-2011
season. Raymond has made major donations to the university,
including a $5 million gift in 2007.  Harbert, now 53, isn’t a drawling tycoon in the style of
family friend  T. Boone Pickens , the Oklahoma oilman. Harbert
rarely sits for interviews, though he says he was bombarded with
requests during the Harbinger years. He has spent much of his
life wearing a professorial beard, maintaining a low profile in
Birmingham and neutralizing his Southern accent.  Shaves Beard  “When you’re from Birmingham, you have to work harder to
convince someone in another part of the world they should invest
with you,” says Harbert, who shaves the beard off before hitting
the road to raise money for new investment funds.  Harbert’s anonymity stands in sharp contrast to the
celebrity of his protege Falcone, who with his wife, Lisa Maria,
has become a figure on the  New York  social and philanthropy
scene. Falcone’s fund made $11 billion in 2007 betting on the
imminent collapse of subprime mortgages.  Harbert and Falcone were an odd couple during the eight
years in which Harbert Management was Harbinger Capital’s
parent. Falcone, the son of a Minnesota utility worker, became a
Harvard University hockey player, contributed millions to
charity and bought Penthouse founder Bob Guccione’s 27-room
Manhattan mansion for $49 million after his big hedge-fund coup.  Hunting and Cooking  Harbert, who was born into money, didn’t change his
lifestyle after Harbinger took off. He lives in a 5,300-square-
foot (490-square-meter) home in  Mountain Brook , a Birmingham
suburb, and his idea of a big weekend is bird-dogging on his
hunting reserve or staying home to cook Italian dishes for his
wife and college sweetheart, Kathryn.  People familiar with the Harbert-Falcone relationship say
it became strained as it wound down and ended in the spring of
2009. Yet, Harbert has nothing bad to say about “Philip,” as he
calls Falcone.  “I’d say 85 to 90 percent of the Harbinger experience was
positive,” Harbert says.  Harbert says he admired Falcone’s command of detail in
picking which subprime-backed securities to bet against.  “From 2001 to 2005, it was fantastic,” he says.  Falcone declined to comment for this story.  ‘Winning the Lottery’  For better or worse, Falcone’s rise put Harbert Management
on the map. “It was like winning the lottery on the way up, and
it was, if not a black eye, at least a poke in the eye on the
way down,” says John Casey, chairman of Casey, Quirk &
Associates, a management consulting firm that has advised
Harbert Management on how to market its funds.  Michael Luce, Harbert president and a former Bear Stearns &
Cos. managing director, says Falcone’s success brought  Wall
Street  to his door.  “When Harbinger was hot, money was flowing in here like you
can’t imagine,” Luce says. “There were wire transfers where we
had a tough time figuring out who was sending the money.”  That Harbert is now swimming against the current is clear
from the history of his Value Fund, a long-short hedge fund. Its
returns have averaged 14.8 percent during the past three years,
according to Bloomberg data. Yet, it had only $235 million of
assets in mid-April. Meanwhile, Harbert’s new U.S. Real Estate
Fund IV, which aimed to raise $250 million, closed to new
investors in September with a total of $134.2 million. As of
mid-May, Harbert had yet to attract investors to new distressed-
debt and commodities hedge funds.  ‘Quite Brilliant’  As a result, Harbert has trimmed its workforce. The firm
had 75 employees in its back office when its assets peaked in
2008; it had 55 in mid-April.  “Raymond’s performance has been quite brilliant,” says Alan “Ace” Greenberg, the former chairman of Bear Stearns. “Money
managers have gravitated to the big guys, who they see as
safer.”  Greenberg, 84, was a friend of Harbert’s father and helped
pitch the nascent firm to its first potential investors at the
Keeneland Thoroughbred racehorse auction center in Lexington,
 Kentucky , in 1994.  On the advice of consultant Casey, the firm is trying to
raise its profile. Harbert has shifted original partner Charlie
Miller from chief financial officer to head of distribution,
where he is leading the push to increase assets. He hired two
new marketing executives in New York last year.  Merchant Banking  Even as he seeks outside investment, Harbert remains
committed to what he calls the merchant-banking model, in which
he depends for profits on savvy investments rather than fees
from clients.  To keep the firm’s interests aligned with those of
investors, he makes sure he and his 16 partners have skin in the
game. They own about a quarter of the assets under management in
each Harbert fund.  “The Rothschilds charged some fees, but they made their big
money out of putting their own money to work,” Harbert says. “I
wanted to start a fund that looked like a merchant bank, and
that’s what I still want.”  Until he broke away from the family construction business,
Harbert spent his career in the shadow of his father, one of the
South’s most powerful businessmen. A 36-story office building
erected by the senior Harbert and sold in 2008 is downtown
Birmingham’s second-tallest structure, towering over his son’s
11-story office three blocks away.  Craps Winnings  Raymond says his father, who fought in World War II,
parlayed $6,000 of war bonds and troopship craps winnings into a
construction business that rode the growth of postwar America by
building major highways, airports and shopping malls, first in
the South and then nationally.  John Harbert later branched out into coal mining, a
business he sold to the  Standard Oil (SOCU)  Co. in 1981 for
$400 million of stock. He became Alabama’s richest man and, upon
his death, his widow, Marguerite, now 87, became its richest
woman, according to Bloomberg data.  “He was charming as all get-out,” says Casey, who recalls
John Harbert holding court at the Keeneland investor
presentation, during which  Bob Dole , then the U.S. Senate
minority leader, came by to pay his respects to this major
Republican donor.  “He could be pretty brash,” says Pickens, who first met
John while raising money for Pickens’s failed Gulf Oil takeover
attempt in 1983. When Pickens told Harbert he would have to
check his schedule before committing to making a speech in
Birmingham, Harbert said sternly, “I want you to be here,”
Pickens recalls.  Leveraged Buyout  Raymond says his father wanted him to get an engineering
degree and eventually take over the construction business. He
wasn’t pleased when his son instead chose to major in business
at Auburn. After joining the family firm in 1982, Raymond
managed Harbert Corp.’s real estate portfolio and, in 1989, led
an attempt at a $500 million leveraged buyout of Birmingham
Steel Corp. That deal collapsed in February 1990, after
financing for such transactions dried up.  Harbert Management got off to a slow start, and the founder
decided he needed help. “I had the entrepreneurial spirit but
also a lot of naivete and ignorance,” Harbert says. He courted
Bear Stearns’s Luce, who had worked with him on the attempted
Birmingham Steel buyout, inviting him to do some wild turkey
hunting.  As they relaxed after a day in the fields, Harbert popped
the question: Would Luce become his No. 2?  Luce says he agonized for months before accepting. The
reaction of his Bear Stearns colleagues was unanimous: “They
thought I was nuts.”  Hard Work  What Harbert lacked in experience, he made up for in hard
work, say current and former colleagues. Harbert scouted
prospective investments for his first European real estate fund
by riding around  Sweden  in the back of a van, looking at
properties. Scott O’Donnell, a fellow passenger then working for
Bankers Trust Co., was so impressed by the Alabamian’s diligence
that he joined Harbert Management in 2002.  “He cares about making investments, not taking in fees,”
says O’Donnell, who is now chief of Harbert’s European real
estate operations in  London . Like his boss, he is frustrated
that it’s so tough to attract outside investors, despite the
firm’s earning a 28 percent return on its first European real
estate fund and 15 percent on its second as of mid-April.  Harbert himself says he yearns to get his firm back to the
$5 billion asset mark.  “But if getting to a bigger size is going to change our
style of investing, we won’t go there,” he says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Helyar in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net ; Anita Sharpe at 
 asharpe6@bloomberg.net . 