-- Areva May Resume Dividend in 2013 as Turnaround Plan Takes Hold
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-05-16T15:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/areva-may-resume-dividend-in-2013-as-turnaround-plan-takes-hold.html
Areva SA (AREVA) , the world’s largest
provider of nuclear equipment and services, may resume paying a
dividend next year as its turnaround plan outlined in December
is on target, Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel said.  “The strategic plan targets a very significant increase in
earnings before interest taxes, depreciation and amortization,
with the aim of resuming dividend payments,” Oursel said in a
telephone interview today. “We’re in line with the 2016
strategic plan.” Areva has not paid a  dividend  for two years in
a row.  Oursel pledged in December to sell at least 1.2 billion
euros ($1.53 billion) of non-strategic assets by the end of 2013
and slash costs by 1 billion euros two years later. The meltdown
of a nuclear facility in  Japan  last year in the wake of an
earthquake has dented Areva’s profitability, as well as
construction delays at an atomic facility in  Finland , and a 2007
investment in African uranium mines that soured.  Areva completed the sale of its 26 percent stake in Eramet
SA to the French sovereign wealth fund for 776 million euros
today, taking the amount of assets sold since the start of the
year to more than 1 billion euros. Oursel said the company is
ahead of its disposal plan and that there is “no profit warning
in preparation whatsoever.”  The executive said “nothing justifies” the recent drop of
Areva’s shares, which have lost almost half their value this
year alone. Areva isn’t subject to any financing constraints,
and the turnaround plan doesn’t include a capital increase, he
said. Only about 4 percent of Areva shares trade, while the
French government and state-controlled entities own 89 percent,
and the  Kuwait Investment Authority  holds 4.8 percent.  Fluctuating Stock  “As all markets are depressed because of the general
financial situation, a stock like ours is showing bigger-than-
normal fluctuations,” Oursel said.  Areva is targeting Ebitda of more than 750 million euros
this year and more than 1.25 billion euros in 2013. Oursel is
aiming for sales of nuclear fuel, equipment and services to rise
3 percent to 6 percent.  The order backlog of Areva, which also has a nascent
renewable energy business, rose 3.7 percent at the end of March
from a year earlier to 45.1 billion euros, while first-quarter
sales rose 2.4 percent to 2.03 billion euros.  French President  Francois Hollande , who took office this
week, has pledged to shut the country’s oldest atomic plant by
2017 and cut reliance on nuclear power.  France  generates about
77 percent of its energy from nuclear power now.  “All statements reaffirm the importance of nuclear, and
progressive changes,” Oursel said. “I feel a very strong
backing for an industry in which France is a leader.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  