-- Argentina’s YPF Seizure Seen Raising LNG Cargo Costs
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-05-16T08:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/argentina-s-ypf-seizure-seen-raising-lng-cargo-costs-correct-.html
(Corrects description of shipping consultant Drewry in
second paragraph of article published May 15.)  Argentina must compete for liquefied
natural gas with Asian buyers paying 38 percent more as  Repsol
SA (REP)  cancels shipments after the government’s takeover of its  YPF
SA (YPFD)  unit, according to Drewry Maritime Services Ltd.  Argentina will struggle to find replacement cargoes amid a
global shortage of LNG, said Navin Thakur, research manager at
shipping consultant Drewry in Gurgaon,  India . The South American
country will have to match the Asian price of about $18 per
million British thermal units, he said. Argentina had agreed to
buy LNG from Repsol for an average of $13 per million units,
Julio De Vido, minister of federal planning, public investment
and services, said in a statement May 6.  Regional price differences are driving demand for ships
that carry LNG. One million British thermal units cost $18.20 in
 Japan  last month, compared with $9.39 in the U.K., according to
data from New York-based shipbroker Poten & Partners. Rates to
hire large, modern carriers for single voyages will rise 17
percent to $140,000 a day in July, Drewry estimates.  “In the event of Repsol completely turning its back on the
LNG supplies to Argentina, Enarsa will have a tough time
procuring cargo at $13-14,” Thakur said in an e-mail today.
“In the immediate future, the question is not at what price can
Argentina get the replacement cargo, but if Argentina will get a
replacement cargo at such a short notice.”  Repsol has suspended shipments of LNG to Argentina,
obliging the country “to pay more than foreseen,” De Vido said
in the statement, posted on the ministry’s website. He gave no
further details.  Repsol canceled one LNG cargo to  Argentina  last month, said
Kristian Rix, a spokesman for the Madrid-based company. He
declined to comment on nine shipments that remain for the year.
Repsol said today it will seek compensation for Argentina’s
seizure of its majority holding in YPF, the country’s biggest
oil producer.  Energia Argentina SA, the nation’s state energy company, is
known as Enarsa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  