-- Army Studies Letting Women Into Ranger Combat Training
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/army-studies-letting-women-into-ranger-combat-training.html
The Army is considering whether to
let female soldiers attend its elite Ranger School as it
considers future combat roles for women, the Army’s top officer
said.  “If we determine that we’re going to allow women to join
the infantry and be successful, they are probably at some time
going to have to go through Ranger School,” General Raymond Odierno, the Army chief of staff, said yesterday at a Pentagon
news conference.  Women are barred from direct combat roles, including
infantry and special-operations forces. Women, who make up about
16 percent of the Army, have increasingly been exposed to combat
as traditional front lines have become blurred in wars such as
those in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  No decision on Ranger School has been made, according to
Odierno, who said he asked commanders to study the option. About
90 percent of senior infantry officers are Ranger-qualified,
Odierno said.  The prospect already has sparked opposition on blogs where
opponents of women in combat roles say it would lead to lowering
tough physical-fitness standards.  The Army says Ranger School prepares “Army volunteers --
both officers and enlisted soldiers -- in combat arms-related
functional skills.”  “For over two months, Ranger students train to exhaustion,
pushing the limits of their minds and bodies,” according to an
Army  recruitment website .  More than 200 women reported to brigade combat teams as of
this week, as the Army begins opening more than 13,000 positions
to women that previously were restricted to men, Odierno said.  He said the Army continues to review whether infantry
positions should be open to women in the future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  