-- Martin Marietta Gets Expedited Appeal in Vulcan-Bid Case
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-05-16T23:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/martin-marietta-gets-expedited-appeal-in-vulcan-bid-case-1-.html
Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  won an
accelerated appeal from the Delaware  Supreme Court  in a hostile
takeover case against rival gravel-producer  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC) 
as its shares fell the most in three years, halting trading.  In an order today, Justice Henry duPont Ridgely set
arguments in the appeal for May 25 in Wilmington, and asked for
final case briefs the day before.  Ridgely granted the fast-track schedule based on lawyers’
motions and “good cause therefore having been shown” to speed
up the appeal.  The trading halt, and an 8 percent drop in the shares, came
after Greenlight Capital Inc. Chairman  David Einhorn  questioned
future profits at Martin Marietta and “problems” after the
failed Vulcan bid.  Martin Marietta  offered in December to exchange half a
share for each share  of Vulcan in a deal that would have
created the world’s largest producer of sand, gravel and crushed
stone. The company said May 14 it withdrew the offer.  Martin Marietta sued on Dec. 12, the same day it made the
hostile bid, in a preemptive move to get the court to rule that
the offer wasn’t prohibited by a May 2010 confidentiality
agreement between the companies. Vulcan countersued.  Four-Month Block  After a bench trial in February, Delaware Chancery Court
Judge Leo Strine Jr. on May 4 blocked Martin Marietta for four
months from making a hostile bid for Birmingham, Alabama-based
Vulcan, ruling that Martin Marietta violated the agreement.
Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , appealed.  Don James, chairman of Vulcan, told Strine during the trial
that in 2010 he had envisioned a friendly “merger of equals.”
The talks foundered before Martin Marietta Chief Executive
Officer Ward Nye disclosed the hostile bid, with a major
sticking point being who would run the new company, according to
Strine.  Martin Marietta spokeswoman Andrea Calise couldn’t
immediately comment on the ruling.  Commenting on the appeal, Jamie Tully, a spokesman for
Vulcan Materials, said in an e-mailed statement that Strine
handed down a “thoughtful decision, and the right decision.”  Martin Marietta fell 8.2 percent to $68.60 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. Vulcan fell 8 percent to
$35.26 on the NYSE.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v.  Vulcan Materials ,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 