-- Robert Kennedy Jr.’s Estranged Wife Died by Hanging
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-17T22:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/mary-kennedy-dead-lawyer-says-in-statement-after-police-report.html
Mary Richardson Kennedy, the
estranged wife of Robert F. Kennedy Jr., died of asphyxiation
due to hanging, the Westchester County,  New York , medical
examiner said after performing an autopsy.  Kennedy, 52, was found dead yesterday in an outbuilding at
her home in  Bedford, New York , police said.  Officers who went to the residence on South Bedford Road at
about 1:36 p.m. to investigate a possible “unattended death”
found the body in an outbuilding on the property, the police
said in a statement. The autopsy was conducted this morning.  The hanging was previously reported by the New York Times,
which cited two people with knowledge of the matter. The New
York Daily News, citing unidentified people,  reported  that
Kennedy committed suicide. The police today confirmed her
identity, declining to comment on the cause of death except to
say it’s under investigation.  Kennedy’s family released a statement today saying that
descriptions of her in the news media since her death have been
“wholly inconsistent with the sister we knew and the life she,
in fact, lived.”  The family asked the media for “a few days to begin
processing Mary’s tragic death and to fully understand all the
circumstances around it” before they correct “inaccuracies and
misrepresentations.” A private memorial service will be held in
 Manhattan , the family said.  “We loved Mary and knew her to be an exceptional mother,
sibling and friend to many,” her family said in the statement,
which was released by Kerry Lawrence, her attorney. “Countless
people have described her as an extraordinary mother, selfless
in her desire to help others, and one of the finest people in
the world.”  Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is the nephew of President John. F. Kennedy, who was assassinated in 1963. His father, a U.S.
attorney general and later a U.S. senator from New York, was a
Democratic presidential candidate when he was assassinated in
1968.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 