-- Oil, Gold Slide as Dollar Gains on Greece; Stocks Retreat
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-16T20:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/asian-stocks-oil-yen-fall-on-greek-talks-japan-orders.html
Oil slid to a six-month low and gold
declined as the Dollar Index extended a  record-long rally  amid
concern Greece’s financial crisis is worsening. U.S. stocks
fell, while Treasuries erased losses after Federal Reserve
policy makers said more monetary easing may become necessary.  Crude for June delivery fell 1.2 percent to settle at
$92.81 a barrel while gold approached a bear-market drop of 20
percent from last year’s record. The  S&P 500  slipped 0.4 percent
to close at 1,324.80 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The Dollar Index, a
measure of the currency against six major peers, increased for a
13th straight day. Ten-year Treasury yields slipped one basis
point to 1.76 percent after climbing five points earlier.  The European Central Bank said it will temporarily stop
lending to some Greek banks to limit its risk as a political
impasse threatens to force the nation out of the euro. Minutes
from the Fed’s last meeting showed several policy makers said a
deteriorating economic outlook could warrant more monetary
stimulus to keep the recovery on track, citing  Europe ’s debt
crisis and fiscal tightening in the U.S. as potential risks.  “Several Fed members are now saying more action may be
needed, but they are not taking action,” said  Peter Jankovskis ,
who helps manage about $2.9 billion at Oakbrook Investments in
Lisle,  Illinois . “Certainly the situation in  Greece  is
troublesome. It’s getting to a point where it gets harder and
harder to envision Greece staying within the euro.”  Commodities Retreat  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities lost 0.4 percent to its
lowest level on a closing basis since Dec. 19 as a stronger
dollar weighed on materials traded in the currency. Oil also
tumbled as a U.S. Energy Department report showed inventories
increased more than forecast, rising to the most since 1990.
Lead, cotton, zinc, Brent crude and silver lost at least 1.8
percent to help lead losses in commodities.  Gold futures for June delivery fell 1.3 percent to settle
at $1,536.60, leaving prices down 19 percent from a record close
of $1,891.90 reached on Aug. 22, about 1 percentage point shy of
a 20 percent bear-market plunge. Earlier, gold slumped to
$1,526.70, the lowest since Dec. 29 and 21 percent below the
intraday record $1,923.70 reached in September.  The Dollar Index, which hasn’t retreated since April 27,
climbed 0.3 percent to 81.448, its highest level since January.
The U.S. currency strengthened against 13 of 16 major peers,
gaining 0.2 percent to trade at $1.2709 versus the euro.  Early Gains Fade  Stocks opened the session higher as U.S. builders broke
ground on more homes than anticipated in April and output at
factories, mines and utilities increased 1.1 percent, reports
showed. U.S. equities reversed gains and European shares
extended losses as two euro-area officials said the European
Central Bank has no immediate plans to increase stimulus efforts
even as market tensions mount.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  closed at the lowest level since February and
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slumped to the lowest since
January. Indexes of financial companies and raw-material
producers lost more than 1 percent to lead losses in eight of
the 10 main industries the S&P 500, while Bank of America Corp.,
Alcoa Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and United Technologies Corp.
lost at least 1.9 percent for the biggest declines in the Dow.  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  plunged 20 percent, the biggest drop since
at least 1980, after the department-store chain reported a
first-quarter loss and sales that fell more than analysts
projected. General Electric Co. rose 3.3 percent after saying
its finance unit plans to pay a special dividend of $4.5 billion
to the parent company. General Motors Co. rallied 2.3 percent as
 Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. disclosed a stake.  Economic Data  Housing starts rose 2.6 percent to a 717,000 annual rate
from March’s revised 699,000 pace that was stronger than
previously reported, Commerce Department figures showed. The
median estimate of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a rise to 685,000. The  Federal Reserve ’s report on
industrial production showed that gains in auto manufacturing
and utility use propelled growth.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.6 percent and has
retreated 10 percent from this year’s high on March 16. A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S tumbled 6.2 percent after saying its
container line will at best break even this year, falling short
of analyst estimates for a profit. Banco Espirito Santo SA,
Portugal’s biggest publicly traded lender by market value, sank
8.3 percent as first-quarter profit dropped 84 percent.  A Greek caretaker government will prepare new elections
probably on June 17 that are shaping up as a ballot on whether
the country should remain a euro member. The new vote follows
inconclusive May 6 elections that pushed a political party
opposed to Greece’s international bailout into second place.  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  indicated that
while his “strong preference” is that Greece stays in the euro
area, the bank won’t compromise on its principles to prevent an
exit.  German CDS  Investors are amassing record amounts of insurance on
German government debt on concern Europe’s biggest economy will
suffer from the region’s worsening crisis.  The net amount of credit-default swaps outstanding on
German bonds surged for a fourth week, climbing by $260 million
in the period through May 11 to $20.5 billion, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That’s up from $16.1 billion
last June.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 2.4 percent to a
three-month low. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of
mainland stocks sank 3.4 percent and  South Korea ’s Kospi index
slipped 3.1 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.2
percent, and benchmark gauges in  India  and Hungary lost at least
1.8 percent.  The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  for shares in  Brazil ,  Russia , India and
China tumbled for a fourth day, wiping out this year’s gains, as
concern deepened that China’s economic growth is slowing and
Europe’s debt crisis spreading.  Foreign direct investment in China sank for a sixth month
in April, the longest stretch of declines since the global
financial crisis, according to the Ministry of Commerce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  