-- Asia Currencies Drop as Europe’s Debt Crisis Deters Risk-Taking
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-05-16T08:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/asia-currencies-drop-as-europe-s-debt-crisis-deters-risk-taking.html
Asian currencies fell to a four-month
low as  Greece ’s failure to form a government deterred risk-
taking, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit tumbled the most
this year, India’s rupee slid to a record low and the Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index dropped for a fourth day. Post-
election attempts to form a ruling coalition in Athens broke
down yesterday, sending Greeks back to the polls next month with
surveys giving the lead to an anti-bailout party. Official data
yesterday showed  foreign direct investment  in China fell for a
sixth month in April.  “The news that Greece will have new elections increases
the risk of it exiting from the euro,” said  Thomas Harr , the
Singapore-based head of Asian foreign-exchange strategy at
Standard Chartered Plc. “Secondly, it’s  China ’s slowdown. Those
two things are driving markets at the moment.”  The ringgit slumped 1.1 percent to 3.1120 per dollar as of
4:27 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The won dropped 1 percent to 1,165.55, the Philippine
peso weakened 0.9 percent to 43.04 and Thailand’s baht fell 0.5
percent to 31.49. India’s rupee slid 0.8 percent to 54.2425,
earlier touching an all-time low of 54.4650. The Asia Dollar
Index reached 115.06, the lowest level since Jan. 9.  Monitoring Markets  The won dropped to the weakest level since January as
exchange data showed international investors sold $2 billion
more Korean equities than they bought this month through
yesterday. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index fell for a sixth day after the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  reached its lowest level in almost four
months in  New York .  South Korean authorities will closely monitor markets for
volatility caused by political uncertainties in Europe, Finance
Minister Bahk Jae Wan said at a government meeting today.  “Global stock declines are triggering risk-averse
sentiment in the market,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a Seoul-based
currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. “Still, I expect the
won to trade stronger than 1,160 per dollar as the finance
minister’s comments put investors on alert for possible
intervention.”  Taiwan’s dollar dropped to the lowest level in more than
three months, declining 0.4 percent to NT$29.635 versus the
greenback, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The baht reached its
weakest level since January. Global funds reduced holdings of
Taiwanese, Thai and Indonesia stocks by $2.3 billion this month
through yesterday, exchange data show.  “The Greek issue is making investors risk-averse, and that
supports the dollar and other safer assets,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan Center for Economic Research
in Tokyo. “Asian currencies will likely see downward pressure
for the time being.”  Elsewhere, China’s  yuan  weakened 0.06 percent to 6.3222 per
dollar. Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.2 percent to 9,281 and
Vietnam’s dong strengthened 0.1 percent to 20,835.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 