-- Assad Hopes Hollande Will Change French Policy on Syria
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-05-16T16:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/assad-hopes-hollande-will-change-french-policy-toward-syria-1-.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said
he hoped that  Francois Hollande ’s election as French president
will lead to a change in French policy toward his country.  Hollande should understand that it’s not in French
interests “to create chaos here in  Syria  or the Arab world” by
seeking regime change, Assad said in an interview with Russian
state television broadcast today.  European countries are against Syria’s current leadership
because they want to install a government that will follow their
wishes, he said.  Saudi Arabia ’s professed goal of advancing
democracy in Syria is “funny,” Assad said.  Assad’s security forces are trying to crush a 14-month-old
rebellion against his rule. A United Nations cease-fire plan has
failed to curb violence, with Syrian security forces killing 21
people today, according to  Al Arabiya . Creating aid corridors in
Syria to protect civilians from government troops or considering
air attacks would be “premature,” U.S. Ambassador to the
United Nations  Susan Rice  said yesterday. Last month, Hollande
told Europe 1 radio he would participate in a military operation
in Syria if it were approved by the UN.  Failure by the UN monitoring mission may persuade Russia
and  China , the strongest advocates for giving Annan’s initiative
more time, to consider stronger measures such as additional
sanctions to pressure Assad to stop killing his opponents and
civilians.  Assad said today that the support provided to his country
by the two nations is aimed at shoring up regional stability and
not aiding his government’s survival. The Syrian president said
that parliamentary elections on May 7 showed the country backed
his reform plans.  Fifty-one percent of Syrian voters took part in the
election, Khalaf al-Ezzawi, head of the elections panel, told a
news conference on state television yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  