-- Aston Martin $158,000 Vantage Is Dream Car for Innocents
-- B y   J a s o n   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-16T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/aston-martin-158-000-vantage-is-dream-car-for-innocents.html
My pal Jake has ridden in the latest
Nissan GT-R, a  Porsche 911  and BMW 3 Series. He now says he
would gladly trade all those cars for the  Aston Martin  Vantage
V-8 roadster.  A car lover, he lives down the road from our country house
in Eastern Pennsylvania and seems pretty pleased to have a guy
who writes about cars as his neighbor. Jake is 12 years old.  For me, it’s both fun and instructive to see my test cars
through his innocent eyes. Today we’re both admiring a flash,
white, 2012 model-year Vantage.  Aston Martin counts the Vantage V-8 as its entry-level car;
costing $119,000 for the coupe, $133,000 for the convertible.  Manual transmissions are standard; automatics cost more.
Buyers can also opt for more powerful S versions, and also a
Vantage with a V-12 engine, which makes the loveliest noise
imaginable.  The Vantage we’re testing costs around $158,000, including
$6,300 worth of carbon fiber on the body, with a sexy, 10-spoke
graphite wheels option worth $3,785.  As I trigger the automatic top to lower the canvas roof,
Jake plops into the leather passenger seat and is already
smiling deliriously. “Way nicer than the  GT-R (7201) ,” he says.  On the Road  We creep out cautiously along the neighborhood dirt-and-
gravel road. I’ve got to mind the carbon-fiber front fascia,
which seems destined to find rocks or curbs and cause pricy
damage.  As we pull onto the main road, a warbling, curving example
of backcountry excellence, the naturally aspirated V-8 cracks
the still air. The sound of an  Aston Martin  is distinctive and
unique, conveying warmth, power and emotion.  Jake becomes quiet, his eyes focused on the asphalt
straight ahead.  I’m thinking too. The Vantage costs as much as many
Porsches,  Mercedes-Benz AMGs  and Audis. To me it’s the most
beautiful. When it comes to the battle of technology, however,
the Vantage is losing the war.  Clunky Transmission  This Vantage is outfitted with a seven-speed, single-clutch
automated manual transmission, replacing a six-speed, but it is
easily two generations behind other top-tier  sports cars . Clunky
and ponderous, it takes far too long to accomplish downshifts.  The new transmission is one of the 2012 model’s raft of
incremental improvements. Other changes include bigger brakes
and wider tires. The chassis and steering column are also
rewardingly reworked.  Some of those tweaks pay dividends on the road. Others
simply highlight how far Aston Martin lags behind the
competition.  The Gaydon, U.K.-based carmaker was sold by  Ford (F)  to a
consortium in 2007. Today the company finds itself in a tight
spot. Development of new engines, transmissions and lightweight
materials is incredibly expensive.  While a massive company like the Volkswagen Group can
spread costs among its many brands like Porsche, Bugatti,
Lamborghini and Audi, Aston Martin has no such luck.  That explains the glacial evolution of models like the
Vantage, which debuted all the way back in 2005, and “new”
models like the Virage, a V-12 coupe which looks strikingly
similar to its cousins, the DB9 and DBS.  Horsepower Saturation  The base 4.7-liter V-8 gets 420 horsepower and 346 pound
feet of torque, without the aid of turbochargers or even direct
injection. Not what you’d call gobs of power in today’s
horsepower-saturated sports-car market.  Then I glance over at Jake and my gripes evaporate. His
teeth glint in the sunshine, his expression a certifiable perma-
grin.  I relax a little and get lost in sound of Vantage’s engine,
the perfection of its steering, the way the car sweetly hews to
my commands. It drives far better than the previous versions,
and makes the hard stuff look easy.  It’s all finesse and glide, even around off-camber corners.
The steering wheel talks to me quietly about the quality of the
asphalt and degree of traction.  Take a Seat  It’s not the fastest car, but quick enough. And it’s nicely
balanced, great to look at, and wonderful to sit inside. What
more can you ask from an impractical, two-seat convertible,
anyhow?  After all, the company only makes about 4,200 vehicles a
year, of which fewer than 1,500 are Vantages. You’re lucky to
see one on the road, let alone experience its awesomeness from
the inside.  We approach a dead end road and Jake says, “Let’s not
stop. Let’s keep going.”  Eventually all good things end and we return to his house.
Jake reluctantly exits and his dad, Dale, looks in. He’s a
motorcycle rider and all-around, super-capable guy. His eyes
glow like a kid’s.  “Want a ride?” I ask.  Of course he does. Don’t we all?  The 2012 Aston Martin Vantage V-8 at a Glance  Engine: 4.7-liter V-8 with 420 horsepower and 346 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Seven-speed, single-clutch automated manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in about 4.4 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 14 city; 21 highway.  Price as tested:  $158,000.  Best features: Beautiful exterior, balanced handling.  Worst feature: Clunky transmission.  Target buyer:  The kid in us all.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on gadgets.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 