-- Australian Consumer Confidence Stagnates After RBA Rate Cut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-16T01:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/australian-consumer-confidence-stagnates-after-rba-rate-cut-1-.html
Australian  consumer confidence 
stagnated near the lowest level this year as concern about the
global economy countered the central bank’s deepest interest-
rate cut in three years, a private survey showed.  The sentiment index for May rose 0.8 percent to 95.3, a
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey taken May
7-11 of 1,200 consumers showed today in Sydney. From a year
earlier, confidence was down 8.3 percent.  “This is a disappointing result,”  Bill Evans , Westpac’s
chief economist, said in a statement, noting the polling
followed the rate reduction and a May 10 report showing the
unemployment rate fell below 5 percent for the first time in a
year. “Increasingly disturbing news around  Europe  and
specifically  Greece  is likely to have unnerved households.”  The report reflects  mortgage rates  falling by an average 37
basis points after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia this month
slashed the overnight cash rate target by half a percentage
point to a two-year low of 3.75 percent, Westpac said. Almost 90
percent of Australian mortgages have variable rates.  In  minutes  of its May 1 meeting released yesterday, the RBA
explained that it lowered the benchmark by 50 basis points
instead of the more widely forecast 25 points to ensure
consumers borrowed at an “appropriate” level.  Fiscal Tightening  While monetary policy is loosened, fiscal policy is
tightening. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government unveiled a
budget on May 8 that aims to return to surplus next year and
scrapped a planned cut in company taxes to fund payouts for low-
and middle-income earners.  The plan’s “results were disappointing, with only 9.9
percent of respondents indicating that the budget would
‘improve’ family finances, while 36 percent indicated the budget
would ‘worsen’ family finances,” Evans said.  The budget includes a payment to families of as much as
A$820 ($815) for each child in high school, while households
with two children will receive an extra A$600 a year starting
July 2013 using revenue from the mining tax. The government has
also introduced an insurance plan for the disabled and boosted
its national dentistry health-care coffers by A$513 million to
reduce waiting lists at dentists.  Rate-Cut Room  Gillard said in an interview after the budget that a return
to surplus gives the central bank “maximum room” to adjust
rates if needed and ease pressure on manufacturers that have
been hobbled by currency gains. Traders are pricing in an 89
percent chance of a quarter-point cut at the RBA’s June 5
meeting, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We expect household will continue to be cautious and
backs our call that RBA will follow up with a 25 basis-point cut
in June,” said Celeste Tay, a Singapore-based economist at
4cast Ltd.  Even after the RBA’s latest rate reduction,  Australia  has
the highest benchmark borrowing cost among major developed
economies. Policy rates are near zero in the U.S. and  Japan , 1
percent in the euro area and  Canada , and a record-low 2.5
percent in neighboring New Zealand.  In his statement, Evans said “there is ample scope for
further rate cuts.” He said that while the RBA may wait until
July before easing again, “developments overseas along with
today’s evidence that the recent cut has had little impact on
confidence could easily see the bank bring the decision forward
to the next board meeting.”  Currency’s Fall  The local currency, which soared to a post-1983 floating
record of $1.1081 in July, has declined about 10 percent since
then and this week fell below parity with the U.S. dollar for
the first time this year. Earlier today the so-called Aussie
traded as low as 99.30 U.S. cents and it was at 99.36 cents at
11:03 a.m. in Sydney.  Australia’s  unemployment rate  fell to 4.9 percent from 5.2
percent in March, the lowest level since April 2011, a
government report showed last week.  The economy is being powered by demand for energy and
minerals located in the nation’s north and west from emerging
countries including India and  China , driving a more than 30
percent rise in the local currency in the past three years.
That’s put pressure on non-resource industries such as
manufacturing and tourism in the most-populous states of New
South  Wales  and Victoria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  