-- Australia’s Weak Sentiment, Wage Growth Spur Rate Bets: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-16T03:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/australia-s-weak-sentiment-wage-growth-spur-rate-bets-economy.html
Australian  consumer confidence 
hovered near the weakest level this year and wage growth slowed,
underpinning bets the central bank will cut  interest rates  next
month to the lowest level in more than two years.  The sentiment index for May rose 0.8 percent to 95.3, a
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey taken May
7-11 of 1,200 consumers showed today in Sydney. The wage price
index, which measures hourly pay rates excluding bonuses,
advanced 0.9 percent last quarter from the previous three
months, when it rose 1 percent, the statistics bureau said.  Australian stocks fell and the local dollar touched the
lowest level this year as concern mounts  Greece  will be forced
out of the euro area, prompting investors to increase wagers the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia will lower rates at its June 5
meeting. Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut the benchmark by half a
percentage point this month after quarter-point reductions in
November and December as the economy struggled to gain traction,
inflation slowed,  house prices  fell and consumers saved more.  “We expect households will continue to be cautious and
that backs our call the RBA will follow up with a 25 basis-point
cut in June,” said Celeste Tay, a Singapore-based economist at
4cast Ltd. “Wages outside the  mining industry  showed a
softening in the quarterly growth pulse.”  Consumer confidence stagnated as concern about the global
economy and higher mortgages costs countered the central bank’s
deepest rate cut in three years and government cash handouts.  Mortgage Relief  Mortgage rates fell by an average 37 basis points after the
RBA this month slashed the overnight cash rate target by half a
percentage point to a two-year low of 3.75 percent, Westpac
said. Almost 90 percent of Australian mortgages have variable
rates.  In  minutes  of its May 1 meeting released yesterday, the RBA
explained that it lowered the benchmark by 50 basis points
instead of the more widely forecast 25 points to ensure
consumers borrowed at an “appropriate” level.  The consumer sentiment results were “disappointing,”
given they came after the rate cut and a May 10 report showing
falling unemployment,  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief economist,
said in a statement. “Increasingly disturbing news around
Europe and specifically Greece is likely to have unnerved
households.”  Greece will hold new elections as President Karolos
Papoulias failed to form a coalition following an inconclusive
May 6 vote, threatening pledged spending cuts required to secure
240 billion euros ($306 billion) in bailouts.  Stocks Slide  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index dropped 2.1 percent to 114.75
at 12:31 p.m. in  Tokyo , the sixth straight session of declines
that matched the longest skid of the year. In Australia, the
S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped as much as 2.1 percent, touching the
lowest level since March 9.  While Australian monetary policy is loosened, fiscal policy
is tightening. Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s government
unveiled a budget on May 8 that aims to return to surplus next
year and scrapped a planned cut in company taxes to fund payouts
for low-and middle-income earners.  The reaction to the budget was “disappointing, with only
9.9 percent of respondents indicating that the budget would
‘improve’ family finances, while 36 percent indicated the budget
would ‘worsen’ family finances,” Evans said.  Gillard said in an interview after the budget that a return
to surplus gives the central bank “maximum room” to adjust
rates if needed and ease pressure on manufacturers that have
been hobbled by currency gains.  Rate-Cut Betting  Traders are pricing in a 90 percent chance of a quarter-
point cut to 3.5 percent at the RBA’s meeting next month, swaps
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Even after the RBA’s latest rate reduction,  Australia  has
the highest benchmark borrowing cost among major developed
economies. Policy rates are near zero in the U.S. and  Japan , 1
percent in the euro area and  Canada , and a record-low 2.5
percent in neighboring New Zealand.  In his statement, Evans said “there is ample scope for
further rate cuts” at one of the next two meetings. Last year
Evans was the first economist to predict the RBA’s 100 basis
points of rate reductions.  Three RBA rate cuts in seven months have weighed on the
local currency, which soared to a post-1983 floating record of
$1.1081 in July. The so-called Aussie has declined about 10
percent since then and this week fell below parity with the  U.S.
dollar  for the first time this year.  Aussie’s Decline  Earlier today the Australian dollar traded as low as 99.17
U.S. cents, the weakest since Dec. 20.  Australia’s unemployment rate fell last month to 4.9
percent, the lowest level since April 2011, from 5.2 percent in
March, a government report showed last week.  South Korea’s unemployment rate held at a two-month low of
3.4 percent in April, the government said today, matching the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists. The
number of employed people increased 1.9 percent to 24.76 million
last month from a year earlier.  Japan’s machinery orders fell less than economists forecast
in March, as earthquake reconstruction helped support the
nation’s growth. Bookings decreased 2.8 percent from the
previous month, when they rose by the same amount, a report
showed today. The median estimate of 29 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 3.5 percent decline. Orders can swing
between gains and declines depending on the timing of major
projects.  EU Inflation  In  Europe , inflation probably slowed to an eight-month low
of 2.6 percent in April from a year earlier, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before a report due today.  U.K. unemployment probably rose to match a 16-year high in
the first quarter, adding pressure on  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  as he prepares to explain why policy makers stopped
expanding stimulus for the economy last week.  The jobless rate increased to 8.4 percent, according to the
median forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
King will speak at a press briefing on the Bank of England’s new
economic forecasts and its May 10 decision to halt quantitative
easing.  In the U.S., housing starts likely rebounded from a five-
month low in April, economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted. Building permits probably fell in the same period,
another survey showed.  Australia’s economy is being powered by demand for energy
and minerals located in the nation’s north and west from
emerging countries including India and  China , driving a more
than 30 percent rise in the local currency in the past three
years. That’s put pressure on non-resource industries such as
manufacturing and tourism in the most-populous states of New
South  Wales  and Victoria.  An Australian Bureau of Statistics report today showed
hourly rates of pay at mining companies increased 4.6 percent
from a year earlier, the biggest gain among the 18 industries
surveyed, and construction pay gained 4.2 percent. Retail and
health-care workers’ income advanced by the least, each at 3
percent, it showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  