-- Tax Vow May Trap Christie as N.J. Revenue Short
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-16T14:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/tax-cut-pledge-may-trap-christie-as-n-j-revenue-misses.html
Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican
who has spent the past four months promising New Jersey income-
tax cuts, now confronts the challenge of selling his plan’s
feasibility against a backdrop of continuing revenue shortfalls.  April receipts fell 5.3 percent short of budget forecasts,
after March collections missed by 2.5 percent, according to
statements from Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff. So far for
the fiscal year that ends in June, the state has brought in
$230.3 million, or 1.2 percent, less than projected.  Christie, 49, didn’t remark on the latest figures during
two public appearances in Atlantic City and Camden yesterday,
when the April data was released. He will continue barnstorming
the state with a public forum planned for today in  East Hanover .
He has regularly pitched the three-year, 10 percent  tax cut  at
such meetings as a key to what he calls the “Jersey Comeback.”  “To back off now would smell of political weakness,”
 Brigid Harrison , who teaches law and politics at Montclair State
University, said yesterday by telephone.  Christie’s $32.1 billion spending plan for fiscal 2013
counts on a 7.3 percent revenue gain, the most since before the
recession that began in December 2007. Should revenue miss
budgeted amounts for the current year, the state would start the
next with less cash than estimated.  Trailing Revenue Estimates  New Jersey collected $3.26 billion last month, less than
the $3.44 billion forecast. Income taxes trailed estimates by
2.8 percent and corporate levies fell 22 percent under budget,
Sidamon-Eristoff said in a statement.  “This is one month’s worth of collections,” said  Kevin
Roberts , a spokesman for Christie. “We still have two months.”  Sidamon-Eristoff is scheduled to testify before the
Assembly Budget Committee on May 23, his spokesman,  Andy Pratt ,
said by e-mail today.  So far in fiscal 2012, revenue is $500 million, or 2.7
percent, greater than for the first 10 months of the previous
year, reflecting economic growth, Roberts said yesterday.  At today’s meeting in East Hanover, Christie will
“continue his conversation” about issues including the across-
the-board tax cut, according to a statement from the governor’s
press office.  Christie is counting on a revenue gain to fund the
rollback, and he has prodded Democrats, who control the
Legislature, to pass it. Lawmakers have made counterproposals
that would give middle-income residents property-tax credits on
their tax returns.  ‘Irresponsible’ Tax Rollback  “With revenue projections coming in much lower and the
governor’s revenue estimates being ridiculously unreachable, it
would be irresponsible at this time to support any type of tax
cut,” Senator Raymond Lesniak, an Elizabeth Democrat, said by
telephone yesterday, before the April numbers were released. “I
know that other members I’ve spoken to agree.”  Gordon MacInnes, president of  New Jersey  Policy
Perspective, a Trenton nonprofit research group that focuses on
social and political issues, said this is no time to cut taxes.  “New Jersey already has the third-lowest  credit rating  in
the country, greatly increasing our borrowing costs,” MacInnes,
a former Democratic state senator and assemblyman from
Morristown, said in a statement. “Our leaders should
concentrate first on putting the state’s fiscal house in order,
not on politically appealing, but reckless, proposals to cut
taxes. This is exactly how we got into this mess.”  Christie has “very forcibly” outlined his plan, and
Democrats have followed suit, said  Patrick Murray , director of
the Monmouth University Polling Institute in  West Long Branch .  Cornered Politicians  “Politically, you can’t go back on a tax-cut promise,”
Murray said by telephone. “We’re going to see, probably, a
return to some of the one-shot gimmicks to fill budget holes.”  “This doesn’t look like the time that we should be giving
out a tax cut for the state, but the governor has backed himself
into a corner,” Murray said. “Everybody’s backed themselves
into a corner.”  Christie’s spending plan for fiscal 2013 relies on
“optimistic” economic projections,  Standard & Poor’s  analysts
led by John Sugden in  New York  said in February.  Revenue for this fiscal year and next may trail Christie’s
targets as taxes on income and casinos fall short,  David Rosen ,
chief budget analyst for the Legislative Services Office, said
in March. Revenue from gaming taxes trailed forecasts by 11
percent for the first 10 months of fiscal 2012.  Senate President Stephen Sweeney, a West Deptford Democrat,
told reporters in Camden yesterday that the April revenue drop
won’t derail talks with the governor on a tax-cut compromise.  Raised Expectations  Both parties have raised expectations, and it’s difficult
to predict how they can deliver a balanced budget as well as tax
relief, said  David Redlawsk , who teaches politics at  Rutgers
University  in  New Brunswick  and directs the school’s Eagleton
Center for Public Interest Polling.  “The one thing both sides have going for them is this is
not an election year in New Jersey for state-level” positions,
Redlawsk said by telephone. “It gives them a little bit of
wiggle room.”  New Jersey isn’t the only state where revenue has missed
forecasts.  In  California , Governor  Jerry Brown , 74, has said he
overestimated tax receipts in the spending plan he released in
January, contributing to a $6.5 billion increase in a projected
deficit, to $15.7 billion. The Democrat has proposed spending
cuts and shortening the workweek for state employees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  