-- Taxing CO2 Would Help EU Debt Crisis, Former Ministers Say
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-05-16T15:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/taxing-co2-would-help-eu-debt-crisis-former-ministers-say-1-.html
Taxing  carbon emissions  and the
consumption of fossil fuels would help  Europe  overcome its
sovereign-debt crisis and help protect the climate, said four
former ministers including Hans Eichel,  Germany ’s minister of
finance from 1999 to 2005.  “As European finance ministers meet today in Brussels,
they should be thinking more imaginatively about their fiscal
options than they have done in the past,” the former ministers
said in a letter dated yesterday and addressed to current
ministers. “Carbon and energy taxes can produce better economic
results than conventional taxes, as well as helping to cut
emissions.”  Changing taxes on fossil fuels could raise more than 16
billion euros ($20 billion) a year in  Spain , Poland and  Hungary 
alone by 2020, according to a  report  published today by Vivid
Economics prepared for Green Budget Europe, an environmental
lobby group in Berlin. Revenue from carbon and energy taxes
could cut Spain’s budget deficit by 15 percent a year by the end
of the decade, according to the report.  Poland on March 9 vetoed tighter greenhouse-gas targets for
Europe. EU carbon permits fell to a record 5.99 euros a metric
ton on April 4, on speculation the market is oversupplied.
According to a forecast by Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the
market will have a 10 percent surplus in the five years through
2012.  Stimulating Growth  “National debt is a millstone round the neck of every
European economy and governments need to raise revenue to pay
off debt and reduce deficits,” Eichel said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Until now, the political answer has been austerity,
but thankfully the debate is now moving towards measures that
will stimulate growth, rather than just reduce spending.”  The letter to finance ministers was co-signed by Yannis
Palaiokrassas, former Greek minister of finance, Dr. Josef
Riegler, former Vice-Chancellor of  Austria , Dr. Martin Bursik,
former deputy Prime Minister of the  Czech Republic , and Franz Fischler, former European Union commissioner for agriculture and
fisheries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  