-- Banco Modal Said to Be in Talks to Buy Banif Brazil Unit
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-05-16T23:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/banco-modal-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-banif-brazil-unit.html
Banco Modal SA, the Brazilian lender
trying to become a full-service investment bank, is in talks to
buy the Brazil subsidiary of Portugal’s  Banif SGPS SA (BNF) , according
to two people familiar with the matter.  Banif hired Credit Suisse Group AG to find a buyer, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are private. Rio de Janeiro-based Modal also may
pursue a takeover of the Brazilian subsidiary of  Standard Bank (SBK) 
Group Ltd., Africa’s largest lender, the person said.  Eduardo Centola, the former head of  investment banking  in
Brazil for UBS AG, took over that job for Modal last month, and
said in an interview at the time that he wasn’t ruling out
acquisitions. Banif, based in Funchal, Madeira, wants to sell
its Brazil division as  Europe ’s debt crisis pushes up funding
costs, people familiar with the plan said in November.  Officials at Modal, Banif and Credit Suisse declined to
comment, asking not to be named in keeping with company policy.
An official at  Standard Bank  said there are no current
negotiations and also asked to not be named.  Modal, with about 200 employees, has total equity of 246.7
million reais ($135 million) and assets of 1.5 billion reais as
of Dec. 31, according to data on the website of Brazil’s central
bank. The company’s asset-management business oversees more than
4 billion reais, and Centola said last month it also plans to
open a brokerage.  Modal was in talks last year to be acquired by Plural
Capital Ltda. for 300 million reais, a deal that later
collapsed. Growing demand for corporate financing has boosted
the investment-banking business in Brazil, the second-largest
developing economy after  China , and the nation’s central bank is
seeking to promote consolidation in the financial industry.  Standard Bank Group, based in Johannesburg, said April 18
it will reduce its assets in Brazil, leading to “a downscaling
of less than 30 people in terms of staffing.” At the same time,
the lender named Andrea Menezes chief executive officer of its
Brazilian unit, replacing Fernando Negri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  