-- Bank Tax Hearing, JPMorgan, Cardinal Health: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-16T12:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/bank-tax-hearing-jpmorgan-probe-cardinal-health-compliance.html
Bankers from around the world told
the Internal Revenue Service that proposed U.S. rules requiring
reporting of Americans’ overseas bank accounts are too
burdensome and must be changed.  Andrew Barkin, managing director and head of U.S. tax at
 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  told a Washington panel the
rules need to be “streamlined and simplified significantly” so
they can be understood by bank employees who do not speak
English. Barkin spoke on behalf of the  Institute of
International Bankers  at an IRS hearing yesterday in Washington.  The rules  implement the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act,
a 2010 law designed to make it more difficult for U.S. citizens
to hide money outside the country. Many provisions of the law
take effect in 2013, and overseas banks will be required to tell
the IRS annually about the balances and activity in their U.S.
customers’ accounts.  Because of the law, some Asian banks have started turning
away U.S. customers, and financial institutions from Japan,
Switzerland, Australia and Brazil have lodged concerns with the
U.S. Many argue that the U.S. is outsourcing its tax compliance
to banks around the world and imposing rules that conflict with
local laws and regulations.  Under the law, the U.S. will impose a 30 percent tax on
some U.S.-related payments being sent to financial institutions
outside the country that don’t comply with the rules.  Representatives of the Swiss Bankers Association, the
 Japanese Securities Dealers Association  and the  Financial
Services Council of Australia  spoke at yesterday’s hearing.  Compliance Policy  NYC Council to Require Banks to Disclose, Report to Community  Banks holding  New York  City treasury funds will be required
to disclose their investments and business practices in
neighborhoods under a law passed yesterday by the City Council.  The measure also creates a community-investment advisory
board in the  Finance Department  that would use census data to
review banks’ branch locations, loans, delinquencies and
foreclosures. Officials can use the information to determine
whether the city should deposit its funds there, according to
the text of the bill. It passed 44 to 4, with three members
absent.  Mayor Michael Bloomberg has said he intends to veto the
bill, even though the council has enough votes to override such
a move. The  New York Bankers Association  also opposed the bill.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  For more, click here.  Elia System Operator Sees Positive Changes in German Rules  Elia System Operator NV (ELI) , the operator of electricity grids
in Belgium and eastern Germany, said changes that took effect
within the German regulatory framework will have “positive
consequences.”  Elia cited the switch to paying fair remuneration in the
year of investment, allowing offshore investments to be
depreciated over a shorter period of 20 years and enabling the
regulator and federal government to enforce permits for grid
expansions that are of national and European importance,
according to a statement posted on its website.  Bonus Curbs May Be Required to Win Basel Law Deal, Borg Says  Bank bonus curbs may need to be accepted by European Union
governments as part of a compromise deal with lawmakers on how
to implement Basel capital rules in the region, Swedish Finance
Minister  Anders Borg  said yesterday.  The European Parliament is pushing for limits on bonuses to
be included in the legislation, amid warnings from lenders that
the move would make it harder for them to attract top talent.
Borg said governments may have to yield to the parliament’s
demand in exchange for tougher capital rules.  The first round of talks between members of the assembly
and Denmark, which holds the EU’s six-month rotating presidency,
is scheduled for May 23. The parliament will make bonuses a
priority in the talks, Danish Economy Minister Margrethe
Vestager told reporters yesterday.  For more, click here.  Osborne Says Way Clear for U.K. to Begin Vickers Bank Overhaul  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said there
is “political agreement” on bank capital rules among European
Union members after securing concessions that will allow Britain
to toughen requirements on its banks.  Osborne said the agreement means Britain can begin
legislation to implement the recommendations of the Independent
Commission on Banking led by former Bank of England Chief
Economist John Vickers.  Osborne argued at a 16-hour meeting earlier this month for
member states to gain additional flexibility to toughen rules
for their banks. His concern then was that proposals could
prevent the U.K. from fully implementing a rule overhaul for its
lenders recommended by Vickers.  Vickers wants banks to erect firewalls around their retail
operations and increase the amount of capital they hold to
protect them from future financial crises. His proposals would
see some banks forced to hold core reserves of 10 percent of
their risk-weighted assets.  Special Section: JPMorgan  JPMorgan Seen as Main Topic at Hearings on Dodd-Frank Rules  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and regulators may face increasing
pressure to explain the lender’s $2 billion trading loss as the
misstep becomes fodder for lawmakers still haggling over a
regulatory overhaul enacted two years ago.  A day after JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon  told shareholders there was no justification for the
“egregious mistakes” by the biggest and most profitable U.S.
bank, officials from the Federal Reserve and Treasury Department
could be questioned on what regulators knew and when they knew
it at a House hearing on systemically important financial
institutions.  The hearing, scheduled before Dimon disclosed the loss on
May 10, deals with a Dodd-Frank Act designation that will impose
higher capital standards and more regulatory scrutiny on firms
whose collapse could imperil the economy. Senator Richard Shelby
of Alabama, the Senate Banking Committee’s top Republican, said
Dimon “absolutely” should be called to testify before his
panel.  Though lawmakers haven’t set hearings specifically
dedicated to JPMorgan’s losses, the bank probably won’t escape
the Washington spotlight. Lawmakers from both parties and both
chambers are calling for dedicated investigations and hearings.  As lawmakers prepare to question regulators, JPMorgan is
responding by reaching out to Capitol Hill. The bank’s
Washington operation has deployed representatives to brief House
and Senate staff members on the strategy that led to the losses,
according to three congressional aides familiar with the
briefings.  For more, click here.  U.S. Said to Start Probe of $2 Billion JPMorgan Trading Loss  The U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in New York have begun a criminal probe of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2 billion trading loss, a person
familiar with the matter said.  The U.S. is looking into what if any criminal wrongdoing
occurred in relation to the losses the bank reported last week,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
matter isn’t public. The inquiry is in its most preliminary
stage, the person said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates
derivatives trading, are also examining New York-based
JPMorgan’s trading activities, according to people familiar with
those probes.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said on May 10
that the bank made “egregious” mistakes and that the losses of
about $2 billion tied to synthetic credit securities were
“self-inflicted.”  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment on the criminal probe.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman
for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn, where JPMorgan has
some of its operations, also declined to comment.  The probe was reported earlier yesterday by the Wall Street
Journal.  Separately, U.S. House lawmakers, acting after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. announced $2 billion in derivatives trading losses,
delayed a committee vote on legislation easing Dodd-Frank Act
swaps rules.  The U.S.  House Agriculture Committee  postponed a May 17
committee meeting to vote on the measures, which would limit the
international reach of the 2010 regulatory-overhaul law’s swaps
regulations and allow more derivatives trading to occur in
federally insured banks.  The bill restricting the international scope of Dodd-Frank
rules gained bipartisan support in a separate U.S. House
committee. JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
have argued that applying the rules to overseas branches would
hurt their ability to compete with rivals based outside the U.S.  The legislation would need passage by the full House and
Senate before being sent to the White House for final approval.
Neither chamber has scheduled a vote.  Dimon as New York Fed Director Renews Conflicts Concern  The $2 billion trading loss at JPMorgan Chase & Co. has
revived concern that its regulator, the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, is too cozy with Wall Street.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon is one of
three bankers sitting on the board of the New York Fed, as
required by law. While directors play no part in bank
supervision,  Elizabeth Warren , a Democrat running for U.S.
Senate from Massachusetts, called for Dimon’s removal from the
district bank board. Senator Bernard Sanders, a Vermont
Independent, said he sees a conflict in Dimon’s two roles.  Fed governance came under scrutiny after taxpayer-funded
bailouts during the 2008 financial crisis sparked a political
backlash.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment on Dimon’s role on the board.  For more, click here.  Geithner Says Regulators to Scrutinize JPMorgan Loss  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner talked about
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2 billion trading loss, financial
regulation and fiscal debt.  He spoke at the Peter G. Peterson Foundation’s  2012 Fiscal
Summit  in Washington.  For the video, click here.  Isaac Says Scrutiny of Bank Capital Requirements Needed  William Isaac, chairman of  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  and a former
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., talked about
the outlook for increased banking regulation following JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s $2 billion trading loss.  Isaac spoke with Scarlet Fu,  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik
Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.”  For the video, click here.  Compliance Action  Cardinal Settles With DEA for Two-Year Shipping Suspension  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) , the second-largest U.S. drug
distributor by revenue, agreed to suspend shipments of
controlled drugs from a Florida facility for two years in a
settlement with the Drug Enforcement Administration.  Federal officials had challenged Dublin, Ohio-based
Cardinal’s procedures, contending the Lakeland, Florida, center
posed a public safety threat by shipping large quantities of the
prescription painkiller  oxycodone  to pharmacies. The agency
alleged the company failed to make sure the drugs went to
legitimate patients.  The settlement averts the need for months of administrative
proceedings and appeals to restore the license.  Cardinal said in a statement yesterday announcing the
settlement that it agreed to improve “anti-diversion
procedures” to keep better control of narcotics companywide. It
also said the DEA is planning “no further administrative
actions at other Cardinal Health facilities.”  Barbara Carreno, a DEA spokeswoman, couldn’t immediately
comment on the settlement.  Talvivaara Faces Tighter Emission Rules for Finnish Nickel Mine  Talvivaara Mining Co. (TALV)  faces tougher rules on discharges
suspected of turning nearby lakes saline, potentially adding to
the costs of running its Finnish nickel mine.  The company’s nickel mine emissions of sulfate, sodium and
manganese into nearby lakes have caused protests from
environmental groups and local residents, adding to pressure on
authorities to cut permitted emission levels. Environment
Minister Ville Niinistoe has signaled the Espoo, Finland-based
company ultimately faces losing its license to operate.  “I expect the new emission rules will be sensible, taking
into account the environment and the prerequisites of our
operation,” Pekka Perae, chairman of the board and founder of
Talvivaara, said by phone yesterday. He declined to comment on
how much the tighter regulations could cost the company and said
he “isn’t worried” about the threat of shutdown.  Talvivaara’s discharges into lakes in the vicinity of its
mine, including Salminen, Laakajaervi and Kivijaervi, have
caused the formation of saline layers on lake bottoms,
potentially posing a threat to local wildlife. The police are
investigating the emissions.  The review of Talvivaara’s environment permit for the
Sotkamo nickel mine in Northern Finland starts at the end of the
month and new guidelines should be in force by year end, said
Sami Koivula, an environmental councilor.  South African Banks Ready for Basel Changes, Moody’s Says  South Africa’s  banks  are well-capitalized and prepared for
Basel III regulations, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The quality of the lenders’ assets remains an “issue” for
Moody’s, analyst Nondas Nicolaides said in a presentation in
Johannesburg today. Bad debts may rise when interest rates
increase, and the bulk of non-performing loans are mortgages, he
said.  Basel III international rules will come into effect over
the next six years, requiring banks to hold enough capital to
survive market turmoil without causing risk to the financial
system. Moody’s downgraded credit ratings on South Africa’s five
largest banks in February.  The growth of unsecured lending in South Africa doesn’t
pose a “systemic” risk, Nicolaides said.  Courts  Whistle-Blower Sues for Records, Alleging Outsourced SEC Review  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation were sued in California to obtain
records related to the agencies’ scrutiny of an energy company
in that state, BNA reported.  In the complaint, Rodolfo Michelon asserted that in
January, he filed a whistle-blower complaint with the SEC
alleging that his employer, Sempra Energy, committed
“numerous” books and record violations in connection with gas
distribution customers in Mexico. Michelon sued the agencies to
obtain documents, alleging that the SEC violated federal
securities laws, including the whistle-blower provisions, by
“outsourcing” the investigation to two law firms, according to
BNA.  Michelon claims he has the right to see the documents under
the Freedom of Information Act.  The case is Rodolfo Michelon v. U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, 3:12-cv-01014, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of California (San Diego).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Barnier Says Some Bank Bonuses, Dividends Inexplicable  European Union Financial Services  Commissioner Michel
Barnier,  Danish Economy  Minister Margrethe Vestager and EU
Taxation Commissioner Algirdas Semeta spoke in Brussels about
bank capital requirements and top executive pay.  They also discussed Luxembourg and Austria’s decision to
veto negotiations over the extension of a European savings tax.  For the video, click here.  Fed’s Duke Says Regulatory Uncertainty Hurting Housing  Federal Reserve Governor Elizabeth Duke spoke about the
housing market and regulation. Her remarks touched on tight loan
standards and what she described as housing “uncertainty.”  Duke, who spoke in Washington, also discussed the outlook
for the U.S. economy and took questions.  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  BGC Executive Verrier Banned by U.K. FSA Over Broker Poaching  Anthony Verrier, the executive managing director of the
inter-dealer brokerage  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP) , was banned by the U.K.
finance regulator because of his involvement in poaching brokers
from a competitor.  Verrier isn’t fit to work in the finance industry in
Britain because of a court’s finding that he induced brokers at
 Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  to breach their employment contracts, the
Financial Services Authority said in a statement today. Verrier
is appealing the regulator’s decision and will have the case
heard at a tribunal in London, the regulator said.  Tullett, based in London, sued BGC in 2009 claiming Verrier
spent millions of pounds to persuade the heads of various
Tullett trading desks to breach their contracts by getting
colleagues to defect to BGC. A U.K. court in 2010 ruled against
New York-based BGC and ordered a second trial on damages, which
was later settled.  Verrier didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
left at his office. BGC’s press office didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 