-- Bankia IPO Causes Shareholders $2 Billion Loss Post Bailout
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-16T11:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/bankia-ipo-leaves-shareholders-2-billion-poorer-after-bailout.html
Bankia SA (BKIA) , the Spanish lender taken
over by the government in a bailout this month, struggled to
convince money managers to take part in its initial public
offering less than a year ago.  The bank instead relied on individuals, investors who are
typically less equipped to analyze stock risks, to fill orders
for the IPO in July. About 347,000 investors, most of them
individuals like Josefa Rodriguez, an 86-year-old retired
housewife from Madrid, bought Bankia’s  shares .  “My aunt is a lady with almost nil knowledge of financial
products and this wasn’t an appropriate product for her,” said
Marta Rodriguez, her niece, who spoke on her behalf in a phone
interview as Josefa lives in a residential nursing home. “Staff
at the bank was under a lot of pressure themselves to sell the
shares.”  After pricing at 3.75 euros a share in the IPO and gaining
4 percent in the first two weeks of trading, Bankia had  dropped 
to 1.86 euros by yesterday’s close as concern grew that Spanish
lenders would need more capital. Investors such as Rodriguez
have since lost about $2 billion, or half of what they paid for
Bankia shares in the IPO, deepening the cost of a sovereign debt
crisis that’s pushed Spanish  unemployment  to an 18-year high.  A spokesman for Bankia, who asked not to be identified in
line with company policy, declined to comment.  ‘Disastrous’ Decision  Spain ’s Association of Bank, Savings Bank and Insurance
Users, known as Adicae, said today it would start a campaign to
protect the interests of Bankia’s retail shareholders.  The decision by then-chairman  Rodrigo Rato  to list Bankia
was “disastrous,” the organization said in an e-mailed
statement today, and had been made “without gauging or stating
truthfully the financial risks of a company that just 10 months
later has shown itself on the verge of bankruptcy.”   “A deal like this undermines the credibility of the
European banking sector and IPOs in general,” said Josef Schuster, founder of Ipox Schuster LLC, which invests in global
IPOs. His European portfolio still holds about $20 million of
the lender’s stock.  The Bankia group, formed in 2010 from a merger of seven
savings banks led by Caja  Madrid , has the most exposure to
Spanish real estate among the nation’s banks. The company turned
to the stock market to raise capital last year after parking its
worst real estate assets in the parent company.  10-Year Boom  A 10-year property boom that came to an end with the onset
of the global financial crisis left the nation’s banks with
soaring bad loans and a need for capital. After encouraging
banks to seek funds privately, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who
took over in December, said this month for the first time that
Spain may use public money to save banks. In a fourth attempt to
clean up the industry in less than three years, the government
ordered banks last week to increase provisions on real estate
loans that are still performing by about 30 billion euros.  Bankia’s stock-market fundraising boosted the lender’s core
 capital ratio  to about 9.6 percent, from 7.9 percent before the
sale, according to the offer document. The Bank of Spain, the
country’s central bank, had set a minimum target of 8 percent
for publicly traded lenders.  Dividends Promised  To lure buyers, Bankia held out the promise of distributing
about 50 percent of its net income as dividends.  “The IPO was mainly a dividend play, so it appealed
particularly to retail investors when  interest rates  elsewhere
are so low,” said Ipox’s Schuster. “Bankia has a strong retail
network and that’s basically how the deal got done. Now not only
their shares get diluted, it’s also a question mark whether
Bankia will be able to deliver future dividends.”  Spain is taking over Bankia by converting its 4.5 billion
euros of preferred shares in the group’s parent company into
ordinary shares. Bankia group’s new  management  will have an
initial deadline of May to present a restructuring plan,
including additional state support, a person with knowledge of
the plans said.  To help find buyers for its stock outside its home market,
Bankia had also hired the world’s top securities firms to be
managers of the IPO.  15 Underwriters  A total of 15 underwriters led by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  earned a
commission of about 1.2 percent on the 3.1 billion-euro IPO, or
about 37 million euros, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While managers were taking orders for Bankia’s IPO,
investor concern about  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis was
already propelling Spanish bond yields to what was then a euro-
era record. The lender had to reduce its IPO price by about 26
percent from its initial range in order to complete the sale.  The IPO “has been considered a reference point for the
Spanish banking industry” and was completed “in the middle of
a true storm in the markets that imposed the toughest financial
conditions of the last decade,” Rato, Bankia’s then chairman,
said in a speech on July 20.  Rato stepped down last week and is being replaced by Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, a former president of  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-largest bank.  Undercapitalized Banks  Dirk Sebrechts, a Brussels-based  fund manager  at KBC Asset
Management SA, said there was already the likelihood at the time
of the IPO that the shares would fall. The bank’s valuation of
0.39 percent of its book value wasn’t low enough to guarantee an
investment gain, he said.  “It was a merger of undercapitalized banks that remained
undercapitalized,” said Sebrechts, who didn’t buy shares in the
IPO 10 months ago. “The risk-return wasn’t convincing.”  Theo Vermaelen, a finance professor at Insead in Paris,
didn’t express surprise at the shares’ decline either.  “IPOs tend to be bad investments because companies tend to
sell stock amid over-optimistic expectations,” said Vermaelen.
“The fact that the smart money wasn’t investing wasn’t a good
sign.”  Individuals bought about 60 percent of the shares on sale
in the IPO, Spain’s third-largest ever. Historically, about 30
percent of shares were sold to retail investors in IPOs,
according to Alexander Ljungqvist, a finance professor at  New
York  University’s Stern School of Business.  ‘Adverse Selection’  “Institutional investors act as a certification on whether
or not the price on an IPO is reasonable,” said David
Goldreich, a finance professor at the University of Toronto’s
Rotman School of Management. “The IPO illustrates the problem
of adverse selection, whereby some investors only get good deals
and others only bad deals.”  Bankia fell for a ninth day today, by 9.7 percent to 1.68
euros at 11:45 a.m. in Madrid. That’s 55 percent less than their
IPO price of 3.75 euros a share.  During the same month that Bankia went public, another
Spanish lender,  Banca Civica SA (BCIV) , which was formed from a merger
of four other Spanish saving banks, raised 600 million euros in
an IPO.  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA, Spain’s fourth-largest lender, in March
agreed to buy Banca Civica, also based in Madrid, for a price
that’s 27 percent lower than the shares fetched in its IPO.
Credit Suisse Group AG and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  managed the IPO.  “It’s a serious problem,” said  Mike Lenhoff , chief
strategist at Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd. in  London . “What’s
happening with Bankia is a reflection of the recession itself.
The deeper it goes into recession, the more vulnerable the
position of the banks become.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  