-- Barcelona Wants to Sign Drogba on Free Transfer: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-16T08:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/barcelona-wants-to-sign-drogba-on-free-transfer-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Barca Wants Drogba  Barcelona is considering a move to sign  Didier Drogba  on a
free transfer from Chelsea, the  Sun reported .  The Spanish club wants to offer the Ivory Coast striker a
two-year deal worth as much as 5 million pounds ($7.9 million)
to leave Chelsea, which has offered Drogba a new two-year
agreement to stay, the newspaper added.  Liverpool Limbo  Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  returned from talks with
the club’s U.S. owners with no guarantee that he will be in
charge of the team next season, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The lack of a resolution after the meeting two days ago has
led to uncertainty at the club and the prospect of an amicable
parting of the ways, with Dalglish willingly stepping aside, is
an unlikely solution, the newspaper added.  Only Option  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  and chief executive officer
Ivan Gazidis will tell  Robin van Persie  that his only option is
to stay at the club when they meet the striker for contract
talks, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Gunners, who are ready to offer  Van Persie  a three-year
deal worth 130,000 pounds a week plus a 5 million-pound signing-
on fee, will tell him he must see out the final 12 months of his
agreement if he rejects their proposal, the Mail added.  Modric Hint  Tottenham midfielder Luka Modric, who has been linked with
Manchester United, Manchester City and Chelsea, reignited doubt
over his future by saying that he could leave Spurs after the
European Championship, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “I will decide about my future after the Euros,” the
Mirror cited Modric as saying. “I will make the decision where
to continue my career. I’m ready for the big tests.”  Di Matteo Offer  Chelsea’s interim manager Roberto Di Matteo has been
approached by his former club Lazio to gauge his interest in
becoming coach at the Italian team, the  Daily Express reported .  Di Matteo’s future at Chelsea will be decided after the May
19 Champions League final with Blues owner  Roman Abramovich 
still pursuing outgoing Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola and former
England manager  Fabio Capello , the Express said.  United Talks  Manchester United  manager  Alex Ferguson  held talks with
 Borussia Dortmund  and Japan midfielder Shinji Kagawa, the  Daily
Telegraph  reported.  Kagawa, who scored 17 goals this season as Dortmund won the
Bundesliga and German Cup double, met for two hours with
Ferguson in Manchester this week, the Telegraph said. The 23-
year-old has one year left on his contract and has stalled over
signing an extension to “think hard” about his future, the
newspaper said.  Goal-line Technology  England’s Premier League may introduce goal-line technology
during next season, the  Guardian reported , citing chief
executive officer  Richard Scudamore .  “It is almost physically impossible for it to be in by the
beginning of August, just in terms of FIFA not approving it
until July,” Scudamore was cited as saying. “We want to do it
but you cannot rush something in a few weeks. We also don’t
think that it needs to be at the start of the season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  