-- Housing Starts Probably Rose in May: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-06-17T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/beginning-home-construction-in-u-s-exceeded-forecasts-in-april.html
The U.S. housing market in May
probably managed to sustain recent gains, driven by low prices
and borrowing costs, economists said before reports this week.  Home  starts  climbed 0.4 percent last month to a 720,000
annual pace, matching January as the fastest since October 2008,
according to the median estimate of 64 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before a Commerce Department report June 19.
Sales of previously owned houses held near the highest level in
almost two years, another report may show.  A drop in  home prices  and record-low  mortgage rates  are
combining to underpin demand and prompt builders to take on new
projects. The improvement comes as other parts of the economy,
including  manufacturing  and consumer spending, are softening,
which may give Federal Reserve policy makers reason to consider
taking further action to spur growth when they meet this week.  “Housing seems to be the one thing that’s doing better in
this economy,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC
Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh.  The outcome of today’s election in  Greece  could determine
whether the euro area crisis worsens. Heads of the Group of 20
nations, including President  Barack Obama , are also gathering in
Los Cabos,  Mexico , as global markets look to Europe’s leaders
for a clearer sign of the path forward.  A failure to stem the euro-area crisis would add to risks
of a bigger slowdown in the  U.S. economy . The  Federal Open
Market Committee , which sets the course of central bank policy,
meets in Washington on June 19 and 20 to decide whether to take
additional steps to boost growth.  Record Affordability  Against the backdrop of the cooling global economy, cheaper
properties, rising household incomes and low mortgage rates
combined to push home  affordability  to an all-time high in the
first quarter, according to the National Association of
Realtors. The average rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate  mortgage 
reached a record low of 3.67 percent in the first week of June,
according to  Freddie Mac .  The Washington-based National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index of builder confidence, to be released
tomorrow, is projected to ease after reaching a five-year high
in May, according to the median forecast in a separate Bloomberg
survey.  Investors are betting on further gains in housing. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has climbed
28 percent this year, outpacing a 6.8 percent gain in the
broader  S&P 500 .  More Households  Another reason for optimism on the housing front is that
Americans are forming households faster than new homes are being
built, said Douglas Yearley, chief executive officer of  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL) , a luxury homebuilder based in Horsham,
 Pennsylvania .  “There is huge pent-up demand that has built over the last
four years from this imbalance,” Yearley said at a June 14
conference. “It’s been seven years since this all began to turn
down and you have people that are just ready to move on with
their lives, take advantage of great  interest rates .”  At the same time, three years after the end of the
recession, a sustained real-estate rebound continues to prove
elusive. More distressed properties are entering the market,
adding to inventory and pushing down prices.  Foreclosure starts grew in May on an annual basis for the
first time since January 2010 after loan servicers settled with
states over faulty documentation, according to a report last
week from data provider RealtyTrac Inc. Home seizures plunged 18
percent from a year earlier, the  Irvine , California, company
also reported, as banks seek alternatives to repossession.  Debt Concerns  Weak job gains and stock market volatility also have
consumers apprehensive about taking on debt.  “Our forecast is still for growth, but we’re being
conservative about it,” said Doug Duncan, chief economist at
Washington-based  Fannie Mae . “This will definitely be a year
where we’ll see growth in the housing market.”  The number of previously owned homes sold in May probably
dropped to a 4.56 million annual rate from 4.62 million the
prior month, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. Purchases reached a 4.63 million pace in January,
the fastest since May 2010. The National Association of Realtors
will release the data on June 21.  “We’re bumping along the bottom,” said Mike Schenk,
senior economist at the  Credit Union National Association  in
Madison,  Wisconsin . “The housing recovery is going to be a
long, slow affair.”  Leading Index  The index of leading indicators rose 0.1 percent in May
after declining the month prior, according to a median forecast
of economists surveyed. The New York-based Conference Board’s
figures will be released on June 21.  Another report the same day may show factories are feeling
the effect of slowing demand in  Europe . Manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region stagnated this month, economists project
before a  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  report. Its
general  economic index  will rise to zero, the point between
contraction and growth, after reaching an eight-month low of
minus 5.8 in May, according to the median forecast of economists
in the Bloomberg survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  