-- BHP Chairman Says Won’t Meet $80 Billion Spending Target
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-05-16T07:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/bhp-won-t-meet-80-billion-spending-target-as-minerals-fall-1-.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, will fall short of its $80 billion
spending target for building mines and expanding assets over the
next five years as it sees commodity prices declining.  “We should pause, take a deep breath and wait and see
where the pieces fall around the world,” Jac Nasser, chairman
of the Melbourne-based company, told reporters today in Sydney.
He declined to say how much spending would be cut.  BHP joins Rio Tinto Group, the third-biggest mining
company, in slowing spending as costs rise and prices fall in a
weaker global economy. The industry has more projects than cash
flows and companies will have to prioritize spending, Nasser
said today in an earlier speech.  “The tailwind of high commodity prices has contributed to
record growth in the sector,” Nasser said in the speech. “Now
we have a period where those tailwinds are moderating and we
expect further easing over time.”   BHP declined 4.1 percent to A$32.49 at the close of
trading in Sydney, the lowest level since July 2009. Rio fell
3.9 percent to its lowest since October 2009.  Commodity prices have declined 12 percent from this year’s
high in February, according to the  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Spot
Index of 24 raw materials.  Different Environment  “The environment was different” when Chief Executive
Officer  Marius Kloppers  outlined the company’s plans to spend
$80 billion on new developments, Nasser told reporters. The
price of  iron ore , BHP’s biggest revenue earner, has declined 29
percent since Kloppers announced the investment schedule in
February 2011. The CEO reaffirmed his commitment to the spending
as recently as February.   BHP’s board is due to decide on the development of three
major projects by the end of this year, including a port
expansion at  Port Hedland  in Western  Australia  that may cost $22
billion, Credit Suisse Group AG said in an April 12 report.  It will also decide by the end of the year on an expansion
of the Olympic Dam copper mine in Australia, Nasser said today.
The mine may cost $27.4 billion, according to an October
estimate by Deutsche Bank AG. If approved, building the Olympic
Dam would take 11 years with BHP taking a phased approach, the
company said in December 2010.  The board will also consider whether to build the Jansen
potash mine in  Canada ’s Saskatchewan province where BHP has
invested $1.2 billion of preliminary spending. The mine may
start production from 2015, according to BHP’s website.  Mining companies operating in  Asia  are facing lower cash
flows as prices retreat from “stratospheric” levels, credit
rating company Standard & Poor’s said in a May 3 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  