-- Biden Touts Auto Recovery to Rally Democrats to Re-Elect
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-05-17T04:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/biden-touts-auto-recovery-to-rally-democrats-to-re-elect.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  kicked off a
visit to Ohio’s Democrat-rich Youngstown area aimed at
bolstering support among party activists by saying the region
and nation would be better off with “Obama economics” compared
with “Romney economics.”  The Obama administration “values the role of workers,”
Biden said in a speech yesterday at M-7 Technologies, a closely-
held manufacturing company with 30 employees. The approach of
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , he
said, is “as long as the government helps the guys at the top
to do well, workers and small businesses and communities, they
can fend for themselves.”  Biden made his case in Youngstown and the Mahoning Valley,
a region in Eastern Ohio that gave Obama 58.5 percent of the
vote in 2008 and where “Black Monday” refers not to a stock
market crash but the day in 1977 when Youngstown Sheet & Tube
announced shutdowns marking the end of the area’s  steel  era.  “You’ve been through hell and back,” Biden said in his
speech. “Outsourcing. Padlocked plant gates. Closed businesses
in your communities.”  Winning Ohio  Biden is scheduled to speak today at Staffilino  Chevrolet ,
a Martins Ferry dealership that the Obama campaign said “was
saved by the rescue of the  auto industry .” It’s part of an
effort to turn out Democratic voters in Ohio, which has backed
the White House winner in 12 consecutive elections and where
voter mobilization could decide the race, said Bill Binning,
chairman emeritus of the political science department at
Youngstown State University.  Republicans are contesting the region. Romney held a
campaign event in Youngstown on March 5, and Real Leader PAC, a
super political action committee backed by a wealthy Republican,
has aired television ads in Youngstown criticizing Obama’s
leadership compared with other Democratic presidents in a bid to
depress enthusiasm among Democrats, said Binning, the Republican
Party county chairman in the 1980s.  “I would explain virtually anything either side is doing
is to dampen the other side’s turnout or increase their
turnout,” Binning said in a telephone interview.  A  poll  released May 3 by  Quinnipiac University  showed the
Ohio race is close, with Obama leading Romney 44 percent to 42
percent. The telephone survey of 1,130 Ohio voters from April 25
to May 1 had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.9 percentage
points.  Critical Counties  Obama won Ohio in 2008 with 51.5 percent of the vote, and
his 57,835-vote plurality in Mahoning and neighboring Trumbull
County accounted for 22 percent of his victory margin statewide,
according to the Ohio Secretary of State’s office.  In his speech, Biden contrasted the Obama administration’s
economic efforts, including a rescue of the domestic  auto
industry  in 2008-09, with Romney’s tenure at Bain Capital LLC,
the private equity firm that the former Massachusetts governor
co-founded. Biden cited companies that Bain acquired that
eventually went bankrupt.  “Romney made sure the guys on top got to play by a
separate set of rules, he ran up massive debts, and the middle
class lost,” said Biden, who spent the first part of his
childhood in Scranton,  Pennsylvania , another manufacturing-based
city. “And folks, he thinks that experience is going to help
our economy?”  Failed Promises  While Romney is a successful businessman, Obama and Biden
made promises to turnaround the economy that haven’t been kept,
Romney spokesman  Ryan Williams , who attended the Biden speech in
Youngstown, said in an interview.  “Their liberal economic policies have failed to deliver on
those promises, and voters are looking for a change in
November,” Williams said.  Ohio ranks seventh in improving economic health in the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States from the fourth quarter
of 2010 through the fourth quarter of last year, the most recent
data available.  The Youngstown-Warren metropolitan area had a 46.2 percent
decline in manufacturing jobs from 2000 to 2010, the 95th worst
among the nation’s 100 largest metro areas, according to a
report released May 9 by the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington . From the first quarter of 2010 through the fourth
quarter of 2011, manufacturing in the Youngstown area increased
by 11.7 percent, third-best nationally, the report said.  Auto Plant Jobs  The increase has been fueled in part by General Motors
Co.’s plant in nearby Lordstown, which is working with three
shifts making the Chevy Cruze, and Vallourec SA’s V&M Star unit
in Youngstown, which is completing a mill to produce small steel
tubes to exploit the region’s shale-gas boom.  The Obama administration will get credit for the up-tick in
manufacturing, especially in the automotive sector, and that
will energize Democrats in the Mahoning Valley and across Ohio,
where one in eight jobs is tied to that industry, said former
 Ohio  Governor  Ted Strickland , a Democrat who represented
portions of the Mahoning Valley while in Congress.  “The president has walked the walk,” Strickland, who
supported  Hillary Clinton  over Obama in the 2008 presidential
primary and now is one of the president’s national co-chairmen,
told reporters in a May 15 conference call. “He has produced,
he has made sure that jobs were retained and created, and I
think the Mahoning Valley will richly reward him in November as
a result.”  Firefighters’ ‘DNA’  After his Youngstown speech, Biden met with 13 firefighters
in Salem, Ohio, about 20 miles to the southwest. Biden told them
they “have been to hell and back” with budget cuts and
increased demands in their roles as first responders.  “Thank God you guys are so crazy, thank God it’s in your
DNA,” Biden said.  Biden, 69, mentioned the death of his first wife and
daughter in 1972 in an auto accident, and said firefighters
saved his two sons’ lives in the crash. Biden also said a local
fire department saved his own life when he suffered a brain
aneurysm in 1988, and that firefighters responded when his
Delaware home was struck by lightning 2007.  David W. Johnson, chairman of the Columbiana County
Republican Party and chief executive officer at Summitville
Tiles Inc., said he thinks voters in the Mahoning Valley will
opt for Romney’s approach of cutting taxes and allowing private
businesses to create jobs.  “We’ve tried Obama’s way the last four years, and it’s
been a failure,” Johnson said in a telephone interview.  Democrat Mark Messenger, 60, a retired worker from GM’s
Lordstown plant where his 30-year-old daughter works, said while
the Mahoning Valley’s economy still needs to improve, he’s
voting for Obama in November because he thinks Republican
policies led to the economic downturn.  “The economy’s still slow because there’s so much to
fix,” Messenger said in an interview after Biden’s speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  