-- Billionaire Arnault Lowered $15 Billion on Wealth Ranking
-- B y   D e v o n   P e n d l e t o n
-- 2012-05-16T23:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/billionaire-arnault-lowered-15-billion-on-wealth-ranking.html
Bernard Arnault ’s net worth is $14.6
billion less than previously estimated because of the way he
owns his stake in  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the
world’s largest luxury-goods company, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  France’s richest man controls 46.5 percent of LVMH’s share
capital, according to the 2011  annual report  of the Paris-based
maker of Louis Vuitton handbags and Moet & Chandon champagne.
That figure includes 5.55 percent of LVMH shares held by
Arnault, and a 40.9 percent stake of the company owned by
publicly traded  Christian Dior SA. (CDI)   The 63-year-old Arnault only owns 70.4 percent of Christian
Dior, according to French  regulatory filings . The remaining 29.6
percent of Dior is held by outside investors. While he controls
all the voting power of Dior’s stake in LVMH, his economic
interest is less than the figure reported in the LVMH annual
report.  “Arnault has used  Christian Dior  as leverage to build up a
controlling stake in LVMH,” Marc Willaume, an analyst at
Raymond James in Paris who has covered LVMH for more than 20
years, said in a telephone interview May 11. “About 25 years
ago, he began using Dior as a vehicle to acquire shares of LVMH,
often using minority partners. That allowed him to gradually
amass a controlling stake in LVMH with less personal cash.”  Arnault’s new net worth calculation represents the biggest
wealth re-evaluation since March 5, when Bloomberg began
tracking the fortunes of the world’s richest people daily.
Adding the value of his stakes in LVMH and Christian Dior to his
other assets, including shares in publicly traded supermarket
chain  Carrefour SA (CA) , gives the mogul a $24.1 billion fortune,
making him the 11th richest person on Earth, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Controlling Owner  Previously, Arnault’s net worth had been calculated using
46.5 percent of LVMH’s market capitalization. The billionaire --
who also owns a luxury resort in the French Alps and is married
to a professional concert pianist -- had ranked fifth on the
index, which takes measure of the world’s wealthiest people
based on market and economic changes and Bloomberg News
reporting.  Molly Morse, an outside spokeswoman for LVMH, said in a
telephone interview May 15 that Arnault declined to comment.  Under French  securities law , the controlling owner of a
company registered with Autorite des Marches Financiers, the
country’s stock market regulator, is defined as the person or
entity which controls 51 percent or more of the  voting rights .  Because Arnault owns 70.4 percent of Christian Dior, all of
the company’s shares listed in LVMH’s annual report are credited
to him and his family with no footnotes breaking out his
specific economic stake.  The ownership structure gives Arnault 62.4 percent of
LVMH’s voting rights. The two companies have paid him at least
$3.4 billion in dividends since 1992. He has never sold a
significant number of shares of either company.  Dior is one of at least half a dozen companies Arnault uses
to control his empire. LVMH, which generated 23.7 billion euros
($30.2 billion) in revenue last year, sells Dom Perignon
champagne, Fendi handbags and Bulgari jewelry.  Property Development  The son of a civil engineer, Arnault worked in real estate
before retail. After graduating from Ecole Polytechnique outside
Paris in 1971, he joined his father’s construction firm, Ferret-
Savinel, as a general manager. Within five years, he’d sold the
company’s construction division to focus on property
development.  When socialist  Francois Mitterrand  became  France ’s
president in 1981, Arnault moved to the U.S., where he spent
three years investing in Florida real estate from  New Rochelle ,
 New York . Lured by Mitterrand’s newfound interest in
privatization, he returned to France in 1984 and made his foray
into luxury goods.  The French government was seeking a buyer for Cie. Boussac
Saint-Freres, a bankrupt textiles manufacturer that also owned
fashion house Christian Dior. With financing from investment
bank Lazard Freres & Co., Arnault bought Boussac, sold the
company’s industrial mills, cut thousands of jobs and
reorganized the operation into a cascade of interlinked
subsidiaries.  Through asset sales -- and by selling a 49 percent stake in
his holding company Arnault et Associes to various investors for
530 million francs (about $77 million) -- Arnault was able to
pay down Boussac’s debt and raise cash for acquisitions.  Power Struggle  His first target: LVMH, which was created when  Louis
Vuitton  SA merged with Moet Hennessy SA in June 1987. Using
Christian Dior’s cash and corporate structure, Arnault began
gradually buying up shares of the company. In 1988 -- amid a
power struggle between Henry Racamier, president of Louis
Vuitton, and Alain Chevalier, chairman of Moet Hennessy --
Arnault disclosed he had accumulated a 24 percent stake in LVMH
with Irish beer maker Guinness.  The joint stake in LVMH was held by Jacques Rober, an
investment company Arnault and Guinness created to own the
shares. Rober was set up as a subsidiary of Dior; Arnault owned
60 percent of Rober through another holding company, Financiere
Agache.  By September 1988, Arnault had boosted Rober’s LVMH stake
to 32 percent. He raised funds for the purchase, in part, by
selling more than $520 million worth of Christian Dior shares to
investors. Rober’s stake gave him enough voting power to appoint
his father, Jean Arnault, chairman of the  luxury-goods  maker’s
supervisory board.  In 1994, Guinness sold its LVMH stake back to Arnault,
giving Christian Dior 41 percent of LVMH, the stake it holds
today.  Securing maximum voting control with minimal personal
expense has come at a cost to Arnault’s net worth. Because it
operates as a publicly traded holding company, Dior shares trade
at a 21 percent discount to its net asset value, or $6.7 billion
less than the market value of the LVMH shares it owns.  LVMH shares are up 12.4 percent year-to-date. Christian
Dior shares have risen 21.7 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devon Pendleton in New York at 
 dpendleton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  