-- Billionaire Piramal Buys Drug Data Firm for $635 Million
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-05-16T13:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/billionaire-piramal-buys-drug-data-firm-for-635-million.html
Piramal Healthcare Ltd. (PIHC) , controlled
by Indian billionaire Ajay Piramal, agreed to buy Decision
Resources Group LLC, a health-care research provider, for $635
million to tap increasing demand for drug market information.  The acquisition will give Piramal a team of 500 employees,
140 of them analysts with masters or doctoral degrees, and mark
the Mumbai-based company’s foray into the $5.7 billion business
of providing specialized data and analytics used by drugmakers
and medical device makers, Piramal said in an e-mailed statement
today.  At a time when research costs are rising and approval rates
for new medicines are low, drugmakers are under increasing
pressure to ensure they focus on experimental therapies with the
greatest chances of success. Analytical information and market
assessments provided by companies such as Decision Resources
help drugmakers choose candidates and determine future demand
for their products.  “DRG’s portfolio of products is widely regarded as the
gold standard of information,” ChairmanPiramal said in Mumbai.
“The need for specialist information is critical and demand is
growing.”  Top Pharmaceutical Companies  Decision Resources, based in Burlington,  Massachusetts , has
forecast $160 million in revenue this year, according to the
statement. The researcher counts 48 of the world’s top
pharmaceutical companies as its clients.  Providence Equity
Partners  bought majority control of Decision Resources in 2007.  Piramal shares dropped 0.6 percent to 427.25 rupees at the
close in Mumbai. The stock has climbed 13 percent this year,
 outperforming  the 7 percent gain in the BSE-200 Index.  “Decision Resources is one of the big names in the health-
care information business,” Asthika Goonewardene, a Bloomberg
Industries analyst covering generic pharmaceuticals, said. It
provides research reports on diseases, new drugs, doctors’
opinions and medical device consumption, he said.  Piramal, who sold his Indian pharmaceutical business to
Abbott Laboratories for $3.7 billion in 2010, has been acquiring
pharmaceutical companies and has made investments in real estate
and telecommunications.  This acquisition comes a month after Piramal agreed to buy
 Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s molecular imaging portfolio, which included rights to
florbetaben, an experimental tracer which may be used to detect
 Alzheimer’s disease .  The billionaire, who prefers to shun bankers on his deals,
said in an interview last month he succeeded in obtaining a
better valuation by doing the transactions himself. Barclays Plc
advised Decision Resources, while Piramal didn’t use an adviser,
Piramal said today.  The group is planning to purchase a company in the defense
business to provide surveillance technology to the Indian armed
forces or other government agencies, Piramal said April 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  