-- Blackstone Said to Seek Buyer for Manhattan Tower Stake
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-05-16T21:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/blackstone-said-to-seek-buyer-for-manhattan-tower-stake.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  plans to sell its
49.9 percent stake in  1411 Broadway , a tower in Manhattan’s
garment district, and has given co-owner Swig Co. a July
deadline to help it find a buyer, said three people with
knowledge of the situation.  The 40-story is building is valued at $725 million to $750
million, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private. The owners reached agreement earlier
this year that if San Francisco-based Swig didn’t purchase
Blackstone’s stake or another buyer couldn’t be found, the New
York-based private-equity firm would have the right to put the
whole building up for sale, said one of people.  Bids for Blackstone’s stake are due in early June, said two
of the people. Eastdil Secured LLC, a unit of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
is brokering the sale process.  Blackstone has had its stake in 1411 Broadway since it
partnered with the company now known as  Brookfield Office
Properties Inc. (BPO)  to buy Trizec Properties Inc. in 2006, and has
managed the 1.2 million-square-foot (111,000-square-meter)
building since. Blackstone increased the number of tenants from
outside the garment industry and boosted rents, said one of the
people familiar with the building.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, and Andrew Neilly,
a spokesman for Swig Co., both declined to comment.  Blackstone’s plans for the building were reported earlier
today by Crain’s  New York  Business.  The property occupies a full city block between Seventh
Avenue and Broadway, and West 39th and 40th streets. Benjamin
Swig, founder of closely held Swig Co., developed the building
with Jack Weiler, and Swig Co. has held a stake in it since it
was built in 1970. Trizec bought Weiler’s stake in the
mid-1990s.  Clothing company  Jones Group Inc. (JNY) , the tower’s largest
tenant, leases about 40 percent of the property, which is 90
percent occupied, said two of the people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  