-- BMW Seeks Sales Growth, Lower Margins as New Models Hit Market
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-05-16T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/bmw-seeks-sales-growth-lower-margins-as-new-models-hit-market.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , predicted record sales
and profit in 2012 boosted by eight new and updated models.  The maker of the Z4 roadster stuck to its target of beating
last year’s record earnings on higher deliveries and the auto
unit generating a margin at the “upper end” of a range of 8
percent to 10 percent, Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer 
said today. The Munich-based company reported earnings before
interest and taxes of 11.8 percent from vehicle sales last year.  “These targets are based on the assumption that the
underlying economic conditions remain stable,” Reithofer said
in a speech at the company’s annual shareholder meeting. “The
high level of public debt in some countries and the euro crisis
harbor ongoing risks for the global economy.”  The car and motorcycle manufacturer is expanding to fend
off efforts by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-
Benz to grab the sales lead in luxury autos by the end of the
decade.  The maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce models expects
higher sales at all its brands, pushing pretax profit higher,
Reithofer said today. First-quarter profit beat analyst
estimates, with ebit climbing 19 percent to 2.13 billion euros,
BMW said May 3.  The company is rolling out a 3-door version of the 1-series
compact, a new derivative of the 3-Series, as well as updating
the X1 compact sport-utility vehicle, X6 luxury SUV and 7-Series
sedan in 2012. These models will add to the Mini Roadster, which
hit the market earlier this year, and coupe and convertible
versions of the high-performance M6.  Sales of the 1-Series compact, which was revamped late last
year, climbed 20 percent in the first quarter while the X3 SUV
surged 55 percent, lifting total sales to 425,528 vehicles. BMW
is counting on demand for a new generation of the best-selling
3-Series sedan, which was introduced in February, to boost
deliveries further and offset development costs for the i3
battery-powered city car, which will be rolled out in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  