-- King Says BOE Braced for Euro Debt Crisis Risks: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-16T14:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/boe-sees-near-term-u-k-inflation-pressure-before-slowing-1-.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said officials have prepared for dangers posed by  Europe ’s debt
crisis, after the bank lowered growth forecasts and raised
predictions for  inflation  this year.  “Contingency plans have been discussed and have been for a
considerable time,” King said at a press conference to present
the bank’s quarterly Inflation Report today in  London . “We are
navigating through turbulent waters with the risk of a storm
heading our way from the continent.”  Greece  is heading for new elections after a political
stalemate that’s sent stocks lower, pushed up bond yields and
raised concern the nation may leave the euro area. King said the
currency region is facing a prolonged period of “sluggish”
growth that will affect the U.K. and that the bank hasn’t ruled
out responding with more stimulus if needed.  Policy makers voted to stop  increasing bond purchases  last
week after some officials stepped up their rhetoric on
inflation, which has been above their goal for more than two
years. King said today that there’s a case both to expand bond
purchases or to hold fewer securities and that the risks to
inflation in two years are “broadly, evenly balanced.”  “The asset purchases we made between October and last
month will continue to stimulate the economy for some time to
come,” King said. “The fact we’ve not continued the program at
this stage doesn’t mean to say the effect doesn’t continue to
pass through the economy -- it does -- and the option is still
open to us also.”  New Forecasts  Inflation will be about 1.6 percent in two years after
staying above the 2 percent target for longer than it predicted
in February, the central bank’s forecasts show. Officials also
said that U.K. growth is likely to remain “subdued” in the
near term, held back by the government’s fiscal squeeze, the
pace of the global economy and tight credit conditions.  Gross-domestic-product growth  is seen at about an annual
2.6 percent in two years, according to the forecasts. The bank
publishes its quarterly predictions in the form of fan charts
without specifying exact numbers. It will release data
indicating exact figures next week.  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas in London, said
the two-year inflation forecast “puts QE back on the table”
and he sees a 45 percent probability of more stimulus by July.
Malcolm Barr, an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., forecasts a
50 billion-pound ($80 billion) increase in QE in August, saying
that U.K. growth and euro area concerns “are likely to linger
through the summer even in best case scenarios.”  Financial Crisis  Ten-year gilts rose after the release of the inflation
report, pushing the yield to a record low of 1.821 percent. The
yield was at 1.891 percent as of 3:42 p.m. in London. The pound
fell 0.4 percent to $1.5924.  The  Bank of England  held its  key interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent on May 10 and kept its bond-purchase target
at 325 billion pounds. Officials said today that despite the
changes in the near-term outlook, “the fundamental policy
challenges” after the financial crisis and recession have
stayed the same.  “There are major problems ahead,” King said. “There are
major credit losses to be realized. Whatever happens there will
be difficulties ahead that will undoubtedly affect us” and “it
is not sensible to think solely in terms of ‘euro stays together
-- excellent. Euro comes apart -- disaster,’” he said.  “I don’t think anyone is under any illusion that we’re not
all going to be affected by this,” King said. “Our banking
system is exposed to the euro area. We certainly are going to be
affected.”  Growth Outlook  In the  Inflation Report , the central bank said concerns
about the “possibility of a disorderly resolution” in the euro
area have “adversely influenced asset prices, bank funding
costs and confidence. Even if a disorderly outcome is avoided,
the possibility of such ‘‘extreme outcomes crystallizing will
continue to weigh on U.K. activity.’’  Britain’s economy shrank 0.2 percent in the first quarter
after a 0.3 percent contraction in the previous three months.
Bank of England chief economist  Spencer Dale  said surveys and
other reports suggest underlying growth is stronger and the
official GDP data may be revised up.  While the euro threats are mounting, so too are inflation
concerns, with consumer price growth accelerating to an annual
3.5 percent in March from 3.4 percent the previous month.  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said April 18 that the
‘‘uncomfortably above target’’ rate could hold above 3 percent
into the second half of the year. Minutes of the May 9-10 policy
meeting will be published on May 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  