-- BOJ Failed to Draw Enough Offers in Debt Purchase
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-05-16T08:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/boj-failed-to-draw-enough-offers-in-debt-purchase.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s asset-purchase
program, expanded twice in three months, hit a roadblock today
when the central bank couldn’t find enough  government securities 
to buy.  Financial institutions agreed to sell 480.5 billion yen ($6
billion) of one- to two-year debt, less than the BOJ’s planned
600 billion yen of purchases, the central bank said on its
website. It was the first shortfall since the BOJ set up the
program to spur growth in October 2010.  The result may boost pressure on BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s board to broaden the program to encompass longer-
dated debt, or other types of assets.  Japan ’s financial
companies are the largest holders of the nation’s government
debt, amid a lack of demand growth in corporate and household
lending and a flight to safety sparked by  Europe ’s crisis.  “As the BOJ expands its asset-purchase fund, we may see
more people rejecting dealing with the central bank’s buying
operation because there is nothing to invest in when they sell
short-term notes,” said Toshiaki Terada, a researcher at Totan
Research Co., a money-market brokerage in Tokyo.  In a second part of today’s operation, the BOJ received
700.8 billion yen in offers for debt with a maturity from two to
three years, compared with its goal of 100 billion yen. The
failure to meet the targets suggest limits to the central bank’s
main policy tool since the benchmark  interest rate  was brought
near zero as the global financial crisis deepened in 2008.  Yields Drop  Investors have flocked to Japanese  government bonds  even
amid historically low yields and a public debt burden that’s the
world’s largest. Benchmark 10-year yields today matched the
lowest level since 2003, reaching 0.82 percent. Yields on two-
year notes touched 0.095 percent, below the upper range of the
BOJ’s rate target.  “As long as the low rates remain in the market, it may
cause concern that these shortfalls will continue,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo
and a former central bank official. Today’s operation “signals
the difficulties created when the BOJ just buys government bonds
to increase the size of its asset-purchase fund.”  The central bank pledged to expand its bond purchase funds
to 29 trillion yen on April 27, up from 1.5 trillion yen when it
was started.  Masamichi Adachi, a senior　economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  Tokyo  and a former central bank official, said today’s
failure may help the BOJ to argue that it’s doing all it can to
boost liquidity as politicians push for more aggressive moves.  “This isn’t necessarily a bad thing for the BOJ because it
can tell lawmakers that they are providing more than enough
liquidity,” Adachi said. “If this failure continues, the BOJ
will have to reconsider the contents of its asset purchase
program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  