-- Bond Market May Not Warn When Debt Crisis Strikes
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-05-16T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/bond-market-may-not-warn-when-debt-crisis-strikes.html
One by one, European nations are
letting their voices be heard, tossing out the party in power
and voting in those who, in some cases, have a more radical
agenda or, in others, are just willing to say “no” to the
status quo. A bas l’austerite! Down with austerity! Up with
growth!  If only it were that simple. That’s how the trade-off is
being portrayed, and perhaps that’s what policy makers pushing
the idea, and individuals on the receiving end, want to believe.
With many euro-zone countries in recession, one can understand
the appeal. Spend more, grow more and presto! The  debt  shrinks
in relation to the economy and becomes more manageable.  “Wishful thinking,” said  Carmen Reinhart , a senior fellow
at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
 Washington , who knows a thing or two about debt. “You seldom
grow your way out of debt. The historic experience is very
rare.”  Reinhart, along with husband Vincent R. Reinhart, chief
U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley, and Harvard University
economist  Kenneth Rogoff  offer some sobering advice for the
struggling euro countries, as well as other nations, in an April
 working paper , “Debt Overhangs: Past and Present.”  To summarize the major findings: Forget about growing your
way out of debt. Too much debt depresses growth, often for as
long as two decades. Debt isn’t solely a cyclical phenomenon.
Real interest rates may be as low during debt overhangs as they
were before.  Debt Doghouse  And one more point of note for the “What, me worry?”
crowd: Just because bond markets in countries perceived as safe,
such as the U.S., are blase about the debt load, it would be a
mistake to ignore the lessons of history.  “Those waiting for financial markets to send the warning
signal through higher interest rates that government policy will
be detrimental to economic performance may be waiting a long
time,” the authors wrote in their paper.  Now for some of the details, starting with a definition.
The economists define a “debt overhang” as a five-year period
when gross public debt exceeds 90 percent of gross domestic
product. According to this metric, Italy, Greece and  Japan  are
charter members of the club, with their most recent episodes
beginning in 1988, 1993 and 1995, respectively. The U.S. isn’t
in the debt doghouse just yet, given that it first breached the
90 percent threshold after the 2008 financial crisis. But it’s
on the waiting list, along with  Belgium ,  Iceland , Ireland and
 Portugal .  The economists’ study of prolonged periods of high debt, 26
cases in all, found that economic growth is 1.2 percentage
points lower than in other periods. The average duration of
debt-overhang episodes is 23 years, producing a “massive”
shortfall in output that is almost one-quarter less, on average,
than in low-debt periods.  In a challenge to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , the
authors found that austerity isn’t a cure for excessive debt
either. “High debt episodes involve all kinds of explicit or
under-the-table restructuring,” Reinhart said in a telephone
interview.  Under the table? Just call it debt forgiveness. Finland was
the only country to repay its World War I debt to the U.S.,
Reinhart told me. By the time the Great Depression ended and
World War II was under way, the countries were allies. And
what’s $10 billion of  unpaid debt  between friends?  Restructuring is fraught with its own set of problems.
“It’s disorderly, associated with growth shocks, but it’s part
of a solution,” Reinhart said.  Then and Now  I was getting more depressed by the minute, trying to see a
way out of the debt mess. After all,  Greece  has been in debtors’
prison for more than half of the last 160 years. Is this what
the future holds for the rest of the debt bingers?  One of the 26 case studies in “Debt Overhangs” offered
some hope: The U.S. made a complete recovery from the 1944-1949
episode. Maybe it could happen again. I called Reinhart back to
ask her the secret formula.  “The U.S. did three things,” she said. “Balanced
budgets, financial repression and robust growth in the 1950s and
1960s.”  The first is a pipe dream, with the  federal deficit  set to
exceed $1 trillion in 2012 for the fourth consecutive year.
World War II defense spending was easy to unwind once
hostilities ended. Today’s necessary cuts to entitlement
programs are a bigger challenge.  No. 3, robust growth, is probably not in the cards either.
Transitioning from a wartime economy to a consumer-driven one,
with returning soldiers eager to buy homes and cars, was a snap
compared with today’s demographics.  The second, which I saved for last, is financial
repression. That entails keeping nominal interest rates low, and
real interest rates negative, and allowing a bit of inflation to
reduce the real value of the debt. (Savers, be forewarned.) The
 Federal Reserve  did just that during and after the war, pegging
interest rates to help ease the government’s debt burden. It
wasn’t until 1951, with the  Treasury-Federal Reserve Accord ,
that the central bank won its independence.  One wonders if we are seeing a repeat of that complicit
behavior today. The Fed has  pledged  to hold its  benchmark
interest rate  near zero at least through late 2014. That would
make it six full years of providing financial institutions with
free money and prodding them to lend and take risk.  I used to think this was a case of academics finding a
real-world application for rational expectations theory: If
people expect something to happen, they will behave as if it
already happened.  Now I’m not so sure. If Reinhart is correct, financial
repression is an accepted part of rehab. What happens, then,
when the treatment regimen produces adverse side effects?  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View :.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Eduardo Saverin’s
citizenship  and  stopping Somali pirates ;  Ezra Klein  on  U.S.
economic bright spots ;  Amity Shlaes  on  supply-siders and
austerity ; Harry L. Davis on  what makes a good leader ;  Steven
Greenhut  on why  California is still golden ; Rachelle Bergstein
on  countercultural footwear .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  