-- Boyd Gaming to Buy Peninsula Gaming for $1.45 Billion
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2012-05-17T20:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/boyd-gaming-to-buy-peninsula-gaming-for-1-45-billion.html
Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD) , the regional
casino operator, agreed to buy Peninsula Gaming LLC for $1.45
billion, adding five properties in three states outside of its
base in Nevada. The shares rose in extended trading.  The deal will be funded with $200 million in cash and about
$1.2 billion in debt, Las Vegas-based Boyd said yesterday in a
statement. Peninsula, which is closely held, loaned Boyd $144
million in a note that is part of the purchase price.  The acquisition gives Boyd a presence in growing markets in
Kansas and  Iowa , Chief Executive Officer  Keith Smith  said in a
telephone interview. After the deal, which Boyd expects will be
completed by the end of the year, 25 percent of  cash flow  will
come from Nevada, down from 35 percent before, Smith said.  “We’ve always had a focus on geographic diversity,” Smith
said. “This particular transaction allowed us to enter markets
we are not in. They’re very strong markets so it made sense for
us.”  The transaction will immediately add to earnings and is
expected to boost cash flow by more than $70 million to about
$185 million, allowing for accelerated debt reduction, Boyd
executives said on a conference call with analysts and reporters
yesterday.  The purchase price represents a multiple of seven times
trailing 12-month earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization for Peninsula’s properties, the company said.  ‘Slight Positive’  Boyd gained 3.7 percent to $7.24 at the close in  New York 
 trading , the biggest gain in a month. The stock has lost 2.9
percent this year.  The acquisition is a “slight positive” for Boyd because
it adds to earnings and reduces dependency on low-growth local
Las Vegas casinos and the competitive  Atlantic City  market, said
analysts led by Joseph Greff at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “We do not believe investors will view this as a reason to
get more positive” on Boyd, said the New York-based analysts in
a research note. There is a risk the company may issue equity to
reduce the debt from the transaction, said the analysts, who
rate the stock underweight or sell.  Boyd approached Dubuque, Iowa-based  Peninsula  and
negotiations were completed yesterday morning, Smith said.  The properties comprise  Kansas  Star Casino near Wichita,
Kansas; Diamond Jo Casino in Dubuque; Diamond Jo Worth in
Northwood, Iowa; Evangeline Downs Racetrack & Casino in
Opelousas,  Louisiana ; and Amelia Belle Casino in Amelia,
Louisiana.  ‘Quality Assets’  The recently opened Kansas Star, in particular, provides
opportunity for increased cash flow, Smith said.  “This property is the jewel of the Peninsula portfolio and
provides a great long-term growth opportunity for our company,”
Smith said on the call. “These are extremely high quality
assets in protected markets.”  In its first full quarter,  Kansas Star  generated $26.8
million in  Ebitda . The casino, which opened in December, will
add hotel rooms, slots and additional tables in phases starting
with its permanent facility in January 2013, Smith said. Should
Kansas Star’s Ebitda exceed $105 million in 2015, Boyd will be
obliged to make an earn-out payment, the company said.  Before the deal, Boyd operated 16 casinos, including
several near the  Las Vegas Strip , in the downtown area and in
nearby communities; the Borgata in Atlantic City,  New Jersey ;
and locations in  Illinois ,  Indiana , Louisiana and  Mississippi .  Potential Transactions  Net debt in the financing was $1.1 billion, Smith said. The
financial structure leaves Boyd, half-owner of the Borgata
casino in Atlantic City, flexibility for other potential
transactions, Smith said on the call.  Greenhill & Co. was Boyd’s financial adviser and Morrison &
Foerster LLP provided legal advice. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG committed
financing for the transaction.  In July 2010, Boyd abandoned a year-and-a-half long pursuit
for assets of Las Vegas-based rival Station Casinos Inc., which
fell into bankruptcy. In December 2009, the company offered
$2.45 billion in cash and assumed debt for all of Station
Casinos, which was rebuffed in favor of a court process that
ended up with the founding Fertitta family retaining control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net  