-- Dissident Brazil Central Bankers May Be Inhibited by Disclosure
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-05-17T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/brazil-central-bank-to-publish-board-members-votes-on-rates-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank will begin
publishing board members’ votes on interest rates, a move that
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says could inhibit board members from
going against President Dilma Rousseff’s desire for lower rates.  The decision to disclose how policy makers vote, which
takes effect at the board’s next meeting on May 29-30, will
improve the policy committee’s decision-making process and
fulfills a new federal mandate guaranteeing greater access to
information, the bank said in a statement yesterday.  Rousseff, members of her cabinet and union allies of her
Workers’ Party have repeatedly called for lower borrowing costs
even as economists warn that cutting interest rates too fast
threatens to further stoke  inflation  in  Latin America ’s biggest
economy. The central bank has signaled that it may cut interest
rates below its record low 8.75 percent from its current 9
percent, even though economists expect inflation to exceed the
4.5 percent target this year and in 2013.  The central bank’s lack of formal independence could make
directors vulnerable to outside pressure though won’t materially
change the board’s current monetary stance,  Alberto Ramos , a
Goldman Sachs economist in  New York , wrote in a report
yesterday. Unlike policy makers at the  Federal Reserve , who
serve fixed terms, Brazil’s president appoints board members and
can fire them at any time.  “When you disclose the votes without having formal
independence you end up exposing the directors to political
pressure,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Votorantim CTVM
Ltda in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “It is a
risk.”  ‘Total Autonomy’  Central Bank President Alexandre Tombini has pushed back
against critics who say the bank is cutting rates to please
Rousseff. On May 9, he sent a statement saying that Rousseff had
guaranteed the bank “total autonomy” to set rates as it sees
fit after O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper published an editorial
that day titled the “Domesticated Central Bank.”  Still, proposals to grant board members fixed terms like
policy makers have in Chile and Peru have little support within
Rousseff’s party and have been stuck in Congress for years.  Elsewhere in Latin America, only Chile’s central bank,
where board members serve 10-year terms, publishes the votes of
policy makers. A congressional committee in  Peru  yesterday
approved legislation that would extend policy makers’ mandates
to seven years from the current five to prevent the board from
being overhauled after each presidential election.  Brazilian policy makers have been split on three occasions
since Tombini took control of the monetary authority in January
2011, with dissenting members calling for a rate higher than the
majority of policy makers.  The bank also said yesterday that it will begin publishing
documents that it studied during policy meetings after a delay
of four years.  Brazil has cut the benchmark  interest rate  3.5 percentage
point since August, more than any other country in the Group of
20 nations. Analysts expect inflation to exceed the remain above
the target until at least 2017, according to a central bank
survey of about 100 economists published May 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  