-- Brown Criticizes California Pension’s Phased Rate Boost
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/brown-criticizes-california-pension-s-phased-rate-boost.html
Governor  Jerry Brown  said a decision
by the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  to phase
in a higher contribution rate after record losses would cost
taxpayers $146 million over 20 years.  Calpers, as the largest U.S. pension is known, decided to
cushion local governments against the increase by spreading it
over two years instead of one. Brown, elected on a pledge to fix
the state’s persistent deficits, said the move irresponsibly
delays making painful choices.  “Your decision today to institute a phase-in period
reinforces the same practice of prior years -- to not pay our
pension bills when due,” Brown said in a letter to the fund’s
board yesterday.  The $232.5 billion fund is still recovering from the
recession, when it lost 23 percent in fiscal 2009, its worst
one-year decline on record. The increase stems in part from the
investment loss and from a lower assumed rate of return adopted
in March, trimming the presumed annual gain to 7.5 percent from
7.75 percent.  The rate is used to calculate how much money the plan will
need to cover promised benefits, and what employers must pay.
The board agreed to phase in half the amount of the increase for
the year that begins July 1 for state agencies and school
districts, and in July 2013 for local governments. The second
half would take effect in the following year.  ‘Pick Up Check’  “We voted for the phase-in option to make things less
painful for all employers during these difficult economic
times,”  Rob Feckner , the president of the Calpers board, said
in a statement. “If the governor feels the state can make the
payment in full, then I’ll be happy to have someone come pick up
his check today.”  The pension fund’s governing board agreed to boost the
state contribution by 5.7 percent, or $213 million, next year.
California would pay $3.7 billion, or about 4 percent of its
budget, for retiree benefits in the year beginning July 1.  If the state were to phase in the change and pay interest
on the deferral, the cost would increase $146 million over 20
years, Brown said.  “In essence, phasing in the change would be the equivalent
of the state taking a 20-year loan at 7.5 percent interest --not
a prudent decision,” Brown said.  Calpers earned 1.9 percent in the three quarters ending
March 31, according to a performance summary on its website.
That follows 20.7 percent in fiscal 2012, its best result in 14
years, led by stocks and private equity gains.  Underfunded Pensions  California’s state pensions in 2010 had about 81 percent of
what they need to cover the benefits they’ve promised, down from
87 percent in the preceding year, according to an annual study
by Bloomberg Rankings. The median for all states was 75 percent,
the data show.  Brown last year proposed changes to public pensions that
would ask government workers to retire later and contribute
more. Democrats have balked at the plans, while Republicans are
seeking a voter initiative to enact them.  “Given the outlook for long-term  investment performance ,
the system may well choose to lower its return assumption again
in the near term,” Brown said in his letter. “Whether Calpers
implements a phase in or not, its is my intent that the state
fully pay for the change in investment return assumptions this
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  