-- Brown Confronts California Intractability as Gap Widens
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/brown-confronts-california-intractability-as-gap-widens.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  took
office last year on a promise to deploy political skills honed
over three decades to break the most populous U.S. state out of
its annual fiscal crisis.  After 16 months, the 74-year-old Democrat is having as
little success as his Republican predecessor,  Arnold Schwarzenegger , in governing the state with the world’s ninth-
biggest economy as it slips into a $15.7 billion deficit, up 70
percent since January.  Brown’s attempts to deal with political gridlock and a
vulnerable fiscal structure since voters passed tax-limiting
Proposition 13 in 1978 may mean real pain. Income taxes on top
earners may be increased to the highest in the U.S. Severe cuts
loom for universities, school children, the elderly and the
poor. And  California ’s credit, rated lowest of any state by
Standard & Poor’s, may be reduced further, risking higher
borrowing costs.  “I’m not sure California’s budget system responds much
anymore to political acumen,” said Raphael Sonenshein,
executive director of the Edmund G. “Pat” Brown Institute of
Public Affairs, named for the governor’s father, at  California
State University , Los Angeles.  “Every governor since the passage of Prop. 13 has faced
these budget catastrophes and have said their goal was to get
rid of the problem,” Sonenshein said in an interview. “I think
most Californians would be happy if it just became a manageable
problem so we could think about something else.”  Political control of California’s budget by either party
has been eroded by ballot measures spelling out how the state
must spend its money.  Constitutional Amendment  A 1988 constitutional amendment, for example, locks in a
minimum level of spending for public schools and community
colleges. In 2004, voters guaranteed funding for local
governments and prohibited the state from reducing property-tax
proceeds to cities and counties. The landmark Proposition 13
reined in property taxes and required a two-thirds vote by
lawmakers in order to raise taxes.  “The budget is a pretzel palace of complexity,” Brown,
who was governor for two terms in the 1970s and 1980, told
reporters in presenting his revised spending plan May 14.  Since he took office in January 2011, the linchpin of
Brown’s attack on deficits has been higher taxes.  His first budget rested on a plan to ask voters to extend
$9 billion of expiring taxes and fees that Schwarzenegger raised
in 2009. Republican lawmakers, whose votes were needed to reach
a two-thirds majority, refused to permit voters to decide.  Finding Republicans  “Finding Republicans to cross over I think has been
frustrating for him and probably more so than he anticipated,”
said Bill Whalen, a fellow at the Hoover Institution at  Stanford
University  near  Palo Alto .  “Schwarzenegger was able to get Republicans to cross
over,” Whalen said. “Pete Wilson was able to get Republicans
to cross over.  Ronald Reagan  was able to get Republicans to
cross over, back in the day.”  “It worked for previous governors, so why not believe that
he could do it too?” said Whalen. “But it’s been elusive.”  Without the tax money, Brown had to negotiate spending
reductions with fellow Democrats who control the Legislature.
They proved unwilling to wipe out what was then a $26 billion
deficit with cuts alone.  Instead, they passed a budget that counted on an improving
economy to produce $4 billion more in revenue than what fiscal
analysts predicted. That money never materialized.  This year, Brown and his allies decided to take his plea
for more taxes directly to voters through a ballot initiative.
He turned in more than 1.5 million signatures last week to
qualify for the November election.  Sales, Income Taxes  Brown’s plan would temporarily raise the statewide  sales
tax , already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent. It would also boost rates on incomes starting at
$250,000. Those making $1 million or more, now taxed at 10.3
percent, would pay 13.3 percent, the most of any state.  That push has been complicated by other groups who want to
put their own tax increases on the ballot. The governor’s
measure will compete with one championed by the California State
PTA and  Molly Munger , the daughter of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s
vice chairman, Charles Munger.  Munger’s plan would increase taxes on income of $7,316 or
more, from 0.4 percent for the lowest earners to 2.2 percent for
individuals making more than $2.5 million a year. It would raise
$10 billion annually for 12 years.  In March, Brown was able to convince the California
Federation of Teachers to merge their tax-increase plan with
his. That may help the governor’s plan pass, as surveys showed
voters favored the group’s measure.  Poll on Plan  A poll on the governor’s tax plan in April by the  Public
Policy Institute of California  found 54 percent of likely voters
expressed support when read the ballot title and a brief
summary. Thirty-nine percent said they’d vote against it.  Brown’s bid to raise income taxes on the wealthiest
Californians drew support from 65 percent of likely voters,
while his proposal to raise sales taxes was opposed by 52
percent, the poll showed.  “Money is not in a piggy bank,” Brown told reporters May
14. “It comes from the people and the people are sometimes more
successful than at other times in terms of their businesses and
their income.  ‘‘So when the money isn’t there, government has to cut
back,’’ Brown said, ‘‘or you have to borrow or kick the can down
the road.’’  1 Million Jobs  California, with an economy bigger than  Russia ’s, lost more
than 1 million jobs in the recession that started in 2007,
reducing the most-indebted state’s revenue by 24 percent. For
the past four years, California lawmakers have trimmed spending
and temporarily raised taxes to combat deficits of more than
$100 billion combined.  California is one of nine states where revenue has trailed
expenditures since July 1, according to a report by the  National
Conference of State Legislatures . California had the third-
largest gap relative to its general fund, 4.8 percent, trailing
Alabama and  Washington , the report said. The figures predated
Brown’s deficit revision May 14.  The Golden State is among 33 states that haven’t seen tax
revenue rebound to levels prior to the global recession that
began in December 2007, according to a study by the Nelson A.
 Rockefeller Institute  of Government in  Albany ,  New York . Tax
receipts in California are down 0.6 percent from their peak in
2008, compared with a national average of 2.9 percent, the
report showed.  California has the lowest credit rating of any state from
 Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch Ratings, at A-, six levels below
AAA.  S&P Outlook  While S&P raised its outlook to positive in February, the
credit rating company said yesterday that the larger deficit may
threaten to undermine the state’s potential for credit
improvement. Balancing the budget even with higher taxes,
Gabriel Petek, a San Francisco-based analyst said in a report,
will require ‘‘significant policy choices in a short time frame
on the part of the legislature.”  Unlike some other states, California hasn’t stockpiled
enough money in growth years to compensate during downturns,
said Doug Offerman, Fitch’s senior director for U.S. public
finance. Expenditures increased during boom years, making it
more difficult to adjust to revenue losses, he said.  “This has combined over the past decade to give the state
a repetition of fiscal crises every time the economy goes
down,” Offerman said in a telephone interview from New York.
The state’s reliance on income taxes from higher earners also
leaves it vulnerable to downturns.  “California faces a revenue structure that’s very
cyclical,” Offerman said. “This is an economy that’s prone to
swings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  