-- Budget Rigor Fails to Shield Italy in Falling Market
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-05-16T09:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/budget-rigor-fails-to-shield-italy-in-falling-market.html
Italy , mired in a fourth  recession 
since 2001, is struggling to shake the threat of debt-crisis
contagion even as the nation’s budget constraints are set to
surpass almost all its euro-region peers in the next two years.  Boosted by Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s 20 billion-euro
($26 billion) austerity package, Italy will post a structural
budget surplus of 0.1 percent of output in 2013, second only to
Finland’s 0.3 percent and better than  Germany ’s deficit of 0.3
percent, the European Commission forecast on May 11. Structural
data exclude the economic cycle’s effects and onetime measures.  Budget rigor alone isn’t shielding Italy from the sovereign
crisis as the region’s second most-indebted country after  Greece 
grapples with a deepening recession and contagion from political
chaos in Athens and a worsening fiscal outlook in  Spain . The
yield on Italy’s 10-year bond rose during seven of the past nine
weeks, increasing to 5.87 percent today. The rate is 440 basis
points more than similar German debt, the most since Jan. 19.  “Doing better for this year and next is fine, but the
truth is, Italy is going to have to do well for the next 10
years,”  Gary Jenkins , director of Swordfish Research Ltd. in
Amersham in the U.K., said by phone. Italy “can’t afford any
kind” of budget overruns and “there’s no quick fix to a big
debt overhang,” he said.  Ballooning Debt  Italy’s economy, bogged down by  debt  that the government
forecasts will increase to 123.4 percent of gross domestic
product this year, fared the worst of the 12 euro-area countries
that reported first-quarter data yesterday. GDP in Italy fell
0.8 percent, while it stalled in France and the euro region and
grew at a greater-than-estimated 0.5 percent in Germany.  Given its belt-tightening efforts, Italy is no longer
“contributing to the crisis,” Monti said today. Still, should
the situation in  Europe  “explode, Italy might find itself with
a clean conscience, but financial markets would be very
concerned” about the nation’s outlook, the premier said.  The GDP report prompted economists at  Barclays Capital  and
 UniCredit (UCG)  SpA to say they may cut their forecasts for Italy in
the second quarter and one of Monti’s key allies called on Monti
to renegotiate the government’s deficit goals.  ‘Unrealistic’ Forecasts  Yesterday’s report shows the government’s economic forecast
are “unrealistic” and Italy needs to scale back its effort to
trim the overall deficit to 0.5 percent of GDP next year from
the 1.7 percent projected for 2012, Stefano Fassina, economic
spokesman for the  Democratic Party  that backs Monti’s
government, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The first measure for growth is stopping this self-
destructive austerity,” Fassina said. “The deficit targets
must be redefined with the European Commission.”  Monti, a former European Union competition commissioner who
took over in November after Silvio Berlusconi’s government fell,
has lobbied European leaders to pursue policies to boost growth
without widening budget deficits. Monti has called on the EU to
allow national investments in so-called strategic industries to
be exempt from fiscal rules to help ease the effects of
austerity measures and jumpstart the expansion.  The government forecasts the economy will return to growth
next year, expanding 0.5 percent and 1 percent in 2014. Public
debt will start falling in 2013 to 121.5 percent of GDP and to
118.2 percent in 2014. That would leave the country’s debt at
almost twice the EU’s 60 percent limit.  “The real question is whether public debt can stabilize
and then start to fall in relation to the economy and if the
improvement in public finances is sustainable,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European economist at Mizuho International Plc
in London, said by e-mail. “The most recent economic data cast
some doubt on what will happen from here on out.”  Hollande’s Arrival  Italian  consumer confidence  plunged last month to the
lowest since 1996, while business sentiment declined to a two-
year low amid concern that the recession may worsen. Monti’s
government forecasts that the euro-area’s third-biggest economy
will contract 1.2 percent this year and says the jobless rate,
already at an almost 12-year high of 9.8 percent, won’t start
declining until next year.  Francois Hollande , sworn in yesterday as  France ’s
president, has called for a renegotiation of the euro area’s
fiscal treaty, saying it puts too much emphasis on austerity.
He’s also urged the  European Central Bank  and the  European
Investment Bank  to play more active roles in stimulating growth.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has also called for a “growth
pact” in the currency region.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield has surged more than 50 basis
points since Greece’s inconclusive election on May 6, which
raised the risk that the nation where the debt crisis began 2
1/2 years ago may exit the euro.  Banks Downgraded  While Italian banks may be in better shape than their
Spanish counterparts, which are hobbled by property losses,
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded its ratings May 14 on 26
Italian lenders, including UniCredit and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,
because of the country’s dim economic outlook  As Spain’s crisis deepened this year, markets have cut
Italy some slack. Spain’s 10-year bond yields 52 basis points
more than Italy’s, a swing of about 2.5 percentage points from
the start of the year when Italy’s yield hovered close to 7.11
percent and Spain’s was at 5.09 percent.  The cost of insuring Spanish debt against neared a record
today, pushing up credit-default swaps on Italy’s borrowing as
well. Spanish swaps rose almost 5 basis points to of 545.2 and
Italy’s held near a four-month high of 501 basis points.  “In the space of just 10 weeks, a rally in Spanish and
Italian bond markets has gone into reverse and threatens to turn
into a rout if euro-zone ‘break-up contagion’ starts to take
hold,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in  London . “A Greek exit would place Spanish
and Italian debt markets and banking sectors under unprecedented
strain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  