-- Cameron Says He’ll Stick to Austerity, Sees Euro Risk
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-05-17T17:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/cameron-to-say-he-ll-stick-to-austerity-sees-euro-risk.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he won’t swerve from his austerity plan, warning members of
the European single currency that their failure to end the
region’s debt crisis carries “huge risks for everybody.”  Euro-area countries are “at a crossroads” and must either
“make up” or face possible “break up,” Cameron said in a
speech today in Manchester, England. Bank of England Governor
Mervyn King warned yesterday that the euro region was “tearing
itself apart” and Britain was not immune from the fallout.  Cameron spoke as the crisis deepened, with the  European
Central Bank  saying it will temporarily stop lending to some
Greek banks to limit its risk and President  Mario Draghi 
acknowledging for the first time that  Greece  could leave the
monetary union.  Cameron vowed to do what it takes to protect the British
economy and financial system from the “worst of the storms”
coming from the euro area, the biggest market for U.K. exports.
In subsequent talks today via video link with German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and other European leaders, Cameron urged
“decisive action” to stem contagion from Greece’s crisis, his
office said in an e-mailed statement.  The opposition Labour Party has renewed calls for Cameron
to ease his deficit-reduction plans, pointing to the election of
French President  Francois Hollande  as a sign that Europe is
starting to take a different course. The prime minister rejected
that argument, saying that deficit-cutting is needed for growth.  No Retreat  “We are moving in the right direction -- not rushing the
task, but judging it carefully,” Cameron said. “And that is
why we must resist dangerous voices calling on us to retreat.”  Cameron will have his first meeting with the French
president in Washington tomorrow, before the Group of Eight
summit at Camp David. Hollande has already met with Merkel.
Cameron conferred today via video link with both Merkel and
Hollande as well as Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European Commission
President  Jose Barroso , his office said.  Greece is heading for new elections after a political
stalemate that’s sent stocks lower, pushed up bond yields and
raised concern the nation may leave the euro area.  European
stocks (SXXP)  fell for a fourth day, with the Stoxx Europe 600
declining 0.8 percent at 2:30 p.m. in London.  ECB Plea  Cameron urged countries to continue their fiscal programs
and said the ECB should do “more to support demand and share
the burden of adjustment.”  The prime minister said he has asked the U.K. Treasury to
examine what more can be done to boost credit for business,
housing and infrastructure and the Bank of England can add more
stimulus to the U.K. economy if needed.  “Our responsible fiscal policy is being matched by active
monetary policy,” he said. “That’s the best way to support
demand and help rebalance our economy away from debt-fueled
consumption and towards exports and investment. And the
independent  Bank of England  is able to do more to support the
economy if necessary or if inflation falls below their target.”  Cameron reiterated that “there’s a need for monetary
action to stimulate growth” in his video talk later with
European leaders, his office said.  Speaking later in the House of Commons, Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said Britain is making “necessary”
contingency plans to cope with the impact of a Greek exit from
the euro region.  The fact that European finance ministers and central
bankers are openly speculating that Greece could be forced out
meant “the genie is out of the bottle,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  