-- Canada’s Dollar Drops Amid Speculation Turmoil Worsening
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-05-16T21:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/canada-dollar-touches-3-month-low-on-greece-concern.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened to the
lowest level since January as the  European Central Bank  said it
will temporarily stop lending to some Greek banks to limit its
risk, adding to bets the nation will exit the euro.  The Canadian currency had erased an earlier drop versus its
U.S. counterpart as economic data bolstered the outlook for
North American growth, strengthening the argument for the
central bank to increase  interest rates . Crude oil, Canada’s
biggest export, fell to a six-month low amid speculation
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  “It’s a pretty clear risk-off scenario because nobody
knows what problem will pop up next,”  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior
currency strategist at Commerzbank AG, said by phone from
 Frankfurt . “The credibility of the Greek banking system is
gone. The Canadian dollar is a risk-driven currency, so it’s a
bit under pressure, but that’s limited to some extent.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.5 percent to
C$1.0122 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0133, the lowest since Jan. 25, and earlier gained as much
as 0.2 percent. One Canadian dollar buys 98.80 U.S. cents.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart increased to as much as 9.35
percent, the highest in four months. It fell to 6.59 percent on
April 30, the lowest level since June 2007. The five-year
average is 12 percent. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  Bonds Erase Losses  Government bonds  erased losses. Ten-year  securities  rose
for a fourth day, pushing yields down one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.92 percent. Earlier they gained two basis
points to 1.96 percent. They touched 1.91 percent on May 14, the
lowest since Feb. 2. Benchmark two-year note yields fell two
basis points to 1.28 percent.  Canada sold C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion) of two-year
securities due in August 2014, fetching an average yield of
1.313 percent. There were C$9.3 billion in bids for the 2.25
percent notes, making the bid-to-cover ratio 2.81 times, the
highest level for a two-year auction since March 2010.  The loonie was up 0.7 percent over the past week versus
nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar gained 1.8
percent, while the euro was little changed.  The ECB said it will push the responsibility for lending to
some Greek financial institutions onto the Greek central bank
until they have sufficiently boosted their capital. It said in
an e-mailed statement that Greek banks needing recapitalization
will regain access to normal lending operations once that
process has been completed, which it expects will be “soon.”  Balance Sheet Integrity  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said in a speech in Frankfurt
that, while the bank’s “strong preference” is for Greece to
stay with the euro, the central bank will continue to preserve
“the integrity of our balance sheet.”  The move “just adds steam to the Greek drama,” said Firas Askari, head currency trader at Bank of Montreal in Toronto.
“All markets are extremely jittery right now.”  The loonie reversed losses earlier after  Statistics Canada 
reported factory sales rose at the fastest pace in six months in
March as oil refineries increased output while unfilled orders
reached a three-year high. Sales climbed 1.9 percent to C$49.7
billion following two previous declines, the data showed.  Industrial production and housing starts in the U.S.,
Canada’s biggest trade partner, beat forecasts last month,
government data showed. Output at factories, mines and utilities
increased 1.1 percent, and housing starts rose 2.6 percent.  ‘Decent Data’  “Decent data has helped risk bounce,”  Steve Butler ,
managing director in Toronto at Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotia
Capital unit, said via e-mail. “Some  U.S. dollar  longs are
getting pushed out as a lot of currencies look extended”
against the greenback, he said. A long position is a bet a
currency will appreciate.  Canadian employers added the most workers to payrolls in
March and April in three decades, the nation’s statistics agency
reported May 11. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said last
month  interest-rate  boosts may be necessary to contain inflation
that’s accelerating faster than central bank forecasts. The
benchmark rate has been 1 percent since September 2010.  Several Federal Reserve officials said at their last
meeting that a loss of momentum in U.S. growth or increased
risks to their economic outlook could warrant additional action
to keep the recovery on track, minutes released today showed. At
the April 24-25 session, they affirmed their plan to hold
 interest rates  at virtually zero through at least late 2014.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of commodities lost
as much as 1.5 percent today to 626.57, the lowest level since
Dec. 20, as  Greece  prepared for a second round of elections in
less than two months while default loomed. Crude oil for June
delivery dropped to as low as $91.81 a barrel in  New York , the
least since Nov. 3, before trading at $92.80, down 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  