-- Canada March Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-05-16T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/canada-march-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s manufacturing shipments report for March released
by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales increased 1.9% in March to $49.7
billion, the largest advance since September 2011. The gain
was led by the petroleum and coal products industry.  Sales rose in 13 of 21 industries, representing just
over three-quarters of the manufacturing sector. Sales of
durable goods increased 1.4%, while non-durable goods sales
rose 2.4%.  Constant dollar sales advanced 1.9% in March, indicating
an increase in the volume of manufactured goods sold. The
increase was the largest since July 2011.  Sales gains led by the petroleum and coal products industry  Sales of petroleum and coal products increased 4.5% to
$7.5 billion, the highest level since July 2008. The increase
was largely the result of higher sales volumes at many oil
refineries.  In the  chemical industry , sales rose 3.2% to $3.9
billion. Most chemical manufacturers reported higher sales,
largely reflecting greater volumes of products sold.  Production in the aerospace product and parts industry
increased 9.9% to $1.4 billion.  Following an 8.6% decline in February, sales rose 2.3%
in the motor vehicle assembly industry.  Although eight industries posted lower sales in March,
most declines were relatively small. Sales decreased 1.2% in
the primary metals industry and 1.6% in the plastics and
rubber products industry.  Gains in seven provinces  Sales increased in seven provinces, representing more
than 90% of Canadian manufacturing. Ontario, New Brunswick
and  Quebec  reported the largest gains.  In Ontario, growth was widespread as 15 of 21 industries
posted higher sales. Sales advanced 1.9% to $22.4 billion,
reflecting increases in the petroleum and coal products,
motor vehicle assembly, chemical, and computer and electronic
product industries. This was the first gain in sales in
Ontario following two months of declines.  Sales in  New Brunswick  advanced 21.3% to $1.9 billion,
reflecting increases in the non-durable goods industries. The
level in March was the second-highest on record, $9 million
below sales in September 2011.  In Quebec, manufacturers posted a 1.2% gain to $11.8
billion, with sales increasing in 9 of 21 industries. The
increase was led by a 34.5% rise in aerospace product and
parts manufacturing. This was the third advance in four
months for this industry.  Inventory levels fall  Inventory levels fell 1.2% in March, the largest decline
since September 2009. Inventories decreased in three of the
last four months.  Petroleum and coal products manufacturers reported the
largest drop in inventories, down 10.9% to $4.3 billion.
Lower finished products inventories accounted for two-thirds
of the decline, while one-third was attributable to decreases
in raw material inventories.  Machinery manufacturers reduced inventories 2.3% to $6.7
billion, mainly as a result of lower raw materials
inventories.  The inventory-to-sales ratio fell to 1.30 in March from
1.34 in February. The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure
of the time, in months, that would be required to exhaust
inventories if sales were to remain at their current level.  Unfilled orders increase  In March, unfilled orders rose 2.0% to $62.6 billion,
the second consecutive monthly increase. Unfilled orders were
at their highest level since March 2009.  The advance reflected a 2.5% rise in the aerospace
product and parts industry to $30.5 billion, the highest
level in nearly three years. Excluding the  aerospace industry ,
unfilled orders rose 1.5%.  The machinery industry reported a 3.5% gain to $8.3
billion, reflecting increased orders for construction
machinery.  New orders were up 2.0% in March, the second consecutive
monthly increase. The advance was the result of increases in
the transportation equipment, petroleum and coal products,
and computer and electronic product industries.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and are
expressed in current dollars unless otherwise specified.  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated for
the three previous months.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills,
clothing, leather and allied products, paper, printing and
related support activities, petroleum and coal products,
chemicals, and plastics and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components,
transportation equipment, furniture and related products and
miscellaneous manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the aerospace industry and shipbuilding industries,
the value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting monthly
sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change in
inventories of goods in process and finished products
manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will
contribute to future sales assuming that the orders are not
cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the
current month or not. New orders are measured as the sum of
sales for the current month plus the change in unfilled
orders from the previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  