-- CapitaLand Leads Developers Lower on Curbs: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-05-16T02:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/capitaland-leads-developers-lower-on-curbs-singapore-mover.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  paced declines by
Singapore developers on concerns the government may introduce
additional measures to cool the housing market after home sales
in April rose to the highest in three years.  CapitaLand, Southeast Asia’s biggest developer, fell 1.9
percent to S$2.64 as of 10:02 a.m. in Singapore trading, heading
for its lowest close in more than three months. The  FTSE Strait
Times Real Estate Index (FSTRE)  of 42 property stocks slid 0.9 percent
to its lowest since Feb. 14.  Keppel Land Ltd. (KPLD)  and  City
Developments Ltd. (CIT)  both lost 2 percent.  “We believe more cooling measures are likely, given that
suburban private property prices remain elevated,” Wilson Liew,
an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore  wrote
in a note today. “The government is watching the increasing
trend of shoebox units, which are less than 550 square feet,
very closely.”  Liew expects  home prices  to decline by 10 percent by 2013.  Singapore’s April private home sales climbed 3.9 percent to
2,487 units last month, the highest in almost three years,
according to government data released yesterday.  Home sales remained above 2,000 units in each of the
previous three months as buyers invested in so-called shoebox
apartments. Singapore may introduce measures to regulate the
sale of such homes after a record number were sold in the first
quarter, Khaw Boon Wan, Singapore’s National Development
minister, said in Parliament on May 14.  Developers sold 1,764 shoebox apartments in the three
months ended March 31, the most since the  Urban Redevelopment
Authority  began collating the data in 2007. The smaller units
accounted for 27 percent of new sales in the first quarter when
private home prices fell for the first time in almost three
years following curbs including more stringent mortgage
requirement and higher taxes.  Singapore plans to release five residential sites this
month where developers could build about 2,100 apartments, the
government said yesterday. The city-state’s land sales for the
first half are expected to add about 14,000 homes, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  