-- Carlyle Is Said to Seek $3.5 Billion for Fourth Asia Buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-05-16T04:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/carlyle-is-said-to-seek-3-5-billion-for-fourth-asia-buyout-fund.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the private-equity
firm that went public this month, plans to seek about $3.5
billion for its fourth buyout fund in  Asia , two people familiar
with the matter said.  Carlyle, which has made initial approaches to investors,
has yet to start marketing the fund, one of the people said,
asking not to be identified because the information isn’t
public.  At $3.5 billion, the buyout fund would be Carlyle’s biggest
targeting Asia. It would be 37 percent larger than the firm’s
last regional fund, completed in 2007. Private-equity companies
raised $57 billion for regional funds last year, more than
double the amount of 2009, as they sought to invest in  China ,
according to Asian Venture Capital Journal.  Carlyle, based in  Washington , plans an initial close on the
new fund, Carlyle Asia Partners IV, in the second half of the
year, a person with knowledge of the matter said this week. The
private-equity firm has raised  $5.1 billion  since 1999 focusing
on buyout deals in Asia, with Carlyle Asia Partners III
accumulating $2.55 billion in 2007, according to its website.  Brian Zhou, a Beijing-based spokesman at Carlyle, declined
to comment.  Private-equity investments in the Asia-Pacific region
reached $69 billion last year, a 38 percent increase from 2009,
ACVJ estimates show.  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and TPG Capital are raising
multibillion-dollar pools targeting the region.  Fifty-three pan-Asia funds were attempting to raise a total
of $22.3 billion to invest exclusively in the region as of last
month, according to data compiled by Preqin Ltd., a London-based
research firm.  Carlyle’s IPO  Carlyle expects to raise money for 11 funds this year, co-
Chief Executive Officer  David Rubenstein  said on a call with
investors yesterday. The firm raised $671 million in an initial
public offering this month, pricing below its target after
struggling to win investors wary of the track record of buyout
firms.  The company, the world’s second-biggest private-equity firm
by assets, was among first global firms to raise a domestic fund
in China. It collected 2.4 billion  yuan  ($380 million) for a
local-currency fund with Beijing’s municipal government in July
2010. The fund was increased to 3.2 billion yuan a year later.  The number of buyout deals in China more than doubled last
year to a record, according to Bain & Co. The value of leveraged
buyouts in the country increased to $7.5 billion from $5.9
billion in 2010, Preqin estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  