-- Carmignac, Who Called 2009 Rally, Bets on Emerging Market Stocks
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-05-16T11:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/carmignac-who-called-2009-rally-bets-on-emerging-market-stocks.html
Edouard Carmignac, who manages 48
billion euros ($61 billion) and correctly called the 2009 stock
market rally, said he’s buying equities exposed to emerging
markets and reducing his cash and gold positions.  Carmignac Investissement (CARINVT) , which has 7.8 billion euros of
assets, bought luxury-goods makers  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC)  and  Cie Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  and KFC owner  Yum!
Brands Inc. (YUM)  for their emerging-market growth in the first four
months of this year, he said at a Morningstar Inc. conference in
London today.  “Emerging-market equity markets valuations we find pretty
compelling,” said Carmignac, 64. “This risk aversion has
affected equity valuations which overall remain attractive.”  Carmignac has almost quadrupled his assets under management
since 2008 after his biggest fund, Carmignac Patrimoine, was
unchanged that year compared with a 42 percent drop in the MSCI
World Index. The Paris-based fund manager also correctly called
the market rally from March 2009, allowing Carmignac
Investissement to rise 42.6 percent for the year by betting on
stocks including JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Carmignac Patrimoine (CARMPAT)  is in
the top 2 percent of its peer group over the past five years,
and Carmignac Investissement has beaten 94 percent of rivals in
that time frame.  The Frenchman also bought equities including insurer  AIA
Group Ltd. (1299)  and Chinese search engine  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  at the beginning
of this year, he said. Stocks with exposure to emerging markets
now represent 45 percent of Carmignac Investissement compared
with 37 percent at Dec. 31, he said.  Gold, Cash Reduced  The fund reduced its cash holdings to 4.2 percent from 8.9
percent at the end of 2011 and cut its investments in gold
miners to 9.8 percent from 14.4 percent. The fund, which is up
2.3 percent this year, has also reduced its holdings of
defensive stocks in spite of volatility in the euro region.  “ Greece  for all intents and purpose has left the euro by
now, by not abiding to the rules,” Carmignac said. “We will
probably have to have a patchwork arrangement, which will
additionally weigh on the markets.”  Equities are attractive even though Europe is headed for
recession and will slow global growth, Carmignac said.  “On an equity risk premium they are cheap,” he said.
“The return on bonds is artificially deflated right now because
of quantitative easing, etc. For the foreseeable future as bond
yields for public debt stay low, these risk premiums are
attractive for us.”  The fund manager last month opened up a sales office in
London, which will offer its products to U.K. wealth managers,
institutional investors and private banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  