-- CBS Adds Four Shows to Lineup, Fewest of Major TV Networks
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-05-16T15:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/cbs-to-add-four-new-shows-to-lineup-fewest-of-major-tv-networks.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-watched
U.S. television network, will add three dramas and one comedy to
its schedule next season, fewest of the four main broadcasters.  Dramas “Elementary,” “Vegas” and “Made in Jersey” and
comedy “Partners” will air on the network in the TV season
starting September, CBS said today in an e-mailed statement. CBS
Entertainment President Nina Tassler will pitch the schedule to
advertisers today at  Carnegie Hall  in New York.  Fueled by the  Super Bowl  and a key football playoff game in
prime time, CBS is poised to draw the most viewers ages 18 to 49
next season for the first time in 20 years. The network, first
in total viewers for nine of the last 10 years, will lead its
competitors in advance advertising commitments from marketers
and ad rates, CBS Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  said on
a conference call this month.  “Momentum is on our side this year,” Kelly Kahl, who
oversees the network’s schedule, said today at a press
conference. “We have the momentum and we have great shows.”  CBS is bringing back 19 shows, including “Big Bang
Theory,” “Two and a Half Men” and “NCIS,” while canceling
“CSI: Miami” after the show had been on the air for 10 years.  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose 0.4
percent to $32.11 at 11:53 a.m. New York time. The stock had
climbed 18 percent this year before today.  ‘Friend Me’  “Elementary” stars Jonny Lee Miller as  Sherlock Holmes 
and Lucy Liu as Dr. Joan Watson in a modern-day take on the
crime-fighting duo that’s set in  New York .  Dennis Quaid  and
Michael Chiklis star in “Vegas,” a show inspired by former Las
Vegas Sheriff Ralph Lamb, a fourth-generation rancher who tries
to bring order to sin city in the 1960s.  “Made in Jersey” stars Janet Montgomery as a lawyer at a
high-powered New York law firm who draws on her background as a
prosecutor in Trenton,  New Jersey . “Partners” is about how the
friendship of two men, played by David Krumholtz and Michael
Urie, changes when one of them gets engaged.  Midseason, CBS plans to air “Golden Boy,” about the rise
of the youngest police commissioner in New York and the
professional and personal costs he pays to achieve that rank.
The network ordered a midseason comedy, “Friend Me,” about two
buddies who move to Los Angeles from  Indiana .  CBS will also air a new reality show from Mark Burnett and
Michael Davies called “The Job,” where contestants compete for
their dream jobs at America’s top companies.  NBC, Fox  Broadcast and cable networks released their 2012-2013
schedules in so-called upfront meetings with advertisers to book
advance commitments for the season.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC unveiled its schedule May 13,  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox released its programming lineup on May 14 and  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC revealed its new shows yesterday.  NBC is adding seven comedies next year, including “Guys
with Kids” from  Jimmy Fallon . The network ordered five dramas
that include “Revolution” from  J.J. Abrams .  Fox is adding five new shows, including the comedy “Ben
and Kate” and the drama “The Following” starring  Kevin Bacon ,
and added Britney Spears and Demi Lovato as judges on its “X-
Factor” singing competition.  ABC is adding 10 new shows to its lineup next season,
including the dramas “666 Park Avenue” and “Last Resort.”  CBS is expected to gain $2.78 billion in commitments, the
most of the major networks,  Spencer Wang , an analyst in New York
with Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a May 11 report.  ABC will garner $2.35 billion in ad commitments ahead of
next season, 2 percent more than a year earlier, while Fox will
collect $2.03 billion and NBC will receive $1.66 billion, Wang
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  