-- Chalco Targeted as Mongolia Seeks to Limit State Deals
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-05-17T21:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/chalco-targeted-as-mongolia-seeks-to-limit-state-deals.html
Mongolia , the commodity-rich nation
that posted the world’s fastest economic growth in 2011, is on
course to pass a law by June that will bar foreign state-owned
companies from controlling its key assets.  The draft law, submitted to parliament two years ago, was
accelerated after a public outcry following state-run  Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd. ’s move last month to take control of
 SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ) , Vice Finance Minister Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt said in an interview. The law isn’t likely to apply to
any existing operations, he said.  Rio Tinto  Group is developing
the $6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper mine in the nation.  Tightening the legislation would mean Mongolia joins
 Indonesia  and  Argentina  in seeking to control ownership of
resource assets to secure their economic future. The draft law,
due to be passed before parliamentary elections next month, will
be applied to the bid by Chalco, as Aluminum Corp. is known, and
is aimed at ensuring no one country or product dominates the
economy, according to Ganhuyag.  “Investors don’t like it when the rules of the game are
changed after the game has started, and changed often at that,”
Dale Choi, chief investment strategist at Frontier Securities in
 Ulan Bator , said by phone. “It would be in the interests of
Mongolian people to make a decision based on commercial factors,
rather than geopolitical factors.”  Chalco  rose  0.6 percent to HK$3.24 in  Hong Kong , valuing
the company at HK$93.3 billion ($12 billion). SouthGobi gained
2.4 percent to C$5.89 in Toronto.  Controlling Assets  Mongolia, a nation of 2.8 million people that broke off
from Communist rule and dependence on the then-Soviet Union in
1990, wants foreign investment in key assets to be made by
entities that represent several nations, Ganhuyag said. The
country currently exports most of its coal and copper to  China .  “We don’t want to be faced with one sovereign,” he said
by phone from Ulan Bator. “Our struggle to get political
freedom was a long one and we cherish that. We will not let
foreign government-owned entities control strategic assets in
Mongolia.”  The land-locked country is squeezed between China and
 Russia , two of the world’s 10 largest economies and the No. 1
and No. 3 countries by land mass. China accounts for over 80
percent of its neighbor’s import and export trade, according to
the  World Bank . Exports to China rose to 92 percent of the total
in the first quarter, Mongolia’s  statistics office  said last
week.  Resource nationalism, or state demands for higher taxes,
royalties or stakes, was cited as a growing concern by  Rio Tinto (RIO) 
and  Freeport-McMoRan (FCX)  Copper & Gold Inc. in their most recent
earnings. The issue was the number-one concern among mining
executives in 2011, replacing capital allocation, Ernst & Young
LLP said in its annual risk survey published in August.  Government Review  Chalco said April 2 that it agreed to buy Toronto-listed
 Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. (IVN) ’s 58 percent stake in SouthGobi in a deal
worth as much as C$925 million ($910 million). Mongolia’s
Mineral Resources Authority said it would ask SouthGobi to
suspend exploration activity and mining on certain licenses
while it reviews the deal. Some customers have cut orders
because of the request, SouthGobi said May 14.  Chalco won’t proceed with the deal unless it gets approval
from Mongolia, it said on April 25.  Yuan  Li, a spokesman for
Aluminum Corp. of China, Chalco’s parent, declined to comment,
saying he can’t provide more information.  “There’s a big issue of discrimination and foreign
investors should be just foreign investors,” Frontier’s Choi
said. “You can’t create separate rules for Chinese state-owned
companies or Canadian companies. Chalco’s accord is market-
based, it represents the way the market wants to go.”  Coal Deposit  Plans to develop Mongolia’s Tavan Tolgoi coal deposit, one
of the world’s largest, have also stalled ahead of the June
elections. Progress on talks with companies including  Peabody
Energy Corp. (BTU) , OAO Russian Railways, and China’s  Shenhua Group  to
develop the West Tsankhi part of Tavan Tolgoi have “stopped,”
Prime Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold said in March.  Mongolia first announced in July, and then said it would
review, an accord to give Shenhua Group a 40 percent stake in
West Tsankhi, with Peabody taking 24 percent and a Russian-
Mongolian group the rest. The government didn’t clarify who the
Russian-Mongolian group included.  Uncertainty about the fate of the foreign tender has meant
that the $3 billion initial public offering of state-run Erdenes
Tavan Tolgoi, which is developing the East Tsankhi part of the
6-billion-metric-ton field, was delayed in March as some
politicians call for Mongolia to develop West Tsankhi itself.  Chalco’s Move  Chalco’s move on SouthGobi was announced in the same month
that it revealed plans to become the top shareholder in  Winsway
Coking Coal Holdings Ltd. (1733) , a Hong Kong-based trader that ranks
among the top exporters of the commodity from Mongolia. London-
based Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company,
counts Chalco’s parent as its largest shareholder.  Illtud Harri, a Rio spokesman, declined to comment.  The new law will make sure that any purchase of stakes in
so-called strategic assets by a state-owned entity are
registered and receive government approval, Ganhuyag said. The
list of strategic assets and industries will be made later and
will likely include uranium and rare earths among other
minerals, he said.  State-owned entities won’t necessarily be barred from
owning any assets in Mongolia, Ganhuyag said. “We’ll review all
applications on a case by case basis.”  Private companies investing in the country’s key assets
will also be scrutinized on their source of income, local hiring
intentions and investment timespan to avoid so-called hot money
inflows, Ganhuyag said. Mongolia will also seek to make sure
investors don’t use jurisdictions that allow tax minimization,
he said.  Export Partners  The country needs new investment laws to support more of
its products being exported to countries other than China,
Ganhuyag said. A project that would include several foreign
entities, such as West Tsankhi where companies from five
countries may form a consortium, is the model Mongolia wants, he
said.  “We want China to be our good neighbor and economic
partner,” Ganhuyag said.  Mongolia’s “Third Neighbor” policy,
a move to broaden ties with nations outside China and Russia,
aims to have no country or product account for more than a third
of total sales, he said.  Coal sales amounted to $2.2 billion in 2011 and made up
almost half of Mongolia’s exports, the World Bank said in a
February report. Mineral resources accounted for 89 percent of
Mongolia’s total exports in April, according to the latest data
from the country’s Customs General Administration. Exports to
northeast Asian countries were $389 million of a total $409
million, the data show.  Strategic Industries  To protect its strategic industries, which in the current
version of the draft law include mining, media, communications,
weaponry and air traffic, Mongolia may retain a majority stake
in key assets or a so-called golden share that would allow the
government to veto decisions, Ganhuyag said.  Purchasing more than 49 percent of a key asset will need
parliamentary approval,  according to  a draft of the law.  Chalco’s intention to purchase SouthGobi will be reviewed
once the new strategic investment law is passed, Ganhuyag said.
The fact that the company is state-owned and that Mongolia is
China’s biggest coking coal supplier will be a factor in the
decision, he said.  “We don’t think it’s a good idea to give up control over
the whole supply chain,” Ganhuyag said. “We trust the Chinese
government will understand our needs and our concerns.”  Chalco was allowed last year to buy all of the coal from
the East Tsankhi area of Tavan Tolgoi, Mongolia’s biggest coal
field, after it agreed to resell 30 percent of the total volume
to  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ,  Itochu Corp. (8001)  and Korea Resources Corp.  The difference between SouthGobi and East Tsankhi is that
Mongolia controls the mine, how much it produces and how it
exports, Ganhuyag said.  “We would like to retain that freedom,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  