-- Chesapeake Stockholders Seek Delay of Annual Meeting From Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/chesapeake-energy-stockholders-ask-court-to-delay-annual-meeting.html
A group of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) 
investors asked a judge to postpone the company’s annual
shareholders’ meeting so they can gain additional disclosure of
Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s compensation.  In papers filed May 15 with U.S. District Judge Vicki Miles-LaGrange in  Oklahoma City , Chesapeake stockholders said
they also want details of the CEO’s indebtedness to third
parties said to have financed his investment in company oil
wells, arguing it may have created a conflict of interest.  The request was made in the context of a lawsuit filed in
the name of the second-largest U.S. natural gas producer against
McClendon and eight Chesapeake directors. The meeting is set for
June 8.  T. Boone Pickens , the billionaire Texas hedge-fund manager,
sold almost half a million shares in Chesapeake during the past
six weeks through May 10, as the stock fell 24 percent on
investor reaction to natural-gas prices and potential management
conflicts.  Chesapeake closed yesterday at $14.04 after touching a 52-
week low of $13.90 in  New York  Stock Exchange Trading.  “The board has facilitated McClendon’s abuse of the
company by permitting rampant conflicts of interest to go
unchecked and undisclosed,” the investors said in their filing.  Miles-LaGrange told the defendants to file their opposition
to the shareholders’ request by May 23 and set a hearing date of
May 30.  Jim Gipson, a spokesman for the Oklahoma City-based
company, declined to comment on the court filing.  The case is Deborah G. Mallow IRA SEP Investment Plan v.
Aubrey K. McClendon, 12-cv-436, U.S. District Court for the
Western District of Oklahoma (Oklahoma City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  