-- Chile Peso Falls Past 500 in Biggest Four-Day Drop Since October
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-05-16T19:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/chile-peso-falls-past-500-in-biggest-four-day-drop-since-october.html
Chile ’s peso declined past 500 in the
biggest four-day drop since October as copper prices sank on
concern turmoil in  Europe  will sap demand for the metal, the
South American nation’s biggest export.  The currency dropped 0.3 percent to 500.89 per dollar,
slipping past 500 per dollar for the first time in four months
and extending its decline over the past four days to 2.9
percent. Economic concern sent  Chilean bond  and swap yields
tumbling as investors sought safety and bet on lower rates.  Offshore investors in the Chilean forwards market raised
their bet against the peso to $8.2 billion on May 14, the most
since October 2009, according to data from the central bank.
Copper declined after talks on forming a Greek government
collapsed and the country geared up for elections in June that
may lead to its exit from the euro. The world’s biggest miner,
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , said  commodity  prices will extend their drop.  “The break through 500 was due given the slump in copper
prices,” said  Alejandro Cuadrado , a Latin American currency
strategist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in  New York .
“The Chilean peso had been lagging. The short position in
Chilean pesos is getting heavier. If you look at the last
quarter of last year, with copper at comparable levels, the peso
was around 501 or 502 per dollar.”  Futures on copper, which makes up more than half of Chile’s
exports, fell as much as 2 percent to $3.449 a pound.  Pared Decline  The currency weakened as much as 0.7 percent to 502.97 per
dollar before paring its decline as a report showed output from
U.S. factories, mines and utilities increased in April the most
since December 2010.  “The U.S. industrial production data was good, and things
are starting to improve internationally,” said Ronald Volpi,
head of spot currency trading at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa
SA in Santiago.  Falling commodity prices have trimmed Chilean inflation
expectations. The forwards market for unidades de fomento,
Chile’s inflation-linked currency unit, priced in 2.59 percent
price increases in 2012, down from 3.13 percent a month ago.
One-year break-even inflation in the swaps market fell seven
basis points to 2.78 percent, the lowest level since Jan. 5.  Five-year break-even inflation in the bonds market
decreased six basis points to 2.93 percent. In the swaps market
it slid seven basis points to 2.97 percent.  Central Bank Bond  Chilean central bank  10-year bond yields  may fall to 5.4
percent from the 5.50 percent today, according to Felipe
Alarcon, an economist at  Banco de Credito e Inversiones (BCI)  in
Santiago.  “The market is looking for safer paper,” he said.
“Chilean central bank and government bonds act like a Bund or
Treasury and if it was easier for foreigners to buy them the
yields would be even lower.”  The  five-year swap spread  in pesos fell to negative 26
basis points, from negative eight basis points a month ago. Swap
spreads measure the gap between bond and swap yields and are
negative in Chile because the greater participation of foreign
investors in the swaps market means that swap rates tend to
track international economic conditions more closely than the
bonds. Swap spreads are positive in most countries and reflect
the extra risk premium of lending to a counterparty in the swaps
market instead of the sovereign.  At the central bank’s auction of 10-year bonds yesterday,
it received orders for 4.7 times the amount of bonds it sold,
the highest since December. The ratio at a similar auction on
May 3 was 4.5 times and on April 24 it was 4.1 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  