-- China Postal Express IPO to Fund Online-Shopping Push
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-05-16T23:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/china-postal-express-ipo-to-fund-online-shopping-push.html
China Postal Express & Logistics Co.,
the nation’s biggest courier, is seeking 9.98 billion  yuan  ($1.6
billion) in an initial public offering as it struggles to keep
pace with a domestic delivery market growing 20 percent a year.  The courier has trailed industrywide growth over the past
three years, according to its IPO  prospectus , as it restructured
operations and missed out on an online-shopping boom because of
a focus on business-to-business shipments. The company, a unit
of the state-owned postal monopoly, also has to face competition
from more than 7,500 local couriers who have largely shut  FedEx
Corp. (FDX)  and DHL out of the domestic market.  China Postal “desperately needs additional capital to cope
with the huge growth in the domestic express market,” said John Manners-Bell, chief executive officer at Brinkworth, England-
based Transport Intelligence Ltd. “It has lost significant
market share to private competitors in the past few years.”  The Beijing-based company, which retains about 30 percent
of the market, intends to buy trucks, airplanes and distribution
centers following the IPO, which was approved this month, and
will be  Shanghai ’s largest since October. The company also plans
a greater focus on an online-shopping market that will quadruple
by 2015, according to a state plan.  “Logistics networks are definitely going to benefit from
fast growth in China’s e-commerce,” said Elinor Leung, head of
 Asia  telecommunications and Internet research at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets.  Online-Shopping Boom  Online purchases by Chinese consumers surged 66 percent
last year by sales, compared with a 12 percent growth in the
overall retail market, according to the research unit of Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd., the nation’s biggest e-commerce company.  Most Shanghai IPOs take place within a couple of months of
them being approved by the China Securities Regulatory
Commission. China Postal Board Secretary Ma Zhanhong wasn’t able
to comment, according to his office. The prospectus said the
sale will take place this year.  The courier’s customers include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Dell Inc. and
cosmetics-maker Mary Kay Inc., according to its prospectus. Its
net income rose 80 percent last year to 902 million yuan because
of rising demand and cost-cutting measures.  China’s e-commerce market, including consumer and business
purchases, will grow to 18 trillion yuan by 2015, from 4.5
trillion yuan in 2011, according to a five-year  plan  by the
Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology .  The government is bolstering consumer protection and
encouraging state agencies to buy goods online as part of plans
to boost the sector. Still, Chinese consumers only bought an
average of two items online for express delivery in 2010,
compared with 4.1 worldwide and 26 in the U.S., according to
Transport Intelligence.  Unreliable Deliveries  Unreliable and late shipments industrywide, particularly
around peak-holiday periods, have constrained the growth of e-
commerce in  China , according to the logistics-research company.  “Quality has become a key issue with express carriers,”
said Transport Intelligence’s Manners-Bell. “The domestic
sector is primarily serviced by local players without the
systems or maturity to cope with the growth.”  Only 52 of China’s couriers have sales networks expanding
beyond one province, according to the IPO prospectus. Closely
held  S.F. Express (Group) Co. , which has more than 3,000
services branches in mainland China, declined to comment.  Nationwide express-delivery sales may increase 20 percent
annually, reaching 143 billion yuan in 2015, China Postal said
in the share-sale document, citing a government plan.  DHL, FedEx  Overseas couriers have struggled in China’s domestic
market.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL and partner  Sinotrans Air
Transportation Development Co. (600270)  sold their loss-making operations
in the country last year to instead focus on international
shipments, according to  statement .  FedEx has only a small share of the domestic market, China
Postal said in its prospectus, without elaboration. The Memphis,
Tennessee-based company declined to comment, according to
Ketchum  Hong Kong , which handles its regional media relations.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is waiting for a license to
operate in China’s domestic market, Dan Brutto, its
international president, told analysts on a March conference
call. TNT NV, which UPS is buying, doesn’t have one, he said.  China Postal has built up a chain of 45,418 outlets,
predominately in post offices run by parent China Post Group,
including in remote areas, such as  Tibet . It also has 889,000
employees, more than FedEx and UPS combined, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Extensive Network  “The extensive network gives China Postal a competitive
advantage when  China’s economy  starts to shift from coastal
regions to inland area,” said Richard Tai, an analyst at
Shanghai-based research firm China Research & Intelligence.
“But as a state-owned company, China Postal also inherited
inefficiency from previous monopoly, which can’t be remedied by
IPO alone.”  For instance, the company is slow in parcel delivery and
complaint handling, he said. China Postal intends to improve
operations and management, including hiring  Stephen Roach ,
former non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley in Asia, as an
independent  executive director , according to its prospectus.  The sale, arranged by  Citic Securities Co. (600030) , will be
Shanghai’s largest IPO since builder  Sinohydro Group Ltd. (601669)  raised
13.5 billion yuan last year. The new funds will help China
Postal expand its network and lure customers from competitors,
said Sun Chao, a Shenzhen-based analyst at Ping An Securities
Co.  “The IPO will definitely add to pressure on rivals,” Sun
said. “It will make the competition even fiercer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  