-- China Swaps in Longest Losing Streak Since 2006 as Lending Falls
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-05-16T08:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/china-swaps-in-longest-losing-streak-since-2006-as-lending-falls.html
China ’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
fell for an eighth day, the longest losing streak since 2006, as
a report on lending added to speculation policy makers will cut
banks’ reserve-requirement ratios.  Combined net lending by Industrial & Commercial  Bank of
China , China Construction Bank Corp., Bank of China and
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. was almost zero in the two weeks
through May 13,  Shanghai  Securities News reported today, citing
an unidentified person familiar with the matter. China’s central
bank and commercial lenders sold 60.6 billion  yuan  ($9.6 billion)
more foreign currency than they bought in April, the first net
sell-off this year, according to People’s Bank of China data.
That indicated capital may have flowed out of the world’s
second-biggest economy.  “There might be one more cut in  reserve requirements 
before the end of the second quarter given slowing growth
momentum and slow foreign-exchange inflows,” said Chen Qi, co-
head of fixed-income research at UBS Securities Co. in Shanghai.
Depressed lending “is consistent with weak demand in the real
economy,” she said.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.78 percent as of 4:44 p.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The eight-day decline
was the longest losing streak since May 2006.  Repo Rate Falls  The People’s Bank of China cut banks’  reserve requirements 
by 50 basis points on May 12, on day after data showed April
industrial production, new loans and retail sales grew less than
forecast. The monetary authority hasn’t gauged demand for bill
sales tomorrow, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The central bank asked banks to
submit orders for 91-day  repurchase agreements , the trader said.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, decreased four basis
points to 2.79 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The
yield on the 3.51 percent government bonds due February 2022
slid five basis points to 3.36 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  