-- China Mobile in Talks With Apple on Iphone Cooperation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-16T05:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/china-mobile-in-talks-with-apple-on-iphone-cooperation.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
largest phone company by users, and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are in talks to
offer the iPhone, the carrier’s new chairman said.  China Mobile can’t predict if the two sides will come to an
agreement this year, Chairman Xi Guohua said at a shareholder
meeting in Hong Kong today. Xi chaired his first annual general
meeting since assuming office after his predecessor  Wang Jianzhou  retired in March.  The carrier is counting on a shift to a fourth-generation
wireless network to stem a decline in market share among
subscribers who use mobile devices to access the Web to watch
videos or play games. China Mobile’s homegrown 3G service left
it unable to offer popular handsets including Apple’s iPhone,
offered by its domestic competitors  China Unicom (Hong Kong)
Ltd. (762)  and  China Telecom Corp. (728)   “China Mobile and Apple both have the will to strengthen
cooperation,” Xi said. “When there is more specific news, we
will disclose it.”  Carolyn Wu, a spokeswoman at Apple, declined to comment on
Xi’s remarks.  China Mobile declined 3 percent, the most since April 23,
to HK$85 as of 1:12 p.m. in Hong Kong trading. The  shares  have
climbed 12 percent so far this year, more than double the 4.9
percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index , as investors bet
a faster rollout of the company’s fourth-generation network will
boost sales.  The company will expand its fourth-generation network trial
to nine cities, from six in 2011, and add 20,000 base stations
to the 900 it tested last year, Chief Executive officer Li Yue
told the meeting today, reiterating a plan announced in March.
If the trial is a success, the total number of 4G base stations
will climb to 200,000 next year, he said.  China Mobile had 667.2 million mobile-phone subscribers at
the end of March, the company said last month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  