-- China Doubling Gas Use Makes Ex-Clothing Retailer Target
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-05-16T10:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/china-doubling-gas-use-makes-ex-clothing-retailer-target.html
China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384) , the utility
that began life as an online retailer, has become the industry’s
hottest property as China plans to double use of natural gas and
replace coal in the biggest-polluting nation.  The company, a seller of subsidized gas in canisters and
pipelines to 151 cities, gained 38 percent since receiving a
hostile bid in December, valuing it at HK$15.3 billion ($2
billion). Some of its biggest Chinese and Korean  stockholders 
increased their stakes after the offer, pushing its market value
up to HK$17 billion and creating a contest for control of a
utility that last year was mired in an embezzlement scandal and
a decade ago sold clothing on the web.  The emergence of  China  Gas shows how some of  Asia ’s largest
energy companies plan to exploit China’s goal to double the
share of gas in its energy mix by 2015, and possibly let prices
of the commodity rise toward a market level. While China Gas
trails peers in profitability by  returning 2.3 percent  on
assets, its pipeline grid serves more cities than any other.  “China Gas provides a vast pipeline network and concession
rights, which would be a solid base for future growth,” said
Shi Yan, a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “If
investors miss this opportunity they would lose the chance to
control a major Chinese utility.”  Defeated for now is state-owned  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (386) , known as Sinopec, the nation’s biggest oil refiner, with
a $94 billion market value. Sinopec joined the $2 billion
hostile bid led in December by one of China Gas’s closest
competitors,  ENN Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688)   Crowded Out  Sinopec and ENN were crowded out by three of China Gas’s
largest investors, who paid as much as 17 percent above the
HK$3.50-a-share offer price to buy stock as they vie for a
dominant position in the utility. China Gas fell 7 cents to
close at HK$3.80 in Hong Kong today.  The trio -- which includes a group led by  Fortune Oil Plc (FTO) 
of Hong Kong, city government-owned  Beijing Enterprise Group (392)  and
 South Korea ’s  SK Holdings Co. (003600)  -- increased their combined stake
in China Gas to about 47 percent as of yesterday.  “It was a fight between insiders and outsiders at the
beginning, and now looks more and more like a competition among
insiders who want to grab as many shares as possible before a
final showdown,” said Shi, the analyst at UOB-Kay Hian.  Pipeline Network  At stake is access to a 61,000-kilometer (38,000-mile)
pipeline network -- similar in length to Kinder Morgan Inc.’s
prior to its acquisition of El Paso Corp. -- and 6.64 million
customers. China Gas’s latest full-year return on assets of 2.3
percent is the second-lowest of the seven-member  MSCI Emerging
Markets Gas Utilities Index. (MXEF0GU)  PT Perusahaan Gas Negara of
 Indonesia  leads the index, with a 19 percent return on assets.  Investors are attracted by the advent of China loosening
its price cap on gas, and by China Gas’s booming market. The
company led its peer group with one-year and five-year sales
growth of 55 percent and 76 percent a year, respectively,
compared with the median growth of 30 percent and 23 percent.  “China Gas’s resources are unique and enjoy the kind of
competitive advantage few others can match,” Bill Mok, chief
financial officer of Fortune Oil, said in a May 10 telephone
interview. “It’s almost impossible to build utility networks
across more than 150 cities in China today. There are so many
investment rules, personnel and legal issues deterring companies
from even thinking about joining the utility business.”  Fortune Oil  The Fortune Oil group held  17.32 percent  of the utility as
of May 8, making it the largest stakeholder. Partners include
China Gas Group Ltd., Fortune Oil’s venture with China Gas
Holdings’ former Managing Director Liu Ming Hui, and Fortune Max
Holdings Ltd., controlled by Fortune Oil Vice Chairman Daniel Chiu.  Liu was removed from China Gas’s board last year after he
and another company executive were detained by Shenzhen police
in December 2010 in connection with allegations of embezzlement.
Liu was later released without being charged.  The stock, trading 8.6 percent above ENN and Sinopec’s
offer, would fall if the bidders walk away, and the decline
would be an opportunity to buy more shares, Mok said.  The gas supplier evolved out of a fashion retailer called
 eBiz.com Ltd. , which was renamed Hai Xia Holdings Ltd. in 2001
and then  China Gas Holdings  the following year when it began to
acquire natural-gas assets in China. The company currently
counts the U.K.’s Jupiter Asset Management Ltd. and Belgrave
Capital Management Ltd. among its investors, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gas Sales  The company now sells gas to 6.6 million residential
customers and about 42,000 industrial and commercial users, and
owns 112 natural gas refilling stations, according to its
results for the six months through September. In that period
China Gas generated about 43 percent of its revenue from sales
of piped natural gas, and another  39 percent  from liquefied
petroleum gas that is sold in canisters.  The Fortune Oil executive said his group will consider
increasing its stake and seeks to keep it below the 30 percent
threshold that would trigger a requirement to make a mandatory
offer for the remaining shares. The consortium isn’t linked to
Beijing Enterprises Group and other shareholders, Mok said.  Beijing Enterprises Group more than quadrupled its
shareholding this month, giving it a  14.75 percent  stake as of
May 15. The company is owned by the Beijing Municipality and is
the parent of Beijing Enterprises Holdings, which supplies gas
in the Chinese capital.  “Beijing Enterprises Group itself is interested in taking
over China Gas, in case Sinopec and ENN’s bid doesn’t succeed,”
Jefferies  Hong Kong  Ltd. analysts Rong Li, Joseph Fong and
Christie Ju wrote in a May 7 research note. “According to
Beijing Enterprises Holdings, its parent sees the China Gas
stake as a valuable investment.”  Beijing Enterprises Group  A woman who answered the phone at Beijing Enterprises
Group’s headquarters said the company’s spokesman wasn’t
available for comment. She declined to identify herself or name
the spokesman.  SK Holdings, South Korea’s third-largest industrial group,
owns 672 million shares through two units, giving it a 15.33
percent stake, according to a  Feb. 29 filing .  “We are a long-term strategic investor in China Gas and
expect the country’s gas distribution market to provide business
opportunities,” SK E&S Co. said in a May 8 e-mail. “China Gas
has growth potential,” the SK Holdings unit said, declining to
comment on share purchases by other investors.  With China Gas’s market value down  25 percent  to HK$12.3
billion in the 12 months before its shares were halted on Dec.
7, ENN and Sinopec bid HK$14.6 billion for 95 percent of the
company. They said a combination would increase ENN’s share of
the natural gas distribution market and allow Sinopec to expand
its businesses.  Opportunistic Bid  Sinopec is Asia’s biggest oil refiner and already owns  5
percent (382)  of China Gas.  China Gas rejected the bid, saying it was opportunistic and
failed to reflect the company’s value. Sinopec and ENN on April
30 extended the deadline for the acquisition to July 6. An
external spokesman for the bidders declined to comment when
reached by telephone.  The bidders have extended their acquisition deadline twice
as they wait for regulatory approvals. Both companies have said
their offer is fair. A price higher than the market valuation
can’t be paid, Fu Chengyu, chairman of Sinopec, said March 26.  “If competitors can buy China Gas they can have more
footprint in China,” Masahiko Ejiri, a senior  fund manager  in
 Tokyo  at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees $39
billion. “Natural gas distribution will be a growth business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  