-- China Slowdown to End in Third Quarter, Survey Shows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-17T07:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/china-slowdown-to-end-in-third-quarter-survey-shows.html
China ’s economic growth is likely to
accelerate for the first time in seven quarters after banks’
reserve  requirements  were cut, buoying global expansion
threatened by Greece’s possible exit from the euro.  Third-quarter  growth  will rebound to 8.3 percent from 7.9
percent this quarter, according to the median estimate of 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Analysts forecast a
further reduction of 100 basis points in reserve ratios this
year, while a majority of respondents expect benchmark lending
and deposit rates to be unchanged.  The forecasts reflect optimism that the ruling Communist
Party has enough monetary and fiscal firepower to support the
world’s second-biggest economy as leaders prepare for a once-a-
decade power handover later this year. Even with the pickup next
quarter, annual growth is forecast at a 13-year low after
reports showed April industrial  production  and trade grew less
than forecast and renewed European debt turmoil roiled markets.  “The recent spate of poor data should convince the
authorities to take additional measures to prevent a further
slowdown in the run-up to the Party Congress later this year,”
said Ding Shuang, senior China economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Hong Kong, who previously worked for the  International Monetary
Fund  and China’s central bank.  Authorities on May 12 cut the reserve ratio for the third
time in six months following two days of weaker-than-forecast
economic data. Government tools to boost expansion include
lowering  reserve requirements , giving banks more leeway on their
own to reduce  lending  costs, increasing fiscal stimulus and
relaxing deposit-to-loan ratio rules, said economists including
Ding.  Lower Lending Rates  “There is room for lending rates to come down without a
cut of the benchmark rate,” Ding said. Six of 10 economists in
a separate Bloomberg survey that ended this month said
regulators will permit banks to set lower  interest rates  by the
end of this year.  Separately, China said yesterday it will allocate 26.5
billion yuan ($4.2 billion) in subsidies to promote the use of
energy-saving household appliances and products, replacing a
consumption-incentive program that ended last year.  The Communist Party is scheduled to hand power to a new
generation of officials later this year in the aftermath of the
ouster of Chongqing party boss  Bo Xilai , which triggered the
deepest political tensions since 1989.  Slowest Since 1999  Gross domestic product will probably expand 8.2 percent
this year, according to the median forecast of 22 economists in
the survey conducted May 14-15. That would be the slowest pace
since 7.6 percent in 1999, following 9.2 percent in 2011.  The  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , a government
researcher, today projected growth of 8.7 percent this year, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported. That’s higher than all
Bloomberg survey estimates, which ranged from 7.9 percent to 8.5
percent.  Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and
UBS AG were among banks to pare their forecasts for China’s
expansion following last week’s data, which included the weakest
industrial production growth in three years.  Lu Ting, head of  Greater China  economics at Bank of America
in  Hong Kong , wrote to clients on May 11 that “we were wrong”
about growth picking up in the second quarter as he reduced a
forecast for the period to 7.6 percent from 8.5 percent. He
predicts the expansion will be 8 percent in the third quarter.
Industrial production will speed up this month or next because
of policy easing, Lu said separately.  Interest-Rate Cut  Not everyone is certain of a rebound. Joy Yang, chief
economist for Greater China at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd.
in Hong Kong, said further deceleration over the next two months
is likely to trigger an interest-rate cut in July.  A rising risk of default by  Greece  will threaten additional
turmoil, said Yang, who previously worked for the IMF.  Greece’s future in the euro has been thrown into doubt by a
political standoff that has forced the president to call for new
elections. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called the
next vote a referendum on whether Greece exits the euro, a move
that would leave lenders to its government, businesses and
households unsure of recouping their money.  A report today showed  Japan ’s economy expanded faster than
forecast in the first quarter, boosted by reconstruction
spending that’s poised to fade just as a worsening in  Europe ’s
crisis threatens to curtail export demand.  Singapore also reported an acceleration in growth last
quarter, while warning about the risk of a disorderly European
debt default.  Malaysia ’s central bank chief saw possible
“catastrophic” consequences for Europe and  South Korea  said it
has enough currency reserves to weather the storm.  ‘Expensive’ Exit  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said a Greek exit
from the euro area would be “extremely expensive” and hard.  There are some signs China’s downturn isn’t over. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.2 percent yesterday,
the fourth straight drop, while  yuan  forwards had the biggest
decline in two months, touching the weakest level this year. The
 stock index  rebounded 1.4 percent today at 2:59 p.m. local time.  China’s four biggest banks, including China Construction
Bank Corp., had almost zero net new lending in the two weeks
ended May 13, Shanghai Securities News reported yesterday,
citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. Yuan
deposits at all Chinese banks fell by 465.6 billion yuan in
April from the prior month.  The latest reserve-ratio cut lowers the level to 20 percent
for the largest banks, effective May 18. Eight of 20 economists
forecast another reduction of 50 basis points this month or
next; all see at least one by the end of the third quarter.
Fourteen expect at least 100 basis points of additional cuts in
2012.  Bull Market  The more-vigorous pace of policy easing is pushing Chinese
stocks into a bull market, Morgan Stanley said, as inflation is
brought under control and the property market stabilizes. The
“bear phase” for equities is over, Hong Kong-based analysts
led by  Jonathan Garner , chief  Asia  and emerging-market
strategist, said in a report dated yesterday.  “With enhanced stimulus from Beijing, the economy should
gradually recover in the second half,” said  Li Wei , a Shanghai-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc, which has the most-
aggressive reserve-ratio forecast at 150 basis points of
additional cuts through September.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Ailing Tan in Singapore at 
 atan193@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  