-- China Stocks Fall for 4th Day on Economy Concern, Greece
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-05-16T07:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/china-s-stocks-fall-for-4th-day-on-economy-concern-greek-crisis.html
China’s stocks  fell for a fourth day
on speculation the nation’s economic slowdown may deepen and as
 Greece ’s failure to form a new government increased concern the
country will leave the euro.  China Construction Bank Corp. (601939)  and China Vanke Co. led
declines for banks and developers after the  Shanghai  Securities
News said combined net lending for the nation’s four biggest
banks was almost zero in first two weeks of this month. Sany
Heavy Industry Co. slid 3.6 percent, sending a gauge of
industrial stocks to its biggest loss in a week, after Deutsche
Bank AG recommended investors underweight Chinese stocks amid
concerns about industry overcapacity hurting earnings growth.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 29 points, or 1.2
percent, to 2,346.19 at the close, the lowest level since April
17 and the longest losing streak since January. The index trades
at 10.1 times estimated earnings, compared with a record low of
8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 1.6 percent to 2,574.65.  “Investors’ confidence in holding stocks has been shaken
by bad economic data of late,”  Zhang Qi , an analyst at Haitong
Securities Co., said in a telephone interview in Shanghai.
“However, the market should rebound after another two to three
days of retreat. After all, there are still expectations the
government will take steps to boost the economy.”  About 7.8 billion shares changed hands in the Shanghai
Composite yesterday, 1.6 percent lower than the daily average
this year. Thirty-day  volatility  in the gauge was at 14.36
today, the lowest in a year. For the year, the Shanghai index
has climbed 6.7 percent on expectations the government will
relax monetary policies and take more measures to bolster
equities. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, tumbled 0.2 percent
to 95.24 in  New York  yesterday.  Banks Drop  The euro tumbled to a four-month low amid concern Greece
will leave the shared currency. Greece will hold new elections
after President Karolos Papoulias failed to broker a governing
coalition following an inconclusive May 6 vote.  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  Combined net lending by Industrial & Commercial  Bank of
China , China Construction Bank, Bank of China and Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. was almost zero in the two weeks ended May
13, Shanghai Securities News reported, citing unidentified
person familiar with the matter. Two of the banks increased
outstanding loans by less than 20 billion  yuan , while the other
two saw declines, according to the paper.  Underweight Stocks  A gauge of banks and developers in the CSI 300 fell 1.9
percent, the second most among 10 industry groups. China
Construction Bank, the second-biggest lender, dropped 1.7
percent to 4.51 yuan. China Citic Bank Corp. fell 2.1 percent
4.31 yuan and Industrial Bank Co. slid 2.2 percent to 13.40
yuan. China Vanke, the largest developer, lost 3.4 percent to
8.61 yuan. Rival Poly Real Estate Group Co. retreated 2.4
percent to 12.66 yuan.  Investors should underweight Chinese stocks even though
they appear very cheap because the economy is undergoing a
“messy transition” with industrial overcapacity hurting
corporate earnings, John-Paul Smith, Deutsche Bank’s strategist,
wrote in a report dated yesterday.  Industrials Drop  Sany Heavy, the biggest maker of excavators which said it
may cut its unit-sales forecast for this year, lost 3.6 percent
to 13.79 yuan. Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co.
fell 3.1 percent to 9.69 yuan.  “Short term the market is certainly starting to look
oversold and could well rally on a fall in the oil price or
monetary easing, but until we can obtain more clarity about the
structural drivers of the economy and the corporate sector, we
remain underweight,” Smith wrote. “Like the U.S. in 2007, the
superficially cheap valuations are signaling a major break in
the growth model over the medium term.”        Deutsche Bank is the latest brokerage to highlight downside
risks to the Chinese economy after data last week showed
industrial output rose the least since May 2009, new loans
missed estimates and import growth stalled. UBS AG, Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are among
banks that have cut their expansion estimates for  China .  China Coal Energy Co. retreated 1.6 percent to 9.03 yuan.
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. decreased 1.6 percent to 22.88 yuan. The
Chinese coal industry was cut to market weight from overweight
at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.  Morgan Stanley said Chinese stocks are entering a  bull
market  as authorities ease monetary and fiscal policies more
vigorously, inflation is brought under control and the property
market stabilizes.  “The bear phase for equities has already ended,”  Jonathan
Garner , an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report dated
today. Valuations are low relative to Chinese stocks’ history
and global peers, he wrote, while “earnings revisions breadth”
has stabilized.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  