-- Chinese Banks' Forex Sales May Indicate Capital Outflows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-16T02:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/chinese-banks-forex-sales-may-indicate-capital-outflows.html
China ’s central bank and commercial
lenders sold more foreign currency than they bought for the
first month this year in April, indicating capital may have
flowed out of the world’s second-biggest economy.  Chinese banks sold a net 60.6 billion  yuan  ($9.59 billion)
of foreign currency in April, according to calculations based on
preliminary  data  released by the People’s Bank of China
yesterday. That compares with 124.6 billion yuan of net
purchases in March.  The government has stalled gains in the yuan against the
dollar this year, allowing the currency to weaken 0.2 percent
against the dollar in April. The central bank on May 12 cut
banks’ reserve requirements for the third time in six months to
pump money into the financial system after industrial-production
and lending data showed the economy slowing in April.  “Definitely, it’s a capital outflow,” said Cliff Tan,
East Asian head of global currency research at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  Hong Kong . The government may “work on
some structural policy changes that would encourage capital
inflows, like allowing foreign pension funds to invest in China
and more central banks to buy Chinese debt,” he said, calling
the April flows “capital seepage.”  The nation posted a larger-than-forecast trade surplus of
$18.4 billion in April. Foreign direct investment in the month
declined 0.7 percent from a year earlier to $8.4 billion, the
Commerce Ministry said yesterday, the sixth straight monthly
decline.  Cooling Growth  Chinese banks had three straight monthly net sales of
foreign currency in the fourth quarter of 2011 as economic
growth cooled. The economy  expanded  8.1 percent in the first
three months of 2012 from a year earlier, the fifth quarterly
deceleration, as Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign to curb property
prices damped domestic demand and  Europe ’s debt crisis limited
exports.  Yuan positions at financial institutions accumulated from
foreign-exchange purchases stood at 25.5 trillion yuan at the
end of April, according to the data yesterday. That’s up 1.57
trillion yuan from a year earlier.  China’s government, through the central bank, intervenes in
 currency markets  to keep the yuan from appreciating too much
when capital flows into the country.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  