-- China Shipbuilding Urges Domestic Vessel Orders to Avert Slump
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-05-16T16:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/china-shipbuilding-urges-domestic-vessel-orders-to-avert-slump.html
China  Shipbuilding Industry Corp., a
state-controlled company with seven yards, said domestic vessel
owners must renew their fleets to prevent new orders from
slumping to a seven-year low.  A decline in overseas business, falling ship prices and
rising labor costs are “severely challenging,” Han Guang,
deputy head of the company’s Information Research Centre, said
May 15 at the China Money & Ships Conference in  London . Exports
accounted for 82 percent of ships built and delivered last year,
he said.  “Domestic shipowners need to increase and optimize fleet
structure,” Han said. While the industry has “enormous room
for further growth,” 30 percent of yards have received no new
business since the end of 2010, he said.  Shipbuilding orders in China, the world leader, plunged 49
percent from a year earlier in the first quarter and are on
track to fall as low as 20 million deadweight tons this year,
less than a third of available capacity, Han said. That would be
the lowest total since 2005 and compares with the high of 107.5
million tons in 2007, he said, adding that orders will be no
higher than 30 million tons this year.  Greek shipowners, the biggest buyers, won’t sign contracts
with Chinese yards because prices remain too high, said
Haralambos Fafalios, chairman of the London-based  Greek Shipping
Co-operation Committee . The group represents vessel owners in
the euro-area country. Yards must lower prices by a further 40
percent if they want to win business, according to Fafalios.  Unaffordable  “We’ve left the supercycle,” he said. “We can’t afford
these ships.”  China’s exporting yards have cut prices to loss-making
levels to win new business, said Ben Zhang, managing director of
Accord Marine Services Ltd.  “To maintain a certain level of production, the ship yards
are likely to accept a price just below their running costs,”
he said at the conference.  The Chinese ship-construction industry expanded in value by
an average of 33 percent a year since 2001, according to China
Shipbuilding. Companies based in the country sold vessels worth
2 trillion  yuan  ($316 billion) between 2008 and 2011, Han said.
Output was 181.3 billion yuan in this year’s first quarter.  China Shipbuilding has seven yards, Han said. The country’s
share of vessels on order was 46 percent by capacity at the end
of last year, according to figures from London-based  Clarkson
Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker, cited by the company.
China’s share by value was 22 percent, second to  South Korea .  The Asian nation delivered the most vessels by capacity for
a second year in 2011, the Clarkson data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  