-- Clemens Accuser Agrees Memory of Steroid Use ‘Evolved’
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-16T21:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/clemens-accuser-mcnamee-says-memory-of-steroid-use-evolved-.html
Brian McNamee , who claims he injected
former  New York  Yankees pitcher  Roger Clemens  with steroids and
human growth hormone more than 10 years ago, agreed before a
U.S. jury that his memory of those events “evolved” over time.  McNamee, Clemens’s former trainer, was on the witness stand
today for a third day in Clemens’s perjury trial in Washington.
He struggled under cross-examination by defense lawyer  Rusty Hardin  to recollect the first time he heard Clemens talk about
steroids and said his “bad memory” was why he initially failed
to tell federal investigators about a 2004 conversation about
the drugs he later recounted.  “Would you agree with me that ever since making these
accusations about Mr. Clemens your memory and versions of what
happened and details have sort of evolved?” Hardin asked.  “Yes sir,” McNamee responded.  McNamee was questioned for about two hours, his appearance
cut short because of a juror’s commitment. Hardin will continue
his cross-examination of McNamee tomorrow.  McNamee, 45, is the government’s only eyewitness to
Clemens’s alleged drug use. Over the past two days, McNamee
testified about injections of steroids and human growth hormone,
or HGH, that he allegedly gave Clemens during the 1998, 2000 and
2001 baseball seasons while both worked for the  Toronto Blue
Jays  and the Yankees.  Crimes Charged  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating the use of steroids in  Major League Baseball . He
faces as long as 21 months in prison if convicted.  Hardin sought to show jurors that McNamee was inconsistent
in prior statements to investigators and testimony to Congress.
He put up an easel with a flip chart in the courtroom and wrote
“mistakes,” “bad memory” and “lies” on it. He said those
were the three categories he planned to talk about with McNamee
for the next few hours.  Hardin asked McNamee about a 2004 conversation in which
Clemens allegedly referred to seeking drugs. McNamee said the
talk occurred at Clemens’s house a few months before the player
came out of retirement to play for the  Houston Astros . McNamee
said Clemens talked about getting “really huge” and strong.  ‘Have That Guy?’  As the two walked from the pool house to the master house,
McNamee said, Clemens asked, “You still have that guy?”  “I said, ‘Yes,’” McNamee said. He said Clemens was asking
about Kirk Radomski, who McNamee testified sold him the steroids
and HGH he had injected Clemens with earlier.  Hardin asked McNamee why he never told federal
investigators about the conversation when questioned in 2007.  “The reason for my bad memory was nothing ever came of
that conversation,” McNamee said. “I never got anything from
Kirk.”  “Mr. McNamee, do you sometimes just make stuff up,”
Hardin asked.  “I didn’t make it up,” McNamee answered.  Clemens, 49, who pitched for the Yankees,  Blue Jays , Astros
and  Boston Red Sox  during a 24-year career, used the anabolic
steroids and HGH to remain competitive as he aged, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Steven Durham said in his opening statement as the
trial began on April 23.  The government’s case includes a needle and cotton with
Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for anabolic steroids, Durham
said.  The material was given to the government by McNamee, who
said he saved the needle, gauze and vial from one of the
injections in 2001. He told jurors yesterday he kept the items
in a Miller Lite beer can that he took from the recycling bin in
Clemens’s apartment.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 