-- Coach to Kate Spade to Tiffany Chase Sao Paulo Shoppers: Retail
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2012-05-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/coach-to-kate-spade-to-tiffany-chase-sao-paulo-shoppers-retail.html
For years, Brazilians coveting a
Coach bag or Tiffany diamonds boarded flights to places like New
York and Miami. Now American luxury is coming to them.  Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker, last
month opened its first South American store in Sao Paulo, has a
second one in the works and is eyeing as many as 10 more malls.
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s second-largest luxury jeweler, is
doubling its three-store count and has moved beyond the key city
of Sao Paulo.  Liz Claiborne Inc.’s (LIZ)   Kate Spade  and Juicy Couture
labels and Tory Burch LLC are present, too.  “When you see wealth established in an economy, it takes
some time to study the market and feel good about putting stores
on the ground,” said  David Schick , an analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. “ Brazil  is here, Brazil is
meaningful. You hear it in the luxury conversation.”  Last year luxury sales in Brazil accelerated 20 percent to
2.3 billion euros ($2.9 billion), according to Bain & Co., the
Boston-based consulting firm. Luxury brands’ investment there
also grew by a fifth, to $858 million, said Carlos Ferreirinha,
president of MCF Consultoria e Conhecimento, a Sao Paulo
consulting firm. The Brazilian luxury market’s strength
contrasts with a moderate pace in the U.S., a slowdown in some
European countries and cooling sales growth in  China .  Brazil’s economy will expand 3.5 percent in 2012 compared
with 2.7 percent last year, the central bank said in March. The
largest oil finds in the Americas in three decades, the 2014
 World Cup  and the 2016  Summer Olympics  are creating jobs.  Million Tourists  European luxury brands such as  Louis Vuitton  and Cartier
have been selling their wares in Brazil for years. Tiffany and
Coach woke up to the South American nation’s potential after
watching 1 million Brazilian tourists visiting the U.S. each
year and dropping thousands of dollars at American luxury
emporiums.  Meanwhile, Brazilian mall developers are opening more
swanky shopping destinations, such as the Cidade Jardim Sao
Paulo mall, where well-to-do Brazilians browse the boutiques,
enjoy sparkling wine and salmon sandwiches at the cinema cafe
and can even buy helicopters and boats on the top floor.  The new JK Iguatemi luxury mall’s April 19 opening was
postponed while developers wait for permits to build roadworks
capable of handling the traffic generated by an expected 20,000 
daily visitors.  “There is a change in the consumer in Brazil,” said
Luciano Rodembusch, Tiffany’s vice president for  Latin America .
“They are looking much more for quality, becoming more
demanding. For a brand like ours, it is a great moment.”  Luxury Tariffs  Brazilians are sufficiently keen on foreign luxury to pay
tariffs that can push a Poppy leather “glam” tote in Sao Paulo
to 998 reais ($523) versus $298 in  New York . Tiffany and Coach
are offering to ease the sticker shock with installment plans,
an unusual practice for luxury brands outside Brazil.  Treating herself at Sao Paulo’s Morumbi Shopping mall last
month was Viviane Tabalipa, an architect from the southern city
of Curitiba, who was carrying a Michael Kors handbag and was
laden down with two Armani Exchange shopping bags.  “Brazilians’ shopping power grew a lot,” she said. “So
we indulge ourselves buying one little thing here and there.”  While Tabalipa was planning a girls’ shopping trip to New
York in July -- with her daughter, sister and niece -- she said
she’s happy to find what she wants at home.  When New York-based Coach’s distributor partner Aste Group
last month opened a first Brazilian Coach store at Morumbi
Shopping it received “excellent consumer response,” Chief
Executive Officer Lew Frankfort said on an April 24 conference
call with analysts.  Brazil Possibilities  Frankfort, 66, said he visited “eight or ten” malls when
he traveled to Brazil for the first time in November. All of
them are candidates for Coach, he told analysts the week after.  “I’m pumped about Brazil,” Frankfort said. “I see Brazil
as a country of optimism, a country of possibilities. In many
ways, it reminds me of America, particularly 20 and 30 years
ago.”  Tiffany, also headquartered in New York, opened a store in
Brasilia in October and plans to open one in  Rio de Janeiro  in
November and one in Curitiba in 2013, Rodembusch said. It is
also considering a store in Recife, he said. It already had two
locations in  Sao Paulo .  While strong demand from Brazilian tourists in the U.S. is
encouraging the jeweler to capture that consumer at home,
Tiffany also hopes its local expansion will build  brand
recognition  and spur even more Brazilians to buy its jewelry
when they are traveling, he said.  “Tiffany has the benefit of being a global brand that can
provide the consumer at both ends,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  