-- Coffee May Help Drinkers Live Longer, U.S. Study Suggests
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/coffee-may-help-drinkers-live-longer-u-s-study-suggests.html
Coffee, caffeinated or decaffeinated,
may help extend the lives of people who drink it daily, a U.S.
study found.  Men who drank 2 to 3 cups a day had a 10 percent chance of
outliving those who drank no coffee, while women had a 13
percent advantage, according to research published yesterday in
the  New England Journal of Medicine .  The study by researchers at the  National Cancer Institute 
is the largest to compare coffee drinkers with those who avoid
it to determine whether the beverage can delay the risk of dying
from ailments such as heart disease, diabetes or respiratory
illness, said Neal Freedman, the lead study author. It’s unclear
why coffee may be beneficial and more research is needed to
study that question, he said.  The results “offer a little bit of reassurance to coffee
drinkers who like drinking coffee that it won’t affect health,”
said  Freedman , an investigator at the NCI’s Division of Cancer
Epidemiology and Genetics in Rockville,  Maryland , in a May 14
telephone interview. “It doesn’t seem to increase one’s risk of
dying.”  Still, “the association between coffee and mortality has
been unclear,” he said. “This is an observational study so we
don’t know for certain coffee is having a cause and effect.”  Americans drank 77.4 billion cups of coffee valued at $35.8
billion in the 12 months ended June 30, 2011, according to a
Sept. 7 statement by the research firm StudyLogic. About 64
percent of U.S. adults drink coffee every day and 73 percent
drink it weekly, according to the New York-based National Coffee
Association. Americans consume about 3.2 cups of coffee a day,
the group said.  National Survey  The researchers looked at more than 402,000 men and women
who were part of the  National Institutes of Health-AARP Diet and
Health Study  and were 50 to 71 years old at the start of the
trial. Coffee consumption was assessed one time when the
patients entered the trial. Those with cancer,  heart disease  and
stroke were excluded.  From 1995 to 2008, 33,731 men and 18,784 women died.  The study found that men who drank 2 to 3 cups a day had a
14 percent lower risk of dying from heart disease, 17 percent
lower risk of dying from respiratory disease, 16 percent
decreased chance of dying from stroke and a 25 percent lower
risk of dying from diabetes than those who drank no coffee.  Women’s Results  Women who consumed 2 to 3 cups of coffee a day had a 15
percent lower chance of dying from heart disease, 21 percent
lower risk of dying from respiratory disease, 7 percent
decreased chance of dying from stroke and a 23 percent lower
risk of dying from diabetes.  In most cases, drinking six or more cups a coffee a day for
men and women lowered the risk even further, the study showed.  Coffee wasn’t associated with a lower risk of dying from
cancer in women. In men who drank the most coffee, there was a
slightly higher chance of dying from cancer, the research
reported.  The study, which was funded by the  National Institutes of
Health , may not reflect long-term patterns of coffee consumption
and information on how the coffee was prepared also wasn’t
included in the research.  Freedman said there are more than 1,000 compounds of coffee
that may affect health. More studies are needed on the compounds
and the effects coffee has on the death risk in people with a
previous history of disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  