-- Comcast to Let Customers Make Skype Video Calls Using TV
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-05-16T20:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/comcast-rolling-out-new-skype-video-calling-feature-nationwide.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable
company, is introducing a service that lets customers make Skype
video calls over their televisions, part of a push to add
revenue and stem subscriber defections.  The Skype on Xfinity service, which lets users make high-
definition video calls, will start today in  Boston  and  Seattle 
and be available in cities including Atlanta, Chicago and Miami
by the end of the week, Comcast said today. The feature will
cost $9.95 a month for Triple Play users, which get Comcast’s
Internet, TV and voice services.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, is seeking ways to keep its
cable customers loyal while adding features that can bring in
additional  revenue . Skype on Xfinity, which includes a video
camera and a special remote control, lets users make video calls
and send instant messages while watching TV. The service may be
attractive to those for whom using Skype on a personal computer
is unfamiliar or unappealing.  “It’s really going for a PC-agnostic user: seniors, large
families who don’t want to crowd around the PC,” said  Richard Doherty , an analyst at consulting firm Envisioneering Group in
Seaford,  New York .  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp., which owns Skype, probably wanted to
announce the deal today to see if it can trigger more such
agreements at the National Cable & Telecommunications
Association’s annual show that begins next week in Boston,
Doherty said. Representatives for Microsoft’s Skype service
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Cable Decline  Comcast was unchanged at $28.85 at the close in New York,
and Microsoft  fell  1 percent to $29.90.  Comcast reported its 20th consecutive quarterly decline in
video subscribers this month, following price increases. Comcast
lost 37,000 video customers last quarter. That disappointed some
analysts, who had anticipated the first increase in subscribers
since 2007.  Still, Comcast gained 439,000 high-speed  Internet users  in
the quarter, topping the 382,000 projected by analysts. Average
revenue per user rose 7.8 percent to $143.40. Comcast also added
a net of 164,000 phone customers, less than the 187,000 average
analyst estimate.  Skype became part of Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
last year after an $8.5 billion acquisition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  