-- Commodities Drop Near Five-Month Low on Greek Concern
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-05-16T07:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/commodities-drop-near-five-month-low-on-greek-euro-exit-concern.html
Commodities fell as talks to form a
Greek government failed, boosting speculation that the country
may quit the euro, and data from the U.S. and  Japan  added to
concern an economic slowdown may reduce demand.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of commodities lost
as much as 1.5 percent to 626.57, the lowest level since Dec.
20. The gauge, set for to drop for the 10th day in 11 sessions,
was at 627.16 at 8:48 a.m. in  London . Oil fell for a fourth day
in New York, trading at a six-month low, and copper dropped to
the lowest price since January in London. Gold declined.  Greece  will hold new elections as President Karolos
Papoulias failed to form a coalition after an inconclusive May 6
vote, threatening pledged spending cuts required to secure
bailouts. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called the
new poll a referendum on whether Greece stays in the euro.  “Until the Greek situation is resolved in some way, the
markets are going to price the ongoing uncertainties and the
risk of further deterioration in the growth outlook,” said
 Peter Richardson , chief metals economist at Morgan Stanley.  Machinery orders in Japan, the world’s third-largest
economy, fell 2.8 percent in March, after a report yesterday
showed that U.S. retail sales rose in April at the slowest pace
of the year.  Greece’s possible euro exit would hurt industrial-
commodity prices as a recession limits demand and investors shun
so-called risky assets, according to London-based researcher
Capital Economics Ltd. Top miners including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and Rio Tinto Group said they will slow spending in expanding
assets as costs rise and prices fall in a weaker global economy.  BHP Billiton  “We should pause, take a deep breath and wait and see
where the pieces fall around the world,” Jac Nasser, chairman
of Melbourne-based BHP today to reporters in Sydney. The firm
won’t meet its $80 billion spending target over the next five
years as it sees commmodity prices declining.  The euro fell to the lowest level in four months today,
dropping to $1.2681, while the Dollar Index advanced for a
record 13th day.  Crude for June delivery fell as much as 2.3 percent to
$91.81 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
intraday price since Nov. 3, and was at $92.04. Three-month
copper retreated as much as 1.8 percent to $7,625 a metric ton
on the London Metal Exchange, the lowest level since Jan. 10,
and traded at $7,648.  Spot gold dropped as much as 1.1 percent to $1,526.97 an
ounce, a more than 20 percent decline from last year’s all-time
high, and meeting the common definition of a  bear market  on an
intraday basis. The precious metal traded at $1,533.63, 1.9
percent lower this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  