-- Commodities Sink Canadian Stocks as Jobs, Housing Boom
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-05-16T21:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/commodities-sink-stocks-as-jobs-housing-boom-corporate-canada.html
Canada ’s commodity shares have fallen
to their cheapest prices since the recession, wiping out the
stock market’s best start to the year since 2004 as global
economic concerns overshadowed the best two-month job growth in
more than 30 years.  Energy (STENRS)  and  materials  stocks in the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index (SPTSX)  trade for 15.3 times and 11.9 times reported
earnings, the lowest since 2009. Both groups traded for as much
as 29 times earnings in March last year. The S&P/TSX has fallen
7.9 percent this month, and is off 5.3 percent in 2012 after
rallying 5.8 percent in January and February.  While employment rose by 58,200 in April after a 82,300
jump in March and housing starts rose to their highest since
September 2007 last month, energy and mining shares are dragging
the country’s stock benchmark toward a second-straight yearly
loss. Commodity stocks account for 44 percent of the S&P/TSX
compared with 17 percent in the MSCI World Index, which has
gained 1.9 percent in 2012, and 14 percent in the  S&P 500 Index ,
up 5.3 percent.  “For the gold and energy companies, people aren’t valuing
the fundamentals or cash flow,” Craig Basinger, chief
investment officer for Macquarie Group Ltd.’s Canadian private
wealth unit in Toronto, said in a May 7 telephone interview. The
unit oversees about C$15 billion ($14.9 billion) of assets.
“Those factors are taking a back seat to a lot of the global
market events we’re seeing develop around the world.”  Market Movers  Gauges of materials and energy producers in the S&P/TSX
have declined 15 percent and 9.9 percent, respectively, in May
as the U.S. added fewer jobs than forecast, European austerity
measures ran into political opposition and  China  signaled slower
growth.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s biggest producer of the
metal, has dropped 11 percent, while  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,
Canada’s biggest oil sands producer, lost 16 percent.  The S&P/TSX was led higher in 2010 by raw-material
producers, which surged 36 percent as copper, gold and
agricultural commodities advanced. Mining companies gained as
gold and copper each increased at least 29 percent in 2010.  The benchmark gauge fell 11 percent in 2011, the first year
Canada lagged behind the U.S. since 2003, as the level of the
S&P/TSX Energy Index relative to profits fell as much as 43
percent after hitting the highest multiple since at least 2002
in March.  The depressed valuations compared with cash flow are making
oil and gas producers a relatively cheap way for acquirers to
enter or expand in the market, according to  Barry Schwartz , who
helps manage about C$400 million at Baskin Financial Services
Inc.  Below Replacement  “You’d be crazy right now to build a new oil sands mine,
drill for oil or acquire land when you can buy companies that
are trading, in my opinion, below replacement value,” Schwartz
said in a telephone interview.  Suncor,  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  and  Talisman Energy
Inc. (TLM)  are potential takeover targets because of their low
valuation relative to cash flow, Schwartz said.  Suncor, the country’s largest energy company, has an
enterprise value 3.99 times its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s lower than 52 of the 64 other companies in the
S&P/TSX energy index. Enterprise value is measured by
subtracting cash from market capitalization plus debt.  Canadian Natural Resources, the country’s third-biggest
energy company, has an enterprise value 5.47 times Ebitda, 22
percent below the median for companies in the index of 7.03
times. Talisman, the 10th largest, is the third-lowest valued
energy company at 2.75 times.  ‘More Consolidation’  Suncor didn’t respond to a phone call and e-mail to its
media relations department requesting comment. Mark Stainthorpe,
a spokesman for Canadian Natural Resources, didn’t respond to an
e-mail requesting comment. Berta Gomez, a spokeswoman for
Talisman Energy, said the company doesn’t comment on market
rumors.  “There’s going to be more consolidation because to access
capital and exploit the plays that are out there, you basically
need a bigger company,” said Geoff Ready, an analyst at Haywood
Securities LLC in Toronto. Larger companies trading at better
valuations could buy cash-strapped “juniors,” which would aid
capital funding to meet rising costs of wells while adding to
the acquirers’ earnings, Ready said.  Arcan Resources Ltd. (ARN) , which explores for oil and gas in
 Alberta ,  Bellatrix Exploration Ltd. (BXE) , a western Canadian oil
producer and  Fairborne Energy Ltd. (FEL) , an oil and natural gas
trust, are potential takeover targets, according to Ready.  Reluctant Sellers  Douglas Penner, chief financial officer and spokesman for
Arcan Resources, and Aaron Grandberg, chief financial officer
for Fairborne Energy, didn’t respond to phone calls and e-mails
requesting comment. Troy Winsor, a spokesman for Bellatrix
Exploration, said the company doesn’t comment on market
speculation.  Companies are less likely to entertain the idea of a
takeover when their stocks are depressed, Basinger said.  “Consolidation in industries doesn’t happen when prices
are going down,” Basinger said. “Consolidators don’t tend to
be value investors.”  This is especially true for gold companies, which aren’t
hurting for cash even after their “terrible” stock
performance, he said. Barrick Gold has a price to  cash flow 
ratio of 6.87, compared with 9 for the S&P/TSX metals and mining
index.  The selloff in commodity producers may be overdone,
according to Robert Cohen, who oversees $1.25 billion in
precious-metals and resources stocks at GCIC Ltd., manager of
the Dynamic Gold and Precious Metals Fund.  ‘Something Wrong’  The  S&P/TSX Gold (STGOLD)  index has fallen 42 percent since the
metal reached its peak of $1,920.70 an ounce on Sept. 6, more
than twice the 18 percent decline in gold futures. The S&P/TSX
Energy Index has fallen 26 percent since oil futures hit their
two-year high on May 2, 2011, while crude oil has decreased 18
percent.  “There’s something wrong with what investors are willing
to pay for a stock right now,” Cohen said. “Companies in the
gold and oil business are producing enviable products. They’re
mining monetary assets.”  Commodity stocks may stay depressed until the  Federal
Reserve  takes additional measures to stimulate growth with a
third round of bond purchases, or quantitative easing, Cohen
said.  Stocks surged around the world in 2009 and 2010 as the Fed
helped the  U.S. economy  recover from the subprime-mortgage
crisis through $2.3 trillion of bond purchases known as
quantitative easing. A separate $400 billion program called
Operation Twist, in which the Fed is replacing short-term debt
in its holdings with longer-term securities, ends in June.  “The market is not ready to run on its own,” Cohen said.
“In the last five years, it’s clear that quantitative easing is
the best catalyst for the stock market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  