-- Deere Raises Profit Forecast After U.S. Farm Incomes Gain
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-05-16T20:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/deere-raises-full-year-profit-forecast-as-u-s-sales-gain-1-.html
Deere & Co. (DE) , the largest maker of
agricultural equipment, raised its full-year earnings forecast
and posted a fiscal second-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates after higher crop prices supported U.S. farm incomes.  Net income climbed to $2.61 a share in the quarter through
April from $2.12 a year earlier, Moline, Illinois-based Deere
said today in a statement. That was 3.2 percent higher than the
$2.53 average of 18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profit in
the 2012 fiscal year will be $3.35 billion, compared with $3.28
billion Deere projected in February and the $3.24 billion
average of 15 estimates.  “This is a clean, sales-driven, beat-and-raise quarter,”
said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in  New York , who
personally holds some Deere shares. “We continue to view the
company as extremely well positioned to benefit from the secular
and cyclical demand for higher-quality food goods.”  Deere is selling more machines such as tractors after a
three-year rally in corn and soybean prices pushed 2011 farm
receipts to a record in the U.S., its largest market. Higher
equipment volumes in established markets will help Chief
Executive Officer Samuel R. Allen as he chases additional
revenue in developing markets such as Brazil and  China  to reach
a goal of $50 billion in sales by 2018.  Equipment Sales  Deere fell 3.2 percent to $74.18 at the close in New York.  Equipment sales in the quarter advanced 13 percent to $9.4
billion, compared with the 15 percent gain that Deere forecast
in February. Net income rose 17 percent to $1.06 billion from
$904.3 million.  “This is a good quarter, slightly better than consensus
estimates, but not as strong a quarter as competitors have
delivered,” Larry De Maria, a New York-based analyst for
William Blair & Co. who has a hold rating on the shares, said in
a note.  Agco Corp. (AGCO) , the U.S. company that’s the third-largest farm-
equipment maker, on May 1 reported first-quarter profit per
share that was 41 percent higher than the average of analysts’
estimates. Peoria, Illinois-based  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
biggest construction machinery manufacturer, last month posted
first-quarter earnings that beat the average estimate by 11
percent.  ‘Strong Demand’  Deere today repeated its forecast that equipment sales will
gain about 15 percent for the full fiscal year. Industrywide
farm equipment sales in the U.S. and  Canada  will increase more
than 10 percent, it said.  “Conditions remain positive and demand continues to be
strong, especially for high-horsepower equipment” in the
region, Deere said.  U.S. farm cash receipts, the primary driver of
agricultural-machinery purchases, will rise to $375.3 billion
this year from $374.2 billion in 2011, Deere said in a
 presentation  on its website today.  While corn prices have dropped in the past two months after
forecasts for a higher acreage this season, inventories are
still tighter than historical averages and will support U.S.
farm sales, Andy Kaplowitz, a New York-based analyst for
Barclays Plc, said in a May 14 note.  European industry sales will climb as much as 5 percent as
improvements in the grain, livestock and dairy sectors outweigh
economic concerns, Deere said. Farm income in the European Union
rose 6.7 percent in 2011 from a year earlier, according to
 Eurostat . British growers’ profit last year reached the highest
since 1996, according to the U.K.  government .  Industrywide, sales in the  Commonwealth of Independent
States  will be “considerably higher,” up “moderately” in
 Asia  and down as much as 10 percent in  South America  because of
drought hurting crops in the region and “uncertainty” in
Argentina, Deere said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 