-- Bodemeister Made Preakness Favorite Ahead of I’ll Have Another
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/derby-runner-up-bodemeister-made-8-5-preakness-stakes-favorite.html
Kentucky Derby runner-up Bodemeister
was installed as the morning-line favorite ahead of winner I’ll
Have Another in the 11-horse field for the 137th  Preakness
Stakes , the second leg of thoroughbred racing’s Triple Crown.  Bodemeister, trained by five-time Preakness winner  Bob Baffert  and running from the seventh post position, was given 8-
5 odds for the 1 3/16 miles race on May 19 at Pimlico Race
Course in Baltimore, according to handicapper Frank Carulli.  “It’s a good post,” Baffert said yesterday. “Anything in
the middle would have been fine. In the Preakness, you just
don’t want to be stuck down the inside where you have to use
your horse a little bit.”  I’ll Have Another, trained by Doug O’Neill and given the No.
9 post position, was second at 5-2. H. Graham Motion’s Went The
Day Well out of gate five and Mike Harrington’s Creative Cause,
running from the sixth post position, were co-third picks at 6-1
after running fourth and fifth respectively in the Derby.  “I love the post,” O’Neill said in a televised interview.
“We won from the 19th so we have this nine thing going.”  A victory by I’ll Have Another, the first horse to win the
Derby from the 19th post position, would make the 3-year-old
colt the 33rd horse to be eligible to win the Triple Crown
entering the Belmont Stakes. Only 11 horses have succeeded, the
last being Affirmed in 1978.  “I’m confident. You never know, but as long as we continue
to train like our horse has trained, we won’t be that far off
Bodemeister,” O’Neill said. “If anything, Bodemeister might be
behind us early. I could see him chasing us, I really could.”  Asked about Bodemeister being the morning-line favorite,
O’Neill noted that he has never run a horse at Pimlico, while
Baffert has five Preakness winners.  “I’m just hoping that anyone who bets Bodemeister is
regretting it Saturday night,” O’Neill said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  