-- Deutsche Telekom Didn’t Mislead 16,000 Investors, Court Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-05-16T10:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/deutsche-telekom-didn-t-mislead-16-000-investors-court-says-1-.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  won dismissal of
most parts of a case bundling suits by more than 16,000
shareholders over a share sale 12 years ago.  The Higher Regional Court in Frankfurt today said Deutsche
Telekom didn’t make mistakes in its prospectus that could have
misled investors in connection with the 13 billion-euro ($16.5
billion) share sale in 2000. The shareholders, who mostly held
small stakes, were seeking about 80 million euros in
compensation.  “The questions was what kind of average investor we were
taking as the benchmark here,” Presiding Judge Birgitta Schier-
Ammann said after delivering the ruling. “We have decided to
take the person who understands balance sheets and has read the
complete prospectus.”  The investors, many of whom were buying shares for the
first time, argued that they were misled because Deutsche
Telekom’s sales prospectus contained dozens of mistakes. They
claimed the company improperly reported the value of real estate
and didn’t disclose in a timely way its intention to acquire
U.S. phone operator VoiceStream in 2000.  The court rejected the claims, saying the methods used for
valuing the real estate was according to applicable rules at the
time and was within a leeway such evaluations necessarily have.
After hearing 20 witnesses in  Germany  and in the U.S., the court
also didn’t find that the decision to buy VoiceStream was taken
early enough to require an addition to the prospectus or a
supplement, Schier-Ammann said.  ‘Pyrrhic Victory’  Today’s ruling is a “Pyrrhic victory” for Deutsche
Telekom, Andreas Tilp, the lead counsel for the plaintiffs, said
in an e-mailed statement after the ruling. He will appeal, he
said. The court ruled against the phone company on some
procedural issues.  The Frankfurt suit bundles shareholders’ claims under a
special process known as a model case established in 2005 to
help courts handle multiple investor actions. Individual suits
were filed as early as 2002 and the model case, which later
bundled them, started in 2008.  The German government is in the process of revising rules
for model-case proceedings in an effort to make them more
efficient and speedier.  Deutsche Telekom ‘Optimistic’  “Today’s ruling completely backs our position,” said
Andreas Fuchs, a spokesman for Deutsche Telekom. “We are
optimistic that we will also prevail at the appeals level.”  The court today also rejected claims that Deutsche Telekom
wrongfully informed about proceeds from the restructuring of the
holdings in Sprint within the company.  Deutsche Telekom also wasn’t obliged to report about a
criminal probe settled in the 1990s over a previous shares sale,
the judges ruled. The court didn’t find any criminal action by
Deutsche Telekom management.  The company, Germany’s former phone monopoly, first sold
shares to the public in 1996 for the equivalent of 14.31 euros
each. They reached a record 103.50 euros in March 2000, and in
June of that year the government sold part of its stake to
individual investors for 63.50 euros a share. The shares
declined 0.5 percent to 8.796 euros at 11.33 a.m. in  Frankfurt 
trading.  The case is OLG Frankfurt, 23 Kap 1/06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Frankfurt via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  