-- Deutsche Bank Underweights China Stocks, Morgan Stanley Bullish
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-16T03:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/deutsche-bank-underweights-china-stocks-morgan-stanley-bullish.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is recommending
investors underweight Chinese stocks because the economy is
undergoing a “messy transition” even as Morgan Stanley sees a
25 percent gain for the  MSCI China Index (MXCN)  by the end of the year.  While the nation’s equities appear cheap and may rebound in
the “short term,” industrial overcapacity caused by the
failure of the government to enforce plans for consolidation in
major industries may hurt corporate earnings, John-Paul Smith,
Deutsche Bank’s London-based emerging-market strategist, wrote
in a report dated yesterday.  Deutsche Bank is the latest brokerage to highlight downside
risks to the Chinese economy after data last week showed
industrial output rose the least since May 2009, new loans
missed estimates and import growth stalled.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Bank of
America, Citigroup Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among banks
that have cut their expansion estimates for  China .  Chinese stocks fell today on concerns about the slowdown
after the Shanghai Securities News reported that combined net
lending for nation’s four biggest banks was almost zero in first
two weeks of this month.  The MSCI China Index, which tracks mainland stocks that
foreign investors can trade, slid 2.4 percent to 54.5 at 10:24
a.m. local time, paring this year’s gain to 2.8 percent. Morgan
Stanley forecast the measure will reach 70 by the end of the
year, while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Hong Kong-
traded Chinese stocks may rally 32 percent to 13,400.
The H-shares index slid 2.5 percent to 9,836.61, extending a
slump to 17 percent from this year’s high in February.  ‘More Clarity’  “Short term the market is certainly starting to look
oversold and could well rally on a fall in the oil price or
monetary easing, but until we can obtain more clarity about the
structural drivers of the economy and the corporate sector, we
remain underweight,” Smith wrote. “Like the U.S.
in 2007, the superficially cheap valuations are signaling a
major break in the growth model over the medium term.”  Premier Wen Jiabao is increasingly shifting to supporting
the nation’s expansion from fighting inflation and containing
property prices. April consumer prices rose 3.4 percent
from a year earlier, staying below the government’s annual goal
for the third month. The world’s second-largest economy cut the
amount of cash that banks must set aside as reserves for the
third time in about five months on May 12, pumping money into
the financial system to support lending.  Authorities are easing monetary and fiscal policies more
vigorously, inflation is being brought under control and the
 property market  is stabilizing,  Jonathan Garner , an analyst at
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , wrote in a report dated today.  “The bear phase for equities has already ended,” Garner
wrote.  For Related News and Information:  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  