-- Devils’ Website Urges Home Fans to Keep Rangers’ Backers Away
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-16T17:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/devils-website-urges-home-fans-to-keep-rangers-backers-away.html
The  New Jersey Devils  are urging fans
to avoid traditional means of re-selling tickets for home games
to keep New York Rangers fans out of the Prudential Center
during the  National Hockey League ’s Eastern Conference finals.  A majority of tickets for Devils home games in the best-of-
seven playoff series were sold to New Jersey fans through
exclusive pre-sales, the team said yesterday on its website in a
post titled “No Blue.” Those looking to sell tickets were
encouraged to avoid the secondary market and seek blogs that can
put sellers in touch with Devils fans.  “You can ask for pictures or meet them to deliver tickets
to ensure where their loyalty lies,” the team said in the post.  The post directed fans who were unsure about using blogs to
sell their tickets to call 855-DEV-ARMY to ensure the tickets go
to  New Jersey  fans. A call placed to the line about 11 p.m. last
night was greeted with a recorded voice saying all
representatives were busy.  The post was removed last evening, and the link now leads
to an error message on the team website. Devils spokesman Mike
Levine failed to provide an explanation for the post’s removal
in two telephone interviews, two voice mail messages and an e-
mail seeking the information.  The Rangers won the first game in the series 3-0 two days
ago at Madison Square Garden in New York. The Prudential Center
in  Newark , a 25-minute drive or 17-minute train ride from
 Manhattan , will host Game 3 on May 19, Game 4 on May 21 and Game
6 if necessary on May 25.  Higher Price  Tickets for games in New Jersey cost an average of $615,
compared with a pre-series average of $931 at Madison Square
Garden, according to TiqIQ, an aggregator of the online resale
market. Transactions for those games have seen a roughly 4-to-1
ratio of  New York  to New Jersey buyers, according to TiqIQ
spokesman Chris Matcovich.  “A lot of these people were probably able to buy more
seats than they had season tickets and are probably looking at
it as a way to make a couple extra bucks and defer the cost of
the seats they are actually going to sit in for the game,”
Matcovich said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The Devils’ post was similar to the “Take Back the Park”
campaign that the  Washington Nationals  began to keep tickets
away from Philadelphia Phillies fans during a Major League
Baseball series in  Washington  this month, Matcovich said.  “When you have a team with a smaller fan base, such as the
Nationals or the Devils, it doesn’t surprise me that they have
to put together some type of initiative like this to try and get
their fans in the stadium as opposed to their cross-river
rivals,” he said.  The Devils ranked 24th in the 30-team NHL with an average
15,396 fans at 41 homes games this season, 87 percent of the
Prudential Center’s capacity, according to ESPN. The Rangers
ranked 14th, with an average of 18,191 fans per home game, which
is Madison Square Garden’s capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  