-- Discount Yield Jumps as Moody’s Mulls Rating Cut: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-05-16T12:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/discount-yield-jumps-as-moody-s-mulls-rating-cut-tel-aviv-mover.html
Discount Investment Corp. (DISI) ’s bond
yield jumped to a record after the company said Moody’s Midroog
may lower its debt rating and shares of its telecommunications
affiliate plunged amid growing competition.  The yield on Discount Investment’s 5 percent shekel-
denominated notes due April 2016 surged 234 basis points, or
2.34 percentage points, to 12.4 percent, at 2:34 p.m. in Tel
Aviv. Shares of the Tel Aviv-based company slumped 18.8 percent
to 11.65 shekels, the lowest since their listing in 1995.
 Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , which is  47 percent-owned  by Discount,
dropped 7.8 percent to a record 34.59 shekels.  Moody’s Midroog is discussing lowering its debt rating,
Discount said today, just two days after Standard & Poor’s
Maalot said its outlook on the company was negative. S&P cut
ratings on Discount’s parent companies  IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH)  and IDB
Development Corp. that day to the lowest and third-lowest
investment grades, respectively, citing “weak” funding levels.  “Negative sentiment around the investments of Discount is
growing and the possible debt downgrade is adding to the fire,”
said Erez Dam-Och, head of the trading desk at Tel Aviv-based
Meitav Investment House Ltd. “Investors are concerned about
debt repayment abilities because of the big cash needs at the
company’s parent companies IDB Holding and IDB Development.”  ‘Credit Squeeze’  Billionaire Nochi Dankner, who controls IDB Holding, said
May 14 “there is a credit squeeze” and that “it’s true that
it is not easy to recycle debt.” IDB said it will consider
steps to boost funding at its units in coming months.  Discount Investment, with stakes in manufacturing, retail
and telecommunications businesses, has also been hurt by
speculation Cellcom may be forced to reduce prices as
competition grows. Cellcom represents about 22.9 percent of
Discounts investments, according to Dam-Och.  Golan Telecom Ltd. and  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT) 
started offering wireless services on May 14, competing with
packages offered by Cellcom,  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR)  and
 Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ)   Shares of Partner and Bezeq were down 6.9 percent and 1.8
percent, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  