-- Draghi Signals ECB Won’t Keep Greece in Euro at Any Cost
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-16T15:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/draghi-signals-ecb-won-t-keep-greece-in-euro-area-at-any-cost.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  acknowledged that Greece could leave the euro area and
signaled policy makers won’t compromise on their key principles
to prevent an exit.  While the bank’s “strong preference” is that Greece stays
in the euro area, “the ECB will continue to comply with the
mandate of keeping  price stability  over the medium term in line
with treaty provisions and preserving the integrity of our
balance sheet,” Draghi said in a speech in Frankfurt today.
Since the euro’s founding treaty does not envisage a member
state leaving the monetary union, “this is not a matter for the
Governing Council to decide,” Draghi said.  The comments are the closest Draghi has come to conceding
that  Greece  could choose to leave the euro region, having
previously said only that such an event wasn’t envisaged and
wouldn’t help Greece. Greece faces a fresh election on June 17
that may boost parties opposed to the conditions of its
international bailouts, raising the specter of its exit.  “The Governing Council’s strong preference is that Greece
will continue to stay in the euro area,” Draghi said.  He said euro-area countries have made more progress on
cutting budget deficits and introducing structural reforms than
has been acknowledged.  ‘Difficult Reforms’  “Everywhere governments have undertaken significant and
difficult reforms and continue to do so,” Draghi said, adding
that public debt overall in the euro area should stop rising
next year and decline thereafter.  Draghi said the ECB’s non-standard measures, through which
over 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) has been pumped into the
financial system since December, had “helped to stabilize
short-term rates in an environment of high volatility and
extreme distrust.”  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said in an
interview with Handelsblatt newspaper on May 8 that if Greece
wanted to remain in the euro, it had “no alternative” than to
stick to its agreed consolidation program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  