-- Dubai Shares Drop to 3-Month Low on Greek Crisis, Oil Decline
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-05-16T08:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/dubai-shares-drop-to-3-month-low-on-greek-crisis-oil-decline.html
Dubai’s shares fell to the lowest in
three months, following Asian and European markets, as talks to
form a new Greek government failed and oil tumbled.  Arabtec Holding PJSC (ARTC) , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest
publicly traded construction company, dropped 2.4 percent, while
 Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, retreated the most since May 14. The  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  declined 1.6 percent to 1,463.21, the lowest intraday
level since Feb. 8, at 12:19 p.m. in the emirate. The  Bloomberg
GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  slipped 0.8 percent.  Asian and European markets fell, adding to losses in the
U.S., amid deepening speculation Greece will have to leave the
euro-currency bloc. New elections in Greece may be scheduled as
early as June 10 after President Karolos Papoulias failed to
broker a governing coalition in meetings yesterday with Pasok
party head Evangelos Venizelos and other political leaders.  The drop “was expected due to the uncertainty in Greece,
which is affecting international markets as a whole,” said
 Marwan Shurrab , vice-president at Gulfmena Investments Ltd.
“Commodities have been losing ground, down almost 12 percent
this month, which is affecting sentiment to a certain extent as
they reflect the surpluses of the governments in the region.”  Oil slid after U.S. crude stockpiles increased and on
concerns over Europe. Crude for June delivery decreased as much
as 2.3 percent to $91.81 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest intraday price since
Nov. 3. Gulf Arab oil exporters, including  Saudi Arabia  and the
U.A.E., supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Volumes Decline  Dubai’s benchmark index has dropped 17 percent from this
year’s peak in March, leaving the 31 companies on Dubai’s index
valued at  9.7 times estimated earnings  compared with 12 times
for Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The kingdom’s measure lost 1 percent.  Arabtec decreased to 2.85 dirhams, set for the lowest close
since May 13. Emaar declined 1.7 percent to 2.89 dirhams.  About 48  million shares  traded in Dubai so far today,
compared with this year’s peak of 835 million.  Elsewhere in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council,
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  decreased 0.8 percent, Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.3 percent, while Bahrain’s and Kuwait’s  measure s
were little changed. Oman’s  benchmark stock index  rose 1.1
percent after declining 1.2 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  