-- Tea Party Picks Losing Fight Over U.S. Export-Import Bank
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/tea-party-picks-losing-fight-over-u-s-export-import-bank.html
It was business as usual at the U.S.
Export-Import Bank Sept. 30, though its charter was set to
expire at midnight. The board approved $1.2 billion in loan
guarantees to help Air India Ltd. buy jetliners from  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
part of $3.4 billion in financing it handled that day.  Why worry? The bank had been around since the New Deal,
helping U.S. businesses compete in the international
marketplace. Its periodic reauthorization had been a matter of
routine. Committees in both chambers of Congress had stamped
their overwhelming approval on bills to renew the charter.  All of that was about to change. The loan guarantee to Air
India angered  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and other U.S. carriers just
as resentment of the bank as a government meddler in business
exploded into opposition by anti-tax Tea Party-aligned
Republicans.  For months, the bank’s survival was in doubt while
supporters such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, caught off
guard, warred against Delta, the Club for Growth and the
libertarian  Cato Institute . A bipartisan compromise saved the
institution when the Senate voted 78-20 May 15 to adopt a deal
negotiated in the House to extend the lender’s charter for three
years and increase its lending limit to $140 billion.  Business groups that supported reauthorization “made their
voices heard on Capitol Hill,” Ex-Im Chairman and President
Fred P. Hochberg said in an interview after the Senate vote.  That there was a fight at all amazed the bank’s backers.  Agency Creates Jobs  “We’ve got an agency that creates jobs, does it at no cost
to the taxpayer, generates and has delivered $1.9 billion to the
Treasury over the last five years,” according to Hochberg, who
counts President  Barack Obama  and some of the country’s most
influential industry groups among his allies.  “It’s hard for me to fully understand what the debate
is,” Hochberg said in an April interview from his office
overlooking the White House across leafy Lafayette Square.  The story of how the Ex-Im Bank, for decades a fairly
invisible cog in the bureaucratic machinery, was almost put out
of business is a case study in the politics of Washington, where
Congress has been paralyzed over fundamental issues about the
scope and role of government.  Since it was founded in 1934, the bank has been
reauthorized every few years with little or no debate,  most
recently in 2006 without so much as a request for a roll call
vote in either chamber.  Sign of Trouble  A sign of trouble in Congress came in December, when some
Republicans on the House Financial Services Committee objected
to a plan to reauthorize the bank for four years and raise its
lending cap by 35 percent to $135 billion. House leaders
considered making the Ex-Im measure part of an omnibus year-end
spending bill.  Representative Scott Garrett of  New Jersey  said he and
other Republicans argued successfully to drop the measure from
the spending bill.  That left the bank vulnerable to a stand-alone vote and the
onslaught that ensued. Garrett said in an interview that that
was just what the insurgents, their numbers swelled by Tea Party
freshmen, wanted.  “We’ve never actively been fighting the Ex-Im Bank like we
did this time,” said Andrew Roth, vice president of government
affairs for the Club for Growth, a Washington-based organization
that favors smaller government.  Opposition to federal intervention in the economy by the
Tea Party movement in 2010 had given the club’s limited-
government mantra more attention in Congress. The group alerted
lawmakers on Jan. 31 that it would watch how they voted on the
bank’s reauthorization.  ‘Pumping Out E-Mails’  “Thereafter, we were pumping out e-mails to the hill --
two, three, four times a week,” asserting that the bank’s
lending had supported a rogue’s gallery of beneficiaries
including Solyndra LLC, Roth said.  While the bank provided a loan guarantee to a Belgian bank
that supported the purchase of Solyndra’s solar panels, the U.S.
lender wasn’t exposed to Solyndra directly, according to an Ex-
Im fact sheet published in April.  Obama, who has set a goal of doubling U.S. exports by the
end of 2014, weighed in. He endorsed the bank in a Feb. 17
speech at a Boeing plant in Everett,  Washington . Ex-Im will give
“American companies a fair shot by matching the unfair export
financing that their competitors receive from other countries,”
Obama said.  Heritage Foundation  Groups long opposed to the bank, including the  Heritage
Foundation  and Cato Institute, joined the fray. Their message
resonated with some members of Congress, such as Senator Jim DeMint, a  South Carolina  Republican and founder of the Senate
Tea Party caucus.  “It’s not like it was 10 years ago: We are actually
guaranteeing loans to companies that are part of governments
that are being downgraded,” said DeMint, who led much of the
opposition.  In mid-March, House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  circulated
a plan to reauthorize the bank for a year, with a 13 percent
increase in its lending limit. The rank and file balked.  “I remember that being the moment when leadership realized
that conservatives would actively fight against this,” Roth
said.  U.S. carriers led by Delta had filed a legal challenge to
the bank, alleging in a Nov. 16 lawsuit that its support for
airlines outside the U.S., including Air  India , may provide an
unfair boost to competitors.  ‘Negative Impact’  The Ex-Im Bank “routinely fails to evaluate the negative
impact that its commitments have on domestic industries,” an
industry group, Airlines for America, said in the lawsuit. The
bank disputes the claims in the case, pending in a federal court
in Washington, D.C.  Sensing an opportunity in Congress, the airlines opened a
fresh front. They had just the guy to lead the charge.  Richard Anderson, 57-year-old chief executive officer of
Delta, had a reputation as a maverick and the platform to make a
case. He is chairman of Airlines for America, which spent $1.13
million on lobbying in the first three months of 2012, according
to the Center for Responsive Politics, a non-partisan campaign
finance watchdog group.  Along with other airlines that depend on profitable
overseas routes, Delta had reason to worry about competitors
such as Air India and Dubai’s Emirates Airline buying Boeing
wide-body jets with Ex-Im financing to expand their trans-
Atlantic business.  Chamber of Commerce  In April, Anderson said in a speech to the Chamber of
Commerce, an ally of the bank, that Ex-Im financing let overseas
rivals pay $1 million a year in interest payments per plane,
compared with the $4 million annually Delta pays.  “We wouldn’t be raising the Ex-Im Bank issue if it didn’t
really hurt us, and it does,” he said.  Delta spent $667,604 in lobbying during the first three
months of 2012, on top of $2.5 million last year, federal
records show. Its lobbying efforts are led by Andrea Newman, a
campaign donor to Cantor, a  Virginia  Republican.  Also working on behalf of the airline are Fierce, Isakowitz
& Blalock, a lobbying firm that employs several former aides to
Republican Senators  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, and Elmendorf Ryan LLC, a Democratic
lobbying firm, disclosure records show. By early 2012 the Breaux
Lott Leadership Group, another firm on Delta’s payroll, focused
on Ex-Im.  ‘Much More Vocal’  The bank and its supporters were surprised by the
aggressive efforts. Opponents of the lender “were much more
vocal than we expected them to be,” said  Christopher Wenk ,
senior director for international policy at the Chamber of
Commerce, the nation’s largest business group.  The chamber last year spent $66.4 million on lobbying, more
than any other industry group in Washington, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics. In recent years, it has focused
on other battles including  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL
pipeline.  With members including Ex-Im beneficiaries Boeing,  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and other companies doing business overseas, the
Chamber of Commerce turned its attention to keeping the lender
alive.  “We really upped our game on Ex-Im” after the first of
the year, Wenk said.  Other lobbying organizations put their machines into
overdrive. The focus: jobs, the same argument airlines were
using on the other side.  Boeing Hires Firms  The  National Association of Manufacturers , based in
Washington, and the Aerospace Industries Association, based in
Arlington, Virginia, set up meetings between lawmakers and
manufacturers who rely on Ex-Im financing.  Lobbyists for Boeing, the largest recipient of Ex-Im
support, took to Capitol Hill armed with statistics of the jobs
that depend on Ex-Im financing. The airplane and defense giant,
which spent $4.1 million on advocacy during the first three
months of 2012, paid nine firms to help make the case, Senate
lobbying records show.  Some Republicans were unswayed.  “I realized that we had an entity that was handing out
huge subsidies that benefit only about 10 major companies,”
said Justin Amash, a Michigan freshman, who proposed legislation
to abolish the bank. He campaigned on a pledge to “end
corporate welfare.”  The bank used its annual meeting on April 12, held at the
Omni Shoreham Hotel on the edge of Washington’s Rock Creek Park,
to push back.  President Clinton  Hundreds of business people -- from as far away as India an
 Nigeria , many interested in buying U.S. goods -- crammed into
the hotel’s cavernous basement ballroom. Ex-Im Bank’s Hochberg
led what resembled a pep rally for reauthorization. The crowd
rose and applauded as former President  Bill Clinton  took the
stage.  “Whether you are Republicans, Democrats or independents, I
urge you to ask the Congress to reauthorize” the bank, Clinton
said.  Supporters were soon using military-style language in their
appeal. “To unilaterally surrender and do away with the bank
because of an ideological position, and the whole world has
their own version of the Ex-Im bank, is not smart to me,”
Graham said. The senator is from South Carolina, where Boeing
has a manufacturing plant for its 787 aircraft.  Deal Struck  With business leaders expressing shock at the opposition
from generally pro-business Republicans, Hoyer, the No. 2
Democrat in the House and an aide to Minority Leader Nancy
Pelosi, met privately with Cantor to negotiate a solution. The
lawmakers worked through their recess in early May and, at 7
p.m. Friday, May 4, Hoyer of  Maryland  announced a compromise. It
passed the House five days later by 330-93, with all the
“nays” coming from Republicans.  The legislation is a “first step” to increase
transparency in bank transactions and phase out government
subsidies for wide-body aircraft, Delta spokesman Trebor Banstetter said in a statement.  While the bank survived, its days of routinely winning
reauthorization may be over.  Republicans missed an opportunity to eliminate a government
entity and make their case that the president’s policies promote
“crony capitalism,” said Dan Holler, Heritage Action’s
communications director. Still, he said, they laid the
groundwork for more scrutiny of the bank when its charter is
next due for renewal.  “What you’re seeing is a fundamental change where members
of Congress, especially conservatives, aren’t afraid to debate
these issues anymore,” Holler said. “The supporters of the
bank are going to have a lot harder time justifying its
existence, given all the pressure that was put on
reauthorization this time around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Clark Hoyt at 
 choyt2@bloomberg.net  