-- Health of U.S. Tied to Education Gap, Researchers Report
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/health-of-u-s-tied-to-education-gap-researchers-report.html
Higher levels of education in the
U.S. correlate with longer  life expectancy  and less obesity,
according to the government’s annual health  report .  Obesity, which leads to chronic ailments such as diabetes
and heart disease, was twice as high among boys and three times
as high for girls in families whose head of household lacked a
degree compared with more educated households. The report, which
included a special feature on socioeconomic status and health,
was released today by the  National Center for Health Statistics .  Health disparities persist even in the face of efforts to
lower them, Amy Bernstein, a health services researcher and lead
study author, said in a telephone interview. The  Department of
Health  and Human Services has created programs to help reduce
the illness inequalities that appear for certain racial and
economic groups. Today’s report suggests the programs haven’t
been successful, she said.  “There are huge differences by education,” Bernstein
said. “I was surprised to see things haven’t improved.”  As of 2006, a 25-year-old man without a college degree
lived 9.3 fewer years than a peer with a bachelor’s degree or
higher; for women, the less-educated lived 8.6 fewer years,
according to the report. The life expectancy gap by education
widened by 1.9 years for men and 2.8 years for women from 1996
to 2006, the report said.  Education and Income  Education level and income are interconnected, though the
overlap isn’t perfect, as it’s possible to be well-educated and
poor, Bernstein said.  Poverty is tied to the greatest health disparities. In 2005
to 2010, depression among those 20 to 64 years old was five
times as high for those below the poverty line as those whose
incomes were 400 percent or more above it. Toothlessness in
adults older than 45 was also five times higher in those living
below the poverty line, compared with those who made at least
400 percent more than poverty level.  The report also found an increase in the number of young
adults without health insurance and more people going without
care or medication because they didn’t have enough money.  The number of people 18 to 44 years old who were uninsured
rose to 27 percent in 2010 from 22 percent in 2000, while those
on Medicaid, the U.S. program that pays for health care for the
poor, almost doubled to 11 percent, according to the report.
Young adults up to age 26 now can be covered by their parents’
insurance as part of the 2010 U.S. health law.  Cost of Uninsured  In 2008, the cost of the uninsured to the federal, state,
and local governments was about $42.9 billion, according to the
 Kaiser Family Foundation , a  Menlo Park , California-based
nonprofit health research group. Uninsured patients tend to
require costly treatment because they don’t get enough
preventive care, said Ethan Rome, the executive director of
Health Care for America Now!, an advocacy group that supports
the health overhaul. The number of people 18 to 64 who waited to
get necessary care because it was too expensive increased during
the last decade, the report showed.  “These are among the reasonable numbers to use to evaluate
the effectiveness of Obamacare,” Rome said in a telephone
interview. “We can see if we get healthier as a nation, and
whether health-care costs grow at a slower rate over time.”  Among those 18 to 64, 15 percent of people didn’t get
required care in 2010 because it was too expensive, compared
with 9.2 percent in 2000. Total personal health-care costs
almost doubled to $2.1 trillion in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 