-- ECB Stops Loans to Some Greek Banks as Draghi Talks Exit
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-17T08:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/ecb-stops-lending-to-some-banks-as-draghi-talks-exit-correct-.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
will temporarily stop lending to some Greek banks to limit its
risk as President  Mario Draghi  signaled the ECB won’t compromise
on key principles to keep Greece in the euro area.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said yesterday it will push the
responsibility for lending to some Greek financial institutions
onto the Greek central bank until they have sufficiently boosted
their capital. “Once the recapitalization process is finalized,
and we expect this to be finalized soon, the banks will regain
access to standard Eurosystem refinancing operations,” the ECB
said in an emailed statement.  The move comes after Draghi acknowledged for the first time
that Greece could leave the monetary union. While the bank’s
“strong preference” is that  Greece  stays in the 17-nation euro
area, the ECB will continue to preserve “the integrity of our
balance sheet,” he said in a speech in  Frankfurt  yesterday.  “A Greek exit was seen as an absurdity up to now,” said
Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in
 London . “It is gradually becoming the main scenario. The ECB is
prioritizing its balance sheet over monetary-union geography.”  Greece faces a fresh election on June 17 that may boost
parties opposed to the conditions of its international bailouts,
raising the specter of its exit.  Stocks Drop  European stocks dropped for a fourth day today, to their
lowest level this year, amid growing concern Greece will be
forced to quit the euro. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.4
percent to 243.52 as of 9:21 a.m. in London. The gauge has
dropped about 3.3 percent this week. The euro was unchanged at
$1.27, having dropped almost 4 percent this month.  A 130 billion-euro ($165 billion) bailout earlier this year
provided a 50 billion-euro fund to recapitalize Greek banks
after they reported losses from the country’s debt
restructuring, the largest ever. Greece’s four biggest banks are
waiting for European Union approval to receive 18 billion euros
of bonds issued by the European Financial Stability Facility for
their recapitalization, Imerisia reported yesterday, without
saying how it got the information.  Emergency Support  The ECB can only lend to sound banks and therefore won’t
allow undercapitalized institutions to access its refinancing
operations, a euro-area official said on condition of anonymity.  “Pending the recapitalization of Greek banks that are
severely undercapitalized as a result of the” debt
restructuring, some “have been moved to Emergency Liquidity
Assistance,” said ECB said.  The so-called ELA is emergency support national central
banks can provide to lenders with ECB approval. The ECB
“continues to support Greek banks,” it said.  The ECB is conducting a comprehensive review of all its
policy tools and has no immediate plans to increase stimulus
even as market tensions mount, two euro-area officials said.  The review, mandated by the central bank’s six-member
Executive Board, intends to assess the effectiveness of its
measures, including the bond-buying program and long-term
refinancing operations, and is scheduled to be completed in June
or July, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the deliberations are private.  A third official said the ECB may not consider taking any
further policy action until July, and that the bank sees current
market tensions as a way of focusing politicians’ minds on
reform efforts. Bond yields in Spain and  Italy  have reached
levels that last year pushed the ECB to restart its bond-
purchase program.  A Greek exit could be “technically” managed yet would
damage confidence in the monetary union, ECB council member
 Patrick Honohan  said on May 12. A departure by Greece “is not
necessarily fatal, but it is not attractive,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  