-- ECB Said to Stick to Current Crisis Stance as Tools Reviewed
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k ,   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-16T15:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/ecb-said-to-stick-to-current-crisis-stance-as-tools-reviewed.html
The  European Central Bank  is
conducting a comprehensive review of all its policy tools and
has no immediate plans to increase stimulus even as market
tensions mount, two euro-area officials said.  The review, mandated by the central bank’s six-member
Executive Board, intends to assess the effectiveness of its
measures, including the  bond-buying program  and long-term
refinancing operations, and is scheduled to be completed in June
or July, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the deliberations are private. A third official said the
ECB may not consider taking any further policy action until
July, and that the bank sees current market tensions as a way of
focusing politicians’ minds on reform efforts.  An ECB spokesman, who asked not to be named in line with
the bank’s practice, declined to comment.  Bond yields in  Spain  and  Italy  have reached levels that
last year pushed the ECB to restart its bond-purchase program,
while the prospect of new elections in Greece has fueled
concerns that the country may leave the 17-nation euro region. 
The third official said the ECB won’t do anything until after 
the next Greek election and that Governing Council members 
have been warned not to comment on the nation at all.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said today that while the
council’s “strong preference” is that Greece stays in the euro
area, it won’t compromise on its principles to prevent an exit.  Greek Exit  Greeks will return to the ballot boxes on June 17,
Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis said today, after talks on
forming a government failed following an inconclusive election
this month. Polls suggest a party that opposes the conditions of
 Greece ’s international bailout, Syriza, may top the next vote,
raising the chances the country will be forced to quit the euro.  A Greek exit could be “technically” managed yet would
damage confidence in the monetary union, ECB council
member  Patrick Honohan  said on May 12. A departure by Greece “is
not necessarily fatal, but it is not attractive,” he said.  ECB policy makers have no immediate plans for policy
action, the first two officials said. They will await the
outcome of the next Greek election and also want to see the
central bank’s new economic projections in June and a European
Banking Authority report on bank recapitalizations, which is due
to be published at the end of June.  Policy on Hold  There’s no willingness to cut  interest rates  or embark on
additional non-standard measures, such as more long-term loans
or re-starting the bond-purchase program, in the absence of a
new shock, the two officials said.  The said that policy makers are instead focused on
assessing the impact of the tools used so far in terms of
financial stability, markets and policy transmission.  Some ECB policy makers are concerned that politicians are
underestimating problems in Spain, one official said, adding
that capital needs for the country’s banking system could be
double what’s now envisaged.  According to this official, the ECB considers that Spain’s
needs for capital should be met with the assistance of  Europe ’s
bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said today there is a
serious risk that investors will stop lending to Spain or charge
“astronomical prices.” The extra yield they demand to hold
Spanish debt instead of German bonds has widened to a euro-era
record of 5.07 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  