-- Edwards Defense Wraps Up in Trial Over Campaign Funds
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/edwards-defense-wraps-up-in-trial-over-campaign-funds.html
John Edwards  wasn’t called to the
witness stand by his lawyers before they rested their defense at
the former presidential candidate’s trial over alleged campaign-
donation violations.  Edwards’s oldest daughter, Cate, who had been scheduled to
take the witness stand yesterday, also didn’t testify. Closing
arguments are scheduled to begin today in the trial in
Greensboro, North Carolina.  U.S. District Judge Catherine Eagles, who is presiding over
the case, refused to let Edwards introduce as evidence a 2009
letter by the U.S. Justice Department that stated the department
won’t prosecute if the  Federal Election Commission  finds no
criminal liability. Edwards’s former campaign treasurer earlier
told the judge that the FEC concluded that the money Edwards
used for his mistress during his bid for the presidency wasn’t a
campaign donation.  “Due process requires the introduction of this evidence to
alleviate any false impression DOJ has sought to create in this
trial that its view of the evidence is the view of the United
States government as a whole,”  Allison O. Van Laningham , an
attorney for Edwards, wrote in papers filed May 15.  Edwards, 58, a former U.S. senator from North Carolina and
Democratic presidential contender in 2008, is accused of
illegally using almost $1 million in campaign contributions to
conceal his affair with  Rielle Hunter , an unemployed filmmaker
with whom he fathered a child. He says the funds came from
friendships with Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, a 101-year-old
multimillionaire heiress, and  Fred Baron , a now-deceased trial
attorney.  Audit Discussion  Eagles also denied a request by the defense to admit a
recording of an FEC meeting on July 21, 2011, during which
commissioners discussed closing an audit of the Edwards
campaign. The commission concluded the payments wouldn’t be
reportable as campaign donations, Van Laningham said in court
papers.  When Eagles barred evidence of the FEC’s ruling on May 15,
she said the issue was too confusing for the jury and it wasn’t
clear what evidence had been put before the commission.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of  North Carolina  (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net :
John Peragine in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  