-- Legg Mason Rises as it Repurchases KKKR Notes to Cut Debt
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-05-16T20:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/legg-mason-rises-most-in-two-years-after-kkr-repurchase.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the  money manager 
whose biggest shareholder is activist investor  Nelson Peltz ,
rose by the most in almost six months after saying it will
repurchase $1.25 billion of debt from private-equity firm KKR &
Co. and buy back more stock.  Legg Mason climbed 7.5 percent to $24.05, the biggest
increase since Nov. 30, after saying it will accelerate $155
million in stock repurchases and plans to buy back an additional
$1 billion in shares.  Scott Nuttall , KKR’s head of global
capital who joined Baltimore-based Legg Mason’s board when the
debt investment was made in 2008, will step down.  Peltz, who is known for pushing companies to increase their
share prices, joined Legg Mason’s board in October 2009 after
investor withdrawals and losses related to its money funds had
sent the stock tumbling 63 percent in the prior two years. Legg
Mason’s Chief Executive Officer  Mark Fetting  has since cut jobs
to increase profitability and has completed a program designed
to save $130 million to $150 million per year. The plan
announced today will reduce gross debt by $350 million
immediately, Fetting said in today’s statement.  “This is a positive announcement for the company due to
the increase in share buybacks and reduction in gross debt,”
Macrae Sykes, an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The announcement today further
reduces corporate uncertainties about the balance sheet, which
should enable management to sharpen focus on operations and
asset gathering.”  Legg Mason’s shares are unchanged this year, compared with
the 5.5 percent increase in  Standard & Poor’s  index of 20 asset
managers and custody banks.  KKR Investment  The firm had sold $1.25 billion of notes to KKR in 2008 to
increase capital to support its money funds from losses linked
to subprime mortgages. The convertible notes paid 2.5 percent
and were due in 2015, Legg Mason said.  The terms of today’s transaction include a prepayment fee
of $6.25 million to KKR and the issuance of new warrants that
provide for the purchase of about 14 million shares of common
stock at $88 a share.  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-based KKR,
declined to comment on the transaction.  “We will improve our capital structure by reducing gross
debt,” Fetting said in the statement. “With this efficient
 capital structure , we will also have flexibility to return a
significant portion of the cash we generate to our shareholders
when it is appropriate to do so.”  New Debt Sale  Legg Mason today issued $650 million in debt to help pay
back the KKR notes, selling seven-year bonds with a 5.5 percent
coupon.  Apart from returning cash to shareholders, the refinancing
of the notes will help Legg Mason free up cash to make targeted
acquisitions, Fetting said today.  Legg Mason’s fiscal fourth-quarter  profit  increased 10
percent as expense cuts offset the impact of lower stock and
bond assets. Expenses fell 6.2 percent to $576 million in the
three months ended March 31 as Legg Mason completed its
restructuring plan. Costs from that plan fell to $1.9 million in
the quarter, compared to $15.7 million a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  