-- Einhorn Says Amazon’s Future a ‘Riddle’ as Profit Lags Sales
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-05-16T23:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/einhorn-says-amazon-s-future-a-riddle-after-profit-lags-sales.html
Greenlight Capital Inc. co-founder
 David Einhorn  said  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s future is a “riddle”
because the world’s largest online retailer hasn’t shown it can
increase profit in tandem with sales.  Einhorn made the remarks about Amazon today at the  Sohn
Investment Conference  in New York. The Seattle-based company’s
full-year sales have more than doubled since 2008, while
operating income is up 2.4 percent in the same period.  “Over the last three years, Amazon has grown revenues from
$19 billion to $48 billion,” Einhorn said. “Growing its
operating profits has been harder. Amazon’s future is a
riddle.”  Amazon Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos is sacrificing
profitability in search of growth, looking to add customers by
pushing free shipping and offering its Kindle Fire tablet at
less than half the price of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. The company’s
operating margin narrowed to 1.79 percent last year from 4.39
percent three years earlier as Amazon ramped up spending on
warehouses and expanded its line of Kindle electronic readers.  Einhorn has put pressure on companies such as Green
Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc., questioning its accounting
disclosure in October, and is known for betting against Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. before it collapsed in September 2008.  His comments on Amazon also included remarks such as “Holy
Amazon, Batman,” and “there’s an elephant in the room.”  Einhorn separately prompted an 8.2 percent drop in  Martin
Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM) ’s stock today -- its  biggest decline 
since December 2008 -- after he said the sand-and-gravel
producer benefited from a “one-time fiscal stimulus that is
about to wind down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  