-- Emerging Market Stocks Drop on Concern Over China, Greece
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n ,   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-16T12:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/emerging-market-stocks-drop-on-concern-over-china-greece.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped to the
lowest in four months as commodities declined and concern
deepened Europe’s debt crisis will spread and China’s economic
growth will slow.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 2.2 percent to 925.41
as of 1:30 p.m. in London, the lowest since Jan. 2. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks in Hong Kong
slumped 3.4 percent, with benchmarks gauges in Russia and India
losing at least 1.4 percent.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , with the
biggest weighting in the emerging market index, fell the most
since October 2008 after Digitimes reported that Apple Inc.
increased its purchases of semiconductors from a competitor.  Greece will hold new elections after President Karolos Papoulias failed to form a ruling coalition, threatening
spending cuts required to secure 240 billion euros ($306
billion) in bailouts. Chinese banks and property developers fell
in  Hong Kong  after the Shanghai Securities News said combined
net lending for the nation’s four biggest banks was almost zero
in the first two weeks of this month. The S&P GSCI index of 24
commodities fell to the lowest level this year.  “Investors are going defensive with cash and fixed-income
assets because they are worried about the situation in Europe
and China,” said Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps manage about
$16.7 billion at Manila-based Bank of the Philippine Islands.
“There are fears that Greece will not uphold its bailout plan
and China is in for a hard landing.”  BRICs Fall  Concerns Greece will leave the euro and Europe’s debt
crisis will spread has driven the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index to
a 14 percent decline from its March 2 peak.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index, up 0.7 percent this year,
trades at 9.8 times estimated earnings, compared with 11.5 for
the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of advanced nations, which has added 1.9
percent in 2012. The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC) , which includes stocks from
Brazil, Russia, India and China, dropped 2.4 percent today,
wiping out this year’s gains.  Gold producers  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold Fields Ltd., (GFI) 
South Africa’s two largest producers of the metal, sank more
than 1.8 percent as gold declined. Johannesburg’s  All Share
Index (JALSH)  declined 0.4 percent, a third day of losses.  Hungary’s BUX Index retreated for a fourth day, falling 1.8
percent. OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender, slipped
3.5 percent, extending its losses in the past three days to 7.9
percent.  The Czech  PX Index (PX)  dropped 0.9 percent to its lowest since
Dec. 20. KGHM Polska Miedz SA, Poland’s sole copper producer,
helped the  WIG 20 Index (WIG20)  0.9 percent lower to the weakest in more
than seven months. Azoty Tarnow SA surged the most in more than
a year, jumping 12 percent, after OAO Acron of Russia bid for 66
percent stake in Poland’s biggest publicly-traded chemical
producer.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  reversed earlier losses to
trade 0.1 percent higher.  Gozde Girisim Sermayesi Yatirim
Ortakligi AS (GOZDE) , a private equity firm owned by Yildiz Holding AS,
rose in Istanbul after agreeing to buy a stake in machine tools
manufacturer Makina Takim Endustrisi AS.  Dubai’s Financial Market General Index declined to a three-
month low.  Currencies  The ruble weakened for a ninth day, losing 1.2 percent
against the dollar as oil, Russia’s biggest export earner,
declined to a six-month low.  India’s rupee led declines in emerging-market currencies,
falling to a record low as concern debt-stricken Greece will
abandon the euro bolstered demand for dollars and curbed bids
for emerging-market assets. The  Reserve Bank  of India is closely
observing the rupee’s movement and will act if needed, central
bank Deputy Governor H.R. Khan told reporters in Pokhara in
Nepal today, without elaborating. Separately, Deputy Governor
K.C. Chakrabarty said in Mumbai that the monetary authority
isn’t looking to protect any rupee level.  “The fiscal crunch is intensifying in Greece and Spain,
and as a result, contagion and risk aversion may escalate
further in coming sessions,”  George Glynos , an economist at
Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments
today. For now, the trend for emerging-market currencies and
bonds “is toward weakness,” he said.  Chinese Lending  The MSCI gauge for  technology stocks  in emerging markets
fell for a 10th day, its longest losing streak since 2001 and
the worst performer among the broader index’s 10 industry
groups.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (981)  sank 11
percent after MSCI Inc. said it will removed the stock from its
MSCI China Index.  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.2 percent and the
gauge for stocks listed in Hong Kong slumped the most since
November after Deutsche Bank AG said investors should
underweight Chinese stocks on prospects earnings growth will be
hurt by industry overcapacity.  Bank of China Ltd.  slid 3 percent in Hong Kong and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  fell 2.8 percent. Combined net lending
of China’s four biggest banks was almost zero in the two weeks
ended May 13, Shanghai Securities News reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index  of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps rose six basis
points to 326, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slipped two basis points to 385, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .
Stephen Gunnion at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 