-- Tencent Net Rises to Record on Chinese, Korean Game Sales
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-05-17T08:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/tencent-profit-rises-to-record-on-china-korea-game-sales.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s
biggest Internet company, posted a record quarterly profit of
2.95 billion  yuan  ($467 million) after online game sales jumped.  First-quarter net income increased 2.8 percent from a year
earlier, Tencent said in a  Hong Kong  stock exchange filing
yesterday. That matched the 2.95 billion-yuan average of 10
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 52 percent
to 9.65 billion yuan.  Tencent outpaced smaller rivals  NetEase Inc. (NTES)  and  Shanda
Games Ltd. (GAME)  in luring players in China’s $6.5 billion online
games market and added gamers overseas, including in South
Korea, to step up international expansion. Chief Executive
Officer Pony Ma is upgrading services such as messaging and
microblogging to win Chinese smartphone users and sustain his
company’s 44 percent surge in Hong Kong trading this year.  “The company has always done very well in China, but now
it has started getting some traction overseas,” said Kevin Tam,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International
who rates Tencent buy. “A surprise was the ramp-up in the e-
commerce division.”  Tencent rose 2.5 percent, the most since April 30, to
HK$225 at the close in Hong Kong. The stock is  the best
performer  in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  this year and
has outperformed the U.S.-traded shares of  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , China’s
biggest search-engine company, and NetEase, the second-biggest
Chinese online games company.  QQ Messaging  Tencent’s earnings in the first quarter of last year
included a one-time gain of 459 million yuan from the
acquisition of U.S. games publisher Riot Games.  In the first quarter of 2012, Tencent added 30.9 million
active user accounts for its flagship QQ instant-messaging
service, China’s most-popular, for a total of 751.9 million.  Sales of Internet value-added services, including online
games and QQ-related subscription fees, rose 41 percent to 7.38
billion yuan, Tencent said.  Tencent posted a “big step-up” in e-commerce revenue last
quarter, President Martin Lau said in a conference call
yesterday. The company booked 752.8 million yuan of revenue from
its e-commerce division in the first-quarter, the first time the
company disclosed sales figures from the unit.  The company increased sales of consumer electronics in
eastern Chinese cities including  Shanghai , Lau said.  Korean Popularity  Tencent’s “League of Legends” game is the most-popular
title in South Korea with 21 percent market share, according to
a May 12 report by Barclays Capital analyst Alicia Yap.  Nexon Co., developer of Tencent’s “Dungeon & Fighter”
game, increased its sales in China by 89 percent in the first
quarter, the Tokyo-based company reported last week.  China’s online games market expanded 18 percent to 41.4
billion yuan in 2011, according to an estimate by iResearch in
January. Growth may slow to 12 percent this year, rising to 46.5
billion yuan, the research company says.  Online advertising sales jumped 92 percent to 540 million
yuan last quarter as Tencent attracted marketing spending on its
search-engine and social-networking sites.  “The economy has slowed, and that has had a knock-on
impact within some advertiser industries,” Tencent Chief
Strategy Officer James Mitchell said on the call. The company
overcame the effects of the economic slowdown by offering
“performance-based” ads on its social networks such as Qzone
and Pengyou, Mitchell said.  Tencent has 425 million registered users on its microblog
service, the company said yesterday.  Sina Corp. (SINA)  yesterday said
it had 324 million microblog users at the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  