-- Terry in England Euro 2012 Soccer Squad, Ferdinand Left Out
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-16T14:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/england-names-squad-without-ferdinand-for-european-championship.html
Former captain  John Terry  was named
to the England soccer squad for the 2012 European Championship
as new manager  Roy Hodgson  left out fellow defender  Rio Ferdinand .  Terry was chosen for the 23-man squad as he faces trial in
July for allegedly racially abusing Ferdinand’s brother Anton
during a Premier League game between Chelsea and Queens Park
Rangers. Hodgson, who replaced Fabio Capello on May 1, said his
decision was made strictly for soccer reasons and not because of
any potential problems between Ferdinand and Terry.  “My decision with John Terry was based purely on football
matters,” Hodgson said at a press conference today at Wembley
Stadium. “I was given a free hand as to the squad I picked. I
realized that when I selected him there would be people who
would raise eyebrows but that’s the decision that I’ve made,
that’s the decision I shall live with.”  Terry’s racial abuse charge led to his being stripped of
the  England  captaincy for the second time by the Football
Association. Hodgson said Liverpool midfielder Steven Gerrard
will be the captain at Euro 2012.  Norwich goalkeeper John Ruddy and Arsenal midfielder Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain received their first England call-ups.
Liverpool striker Andy Carroll was also included as Stoke’s
Peter Crouch was omitted and will be joined up front by
Manchester United’s  Wayne Rooney , who is suspended for the first
two Euro matches, and  Danny Welbeck  and Tottenham’s Jermain Defoe.  “I won’t deny it’s not been an easy squad to put together
and it’s taken a lot of thought,” Hodgson said. “I’m pleased
with the squad.”  Ferdinand has appeared in 81 games for England but never at
the European Championship. The  Manchester United  defender was
named England captain in February 2010 after Terry was stripped
of the role for the first time over allegations about his
personal life. The United player suffered a knee injury in
training for the  World Cup  in  South Africa  and missed the
tournament.  Ferdinand, 33, has been hampered by back problems the past
few seasons and last played for England in a Euro qualifier
against Switzerland in June 2011. He made 38 appearances for
Manchester United this season.  His exclusion avoids any potential distraction of having
the pair in the same dressing room. Terry, 31, was given the
captain’s armband back by Capello in March of last year but once
again lost it after the racial abuse charge, which he denies.
His trial begins after the tournament in Poland and Ukraine.  “In the last couple of days I’ve spoken to both of them
and explained to them why I’ve come to the decision,” Hodgson
said, without giving specifics.  Hodgson will manage his first game in an exhibition in
 Norway  on May 26 before England plays its final warm-up match
against Belgium seven days later at Wembley Stadium. England
faces  France  in its Euro 2012 opener on June 11 and also meets
Sweden and co-host Ukraine in the group stage of the
championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 