-- Macquarie-Led Group Buys EON Gas Grid in Germany for $4 Billion
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-05-17T02:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/eon-sells-gas-grid-to-macquarie-led-group-for-4-billion-1-.html
A group led by  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) 
agreed to pay 3.2 billion euros ($4 billion) to EON AG for a
network of natural-gas pipelines in  Germany .  The investors hired nine banks to underwrite more than 2
billion euros of loans to back their acquisition, according to
two people with knowledge of the situation.  Macquarie, Australia’s largest investment bank, last month
forecast an earnings recovery after a slump in trading income
and dealmaking fees dragged full-year  profit  to an eight-year
low. Sydney-based Macquarie made its name buying infrastructure
assets, bundling them into funds, then selling them at a profit
before the credit crunch slashed asset values and raised the
cost of debt used to finance such purchases.  “Macquarie has been repositioning its business away from
the specialist infrastructure space and expanding into more
traditional areas of  investment banking ,” said Sean Fenton, who
manages about A$900 million at Tribeca Investment in Sydney.
“But this proves they will still be active in that space,
especially due to the demand for yield and as governments and
companies that need to raise money create opportunities in the
infrastructure sector.”  The price for Open Grid  Europe , Germany’s biggest gas-
transmission system, includes adjustments for pensions and other
assets, Dusseldorf-based EON said in a statement yesterday. The
buyers include a fund of German reinsurer Munich Re, the Abu
Dhabi Investment Authority’s Infinity Investments and British
Columbia Investment Management Corp., EON said.  Loan Facility  Bank of  Nova Scotia , BNP Paribas SA, Export Development
Canada, Commerzbank AG, Credit Agricole SA, ING Groep NV, Royal
Bank of Canada, Societe Generale SA, and UniCredit SpA
underwrote the financing that will amount to about 2.5 billion
euros when undrawn working capital and investment facilities are
included, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the deal is private.  The debt, which will have three and five-year tranches, has
been structured to support an investment-grade rating and may be
refinanced by bonds later, said the people.  Karen Smith , a
Macquarie spokeswoman in  London , declined to comment.  EON, Germany’s largest utility, plans to sell 15 billion
euros of assets after  Japan ’s Fukushima nuclear disaster
prompted German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to start phasing out
atomic generation. The first phase of reactor shutdowns cut
EON’s profit by 2.5 billion euros in 2011. EON yesterday said it
has sold 12 billion euros of assets.  “It’s a good deal for a good price,” Peter Wirtz, an
analyst at WestLB AG, said by telephone from Dusseldorf. “EON’s
disposal program has worked out better than expected.”  Open Grid Europe operates about 12,000 kilometers (7,460
miles) of gas transmission pipes in Germany, according to its
website. A group including GDF Suez SA, the IFM Australian
Infrastructure Fund and CNP Assurances SA was also interested in
Open Grid Europe. Funds managed by Macquarie Infrastructure and
Real Assets bought  RWE AG (RWE) ’s German gas grid unit in 2011.  EON said it expects the deal, which requires approval from
German authorities, to be concluded in the third quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  