-- Tepco in Talks With Japan Firms to Buy Chevron LNG Project Stake
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-05-16T10:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/tepco-in-talks-with-japan-firms-to-buy-chevron-lng-project-stake.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  said it is
in talks with three Japanese companies to jointly invest in
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Wheatstone natural gas project in  Australia .  The electricity producer has held discussions with
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Nippon Yusen K.K. and state-owned Japan Oil,
Gas and Metals National Corp., Naoyuki Matsumoto, a spokesman
for the utility known as Tepco, said by telephone from  Tokyo 
today. He declined to give details of the proposed investment.  The four companies are considering purchasing a $4.35
billion stake in the Wheatstone liquefied natural gas project,
two people with direct knowledge of the negotiations said,
asking not to be identified because the talks are private. The
group may buy a 10 percent stake in the gas fields and an 8
percent interest in the venture’s LNG facilities, they said.  The plan to jointly invest in Wheatstone was first reported
by the Nikkei newspaper today.  The A$29 billion ($29 billion) Wheatstone project is among
several Australian LNG projects aiming to meet rising Asian
demand led by  Japan  as the country ramps up thermal-power
generation after the Fukushima disaster shut all its nuclear
stations. Tepco, owner of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic
plant, invited the other Japanese companies to join it as it
deals with the costs of last year’s accident.  In a preliminary agreement signed in December 2009,  Chevron
had said  Tepco intends to acquire 15 percent of the second-
largest U.S. oil company’s equity in the Wheatstone field and an
11.25 percent interest in the venture’s LNG processing
facilities to be developed onshore near Onslow in Western
Australia state.  Negotiations Ongoing  Tepco is still in negotiations with Chevron, spokesman
Matsumoto said, declining to elaborate.  Chevron doesn’t comment on speculation, the company’s
Australian unit said today in an e-mail statement.  “Discussions with Wheatstone customers are ongoing,” it
said.  Tepco and Mitsubishi may spend $70 million and $330 million
respectively to acquire 8 percent and 40 percent stakes in a
venture that will obtain the interest in the Australian  gas
field , one person said. Nippon Yusen and state-owned Jogmec may
invest $90 million and $350 million, while the  Japan Bank for
International Cooperation  may buy preferred shares without
voting rights in the venture for $280 million, the person said.  JBIC may also lend about $2 billion to the venture, while
private banks may lend $1.3 billion, the person said.  “We are considering investing in the project” and a
decision has yet to be made, Kazuhiko Uematsu, a spokesman for
Jogmec, said by telephone today. “We can’t comment beyond that
because we are still in talks with private companies.”  Mitsubishi spokesman Shunsuke Nanami declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  