-- Merkel Fires Roettgen After Worst Result in Biggest State
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-05-16T14:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/merkel-fires-roettgen-after-worst-result-in-biggest-state-1-.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  fired
Norbert Roettgen, the federal  environment minister  who led her
 Christian Democratic Union  to its worst-ever result in an
election in Germany’s most populous state.  Merkel said that she contacted President Joachim Gauck
today and proposed that Roettgen “be relieved of his duties”
as a minister “to make possible a new start with personnel this
evening.” Roettgen will be replaced by  Peter Altmaier , the
deputy CDU floor leader, Merkel said.  “The energy change is a central task of this legislative
period,” she told reporters in Berlin, reading from a
statement. “Fundamental steps have already been taken but we
have work still ahead of us.”  Roettgen, 46, lost the May 13 election in North Rhine-
Westphalia by a margin almost three times more than was
predicted in polls, allowing the main opposition Social
Democrats to continue their coalition with the Greens under SPD
prime minister Hannelore Kraft. The result was also a personal
blow to Merkel, who attended at least nine campaign rallies in
support of Roettgen.  During the election campaign, Roettgen declined to say
whether he would serve as opposition leader in the state if he
lost. Polls of voter intention showed that cost him support and
Bild,  Germany ’s most-read daily newspaper, blamed him for the
defeat the following day, saying the result was “a predictable
CDU disaster that will also make things tough for Merkel.”  Merkel Successor  A lawyer, Roettgen was appointed environment minister in
2009 and deputy chairman of Merkel’s CDU a year later, and was
once named in German media as a possible successor to Merkel.  As environment minister, he was charged with managing
Germany’s energy “transformation,” a plan to phase-out nuclear
energy by 2022 and generate at least 35 percent of power from
renewable sources by the end of this decade, up from about 20
percent now. He supported Merkel’s decision to speed up closure
of Germany’s nuclear plants after the Fukushima atomic disaster
last year in  Japan .  Roettgen’s plan to cut subsidies for solar power by a
record this year drew fire from opposition parties and the
photovoltaic industry, which said the move threatens thousands
of jobs in the world’s biggest solar market by installed
capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  