-- Merkel Cabinet Approves ESM, Seeks to Avert Fiscal Pact Delay
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-16T11:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/merkel-cabinet-approves-esm-seeks-to-avert-fiscal-pact-delay.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Cabinet today approved bills to allow the setting up of  Europe ’s
permanent bailout fund while considering how to gain
parliament’s backing for the twinned fiscal pact.  Merkel wants to push the legislation through parliament at
the same time to bolster the euro and send a signal that budget
discipline in the single currency area will be tightened as
money is earmarked to set up the fund. The opposition Social
Democrats, whose votes are needed to pass the bills in both
chambers, oppose the fiscal pact in its current form and are
demanding it include more economic stimulus measures.  Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble today played down the
potential delay in approving the fiscal pact, saying that
there’s still enough time before the summer recess in July to
pass the bill.  “If the  Social Democrats , if the opposition need a few
weeks more to discuss the bill that’s no problem,” he said
today on  DeutschlandRadio .  SPD misgivings over the pact highlight pressure Merkel
faces within Germany as well as from her international partners
to adopt a more flexible approach in tackling the debt crisis.
To become law, both the fund, called the European Stability
Mechanism, and the fiscal pact need a two-thirds majority in
both chambers of Germany’s parliament, the Bundestag and the
Bundesrat. That forces Merkel to court opposition support.  ESM July Deadline  The SPD is focusing criticism on the pact while signaling
readiness to back Merkel on the ESM. Leaders in the currency
bloc plan to kick-start the ESM’s operation by July 1. The SPD-
led upper house, representing  Germany ’s 16 states, said on its
website that it  welcomes  the move to set up the fund.  However, leading Social Democrats said this week they doubt
Germany will ratify the pact before September. European Union
leaders including Merkel and Luxemburg’s Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker have urged the 25 signatories of the fiscal pact
treaty not to delay its ratification.  The SPD ties backing for the compact in parliament to
Merkel agreeing to economic stimulus measures like those backed
by French President  Francois Hollande , said SPD Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  in Berlin yesterday.  Germany’s upper house also wants clarity from the European
Commission on the impact of the compact on regional budgets, the
states said on the upper-house website on May 11.  The Bundesrat expects that the commission’s interpretation
of the compact “won’t lead to additional demands” on the
states, it stated. Germany’s budget “debt brake” rules set
2020 as the deadline for the states to balance their budgets
while the compact stipulates a “medium-term” target from 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  