-- Southern Europe Woes Lead Downward Spiral in Car Sales
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-05-16T09:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/europe-car-sales-fall-for-seventh-straight-month-on-debt-woes.html
European car deliveries dropped for a
seventh consecutive month, with German growth unable to counter
sales declines of 18 percent or more in the battered economies
of  Italy , Spain and Greece.  Registrations fell 6.5 percent in April to 1.06 million
vehicles from 1.13 million a year earlier, the Brussels-based
 European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association , or ACEA, said
today in a statement.  Renault SA (RNO) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Fiat
SpA (F)  posted the biggest declines, as consumers across the region
tightened spending amid a weak economy.  Sales in Italy plunged 18 percent, Spain dropped 22 percent
and Greece plummeted 57 percent. Gross domestic product in the
17-nation euro region stagnated in the latest quarter compared
with the prior three months, the European Union’s statistics
office said yesterday, as German growth helped the euro area
narrowly avoid its second recession in three years.  “Some countries in Southern Europe are experiencing a drop
in new car registrations,”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  Chief
Executive Officer Norbert Reithofer said today at the carmaker’s
annual meeting in Munich. “Uncertain consumers tend to buy
fewer cars. In such a situation, we find it tough-going in the
market just like everyone else.”  European stocks and commodities retreated today amid
deepening speculation Greece will have to leave the euro
currency bloc. Renault fell as much as 3.5 percent in Paris, and
Fiat  declined  as much 3.1 percent in Milan.  Fifth Annual Drop  BMW, Toyota and  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  are forecasting the
region’s auto market will contract about 5 percent this year,
the fifth consecutive annual decline. Four-month deliveries in
Europe decreased 7.1 percent to 4.49 million cars. Sales in
Germany, Europe’s largest auto market with about 25 percent of
all registrations in the region, increased 1.8 percent to 1.05
million vehicles. U.K. four-month sales are up 1.4 percent.  “Germany is pretty much standing alone, and to some extent
the U.K., with problems elsewhere,” said  Jonathon Poskitt , head
of European sales forecasting at LMC Automotive in Oxford.
“ Spain  is not climbing out of its hole anytime soon, and the
Italian market is also weighed down by pressures in the wider
economy.”  European automakers will continue to weaken if they’re not
allowed by governments in the region to restructure and cut
jobs, Renault Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said at a
recent automotive forum in  New York . Executives estimate
overcapacity is about 20 percent on the continent. European
sales by Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Renault tumbled 15
percent to 89,724 cars last month, according to the ACEA.  Fiat Woes  Fiat, the Italian carmaker that controls Chrysler Group
LLC, nearly doubled its loss before interest, taxes and one-time
items in Europe in the first quarter to 207 million euros.
Fiat’s April European sales dropped 11 percent to 75,462 autos.  Toyota’s sales declined 13 percent to 41,259 cars. The
Toyota City, Japan-based company started producing Europe’s
first hybrid subcompact last month, and will introduce the
image-boosting GT86 sports coupe in a bid to claw back market
share in the region after sales plunged 41 percent since 2007.  Even  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which had managed previously to
increase sales on the strength of its Audi luxury brand, was
unable to buck the downward trend last month. Europe’s largest
automaker posted a 5.2 percent decline in deliveries in April.
Audi sales gained 4.4 percent, while the namesake brand dropped
8.4 percent and the Spanish Seat unit plunged 22 percent.  Peugeot Plunge  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, announced plans
in late February to team up with  General Motors Co. (GM)  in a bid to
turn around its unprofitable auto operations. The Paris-based
carmaker’s sales in Europe fell 0.2 percent to 132,466 vehicles
in April. Four-month deliveries are 14 percent lower.  BMW, the world’s largest luxury carmaker, had the best
performance among the 10 top-selling auto companies in Europe,
gaining 2.6 percent to 68,334 units.  Daimler AG (DAI) , whose Mercedes-
Benz division is the world’s third-biggest luxury-vehicle, rose
1.1 percent to 56,677 autos.  “Germany’s economy is still strong, which drives the car
market,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center
for Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen.
“Southern Europe will cause problems for the next three to five
years because there’ll be less money available for some time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  