-- Euro-Area Inflation Slowed in April, March Exports Declined
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-05-16T09:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/euro-area-inflation-slowed-in-april-march-exports-declined-1-.html
European inflation  slowed last month
and exports dropped in March as the euro region’s spreading
fiscal crisis undermined the economy and consumer demand.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro area fell to 2.6
percent from 2.7 percent in March, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. That’s in line with
an initial estimate published on April 30. Euro-region exports
fell 0.9 percent in March from the previous month, when they
rose 2.2 percent, it said in a separate statement.  The euro-area economy is showing few signs of recovery
after stalling in the first quarter as budget cuts and
increasing unemployment undermine consumer demand and leave
companies with little room to raise prices. The  European Central
Bank  on May 3 kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent,
with President  Mario Draghi  calling risks to the inflation
outlook “broadly balanced.”  “If the ECB acted, it wouldn’t be because of prices but
because of the economic development,” said  Michael Schubert , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “We expect euro-
region inflation to normalize in 2013. The economy will probably
gradually recover in the second half of this year and that means
the ECB has room to keep interest rates on hold.”  Core Inflation  The euro pared losses after the data were released, trading
at $1.2720 at 11:10 a.m. in Brussels, down less than 0.1
percent.  Euro-area  core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy, held at 1.6 percent in April, today’s report
showed. Consumer prices rose 0.5 percent from March.  The ECB said on May 10 that professional forecasters
predict euro-region inflation will average 2.3 percent this year
and 1.8 percent in 2013. That’s up from 1.9 percent and 1.7
percent three months ago. The economy may shrink 0.2 percent
this year instead of a previously projected 0.1 percent, the
quarterly survey showed. The Frankfurt-based central bank aims
to keep inflation just below 2 percent.  Retreating energy costs are leaving the ECB with more room
to focus on ways to bolster the economy. Draghi said at the May
3 rate meeting that while there was some “stabilizing economic
activity at low levels” in the first quarter, the “most recent
survey indicators show uncertainty prevailing.”  ‘Challenging Market Conditions’  Euro-region services and manufacturing industries
contracted for an eighth straight month in April and  economic
confidence  fell to the lowest since December. Euro-area
 unemployment  rose to 10.9 percent in March, the highest in 15
years, and Italian households grew more pessimistic last month.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand on May 10 forecast 2012 profit
will hold steady as faltering European markets offset higher
worldwide deliveries. Chief Financial Officer Axel Strotbek said
the company is faced with “particularly challenging market
conditions” in western  Europe .  Still, Germany’s export-driven economy has helped soften
the region’s economic slump. Europe’s largest economy expanded
0.5 percent in the first quarter from the previous three months,
more than economists had forecast, boosted by global demand
while domestic consumption also increased.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of
 luxury vehicles , on May 3 reported first-quarter profit that
beat analyst estimates. The Munich-based company will start
production at a second plant in  China  this month.  Euro-area imports dropped 1.1 percent from February, when
they rose 3.2 percent, today’s report showed. The  trade surplus 
widened to 4.3 billion euros ($5.5 billion) from 4 billion
euros. Shipments to the U.S. rose 14 percent in the two months
through February, while exports to the U.K. advanced 10 percent,
the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  