-- Euro Declines Versus Dollar as Greek Debt Turmoil Curbs Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-16T21:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/euro-erases-gain-on-report-ecb-halts-actions-with-greek-banks.html
The euro fell to a four-month low
against the dollar after the  European Central Bank  said it will
temporarily stop lending to some Greek banks and as the nation’s
leaders prepare for a second election.  The euro dropped for a fourth day versus the greenback as
the ECB said it will push the responsibility for lending onto
Greece’s central bank until the banks have sufficiently boosted
their capital. The pound fell the most in a month against the
dollar as the  Bank of England  said U.K. growth will stay
“subdued” in the near term. The dollar pared gains against the
yen after minutes from the last Federal Reserve meeting showed
some policy makers said further easing may be needed if the
economic recovery falters.  “The big news that’s grabbing the headlines is the Greek
elections that are going to happen,” said  John Doyle , director
of markets in  Washington  at currency-trading firm Tempus
Consulting Inc. “If Greece does have to exit the  euro zone ,
what does that mean for some of the other southern economies?
The dollar continues to gain across the board.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.2716 at 5 p.m. in New York
after rising as much as 0.2 percent. It touched $1.2681, the
weakest level since Jan. 17. The euro pared its gain against the
yen strengthen 0.1 percent to 102.15 yen after rising as much as
0.6 percent.  The ECB said in an emailed statement that it will
temporarily stop lending to some Greek banks to limit its risk.  ‘Shift the Burden’  A 130 billion-euro ($165 billion) bailout earlier this year
provided a 50 billion-euro fund to recapitalize Greek banks
after they reported losses from the country’s debt
restructuring, the largest ever.  Greece ’s four biggest banks are
waiting for European Union approval to receive 18 billion euros
of bonds issued by the European Financial Stability Facility for
their recapitalization, Imerisia reported today, without saying
how it got the information.  The ECB can only lend to sound banks and therefore won’t
allow undercapitalized institutions to access its refinancing
operations, a euro-area official said on condition of anonymity.  “The ECB is by far the most exposed to Greece so they’re
trying to shift the burden to somebody else,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale
SA in New York. “They need the EFSF to start operation.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to gauge the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.2 percent to 81.414. It is the 13th
consecutive gain for the index in the longest string of
increases since its inception in 1973.  FOMC Minutes  Several Fed policy makers said a loss of momentum in growth
or increased risks to their economic outlook could warrant
additional action to keep the recovery on track, according to
minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s April 24-25
meeting released today in Washington.  Central bankers last month affirmed their plan to hold
 interest rates  near zero at least through late 2014 as they
sought to push down an  unemployment rate  that has stayed above 8
percent for more than three years. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
following the meeting that policy makers “remain entirely
prepared” to take additional actions if necessary.  The  implied volatility  of three-month options on Group of
Seven nations’ currencies rose to as high as 10.94 percent, the
highest since Jan. 9, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.
The measure has averaged 11.6 percent over the past year.
Greater volatility makes investments in currencies with higher
benchmark lending rates less attractive because the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  ‘A Greek Exit’  Greece’s Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis said a new
caretaker government decided by party leaders today would have
one task, that of holding elections. He said elections would
most likely be held on June 17. President Karolos Papoulias
failed to broker a governing coalition in meetings yesterday.  The deadlock in Greece has sparked uncertainty over the
country’s pledged spending cuts required by the terms of its two
bailouts worth 240 billion euros negotiated since May 2010.  “As the week progresses, the risk that there is a Greek
exit -- along with all the baggage that goes along with it --
continues to be very real,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on
the corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in  New
York .  The euro has lost 1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 1.2 percent over
the period.  ‘Euro-Zone Fallout’  The pound weakened for a second day against the dollar
after central bank Governor Mervyn King said the U.K. faced
threats from the euro region’s “storm” as he released the
quarterly Inflation Report in London.  The Bank of England this month halted its bond-purchase, or
quantitative easing, program at 325 billion pounds ($519
billion).  “The pound is lower given King’s concerns over the euro-
zone fallout and the possible negative impact on the U.K.
economy,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “There were certainly no
signs of further QE being off the table.”  The pound fell 0.5 percent to $1.5910 after dropping as
much as 0.7 percent, the biggest decline since April 13.
Sterling slid 0.4 percent to 79.92 pence per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  