-- Euro Fluctuates Versus Dollar as Greek Leaders Face Elections
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-16T14:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/euro-fluctuates-versus-dollar-as-greek-leaders-face-elections.html
The euro fluctuated against the
dollar amid speculation its recent decline may have been
overdone and as Greek leaders prepare to hold new elections.  The 17-nation currency earlier reached a four-month low
against the greenback amid mounting concern Greece will exit the
currency bloc. The pound fell the most in a month against the
dollar as the  Bank of England  said U.K. growth will stay
“subdued” in the near term. The yen slid against most of its
major counterparts after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  failed to find enough
 government securities  to buy as part of its stimulus program.  “The market is correcting a little bit after that strong
deterioration in risk that we’ve seen,” said Eric Viloria,
senior currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in New
York. “We’re hearing the same comments from European officials,
Greek officials, and it looks like we have to wait and see until
we’re near the June elections.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.2740 at 10:51 a.m. in New
York after touching $1.2681, the weakest level since Jan. 17. It
advanced 0.3 percent to 102.39 yen. The dollar strengthened 0.2
percent to 80.37 yen.  The relative strength index of the euro against the dollar
fell to 24.3 today, below the 30 level that some traders see as
a signal an asset may be oversold and poised for a reversal.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to gauge the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.1 percent to 81.276. It is the 13th
consecutive gain for the index in the longest string of
increases since its inception in 1973.  Greek Deadlock  The  implied volatility  of three-month options on Group of
Seven nations’ currencies rose to as high as 10.94 percent, the
highest since Jan. 9, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.
The measure has averaged 11.6 percent over the past year.
Greater volatility makes investments in currencies with higher
benchmark lending rates less attractive because the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Greece ’s Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis said a new
caretaker government decided by party leaders today would have
one task, that of holding elections. He said elections would
most likely be held on June 17. President Karolos Papoulias
failed to broker a governing coalition in meetings yesterday.  The deadlock in Greece has sparked uncertainty over the
country’s pledged spending cuts required by the terms of its two
bailouts worth 240 billion euros ($306 billion) negotiated since
May 2010.  ‘A Greek Exit’  “As the week progresses, the risk that there is a Greek
exit, along with all the baggage that goes along with it,
continues to be very real,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on
the corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in  New
York .  The euro has lost 1.1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 0.8 percent over
the period.  The yen reached an almost two-week low against the dollar
as the central bank’s shortfall increased concern the BOJ may
have to broaden its asset-purchase program to encompass longer-
dated debt or other types of assets.  Financial institutions agreed to sell 480.5 billion yen ($6
billion) of one- to two-year debt, less than the BOJ’s planned
600 billion yen of purchases, the central bank said on its
website. It was the first shortfall since the BOJ set up the
program to spur growth in October 2010.  The dollar strengthened against the yen before the Fed
releases minutes of its April 24-25 meeting.  ‘Euro-Zone Fallout’  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after that gathering he’s
prepared to “do more” to boost the recovery and ensure
inflation remains close to target. Officials have said borrowing
costs are likely to remain “exceptionally low” at least
through late 2014.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of
quantitative easing, or QE, from December 2008 to June 2011. The
central bank is also replacing $400 billion of short-term
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to keep
borrowing costs down.  The pound weakened for a second day against the dollar
after central bank Governor Mervyn King said the U.K. faced
threats from the euro region’s “storm” as he released the
quarterly Inflation Report in  London .  The Bank of England this month halted its bond-purchase, or
quantitative easing, program at 325 billion pounds ($519
billion).  “The pound is lower given King’s concerns over the euro-
zone fallout and the possible negative impact on the U.K.
economy,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “There were certainly no
signs of further QE being off the table.”  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.5937 after dropping as
much as 0.7 percent, the biggest decline since April 13.
Sterling slid 0.5 percent to 79.98 pence per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  