-- Euro Falls to Four-Month Low as Spain’s Debt Costs Rise
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-17T21:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/euro-trades-near-4-month-low-on-greek-euro-exit-concern.html
The euro fell to a four-month low as
Spain’s borrowing costs rose at an auction, stoking concern that
the region’s financial contagion is spreading from  Greece .  Europe’s shared currency remained lower against most of its
major counterparts after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Greece’s long-
term credit rating to CCC from B-, citing heightened risk that
the nation may not be able to sustain membership in the monetary
union. The yen extended its gain against the dollar after data
showed U.S. jobless claims for  unemployment benefits  were
unchanged last week and another report showed Philadelphia-area
manufacturing decreased in May.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty about where Europe is headed
on the political front, and markets are trading the uncertainty,
which means that risky asset prices will fall,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays Plc’s Barclays
Capital unit in New York. “There are some headwinds for dollar-
yen, given that the  U.S. economy  has been giving mixed
signals.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.2698 at 5 p.m. New York
time after touching $1.2667, the weakest level since Jan. 17.
The shared currency declined 1.4 percent to 100.68 yen. It
earlier fell to 100.56 yen, the lowest since Feb. 7. The yen
strengthened 1.3 percent to 79.28 per dollar after reaching
79.14, the strongest since Feb. 17.  Spanish Sale  Spain  sold bonds due in January 2015 at an average yield of
4.375 percent, compared with 2.89 percent when they were last
auctioned in April. Investors bought bonds maturing in July 2015
at 4.876 percent, compared with 4.037 percent on May 3 and bonds
due April 2016 at 5.106 percent.  The cost of insuring against a Spanish default rose to a
record, with credit-default swaps on the nation’s bonds jumping
13 basis points to a record 553, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the credit ratings of
16 Spanish banks, including  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , citing economic
weakness and the government’s mounting budget strain. The
reductions followed Moody’s May 14 downgrade of 26 Italian banks
and its Feb. 13 cut of Spain’s sovereign debt.  Borrowing costs in  Europe ’s most-indebted nations are
rising amid speculation that Greece will leave the 17-nation
euro area as political parties opposed to the terms of two
international bailouts polled strongly. A fresh vote has been
set for June 17.  The  European Central Bank  said it will temporarily stop
lending to some Greek banks with President  Mario Draghi 
indicating it won’t compromise to keep Greece in the euro area.
Draghi acknowledged for the first time yesterday that Greece may
exit. While the bank’s “strong preference” is that Greece
stays in the bloc, the will continue to preserve “the integrity
of our balance ECB sheet,” he said in a speech.  ‘Speculative Positioning’  The euro’s fluctuations against the dollar come as built-up
short positions in the futures market prevent it from
accelerating its downward trend, said  Vassili Serebriakov , a
currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York . A short is
a bet the price of an asset will fall.  “The short-term speculative positioning is already heavily
short the euro, and while it’s not going to change the trend, it
just might slow it,” Serebriakov said. “We’re seeing losses in
the euro but they’re relatively gradual.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased their
bets on a weaker euro to 143,984 in the week ended May 8,
according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. The euro
 short positions  reached a record high of 171,347 contracts in
January.  ‘Booking Profits’  While the euro has dropped 4.1 percent this month against
the dollar, it may be poised to consolidate in the near term if
the ECB continues to provide Emergency Liquidity Assistance
funding for Greek banks, Jens Nordvig, a managing director of
currency research in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in
a note to clients.  “We are now booking profits on euro-dollar shorts in spot
form,” Nordvig wrote. “However, we still view the risk skewed
significantly to the downside over the next two months.”  If the Greek election outcome spurs the nation to begin
exiting the monetary union, the euro could test the $1.20 area,
Nordvig said.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, advanced for a 14th consecutive day, rising
0.2 percent to 81.5, in the longest streak of gains since its
inception in 1973.  Jobless claims were unchanged at 370,000 in the week ended
May 12, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a drop in claims to 365,000.  Loonie, Peso  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index decreased to minus 5.8 in May from 8.5. Economists
forecast the gauge would rise to 10, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings greater than zero
signal expansion in the area covering eastern Pennsylvania,
southern  New Jersey  and Delaware.  Higher-yielding currencies, including Canada’s dollar and
Mexico’s peso, fell against the dollar after the weaker-than-
expected data diminished investor appetite for risk. The U.S. is
Canada’s and Mexico’s largest trade partner.  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is known, fell 0.7 percent
to C$1.0196 against the greenback and the peso lost 0.5 percent
to 13.8393 per dollar.  Several Fed policy makers said a loss of momentum in growth
may warrant more stimulus to keep the recovery on track,
according to minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s
April 24-25 meeting released yesterday in Washington. Central
bankers last month affirmed their plan to hold  interest rates 
near zero at least through late 2014 as they sought to push down
an  unemployment rate  that has stayed above 8 percent for more
than three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  