-- Ex-BTA Chairman Ablyazov Can Appeal 22 Month Jail Term
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-05-16T13:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/ex-bta-chairman-ablyazov-can-appeal-22-month-jail-term.html
Mukhtar Ablyazov, the former chairman
of Kazakhstan’s  BTA Bank JSC (BTAS) , can appeal a London court’s
decision to sentence him to 22 months in jail for contempt.  The former bank executive went into hiding in February
after he was found in contempt of court for lying about his
assets and moving money, in violation of a 2009 asset freeze
issued in a fraud case. Ablyazov has said he fears for his
safety and the lawsuits against him are politically motivated.  “It is striking that the fears for Ablyazov’s personal
safety on which he now relies so heavily were voiced only after
judgment was given in the committal proceedings,” Judge Martin Moore-Bick said in his written judgment. “It would not be in
the interests of justice to require Ablyazov to surrender
himself to custody as a condition of proceeding with this
appeal. However badly he may have behaved.”  BTA, which was the biggest lender in  Kazakhstan  before it
defaulted on $12 billion of debt in 2009, filed a series of
civil suits against Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer
Roman Solodchenko claiming they took more than $5 billion from
the Almaty-based bank using fake loans, back-dated documents and
offshore companies. Both men have denied the claims.  “We accept the court’s decision and will continue to
pursue the recovery of assets for the benefit of our creditors
and shareholders,” the bank said in an e-mailed statement.
“The judgment has no impact on the merits of either the appeal
or the litigation generally.”  July Appeal  The appeal against the sentence is scheduled to start in
early July. Another London court ruled this week that Ablyazov’s
lawyers didn’t have to disclose his contact details as it would
breach his right to privileged legal advice.  “This was a draconian attempt to shut him out,” Richard
Leedham, the lawyer at Addleshaw Goddard LLP representing
Ablyazov, said in a phone interview today. “There are certain
fundamental principles available that even a person in his
position should be able to take advantage of.”  The case is: JSC BTA Bank v. Mukhtar Ablyazov, [2011] EWHC
1136 (Comm), Royal Courts of Justice ( London ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  