-- Mexico Bond Yields Drop Most in Five Weeks as Growth Accelerates
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-05-17T21:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/mexico-cpi-linked-bond-yields-fall-ahead-of-inflation-report.html
Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds dropped
the most in five weeks as gross domestic product growth
accelerated in the first quarter and the central bank raised its
forecast for expansion in  Latin America ’s second-biggest
economy.  The yield on Mexican local-currency bonds due in December
2014 fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.75
percent at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was the biggest decline since April 9.  Mexico’s debt rallied after the national statistics agency
reported today that the economy expanded 4.6 percent during the
first quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace since 2010.
 Banco de Mexico  boosted yesterday its estimate for economic
expansion this year to a range of 3.25 percent to 4.25 percent
from its prior projection of 3 percent to 4 percent.  “The growth story is indeed a key driver,” Aryam Vazquez,
an economist for global  emerging markets  at  Wells Fargo & Co .,
said in a phone interview from  New York . “Authorities are
affirming that inflation is not a threat.”  In addition to boosting its growth forecast as part of its
quarterly inflation report yesterday, policy makers signaled
that risks of faster consumer price increases have diminished.
Annual inflation slowed last month to 3.41 percent, the lowest
level among major economies in Latin America. Banco de Mexico
has left the target lending rate at a record low 4.5 percent
since July 2009.  The peso depreciated 0.5 percent to 13.8393 per dollar
today. It has dropped 6 percent in May, the most among major
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  