-- FAA Pledges Crackdown After Laser Pointing Incidents Rise
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-16T21:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/faa-pledges-crackdown-after-laser-pointing-incidents-rise.html
U.S. regulators will start pursuing
maximum fines against people caught shining laser pointers at
aircraft after incidents last year climbed to record levels, the
 Federal Aviation Administration  said.  Acting FAA Administrator Michael Huerta issued the
directive today after laser incidents rose to 3,592 in 2011,
from 2,836 in 2010 and more than double the 1,527 cases in 2009,
according to agency data.  Lasers pointed at an aircraft’s cockpit can temporarily
diminish eyesight or blind pilots in planes near the ground,
according to FAA research. Some industrial lasers are capable of
damaging the eye, the FAA said.  “Shining a laser at an airplane is not a laughing
matter,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a
statement. “It’s dangerous for both pilots and passengers, and
we will not tolerate it.”  The Air Line Pilots Association, which represents about
53,000 pilots at 37 North American carriers, applauded the FAA
action, Sean Cassidy, the union’s first vice president, said in
a phone interview.  “When you look at the increase in these incidents,
something has to be done before we’re having a very different
conversation,” Cassidy said.  In addition to harming vision, a laser strike can  distract
pilots  during takeoff and descent, he said.  Severe Anxiety  A Florida man pleaded guilty today to repeatedly pointing a
green laser at planes shortly after they lifted off from Orlando
International Airport, according to an e-mail release from the
U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Middle District of Florida.  Glenn Stephen Hansen, 49, admitted to U.S. investigators
that he had aimed the beam at aircraft at least 23 times from
January through March 23, the office said in the release. Hansen
said he targeted the aircraft because he suffered severe anxiety
from jet noise, according to court records provided by the
office.  Sentencing will be held at a later date, William Daniels, a
spokesman for the office, said in an e-mail.  In one unidentified flight, a pilot was removed from duty
for medical examinations because of temporary vision issues,
according to the records.  On the evening of March 15, Hansen pointed a laser at an
AirTran Airways flight leaving the airport. The pilot told
investigators a green light illuminated the cockpit, according
to the records. AirTran is a unit of  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)   The pilot turned off the jet’s lights and watched as the
laser beam moved to another plane leaving the airport, the
government charged.  Steeper Penalties  Under a U.S. law enacted Feb. 14, people convicted of
shining lasers at planes face as much as five years in jail and
$250,000 in fines.  The FAA  issued  a legal opinion last June that shining a
laser at an aircraft constituted interfering with a flight crew,
which is punishable by civil fines as much as $11,000.  The highest fine proposed by the agency so far was $30,800
in a case involving multiple incidents, according to the
agency’s  statement .  Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport had the most
reported laser incidents last year with 130,  Laura Brown , a
spokeswoman for the FAA, said in a telephone interview.  Philadelphia International Airport was second with 110,
Brown said. Airports in Houston had 79 reports, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  