-- Facebook’s Saverin May Save $67 Million on U.S. Tax Bill
-- B y   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2012-05-16T17:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/facebook-s-saverin-may-save-67-million-on-u-s-tax-bill.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder Eduardo Saverin will save at least $67 million in federal income taxes
by dropping U.S. citizenship, according to a Bloomberg analysis
of the company’s stock price. Those savings will keep growing if
Facebook’s shares increase.  Saverin renounced his citizenship around September and he
lives in  Singapore , according to his spokesman, Tom Goodman.
Saverin, 30, was part of a small group of Harvard University
students who started the social networking site. He owns about 4
percent of the company, according to  whoownsfacebook.com .  The would-be savings underscore why more people are giving
up U.S. citizenship before potential increases in taxes for the
highest earners. The value of Saverin’s stake has swelled along
with increases in Facebook’s share price before its planned
initial public offering. The company plans to sell shares for as
high as $38 apiece this week, compared with $32.10 in private
auctions on SharesPost Inc. on Sept. 26.  Saverin’s stake may be worth as much as $2.89 billion,
based on the company’s 1.898 billion total shares outstanding.
His stake was worth about $2.44 billion in September.  Capital Gains  Bloomberg calculated the $67 million figure by applying the
15 percent U.S.  capital gains  rate to the approximate $448
million spread between the two values. Bloomberg’s methodology
was reviewed by  Robert Willens , an independent tax adviser based
in New York.  “The calculations and assumptions are not only erroneous,
they also further perpetuate the false impression that tax was
the reason behind Eduardo’s decision,” Goodman said, declining
to cite specific errors. “His motive had nothing to do with tax
and everything to do with his desire to live and work in
Singapore.”  Whoownsfacebook.com is published by Massinvestor Inc. and
draws its information from Facebook’s filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, news reports
and other publicly available sources.  Saverin’s capital gains tax liability comes “at a time
when the rate is probably the lowest it ever will be, and it’s a
substantial discount to the value of what his position in
Facebook will likely be two weeks from now,” said Edward Kleinbard, a tax law professor at the University of  Southern
California  in  Los Angeles .  Any profit from future appreciation of Saverin’s Facebook
stock will be earned free of capital gains tax in the U.S. and
Singapore, which doesn’t impose the tax.  “That’s got to be by far the biggest benefit, assuming
Facebook’s stock appreciates at even a fraction of the level
people expect,” Willens said.  Exit Tax  Americans who give up their citizenship owe what is
effectively an exit tax on the estimated capital gains from
their stock holdings at the time of the renunciation. Saverin’s
bill would be about $365 million, though even that can be
deferred indefinitely until he actually sells the shares.  In the mean time, Saverin could choose to only pay interest
to the U.S. government during the deferral period -- now at an
annual rate of 3.28 percent.  His savings may be even greater because Saverin’s tax
advisers could argue that the value of his stake in September
was less than the $2.44 billion used in Bloomberg’s calculation
because selling such a large amount of stock at the then-market
price wasn’t possible.  By locking in his liability last year, Saverin may enjoy
one more benefit: The capital gains tax rate is set to increase
to 20 percent or even higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Drucker in  New York  at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  