-- Facebook Said to Raise Size of IPO to 421 Million Shares
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-05-16T18:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/facebook-said-to-raise-size-of-ipo-to-421-million-shares.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  investors such as  Accel
Partners  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  increased the number of
shares they’re selling in the social network’s initial public
offering, boosting the sale to as much as $16 billion.  Existing holders will offer 241.2 million shares, bringing
the total on offer to 421.2 million, a regulatory  filing  today
shows. Accel, the biggest seller in the IPO, raised the amount
it’s selling by 28 percent, while Goldman Sachs more than
doubled its shares on offer.  Facebook, girding for the largest-ever IPO of a technology
company, yesterday boosted the offering’s price range to as much
as $38 a share, indicating a market value as high as $104
billion. While the expanded IPO may mean the appetite for shares
is strong, insiders’ decision to pare holdings further may
heighten some investors’ concern over Facebook’s earnings
growth, said  Greenwood Capital ’s  Walter Todd .  “If the demand wasn’t there, they wouldn’t have upsized
the deal,” said Todd, who oversees about $940 million as chief
investment officer at the Greenwood, South Carolina-based firm.
“On the other hand, when you see insiders unloading their
stakes, you start to wonder why. I could see it turning some
institutional investors off.”  Accel, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , is now offering 49
million shares, while Goldman Sachs plans to sell 28.7 million.
Digital Sky Technologies increased its amount 74 percent to 45.7
million, while Tiger Global Management is selling 23.4 million
shares, almost 7 times the amount first offered.  Faster Sales Possible  Facebook’s executives and directors increased the amount of
shares they’re selling 62 percent to 189.4 million. Co-founder
 Mark Zuckerberg , the top shareholder, didn’t boost the amount of
shares he’s selling.  Accel will hold about 23 percent of Facebook’s Class A
shares following the offering, compared with about 5.9 percent
for Goldman Sachs, according to today’s filing. Digital Sky will
own about 5.4 percent of the Class B shares after the sale, and
Tiger Global will hold about 2 percent.  “Everybody is cashing out,” said Trung-Tin Nguyen, a
hedge-fund manager at TTN AG in Zurich. “It’s normal for
private equities and venture capitals to cash out, but the
obvious question is whether they are stretching it too far.”  Facebook amended the lock-up agreement with Digital Sky and
Mail.ru Group Ltd. to allow those investors to sell more of
their stock sooner after the IPO. They’re allowed to sell 75.1
million shares 91 days after the IPO and the remainder 366 days
after, today’s filing shows.  Milner’s Ownership  Facebook  had previously disclosed that the firms could sell
43.2 million shares after the 91-day period. Russian billionaire
Yuri Milner, founder of Digital Sky, holds stakes in Mail.ru and
Facebook through that investment firm.  Investors are betting that Chief Executive Officer
Zuckerberg can overcome slowing sales growth by expanding into
areas such as mobile advertising and e-commerce, said Samuel Schwerin, managing partner at New York-based Millennium
Technology Value Partners.  “An increasing number of institutional investors are
looking beyond the value of the business today and looking at
the future growth,” Schwerin, whose firm oversees $1 billion,
including Facebook stock, said yesterday. “Those drivers are
extraordinary in size, including international and mobile and
commerce.”  Debut Comparisons  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook and its existing
holders had earlier planned to offer 337.4 million shares.
Before the company raised the price range to $34 to $38 a share,
it had offered the stock at $28 to $35. Its underwriters will
have the option to buy an additional 63.2 million shares from
the company and its holders after the IPO, the company said in
the  filing  today.  Facebook executives including Zuckerberg and Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  will mark the May 18 trading
debut with a symbolic bell-ringing at the company’s
headquarters, people with knowledge of the matter said. They
will be joined by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Greifeld , said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the event isn’t open to the public.  At $16 billion, Facebook’s debut would surpass that of
General Motors Co. to be the second-largest in U.S. history,
excluding so-called over-allotments, which let underwriters buy
more shares at a later date, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  GM Stops Advertising  GM raised $15.8 billion in November 2010, before expanding
the sale to $18.1 billion when underwriters exercised the over-
allotment option. Visa Inc. raised $17.9 billion in its 2008
IPO, the biggest in the U.S., and later expanded the sale to
$19.7 billion.  Separately, GM, the world’s biggest automaker by vehicles
sold, said yesterday that it no longer plans to advertise on
Facebook. The social network said last week that growth in
advertising sales isn’t keeping pace with gains in users.  The new shares indicate that Facebook is offering about 15
percent of its stock in the IPO, according to the filing.
Facebook’s shares are set to price tomorrow and begin trading
under the symbol FB on the Nasdaq Stock Market the following
day.  Zuckerberg celebrated his 28th birthday this week, during
the final leg of a marketing tour aimed at building demand for
the IPO and convincing investors that Facebook can make money
from mobile users.  Some institutional investors had balked at buying into
Facebook early in the road show over concern about the site’s
growth prospects, people with knowledge of the matter said last
week. In a Bloomberg Global Poll of more than 1,250 investors,
analysts and traders taken before the  price range  increase, 79
percent said Facebook didn’t deserve such a high valuation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  