-- Fed’s Bullard Says Labor Policy Is Key to Cut Joblessness
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-16T19:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/fed-s-bullard-says-labor-policy-is-key-to-cut-joblessness.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said fiscal policies are needed to
reduce the 8.1 percent U.S. unemployment rate and additional
asset purchases by the Fed, or quantitative easing, would risk a
surge in inflation.  “It may be better to focus on labor market policies to
directly address unemployment instead of taking further risks
with monetary policy,” Bullard said in Louisville, Kentucky.
“If anything, the committee may be trying to do too much with
monetary policy, risking monetary instability for the U.S. and
the global economy.”  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  on April 25
reiterated its expectation that subdued inflation and economic
slack will probably warrant “exceptionally low levels for the
federal funds rate at least through late 2014.” Bullard has
said he is opposed to such a pledge because policy should be
made in response to economic data and not rely on a public
timetable.  “The U.S. macroeconomic data have been stronger than
expected as of last autumn,” Bullard said to business people
and community leaders in a presentation hosted by the St. Louis
Fed. “The main risk is that the committee will, as it has in
the past, overcommit to the ultra-easy policy. The policy has
been appropriate so far, but could reignite a 1970s-type
experience globally if pursued too aggressively.”  Fed ‘On Hold’  Bullard told reporters after his speech that there is a
“good logic” to the central bank putting policy “on hold”
for an indefinite period of time. “Until we get a clear
difference in the economic outlook” with an acceleration or
slowdown, there is no need to change course, Bullard said.  “As long as we continue to go along in the current mode,
which is moderate growth, continuing improvement in labor
markets, inflation above target but coming down toward target,
in that kind of situation we can stay on pause,” he said.  Bullard told audience questioners after his talk that the
 European debt crisis  was unlikely to have a major impact on U.S.
growth. While the turmoil “will roll on for a very long period
of time,” European officials have averted the likelihood of a
financial panic that would be most damaging to the U.S., he
said.  The St. Louis Fed official told the audience in response to
a question that he was disappointed in Congress’s failure to
resolve uncertainty over fiscal spending this year.  Bullard said he didn’t favor using  government spending  as a
way to stimulate growth since consumers and businesses respond
by adjusting their plans in expectation of higher taxes in
future years.  ‘Large Cloud’  “The U.S. has a large cloud” from uncertainty, Bullard
said, though the likelihood of a recession is no more than
normal next year.  If the  U.S. economy  encountered another shock, Bullard said
“the committee can respond as appropriate to a significant
deterioration” in the outlook.  In his formal presentation, Bullard said near-zero  interest
rates  could be creating “distortions” in the economy,
including “punishing savers.”  While generally opposed to more spending, Bullard told
reporters he could see room for narrowly targeted programs such
as retraining to address a mismatch of worker skills and jobs.
“In aggregate, I do think there is a skills mismatch” with
former construction workers, for example, lacking the education
for jobs in a “hot sector” like technology, he said.  Smallest Increase  Payrolls climbed by 115,000 workers in April, the smallest
increase in six months, Labor Department figures showed. The
jobless rate fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent as people
left the  labor force , adding to worries that the economic
expansion is cooling.  Fed officials have been discussing how much of the U.S.
 unemployment  rate has been caused by “structural” factors such
as a mismatch of worker skills and available jobs. Richmond Fed
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the mismatch may lead to a higher
natural rate of unemployment. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
“continued weakness in aggregate demand is likely the
predominant factor” in unemployment.  “Labor market policies such as  unemployment insurance  and
worker retraining have direct effects on the unemployed,”
Bullard said in his presentation.  Quarterly Report  In his speech, Bullard also repeated his call for the Fed
to produce a quarterly monetary policy report that would
“provide a more fulsome discussion of the outlook for the U.S.
economy.”  Lacker, as well as the presidents of Fed banks in  San
Francisco , Atlanta and Philadelphia, have said since the FOMC
meeting that more Fed stimulus probably won’t be needed.  In a press conference following the April 24-25 meeting,
Bernanke signaled that further easing is unlikely unless the
economy unexpectedly deteriorates. Bernanke said it would be
“reckless” to pursue policies that would drive up inflation
when it’s already near the Fed’s target, while noting he’s
“prepared to do more” should conditions worsen.  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, was
the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases by the central bank. The Fed pushed down its
 target  interest rate close to zero in December 2008 and has
engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
to boost the economy.  Bullard, 51, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois ,  Indiana ,
 Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  