-- Finmeccanica Says Board Member Probed for Italy Party Tie
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-05-16T11:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/finmeccanica-says-board-member-probed-for-italy-party-tie.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  said a board member
is under investigation for illicit political party funding and
reiterated it’s extraneous to a bribery probe as la Repubblica
reported Chairman Giuseppe Orsi will be stripped of some powers.  Franco Bonferroni, the board member being investigated in
Rome, has denied any wrongdoing to magistrates, the Italian
defense company said in an online  document  responding to a
request of market regulator Consob. Finmeccanica said it sees
“no risks or economic impact” from a corruption probe linked
to an India helicopter contract.  The board plans to transfer some responsibility from Orsi,
who is also chief executive officer, to Chief Operating Officer
Alessandro Pansa, la Repubblica reported today, without saying
where it got the information. Pansa will oversee acquisitions
and strategy, while Orsi will remain in control of personnel and
external relations, following the annual shareholders meeting
today, the newspaper said.  A spokesman for Rome-based Finmeccanica declined to comment
on the La Repubblica report.  CEO Orsi took over as chairman on Dec. 1 after Pier Francesco Guarguaglini stepped down amid a corruption probe
involving company executives. Orsi is undertaking Finmeccanica’s
biggest overhaul in at least a decade. The executive said April
26 that allegations that he acted improperly in connection with
 contracts  the company obtained are “totally false.”  ‘Adequate’ Systems  Finmeccanica said it’s stepping up internal controls, while
a review found no issues as current checking mechanisms are
“adequate.”  In addition to company executives, Finmeccanica’s Selex
Sistemi Integrati SpA unit is also being probed over contracts
with civil air-traffic manager Enav SpA, according to the
document. The unit is being overhauled after Guarguaglini’s wife
Marina Grossi left as division chief, Finmeccanica said.  Finmeccanica  rose  as much as 6.5 percent to 2.84 euros, the
biggest intraday gain in three weeks, and was trading up 6.1
percent as of 1:39 p.m. in Milan. The stock’s 70 percent slide
in the past 12 months has left the company with a market value
of 1.64 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  