-- Three Flawed Gadgets Seek Second Shot: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-05-16T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/flawed-gizmos-seek-second-chance-with-wary-users-tech.html
It’s every tech company’s nightmare:
Amid much hoopla, it rolls out a new product, but the thing
doesn’t work as promised. The critics are damning and dwindling
customers are in revolt. What to do?  I’ve been watching the fates of three products that
stumbled at the starting gate. In two cases, the companies
forthrightly owned up to the problems, suffering short-term pain
but earning credibility points -- and perhaps a second chance --
with the gadget-buying public.  The third company tried to ride out the bad publicity. The
evidence so far: Not such a good plan.  The final verdicts are still out on the Dropcam Wi-Fi home
video-monitoring camera, Jawbone’s UP fitness wristband and
 Research In Motion (RIM) ’s BlackBerry PlayBook tablet. Of the three,
the Dropcam might be on the way to the happiest resolution.  The original Dropcam system was my favorite in the
nannycam/petcam/keep-an-eye-on-the-homefront category. I liked
its ease of use. I also appreciated its robust online service
for viewing and -- for a fee -- storing and retrieving high-
definition video. And I liked the quality of the hardware, which
was made by a third party. What I didn’t like so much was the
$279 price tag.  Two-Way Audio  For the second-generation Dropcam, the San Francisco-based
startup took full control of the camera’s design and
manufacturing. The result is a less expensive model ($149) with
more features.  Among other things, the new version includes night vision
and a two-way audio feature that allows someone viewing the
video feed on an Apple iPad or iPhone to speak through the
camera.  The new Dropcam HD was introduced at January’s  Consumer
Electronics Show  and began shipping late that month. But the
company soon heard from some purchasers that the image quality
wasn’t up to snuff. Dropcam stepped up its quality-control
checks on the cameras coming in from the Chinese manufacturer,
and found that many weren’t meeting their specifications.  The complaint rates weren’t high, and the company could
have continued to meet its order backlog while it scrambled to
fix the problem.  Instead, it froze shipments for nearly two months while it
switched to another manufacturer, notified customers of the
problem and offered to send out a new camera to anyone who
wanted one, no questions asked. If some users wound up with two
functioning, trouble-free cameras, so be it.  Easier Set-Up  The  new Dropcam  is now shipping in volume and largely
delivers on its original promise. Compared with its predecessor,
it’s easier to set up -- no more having to plug it directly into
a router -- and the new talk-back feature comes in handy for
brief exchanges, though not any kind of sustained communication.  The future of Jawbone’s  UP fitness-tracking wristband  isn’t
so clear. The $100 UP, which tracks your activity and sleep
patterns and syncs its data to a colorful app on your  Apple (AAPL) 
mobile device, was released last year to strong demand. Then,
shortly before Christmas, the San Francisco-based company issued
a letter to customers disclosing flaws that included the
inability of some bands to hold a charge and a data-syncing
problem.  Jawbone halted production and implemented an immediate  no-
questions-asked refund  “for whatever reason, or no reason at
all.” Moreover, people claiming the refund were allowed to keep
their wristbands -- meaning at least some users who never
encountered the problems were essentially offered the
opportunity to use the UP for free. (The company won’t say how
many customers have taken advantage of the offer.)  Continued Support  The company has also continued releasing updates to its app
and offering continued support for its customers, who have
responded in its user forums with a surprising measure of
enthusiasm among the lamentations.  After five months, Jawbone says it’s still developing an
improved version of UP. Meanwhile, more competitors have invaded
the space, notably  Nike (NKE)  with its $149  FuelBand .  Luckily for Jawbone, we’re still in the very early stages
of the wearable-sensor era in consumer technology. If it gets a
new UP right, it may yet find a market before it exhausts the
patience and goodwill of its customers. But it’s by no means a
sure thing, as Research In Motion has painfully discovered with
its  BlackBerry PlayBook  tablet.  Half-Baked  I had kind words for the seven-inch PlayBook when it
debuted a year ago, but with one big caveat: The software felt
half-baked, missing a number of critical applications including
contact management, calendaring and -- most stunning for a
BlackBerry -- e-mail. Those functions only worked by tethering
the PlayBook to a BlackBerry smartphone. No phone, no e-mail.  That was enough to scare off hordes of buyers. Making
matters worse, the updated software to fix those flaws, which
had been promised for shortly after launch, didn’t materialize.
RIM offered  apologies  -- but little in the way of confidence-
building steps along the lines of Dropcam and Jawbone.  Version 2.0 of the PlayBook software, which was finally
released earlier this year, largely addresses the most glaring
shortcomings. It now has a functioning e-mail client, the user
interface has been improved and a new feature allows it to run
some apps written for  Google (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, to
augment the limited selection available for the PlayBook’s
native software.  But in the meantime, the world has largely passed the
PlayBook by. A flood of new tablets from  Samsung (005930) ,  Motorola (MMI)  and
 Asus (2357)  hit the market between the PlayBook’s debut and the 2.0
update. Perhaps most damaging,  Amazon.com (AMZN)  released its Kindle
Fire, which, while technologically inferior to the PlayBook is
almost its physical twin.  RIM has slashed the PlayBook’s base price, $499 at launch,
to just $199, matching the Kindle. In terms of the quality of
the product, the company probably deserves another chance with
consumers. But having done so little in the last year to
engender warm feelings, there’s no guarantee RIM will get it.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on movies and  Ryan
Sutton  on restaurants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 