-- Ford to Replace U.S. Models Fastest, BofA Says in Report
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-05-16T16:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/ford-to-replace-u-s-models-fastest-bofa-says-in-report.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  will lead the industry
in introducing new or refreshed vehicles in the U.S. at the
fastest rate for model years 2013 through 2016, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch report.  Ford will replace 26 percent of its lineup during the
period, analysts led by  John Murphy  wrote in the annual “Car
Wars” report published today. The analysts said replacement
rates will be 25 percent for  General Motors Co. (GM) , 24 percent for
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and 23 percent for Nissan Motor Co., which
will match the industry average.  Automakers that revamp models faster tend to increase
market share, according to Murphy, who is based in  New York .
New-product introductions are accelerating from a “lull”
during the last three years and will be led by the crossover,
luxury-car and light-truck segments through model-year 2016,
which may boost the sales mix for higher-priced models and
increase industry profits, according to the report.  “As automakers emerge from the trough in the cycle, more
are aiming to spur demand by launching fresh product rather than
discounting stale models at the expense of margins,” Murphy
wrote.  Chrysler Group LLC, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , and  Honda
Motor Co. (7267)  will trail the industry average with replacement rates
of 20 percent, according to the report. The industry is unlikely
to see the large market-share shifts that occurred in previous
decades, because U.S. automakers have “largely closed” the gap
in product cycles compared with “foreign” competitors, Murphy
wrote.  Ford’s Prospects  Bank of America sees Ford’s U.S. market share rising to
more than 16 percent from 15.3 percent so far in 2012, driven by
new products such as the C-Max and Escape crossovers and Lincoln
MKZ and Ford Fusion sedans in the 2013 model year, according to
the report.  Ford will replace vehicles representing 46 percent of its
volume in model-year 2015, Bank of America estimates, by
introducing the new Ford Edge and Lincoln MKX crossovers, F-
Series pickups and Mustang sports car, according to the report.  GM’s U.S. market share may rebound to the “low 18 percent
range” with 2013 model year vehicles including the Cadillac ATS
and XTS sedans and Chevrolet Malibu and Spark cars, according to
Bank of America estimates.  GM will update vehicles accounting for 52 percent of its
volume in the 2014 model year, with vehicles including the Chevy
Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups and Cadillac CTS and Chevy
Impala sedans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  