-- Frankfurt Police Clear Occupy Camp as Euro Resentment Gains
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-05-16T15:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/frankfurt-police-clear-occupy-camp-as-euro-disenchantment-rises.html
Police in Frankfurt cleared hundreds
of protesters who set up camp outside the  European Central Bank 
in October as they prepare for as many as 30,000 anti-capitalist
activists to besiege  Germany ’s banking capital.  Officers started carrying off demonstrators gathered under
the Occupy Frankfurt banner at about 9 a.m. local time today
after issuing several warnings. The camp is being cleared before
the ECB begins a conference on monetary policy, and the first of
the four-day protest rallies gets under way this afternoon.  “We want to change the system, we want to criticize it,
and we’re not allowed to do so,” said Erik Kuhn, an activist at
the ECB camp. “We hope to achieve some publicity to show the
people in Germany and around  Europe  that the state and the city
of  Frankfurt  doesn’t have a clue how to react to the protests.”  The protests are taking place as disenchantment with Europe
and Germany’s response to the sovereign debt crisis grows and
Frankfurt, the euro’s birthplace, becomes a focal point of the
discontent. The euro and stocks fell as investors speculated
that  Greece  may drop out of the single currency after its
budget-deficit blowout triggered a financial crisis across the
continent that continues to rage.  Greek leaders seek agreement today on an interim government
that will schedule new elections as early as June 10, after
government-formation talks collapsed amid concern the country
will abandon the euro common currency. Voters handed Syriza, the
country’s biggest anti-bailout party, 16.8 percent of power in
May 6 elections.  Spur Growth  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande , who ousted  Nicolas Sarkozy  in elections this
month, said yesterday they would consider measures to spur
economic growth in Greece as long as voters there committed to
the austerity demanded to stay in the euro.  The ECB has taken steps to remain operational and ensure
the safety of its employees and visitors during the protests,
according to an e-mailed statement from the central bank today.  Authorities erected fences in front of several banks in
Frankfurt, where Germany’s largest lenders  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  are based. The demonstrators outside the ECB, who
numbered several hundred, resorted to splashing police with a
mixture paint and water in an otherwise peaceful response to the
evacuation.  Police closed off a subway station underneath Deutsche
Bank’s headquarters, one of the targets of the rallies.
Commerzbank is shutting its two towers and closing branch
offices to protect their staff and property, the bank said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  Some shops on Frankfurt’s Goethestrasse, including luxury
retailers  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  and Jil Sander AG, boarded up windows
with plywood today.  Peaceful Protest  “We want to be peaceful, what’s the point of us being
cleared out of here just because there’s a security area?” said
Marcel Goebel, a protester. “We won’t take what’s happening any
longer with all the bailouts. I’m scared the euro is going to
break up, that it goes completely downhill because Greece is in
crisis,  Spain  will be,  France  will be and Italy too. If it all
falls apart, the euro won’t be worth anything.”  The administrative court of the state of Hesse banned the
protests through May 18, Katrin Lehmann, a spokeswoman for the
court in Kassel, said in a telephone interview. The decision
overturned a ruling by a Frankfurt court that permitted a rally
outside the ECB today and a rave tonight. The Kassel court said
a demonstration on May 19 can go ahead.  Protesters can still ask the federal constitutional court
in Karlsruhe to overturn the verdicts of the Frankfurt and
Kassel courts.  Solutions Sought  Some demonstrators will probably proceed with protests
regardless of whether they have permits, Gerhard Bereswill, vice
president of the Frankfurt police, said at a press conference
yesterday.  The Blockupy Frankfurt movement is affiliated with the
activist group Attac. The Association for the Taxation of
Financial Transactions for the Aid of Citizens was founded in
Paris in 1998 is now active in 40 countries, according to its
website.  “We want solutions, real solutions,” said Kuhn, from the
Bavarian town of Aschaffenburg who has camped in front of the
ECB since October. “The movement is about the financial system,
the crisis in it and everything that is connected to it. We have
to talk about homeless people, we have to talk about jobs,
taxes. We have our democratic right to do so.”  About 5,000 police officers will be deployed each day to
protect the ECB, banks and demonstrators, Harald Schneider, who
is leading the police operation, said at the press conference
yesterday. Police are advising Frankfurters to leave their cars
at home and avoid confrontation with protesters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  