-- France’s Ayrault Creates Anatomical Challenge for Arab Press
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-05-16T13:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/france-s-ayrault-creates-anatomical-challenge-for-arab-press.html
France ’s new prime minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, who was chosen in part for his fluent German, is
proving to be a headache in Arabic.  When spoken, his family name is colloquial Arabic in many
countries for the third-person singular possessive form of the
male sex organ.  The potential for embarrassment prompted France’s foreign
ministry to put out a statement today as Ayrault took office
with the recommended spelling in Arabic. The official solution
would add the letters L and T to the transliteration. Arabic is
a phonetic language where normally all letters are pronounced,
unlike French where these two letters in “Ayrault” are silent.  An Nahar, a Beirut-based newspaper, chose that solution. Al
Hayat, a London-based newspaper widely considered a reference
across the Arab world, published a front-page headline chopping
Ayrault’s name to “Aro,” when a more correct transcription
would be “Ayro.”  A U.A.E.-based Arabic-language channel has sent an internal
note to its journalists, asking them to write his name as
“Aygho.”  The Dubai-based Al Bayan newspaper chose to use just his
first name on its front-page headline: “Hollande Inaugurates
his Mandate by Appointing Jean-Marc as Prime Minister.”  French President Francois Hollande yesterday chose Ayrault
as his prime minister just after his own inauguration and just
before flying to Berlin for his first visit as head of state
with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . Ayrault, the 62-year-old
mayor of Nantes and leader of the Socialist Party’s members of
parliament, was a German teacher before going into politics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  