-- Gasoline Declines on Report U.S. Wants Strategic Oil Release
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-05-16T18:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/gasoline-futures-fluctuate-on-greece-worries-u-s-economic-data.html
Gasoline fell after the Kyodo News
service reported that the U.S. called for a release of strategic
oil reserves amid rising U.S. crude supplies and concern the
 European debt crisis  will reduce fuel demand.  Futures sank as the U.S. government called on other Group
of Eight countries to prepare to release oil reserves because
the European Union’s ban on crude imports from Iran starts in
July, the news service reported, citing unidentified officials
familiar with Japan-U.S. ties. U.S. crude supplies are the
highest since 1990.  “If you throw more oil supplies into the market, it begs
the question of how prices can move higher with slowing in  China 
and problems in  Europe ,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Gasoline for June delivery fell 1.85 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to $2.9256 a gallon at 2:12 p.m. on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange after touching $2.9087, the lowest intraday level since
Feb. 6.  Crude inventories climbed 2.13 million barrels last week to
381.6 million, the Energy Department reported today. Supplies at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for the Nymex futures
contract, increased 1 million barrels to a record 45.1 million.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  will seek G-8 cooperation
during a May 18-19 summit in Camp David, Maryland, with the aim
of curbing oil price increases and showing solidarity on the
topic of Iran, Kyodo said.  Greek President Karolos Papoulias was told by the nation’s
central bank chief that Greeks have withdrawn as much as 700
million euros ($891 million) and the situation could worsen.  Greek Elections  Greece ’s Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis said new
elections will probably occur on June 17. The new voting in
Greece will follow inconclusive May 6 elections that pushed a
political party opposed to Greece’s international bailout into
second place.  Papoulias’ failure to broker a governing coalition
yesterday reignited concern that Greece will renege on pledges
to cut spending as required by the terms of its two bailouts
worth 240 billion euros ($306 billion) negotiated since May
2010, and, ultimately, will leave the 17-nation euro area.  “The turmoil continues,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president
of research at PFGBest in Chicago. “Word of the election
increases the risk of an exit from the euro-zone.”  U.S.  gasoline demand  in the week ended May 11 rose 1.2
percent to an average 8.97 million barrels a day, the highest
since October, according to Energy Department data released
today. Consumption over the past four weeks was down 2.6 percent
versus a year earlier, narrower than the 3.2 percent drop the
prior week.  Valero Meraux  Gasoline touched $2.9551 after Valero Energy Corp. said
improved market conditions make it decide to restart a fluid
catalytic cracker and an alkylation unit at its refinery in
Meraux, Louisiana, which had been down since January.  “That’s consistent with improved demand,” Pursell said.
“If the demand side here continues to strengthen through the
summer, you’ll ultimately pull inventories down.”  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.1
cent to $3.728 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. It was the
first increase since April 14. Prices are down 20.8 cents since
reaching a 2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  Demand for heating oil and diesel shrank 7.8 percent to
3.65 million barrels a day last week, Energy Department data
show.  June-delivery heating oil fell 3.3 cents, or 1.1 percent,
to $2.90 a gallon on the exchange. Heating oil’s discount to
June gasoline widened to 2.56 cents from 1.11 cents yesterday.  “We’re seeing demand pick up for gasoline and it’s
offsetting that spread,” said Flynn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  