-- HgCapital Private Equity Gets RBS Loan for Wind Farm in England
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/hgcapital-private-equity-gets-rbs-loan-for-wind-farm-in-england.html
HgCapital LLP, a London-based private
equity company, invested in a wind park and received a 36
million-pound ($58 million)  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
loan to help finance the northern England project.  RBS acted as lead arranger, agent and hedging bank for the
loan, HgCapital said today in a statement. HgCapital provided
equity for the 20.5-megawatt Wandylaw project in Northumberland,
Tom Murley, director and head of HgCapital’s renewable energy
team, said by phone. He declined to disclose the amount.  HgCapital, with assets including health care firms and
industrials, is among private equity companies becoming bigger
backers of clean-energy ventures.  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd. bought three wind U.K. wind farms this
month while KPMG LLP said mergers and acquisitions in renewable
energy will be driven more by private equity rather than
utilities as the industry offers increasingly stable returns.  With Wandylaw, HgCapital has contributed to more than 700
megawatts of renewable energy projects in  Europe  worth at least
1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion), according to the company.  “It’s a difficult market but as lenders focus on high-
quality sponsors, we have not had an issue in raising debt,”
Murley said.  “Does it take longer -- yes -- but banks do want
to lend to good sponsors and we’re fortunate enough to be
considered a good sponsor.”  HgCapital-held company RidgeWind developed the project
using 10 turbines made by Repower Systems SE, a unit of Indian
turbine maker  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  Construction will start this
month with operation expected in early 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  