-- GE Climbs as Finance Unit Resumes Payout Halted in Crisis
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-05-16T20:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/general-electric-says-ge-capital-planning-4-5-billion-dividend.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  climbed the most
in seven weeks after announcing its finance unit will resume
payouts to the parent company that were suspended in 2009 during
a freeze in credit markets.  GE Capital will pay a special dividend of $4.5 billion this
year and hand over a $475 million quarterly payout in the three
months through June, according to a statement today. Full-year
payments, excluding the special dividend, are targeted to be 30
percent of the finance unit’s 2012 earnings.  Restarting the dividend is a milestone in GE Capital’s
recovery from the financial crisis, when the unit suffered $32
billion of credit losses and received capital infusions from the
parent. Proceeds from the transfer will be used to accelerate
share repurchases, one of Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ’s priorities this year.  “It’s earlier than we thought and bigger than we thought,
so on an overall basis it’s very bullish,” said Scott Davis, an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  New York  who had forecasted a
$3.2 billion payout in the second half of this year. “Without
this dividend up to the parent, you can’t really do buybacks,
which is something shareholders really want them to do.”  GE gained the most today of any stock in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU) , advancing 3.3 percent to $19 at the close in
New York. The increase was the largest since Nov. 30.  Fed Review  GE, which had targeted a payment of 45 percent of the
finance unit’s profits, told investors in April that the plan
was subject to the business’s review by the  Federal Reserve , its
new regulator. Annual payments from the unit were as much as
$8.6 billion before the dividend’s suspension amid the global
financial crisis following Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008
bankruptcy.  Deirdre LaTour, a spokeswoman for Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE, said the company can’t comment on the Fed process. A
Federal Reserve spokeswoman,  Barbara Hagenbaugh , also declined
to comment.  “ GE Capital ’s decision to declare and pay dividends to GE
is a management decision of the GE Capital board,” LaTour said.
“Like other communications with the bank regulators, our
discussions with the Fed involve confidential supervisory
information that we cannot disclose.”  The $475 million quarterly dividend approved by the finance
unit’s board represents 30 percent of earnings for the three
months through March, LaTour said in an e-mail.  Industrial Businesses  As GE Capital sells or winds down unwanted assets, the
parent could receive any excess capital above what regulators
require to be retained by the finance unit, Chief Financial
Officer Keith Sherin has said.  Since the financial crisis, GE has pared the finance unit
while Immelt focuses on industrial businesses such as energy and
transportation, which are typically valued more highly by
investors. He has worked to shrink GE Capital by exiting
businesses such as Irish mortgage lending and reducing the size
of its balance sheet.  GE Capital accounted for 31 percent of the company’s $147.3
billion of revenue last year, compared with 39 percent in 2007,
according to a  filing  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The parent company, which invested $11 billion in energy
acquisitions completed through 2011, said yesterday it agreed to
buy Australian manufacturer  Industrea Ltd. (IDL)  for about A$470
million ($466 million) to add mining equipment, technology and
services businesses in  emerging markets .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
James Langford in New York at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  