-- German Metalworkers, Employers Suspend Talks Amid Impasse
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-05-16T18:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/german-metalworkers-employers-suspend-negotiations-correct-.html
IG Metall ,  Europe ’s biggest
manufacturing union, and Germany’s industrial employers
suspended a fifth round of talks on pay and hiring amid an
impasse over temporary contracts and apprenticeships.  Negotiations will resume May 18,  IG Metall  said in an e-
mailed statement today from its Stuttgart-based office in Baden-
Wuerttemberg state, where the latest round of talks with
Suedwestmetall, the manufacturers’ association in the region,
lasted 20 hours.  “We have made progress, but not yet sufficient progress,”
Joerg Hofmann, the union’s leader in the state, said earlier.
“We still have no enduring solutions in sight as regards the
issues of temporary workers and guarantees of permanent
contracts for people completing apprenticeships.” The sides
have yet to discuss a 6.5 percent wage demand by the labor
union, Hofmann said.  German workers are seeking above-inflation wage increases
as they negotiate a bigger share of the rebound in Europe’s
biggest economy, underscoring the divergence between  Germany  and
the rest of Europe as the debt crisis rages.  The German economy grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter of
2012 after shrinking 0.2 in the last three months of 2011, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said yesterday. Factory
orders and industrial production both rose more than economists
forecast in March.  Euro-Nations’ Recession  The debt crisis has already pushed eight euro-area nations
into a recession, commonly defined as two consecutive quarters
of contraction, with  Spain ’s economy the latest to succumb,
according to statistics released yesterday.  As European car sales slid for a seventh consecutive month
in April, registrations in Germany, the continent’s largest auto
market, increased 2.9 percent to 274,066 vehicles, the Brussels-
based European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA,
said today.  IG Metall is demanding a 6.5 percent wage increase for the
3.6 million metalworkers across Germany. The union also wants
more say over temporary employment and guarantees of permanent
contracts for people completing apprenticeships.  Baden-Wuerttemberg in Germany’s southwest is home to
companies including  Daimler AG (DAI) ,  Porsche SE (PAH3)  and  Robert Bosch
GmbH , and is the union’s benchmark region for contracts
nationwide. Negotiations in other tariff regions have been
paused pending the talks in Baden-Wuerttemberg, according to IG
Metall.  Wage Talks  Suedwestmetall is offering a 3 percent raise over 14 months
for the 800,000 people employed in electronics and metalworking
in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg.  “I am confident that negotiations will continue on Friday
at 10 a.m.,” Rainer Dulger, Suedwestmetall’s chief negotiator,
told reporters. “We have made considerable progress. We have
not yet spoken on salary raises. I strongly believe that we will
be able to talk on pay at the next negotiation round.”  Martin Kannegiesser , the president of Germany’s metal
industry association, and Berthold Huber, IG Metall’s chairman,
joined the talks early this morning, suggesting that
negotiations have entered the final phase.  Since April 30, 750,000 workers have participated in
warning strikes, IG Metall said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The temporary walkouts have resulted in 150,000 work
hours lost and cost Baden-Wuerttemberg companies an amount in
the “high double-digit” million range in sales, according to
Suedwestmetall. Workers don’t get paid for the hours they go on
strike.  Schaeuble Defends  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  defended labor
leaders’ pay demands in an interview published by Focus magazine
on May 5. The country’s businesses can afford higher raises than
other European nations because Germany has undergone years of
political and economic reforms already, Schaeuble was cited as
saying.  Ver.di, the main labor union for non-manufacturing workers
in Germany, won agreements in late March for as much as a 6.3
percent pay increase by the end of 2013 for state and municipal
employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  