-- German Held on Art Smuggling in China as Buyers Dodge Tax
-- B y   S h a i   O s t e r
-- 2012-05-16T21:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/german-held-on-art-smuggling-in-china-as-buyers-dodge-tax.html
The German manager of an art-freight
company is being detained in a Chinese jail for allegedly
falsifying values of imported artworks to help buyers avoid 10
million yuan ($1.6 million) in  import duties  and value added
taxes.  Customs officials raided the Beijing office of  Integrated
Fine Arts Solutions Ltd. , which specializes in contemporary art,
on March 30, seizing records and arresting Nils Jennrich, 32,
and his Chinese colleague, according to Torsten Hendricks,
IFAS’s Hong Kong-based Asia director. They’ve been held ever
since. Hendricks denies the allegations against his employees.  Sotheby’s and Christie’s International, the world’s two
biggest art-auction companies, said they have been contacted
about the case and are cooperating with authorities. It may be
part of a wider probe into tariff-dodging in the art world that
has been dubbed Tax-Inspection Gate by the Chinese media.
China’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said in a faxed statement
that Jennrich was being held on smuggling allegations.  Mainland  China ’s import duty and value added tax on fine
art total about 23 percent, compared to no levies in Hong Kong.
The investigation may damp demand among Chinese art buyers, who
last year surpassed Americans to become the world’s largest art
and antiques buyers, according to data from the Helvoirt,
Netherlands-based  European Fine Art Foundation .  Chinese collectors routinely underreport the value of their
purchases and may buy less if they can’t bring the works home,
said Nancy M. Murphy, a Beijing-based partner at Jincheng Tongda
& Neal with a specialty in art law.  ‘Big Impact’  “This will have a big impact on Chinese who are buying
expensive art abroad,” Murphy said. “They’ll be inclined to
hold it overseas for longer because they don’t want to pay their
taxes and because it’s become dangerous.”  The  Hong Kong  International Art Fair opens today and
features 266 galleries from 39 countries including works by  Zeng Fanzhi , the late American artist  Cy Twombly  and Paris-based
 Anselm Kiefer . Organizers expect 50,000 people to attend.  Integrated Fine Arts Solutions’ Beijing lawyer, Xiao
Yongcheng, confirmed the charge against Jennrich. It carries a
maximum penalty of  life imprisonment , according to Chinese law.  No information is available on Lydia Chu, 29, a Chinese
national working at the firm who was also detained. China’s
Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a faxed statement they
arranged a visit for German Embassy officials after Jennrich was
held. It said China is handling the case according to the law.  Christie’s, Sotheby’s Cooperating  Authorities have also contacted auction houses  New York- 
based  Sotheby’s (BID)  and London-based Christie’s.  “At this moment we are cooperating with authorities on an
investigation concerning a third party,” Christie’s Hong Kong-
based spokeswoman Jiang Luyang said in an e-mail. “We are
providing the required assistance in accordance with the law.”  “We confirm that Sotheby’s, among other companies, has
been contacted by the Chinese authorities and we are complying
with their requests,” Carmen Ting, Sotheby’s spokeswoman in
Hong Kong said in an e-mail.  Neither of the companies would give any more information.  At least one other art and antiques importing company has
been targeted by customs officials investigating at least 40
million yuan in unpaid tariffs, Shanghai-based newspaper
Dongfang Daily  reported .  At the Beijing offices of Noah Fine Art Shipping Agency
(Beijing) Co., officials seized an 800-name list of clients,
according to the Securities Journal, a state-owned publication.
No one at Noah Fine Art responded to phone calls and e-mails to
their office.  Reversing Art Flow  China used to struggle to keep art treasures at home. These
days, about two-thirds of Chinese art bought overseas is going
to buyers from China, estimates Nicolas Chow, Sotheby’s Asia
deputy chairman.  “If you look at the number of objects that are sold yearly
at Sotheby’s or other auction houses in  New York , Beijing or
Paris, the flow is going back to China,” said Chow, who wasn’t
commenting on the smuggling case. “It seems we’re in a one-way
elevator going up.”  Arresting someone in connection to customs violations is
unusual in China, said John Larkin, a former U.S. customs
official who founded Larkin Trade International LLC, a
consulting firm that advises companies on import and export
compliance and has offices in Washington and Beijing.  “Normally, they just hold the goods at the border and you
come up with a solution through consultation,” he said.  Frank Hartmann, a spokesman for the German Embassy in
Beijing, said a German citizen had been held by Chinese
authorities since the end of March. He declined to reveal more
details, citing policy.  IFAS was founded in 2008 and Jennrich joined a year later.  “For me, this is a person who would never run a red
light,” said Michael Schultz, the owner of  galleries  in Berlin,
 Seoul  and Beijing who has used IFAS for several years and says
he knows Jennrich well. “That’s my impression of him.”  Clients of IFAS include the  Ullens Center for Contemporary
Art in Beijing  and the Asia Pacific Contemporary Art Fair
 Shanghai , known as  SH Contemporary , which hosts more than 100
galleries annually.  Ai Weiwei  The company has handled works by Ai Weiwei, the multimedia
artist famous for his confrontations with China’s government. In
a separate case, Ai is in dispute with Beijing authorities over
their claim the company that markets his art owes the government
15 million  yuan  in back taxes.  IFAS’s climate-controlled warehouses in Beijing, Hong Kong
and Shanghai are monitored by guards, equipped with high
security strong rooms and special fire sprinklers that use gas
instead of water to protect the art.  Part of the company’s job is navigating China’s customs
regulations, which require permission from the Ministry of
Culture for imports of art. Forms include questions on the
purpose of the artist for creating a work. Hendricks said they
had seen art rejected on the grounds that it wasn’t historically
accurate.  Chinese authorities have denied Jennrich bail and have at
least 6 months during which they will continue their
investigation, Xiao, the lawyer, said. Until the start of the
trial, his attorneys won’t have access to the evidence against
their client and will have only limited contact, he said.  “We just don’t know why we are the target,” Hendricks
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Shai Oster in Hong Kong at 
 soster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Western at   nwestern@bloomberg.net  