-- Glaxo’s Melanoma Cocktail Slows Cancer in Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/glaxo-s-melanoma-cocktail-slows-cancer-in-study.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s combination of
two experimental melanoma medicines slowed the progress of
cancer with few skin complications in an early study, suggesting
the combo may not have as many side effects as existing single-
drug treatments.  Patients taking Glaxo’s dabrafenib and trametinib together
had a lower incidence of rash and skin lesions than previously
reported with Roche’s Zelboraf, according to a study of 77
patients with advanced melanoma, the most-severe form of skin
cancer. The study, funded by London-based Glaxo, was released
yesterday ahead of the American Society of Clinical Oncology
meeting that begins June 1 in  Chicago .  “Not only are the two drugs causing shrinkage of the
cancer, but we’re seeing that a second anti-cancer therapy may
actually suppress the side effects of the first,” said Jeffrey
Weber, an oncologist at the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center in
Tampa,  Florida , in a statement. “So far it is looking good.”  If the Glaxo combination succeeds in final-stage trials, it
would compete with Zelboraf, a targeted therapy cleared in
August for sale in the U.S. Zelboraf and Glaxo’s dabrafenib work
by blocking BRAF, a mutant gene that spurs cancer cell growth in
about half of melanoma patients. Glaxo’s trametinib is designed
to thwart a related protein called MEK, which helps tumors
resist an assault on BRAF.  Adding the MEK drug may reduce a signature side effect of
BRAF drugs like Zelboraf, the development of non-melanoma skin
cancer, while possibly boosting efficacy, said Weber, a study
leader, in a telephone interview. Weber has consulted for Glaxo
and Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche. (ROG)   Non-Melanoma Cancers  About 15 to 30 percent of melanoma patients treated with
Zelboraf and other BRAF inhibitors develop non-melanoma skin
cancers, scientists at the  Institute of Cancer Research  said in
an article published in the  New England Journal of Medicine  in
January. The drugs speed a type of skin malignancy known as
squamous-cell carcinoma in patients who may have gotten the
cancer anyway, they said.  Only 3 percent of a larger group of patients in the Glaxo
combo study, which also included other solid tumors, developed
squamous cell carcinoma, and 5 percent developed premalignant
lesions called actinic keratoses, Weber said.  Across various doses, the combination delayed progression
of the disease by 7.4 months. In the high-dose level, which will
be studied in further trials, the two-drug therapy delayed the
progression of the disease by 10.8 months, Weber said.  Roche Comparison  Roche’s Zelboraf delayed melanoma tumors from progressing
for 6.8 months in one early trial and 5.3 months in a final-
stage trial.  “It would look clearly superior to the figure we have
seen” with the Roche drug, Weber said on a conference call with
reporters. “It is a very impressive record by any criteria.”  Charlotte  Arnold, a spokeswoman for Roche, said in an e-
mail that “it is not appropriate” to compare data from
Zelboraf’s approval trials with results from the early study of
Glaxo’s combination, as it didn’t directly compare the drugs.
Zelboraf has been proven to extend survival of melanoma
patients.  Glaxo plans to start a final-stage trial “as early as this
month” said Melinda Stubbee, a spokeswoman for the British
drugmaker, in a phone interview. The trial would compare the
combination to Glaxo’s dabrafenib alone in melanoma patients.  Glaxo also has also been studying each drug separately for
melanoma and will seek regulatory approval of both compounds
individually later this year.  Melanoma  strikes 68,000 Americans each year, according to
the  American Cancer Society . While patients with early stage
disease respond well to treatment, the five-year survival rate
for those with cancer that has spread is 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  