-- GM Rises After Berkshire Reports Investment in Automaker
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-16T20:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/gm-rises-after-berkshire-reports-investment-in-automaker.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  rose the most in
almost a month after  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire (BRK/B)  Hathaway Inc.
disclosed it bought a stake in the largest U.S. automaker.  GM  gained  2.3 percent to $21.91 at the close in  New York ,
the most since April 17.  The Buffett-led company held 10 million shares of the
automaker on March 31, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire said in a
filing disclosing U.S. stockholdings after the close of regular
trading yesterday.  “Seems like GM’s low valuation is just too good for Warren
to resist,” Adam Jonas, an analyst with Morgan Stanley, wrote
in a note to investors. “While buying 10 million shares of GM
isn’t a huge bet (yet), the market signal for the U.S. auto
industry is as unprecedented as it is fascinating.” Jonas
titled the report “Buffett Motors.”  The automaker’s shares dropped 35 percent before today
since GM’s 2010 initial public offering. The Detroit-based
company regained its spot as the world’s top-selling automaker
last year when it posted a record $9.19 billion profit.  GM is benefiting from a recovering U.S. auto market, on
pace for its best vehicle sales since 2007, and growth in  China ,
where it’s the market leader. Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has introduced models such as the Sonic small car and
ATS luxury sedan to push Chevrolet and Cadillac as global
brands.  “GM has a lot of good product in the showroom and product
coming in 2013,” said David Kudla, who manages about $1 billion
as CEO of Mainstay Capital Management. “When we look at the
economy, at the fundamentals of the industry and the company,
the stock’s a buy.”  Pent-Up Demand  Americans put off purchases of new cars and trucks during
the recession, sending the average age of vehicles on U.S. roads
to a record high of 10.8 years, according to researcher R.L.
Polk & Co., based in Southfield,  Michigan .  “There’s a pent-up demand for cars in this country,
because of the financial crisis,”  David Kass , a professor at
the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business,
said yesterday in a phone interview. Buffett’s stock pickers
“had an opportunity to buy at an attractive price, well below
the initial public offering price,” he said.  Jim Cain , a GM spokesman, said yesterday that the automaker
doesn’t comment on investors buying or selling its shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  