-- GM’s Akerson Ready to Trade No. 1 for Profit
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-16T20:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/gm-s-akerson-impatient-to-improve-his-b-grade-as-ceo.html
Dan Akerson, who became chief
executive officer at  General Motors Co. (GM)  in 2010, gives himself a
“B” for his performance so far. He has too much work to do to
think about retiring for at least another year or two, he said.  GM’s accomplishments on Akerson’s watch include surpassing
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the world’s top-selling automaker and
posting a record $9.19 billion profit last year. Still, the
Detroit-based company needs to boost profits, develop more
world-class vehicles and build on its “fortress” balance
sheet, Akerson said. He also wants to build Chevrolet and
Cadillac into global brands and make money in all regions of the
world.  Akerson, 63, may even give up the top position in vehicles
sold if it means becoming the industry’s most profitable
carmaker. That would bolster the  stock price , which has dropped
34 percent since GM’s November 2010 initial public offering.  “I’d rather be No. 1 in profitability in terms of either
aggregate or margins, and we’re not,” Akerson said in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “When I was in
school, I wasn’t satisfied with a B.”  He still isn’t satisfied with good. A U.S. Navy veteran who
spent two decades in telecom and one in private equity, he’s
still adjusting to the complexity and long-range product
planning of the  auto industry . He’s determined to position GM to
excel for years to come.  “I’m not trying to build the company for next year,”
Akerson said. “I don’t want the guy in 2022 to look back 10
years, like I look back 10 years, or 2050, and say ‘What were
they thinking?’”  IPO to No. 1  Akerson joined the board when GM exited bankruptcy in 2009
and became CEO in time to lead the “grueling” IPO road show.  David Cole , chairman emeritus for the Center for Automotive
Research in  Ann Arbor , said a “B” is an appropriate grade for
Akerson’s performance so far.  “He’s making good progress,” Cole said in an interview.
“He’s learning.”  An early misstep for Akerson was setting overly ambitious
sales targets for the  Chevrolet  Volt plug-in hybrid, Cole said.  “He’s impatient,” Cole said. “I think he pushes. I wish
he was a little bit more like a coach rather than a king and
that, I think, is something that could hurt him down the road in
getting the full set of leaders in the company behind him.”  Akerson, who abhors the “consensus culture” of  old GM ,
acknowledged that he doesn’t like to wait.  “My mother, God rest her soul, used to say, ‘Dan, you’re a
fine young man but there’s one virtue that didn’t pan out well
for you and that’s patience,’” he said.  Stock Price, Ownership  Akerson is trying to be patient now about the things that
are out of his hands, including GM’s credit rating, stock price
and government ownership. The U.S. Treasury Department sold 28
percent of GM at $33 a share in a 2010 initial public offering
and still holds  32 percent  of the outstanding common stock,
acquired in the $50 billion bailout by the Obama administration.  The U.S. wants to sell its remaining stake for at least the
IPO price, people familiar with the matter have said. The share
price would have to rise 51 percent from today’s closing price
of $21.91 to reach that level. Akerson said he hasn’t discussed
with the government when it may sell its shares.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  disclosed
yesterday that it had bought 10 million shares of GM, making it
the company’s 20th-largest investor. The shares gained 2.3
percent at the close today in New York.  GM’s credit ratings fell from investment-grade status in
2005. The company is now  rated  at the highest speculative-grade
level by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  “We are back, we’re healthy, we’re restructured,” Akerson
said. “We have a cost structure that now is appropriate to the
demand in the marketplace.”  Profit Focus  Within the next three years, 70 percent of GM’s product
portfolio will be replaced, Akerson said. He also wants to
increase GM’s adjusted Ebit margins -- 5.8 percent in the first
quarter -- noting that “world class” margins are 8 percent to
10 percent.  Part of what’s holding the company back is GM’s business in
 Europe , where it lost $16.4 billion since 1999. Akerson was part
of the GM board that decided against selling the company’s
German-based Opel unit in 2009, and the automaker appeared
poised to break even last year until November as Europe’s
economy worsened.  “If Opel were breaking even this year, we would jump to
almost just over 7,” he said.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  was the most profitable company in the
industry last year, with $21.5 billion in net income.  Toyota Challenge  Akerson is also facing greater competition from Toyota as
its production improves compared to last year when an earthquake
and tsunami in  Japan  cut off suppliers and limited production.
The Toyota City, Japan-based company’s global sales rose 18
percent in the first quarter to 2.49 million, topping GM’s 2.28
million. While Toyota wants to more than double profit this
year, Akerson said it isn’t coming at GM’s expense.  “It hasn’t been so far,” he said. “But it sure could be;
it’s something we’ve got to watch.”  He knows Toyota’s strengths firsthand. Akerson told a story
about the early years of his marriage, when his wife, Karin, had
such a bad experience with a Chevy salesman that they left the
dealership and bought a Japanese car.  “We were going to buy a  Chevrolet , and the guy called her
‘the little woman,’” he recalled. “She got so angry, she was
almost in tears and said, ‘I’m not buying a car at this place.’
It was the first Toyota I bought.”  New GM  GM has changed since those days, he said. It’s changed even
since it emerged from bankruptcy.  “We’re a different GM than we were three years ago, and
we’re not going to be bowled over, not by anyone,” he said.
“We’re going to fight; we’re going to fight hard for our
position.”  Akerson now drives a Volt, the electric-drive car rated at
the equivalent of  94 mpg . He said he’s put 3,000 miles on it and
used only 1 gallon of gasoline.  The model, which starts at $39,145 and qualifies for a
$7,500 tax credit, isn’t selling as well as Akerson had sought.
His goal was to sell 45,000 this year in the U.S., where dealers
have sold 5,377 through four months.  Demonized by some Republicans as an Obama initiative, the
 Volt  had become a political punching bag, he said. Akerson said
he would just as soon keep his car and himself out of the
national debate.  “I don’t want to be a lightning rod,” he said. “I don’t
want to be in the political dialogue. I have a job to do and I
would do it with the same effort and same zeal whether there
were a Republican or Democrat in the White House.”  The  U.S. economy  has bolstered GM’s fortunes. Akerson said
he’s “guardedly optimistic” about the economy, though the
recovery is “fragile.”  Successor Pool  Akerson’s most lasting influence on GM may come from
choosing a successor. He said there are several promising
 internal candidates  and his preference is to pick an insider
because it’s less disruptive.  “I think we have more than one and less than six”
possible internal successors, he said this week. “We are
lucky.”  Still, grooming a successor isn’t his top priority this
year, he said. His most pressing issues are developing great
cars and trucks, and keeping pushing profits up.  “I don’t know what the measure of my success or failure
will be, but if this is a healthy, robust company when I leave,
and the stock’s at 22, I’ll still be proud of my contribution,”
he said. “I hope it’s 32 or 42. I think it could be if we are
able to execute as well as I hope. And I hope I will be able to
give myself an A.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in  New York  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  