-- Grand Ole Opry in Play After Poison Pill Voted Down: Real M&A
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-05-16T20:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/grand-ole-opry-in-play-after-poison-pill-voted-down-real-m-a.html
Country-music history could be up for
sale as the owner of the Grand Ole Opry, the showcase that’s
hosted everyone from  Johnny Cash  to  Dolly Parton  and Carrie Underwood, is pushed to weigh its options.  Gaylord Entertainment Co. (GET) , the Nashville, Tennessee-based
company that also owns nearby attractions and four combination
hotel and convention centers across the U.S., moved closer to
becoming an acquisition target last week when shareholders led
by Mario Gabelli’s Gamco Investors Inc. voted to let a poison
pill guarding against unwanted takeovers expire. The $1.69
billion company is already reviewing options to boost its
 shares , which fell 33 percent last year.  Even with analysts projecting record earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the next
three years, Gaylord is valued at a 28 percent discount to hotel
owners, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s
profit growth and unique assets may attract interest from its
 biggest shareholder  TRT Holdings Inc., owner of the Omni Hotels
chain, Host Hotels & Resorts Inc. or a private-equity firm, Penn
Capital Management said. Gaylord could fetch at least $45 a
share, a 37 percent premium to its average price during the past
20 days, BGB Securities Inc. said.  “Gaylord has tremendous opportunities to grow,” Sam Yake,
an analyst at BGB Securities in Arlington,  Virginia , said in a
telephone interview. “Shareholders think that the stock’s worth
a heck of a lot more than it’s currently trading at and I think
that’s what they want to get at. Management knows that they need
to do something.”  Looking at Options  Brian Abrahamson, a spokesman for Gaylord, declined to
comment on what steps the company may take to boost its value or
whether it has been approached by suitors. He referred instead
to Chief Executive Officer Colin Reed’s comments on a May 8
conference call.  “Over the last six months, we’ve been looking at all
options available to the company to unlock value,” Reed said on
the call. He said the process was “nearing completion,”
without giving a timeline or providing further details.  Gaylord, which traces its roots to an Oklahoma publishing
and media company founded by Edward King Gaylord in 1903,
generated 93 percent of its  revenue  last year from its hotel
operations, according to the company’s annual regulatory filing.
It runs convention-center resorts in the Nashville, Dallas,
Washington and  Orlando , Florida areas, as well as a Radisson
Hotel at Opryland near the  Grand Ole Opry  House.  The company bought the  Grand Ole Opry  in 1983, acquiring an
institution that began in 1925 as a barn-dance radio program and
evolved into a stage show and country-music magnet.  Rascal Flatts  The Opry has featured a roster of country, gospel,
bluegrass and other performers from the Everly Brothers in the
1950s to Tammy Wynette in the 1970s and Rascal Flatts today.  Gaylord posted  losses  for two years starting in 2009 as
bookings and room rates fell amid the recession, and as a May
2010 flood caused severe damage to its Nashville properties,
including the Opry. Even as the company returned to profit in
2011, the stock  lost  a third of its value.  In December,  Gamco (GBL)  proposed that shareholders vote against
extending a poison pill designed to thwart unwanted buyers, a
measure that passed last week.  Even after  rising  43 percent this year through yesterday,
Gaylord is trading 40 percent below its record closing price of
$57.88 set in July 2007 before the start of the longest
recession since the Great Depression, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Today, the stock fell 1.1 percent to $34.14.  Extensive Review  “Over the last 12 months, our stock price has traded
substantially below its true value,” CEO Reed said on last
week’s earnings call, two days before the shareholder vote. Reed
said Gaylord’s review of options, which the company signaled in
February, has been “very, very extensive. Once we lay our plans
out, I think it will make it much easier for investors to value
our company.”  Gaylord’s equity and $1 billion of net debt was  valued  as
of yesterday at 12.7 times its Ebitda in the last 12 months.
That’s 28 percent less than the median Ebitda multiple of 17.7
for hotel real estate investment trusts, or REITs, with market
values greater than $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Host Hotels (HST)  is valued at 16.1 times, the data show.  Gaylord’s “valuation is much lower than the hotel REITs,
significantly lower,”  Eric Green , a Philadelphia-based manager
at Penn Capital, which oversees $6 billion and owned about 1.3
million Gaylord shares as of year-end, said in a phone
interview. “Yet, the Gaylord properties are four best-in-class
properties that are run extremely well with a lot of potential
upside.”  Attractive Target  Gaylord doesn’t have the tax status of REITs, property
trusts that develop and own everything from warehouses in
 California  to skyscrapers in  New York . REITs can avoid paying
corporate taxes in the U.S. when they distribute at least 90
percent of their net income as dividends.  Amit Kapoor, a sell-side analyst for Gabelli & Co. in Rye,
New York, said Gaylord’s valuation and the expiration of the
poison pill this August may make the company an attractive
acquisition target for another hotel operator or a private-
equity firm that can grow the brand, add more properties and
leverage existing relationships with meeting planners.  Gabelli is the research arm of Gamco, the publicly traded
asset management firm that  Mario Gabelli  founded in 1977 and now
oversees $36.7 billion. Gamco was Gaylord’s third-biggest
shareholder with a 13.5 percent stake as of April 20. Mario
Gabelli wasn’t available for comment.  Paulson Stake  Billionaire  John Paulson  took a 2.78 percent stake in the
company in the first quarter, making him Gaylord’s eighth-
biggest shareholder, according to a regulatory disclosure filed
yesterday by his investment firm Paulson & Co., which manages
about $24 billion.  Analysts estimate that Gaylord’s  net income  will more than
triple this year to $36 million as business conditions improve
and the company draws more leisure visitors. Ebitda is projected
to climb to new records each year through 2014.  Gaylord could fetch at least $45 a share in a takeover,
according to BGB Securities and JMP Securities.  “The four large hotels that the company owns are well
maintained, they generally run at strong occupancies and have
the potential to realize rate growth over the next few years,”
 William Marks , a San Francisco-based analyst at JMP Securities,
said in a telephone interview. “There’s also value at the Grand
Ole Opry business.”  Expansion Plans  With the company planning a fifth resort and convention
center outside of Denver, a takeover by a private-equity firm or
large hotel company would help Gaylord fund the project, which
will cost $800 million, and other developments in the future,
according to BGB Securities.  A takeover by TRT Holdings is one possible outcome as
billionaire Robert Rowling has increased his position in Gaylord
to 22 percent, said Nikhil Bhalla, an analyst at FBR & Co.  “The aim would be to realize synergies between Omni and
Gaylord,” Bhalla said in a telephone interview from Arlington,
Virginia. “You’ll have a larger portfolio of hotels and you can
trim down the corporate overheads to manage both.”  Robert, the owner of Irving, Texas-based TRT Holdings,
declined to comment on whether he has intentions to acquire
Gaylord.  Gaylord could also provide “large, irreplaceable types of
assets” to a REIT such as Host Hotels, which partners with
hotel operators from Marriott International Inc. to Four Seasons
Hotels and Resorts, Bhalla said.  Other Options  Greg Larson, a spokesman for Bethesda, Maryland-based Host
Hotels, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on whether
the company is interested in acquiring Gaylord.  Instead of seeking a buyer for the whole company, Gaylord
could sell its assets while still maintaining managerial control
over them,  Chris Jones , an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in
New York, said in a telephone interview.  “You could do a partial sale or a sale of a single asset
whereby Gaylord would hold onto some form of a management
contract of the facility,” Jones said. “A large core thesis
and trend you see within the lodging industry has been a move
into a more asset-light program.”  Still, breaking the company into pieces wouldn’t provide as
high of a return for investors as an outright takeover, said
JMP’s Marks.  “The best way to create value for shareholders in the near
term is to sell the company,” Marks said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 