-- Greece Heads to Elections With Euro, Bailout at Stake
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-05-17T12:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/greece-heads-to-elections-with-euro-bailout-at-stake.html
The leaders of  Greece ’s two biggest
parties clashed over how the country could stay in the euro,
underscoring the political deadlock that triggered the decision
to hold a second national vote in six weeks.  The conflict between Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras, who
opposes the austerity demanded by the European Union bailout,
and Antonis Samaras, leader of New Democracy, points to the June
17 vote as a referendum on Greece staying in the 17-nation
currency bloc.  “Nobody knows exactly what will be unleashed when Greece
does default and exit,”  Megan Greene , an economist at Roubini
Global Economics LLC said on Bloomberg TV today. “We’re already
seeing deposits flee from Greece. When Greece does exit, we’ll
see bank runs in Portugal and  Spain , and I think that the ECB is
poised to step in and try to plug that gap.”  The new vote follows inconclusive elections on May 6 that
propelled Syriza into second place. Opinion polls say Syriza may
come in first next time, complicating Greece’s efforts to avoid
running out of cash by early July.  “Greece’s membership of the euro is not endangered by
Syriza,” Tsipras said in a speech to his party’s lawmakers
carried live on state-run NET TV. “It is endangered by the
bankrupt policies of the bailout.”  The political standoff has reignited concern the country
will renege on pledges to cut spending as required by the two
separate rescue packages worth 240 billion euros ($306 billion).
That could lead to funding being cut off and Greece ultimately
leaving the euro area.  Battle Beginning  “The battle that is beginning, the elections, isn’t about
any one party,” Antonis Samaras, leader of New Democracy, told
his lawmakers. “It is about whether Greece will remain in
 Europe , a Europe that is changing, or whether Greece will be
forced to leave Europe, losing much and risking much more.”  Greece’s benchmark ASE Index fell 2.6 percent to 541.2 at
3:32 p.m. in Athens trading, its lowest level since 1990.
European stocks dropped for a fourth day, with the Stoxx Europe
600 Index slipping 1.1 percent to 241.7.  The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.2689 at 1:10 p.m. in
 London .  National Bank of Greece SA  tumbled 2.5 percent today,
extending a 13 percent slide yesterday after the country’s
central bank chief said citizens had withdrawn as much as 700
million euros ($891 million) from Greek banks.  Bank Runs  The May 6 election left  New Democracy  and Pasok, the two
parties that supported the international rescue as part of an
interim government this year, two deputies short of the 151
seats needed for a majority in Parliament. Samaras’s New
Democracy came first in the election, though fell short of an
outright majority.  President Karolos Papoulias failed in a bid to broker a
governing coalition in meetings May 15 with party leaders in
Athens. Panagiotis Pikrammenos, head of Greece’s Council of
State, the highest administrative court, was sworn in as head of
a caretaker administration yesterday. The new parliament was
sworn in today and will be dissolved when the vote is held next
month.  “I have read that due to my name I am the most appropriate
prime minister,” Pikrammenos, whose name means “bitter” in
Greek, told the country’s president yesterday. “It is a great
joy and also a great burden.”  Freezing Austerity  Tsipras yesterday demanded the caretaker government freeze
the implementation of wage and pension cuts and other austerity
measures until the elections are held and a new government is
formed. He also called for all state asset sales to be
immediately frozen and said Europe must reexamine its policy of
austerity and acknowledge it has failed.  The previous prime minister,  Lucas Papademos , told his
successor that it was important for the country to continue to
meet international obligations.  “During this period, it’s particularly important to
fulfill the country’s responsibilities because these policies
will help the stability of the country,” Papademos told
Pikrammenos yesterday in Athens after he was sworn in.  Opinion polls conducted since the last election suggest
that Syriza would come in first in a rerun, though short of an
outright majority.  Syriza would win with 22 percent of the vote, according to
a poll by Pulse, state-run Athens News Agency said. New
Democracy would finish second with 19.5, the newswire reported,
citing the poll findings, published in Pontiki newspaper. The
socialist Pasok party would get 14 percent of the vote, ANA
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Craig
Stirling  at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  Tim
Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  