-- Greece’s T Bank Wins Temporary EU Approval on Resolution Aid
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-16T16:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/greece-s-t-bank-wins-temporary-eu-approval-for-resolution-aid.html
Greece ’s  T Bank SA (TBANK)  received temporary
approval from the European Union for about 680 million euros
($866 million) in government funding to aid the bank’s takeover
by the state-owned  TT Hellenic Postbank SA. (TT)   The European Commission said it would prolong its approval
for the subsidy if Greek authorities submit an updated
restructuring plan for Hellenic Postbank within six months that
takes account of the new aid for T Bank.  The Bank of Greece put T Bank’s deposits, personnel, and
banking activities under Hellenic Postbank’s control in December
because T Bank wasn’t able to raise enough capital to keep
operating. About 2.16 billion euros of T Bank’s liabilities and
around 1.48 billion of its assets were transferred to Hellenic
Postbank. The shortfall of 680 million euros was covered by
resolution funds from Greece’s deposit and guarantee fund.  “When a small bank is in difficulty, selling its good
assets and liabilities to a larger bank is often an appropriate
solution,” said EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  in
an e-mailed statement. “The commission made sure that the aid
granted in that context was restricted to the minimum necessary
to compensate the buyer for the lower value of the assets
transferred as compared to the transferred liabilities.”  T-Bank and  Bank of Greece (TELL)  referred requests for comment to
Hellenic Postbank, which declined to speak about the EU
decision.  Hellenic Postbank, Greece’s sixth-biggest lender, received
some 225 million euros from the Greek government’s
recapitalization program in 2009 as well as state guarantees,
the EU said.  The Athens-based bank last month said it would release 2011
financial results by May 31. It posted a 543.7 million-euro net
loss in the first nine months of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 