-- Greek Euro Exit Would Be ‘Almighty Relief,’ ICAP Chief Says
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-05-16T16:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/icap-net-falls-broker-to-keep-cutting-costs-as-volumes-shrink.html
A decision by  Greece  to leave the
euro would be an “almighty relief” and should be followed by
several other countries,  ICAP Plc (IAP)  Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Spencer  said.  A Greek exit from the single currency is now inevitable and
would open the door to a smaller bloc made up of fewer, stronger
economies, Spencer said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Francine Lacqua in London. He declined to identify
which other countries should leave the euro.  “The sooner we get back to a narrower euro the better,”
Spencer, a former treasurer of the U.K.’s Conservative Party,
said. “In the meantime, it certainly will be a difficult period
but that is the right solution. I envisage a euro around a
smaller number of much stronger economies.”  Spencer spoke after ICAP, the world’s largest broker of
transactions between banks, posted a 27 percent decline in full-
year profit for the year through March and said  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis hurt market activity in April and May.
Revenue slipped 3 percent to 1.68 billion pounds, missing the
1.7 billion-pound median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “The Greek, the euro situation goes from bad to worse with
alarming regularity,” Spencer said. “I wish I could give some
degree of comfort but it is difficult.”  Interdealer brokers such as London-based ICAP act as a go-
between for banks that trade bonds, stocks, currencies, energy
and derivatives.  ICAP closed 0.4 percent higher at 336.5 pence, for a market
value of about 2.2 billion pounds ($3.5 billion). The stock has
dropped 3 percent this year, after sliding 35 percent in 2011.  Goodwill Writedowns  Net income for the year ended March 31 fell to 137 million
pounds from 187 million pounds in the year-earlier period, the
London-based firm said in a statement today. Profit was hurt by
goodwill writedowns on its acquisitions of equity derivatives
broker Link in 2008 and Brazilian broker Arkhe the next year.  ICAP cut operating expenses by 4 percent to 1.31 billion
pounds for the year, and said it expects to save at least a
further 50 million pounds annually by the end of March 2014.  The company will pay a final dividend of 16 pence a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in  London  at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  