-- Michael Kors Plans Doubling of Greater China Stores by Year End
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-16T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/michael-kors-plans-doubling-of-greater-china-stores-by-year-end.html
Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS) , the
luxury-goods maker and retailer, aims to more than double its
Greater China stores by the end of the year as the clothing
market surges.  Shops in China, Hong Kong, Macau and  Taiwan  will jump to 15
by the end of this year from seven now and may gain to more than
100 over the next three to five years, Chief Executive Officer
John Idol said yesterday.  Kors, named for founder and Chief Creative Officer  Michael
Kors , joins competitors including Prada SpA and Paul Smith Ltd.
in planning expansions in the world’s most populous nation. The
clothing market is forecast to more than triple to 1.3 trillion
 yuan  ($206 billion) by 2020 from 2010 as rising incomes fuel
demand, the Boston Consulting Group Inc. said in a report in
July.  “The Chinese market continues to be exciting and explosive
both at the same time,” Idol said in an interview in  Shanghai .
“Chinese consumers understand luxury and they also understand
improving life.”  Michael Kors entered China with a shop in Tianjin last
summer, then added outlets in Beijing, Shanghai and Suzhou. It
also has locations in  Hong Kong , Taipei and Macau. A 534-square-
meter (4,750 square-foot) flagship store is scheduled to open in
downtown Shanghai in the spring of 2013, the company said. The
company’s signature label Michael Kors sells products including
a  $2,595 Safari Woven Embossed Tote , while its MICHAEL Michael
Kors has a line up that includes $124  Tie-Dye Ribbed Sweaters .  Shares Doubled  “Business is good” at existing China stores, Idol said,
declining to give more details. The 53-year-old executive joined
Michael Kors in 2003 after running Donna Karan International
Inc. and  Ralph Lauren .  Shares of Kors have more than doubled since its December
initial public offering and closed at $40.75 on May 15 in  New
York . Investors “are responding to the fact that we are a high-
growth, luxury lifestyle retailer with the ability to have
significant growth over the next five to ten years,” Idol said.  Prada raised about HK$19.2 billion ($2.5 billion),
including an overallotment, in a Hong Kong share sale in June to
fuel expansion in China. Florence, Italy-based Salvatore
Ferragamo SpA plans to enter as many as eight new cities over
the next three to five years in China.  Michael Kors operates more than 230 outlets in 74 countries
as of the end of 2011. It has principal executive offices in
Hong Kong, while designer Kors, who is the chief creative
officer, leads a New York-based team that is responsible for the
company’s products.  The company is planning to start a website for  China  around
2014 and is looking at South American countries for store
expansion, Idol said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  