-- Microlender Sees Reprieve in New Law: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-05-17T04:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/microlender-sees-reprieve-in-new-law-corporate-india.html
SKS Microfinance Ltd. (SKSM) ,  India ’s
largest publicly traded lender to the poor, says proposed
legislation will spur a revival by easing loan recovery just as
mounting losses force it to curtail operations.  The draft law would let microcredit companies improve debt
collection and may also help raise funds, Chief Financial
Officer S. Dilli Raj said in an interview. The Hyderabad-based
lender’s loss last quarter widened almost fivefold, prompting it
to cut jobs and shut branches. The stock is down 94 percent from
a September 2010 peak.  SKS, backed by  Sequoia Capital (SEQUX) , forecasts relief from a
bill approved by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s cabinet last
week that would enable the  Reserve Bank of India  to regulate the
industry. SKS has reported five consecutive quarters of losses
after the southern state of Andhra Pradesh curtailed debt
recovery, capped  interest rates  and waived loans to arrest a
spate of suicides by farmers unable to make payments.  “The long-term clarity on the regulatory environment will
have an immediate impact on the balance sheet,” Raj said. “We
are confident of bridging the widening gulf between demand and
supply” in small loans, he said.  The bill, if approved by parliament, will override
provincial rules that differ from state to state and help
improve the flow of credit to the poor and farmers left out by
lenders including  State Bank of India  and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the
nation’s two biggest by assets.  Cap on Rates  The central bank, as the sole regulator, would cap interest
rates and fees levied by microfinance companies under the new
law, and also stipulate rules for debt collection. The Micro
Finance Institutions (Development and Regulation) Bill will
require all microlenders to register with the RBI, create a
 reserve fund  from profits and audit their financial performance
annually. In December, the RBI proposed an upper limit of 26
percent for annual interest rates on loans to individuals.  Prime Minister Singh, seeking to revive an economy
expanding at the slowest pace in three years, is turning to
microcredit companies to provide financing to the almost 43
percent of the nation’s 1.2 billion people who don’t have a bank
account. Less than 5 percent of the country’s 600,000 villages
have banks,  data  provided by the  Reserve Bank  show.  Non-urban consumers account for almost 8 percent of gross
domestic product in India, where the  World Bank  says almost 70
percent of the population lives on less than $2 a day.  More than 70 people ended their lives in Andhra Pradesh
between March 1, 2010, and Nov. 30, 2010, to escape coercive
tactics used by microlenders in the state, according to data
provided by the government-run Society for Elimination of Rural
Poverty.  State Crackdown  The crackdown that ensued in the state left SKS saddled
with losses after it failed to recover as much as 12 billion
rupees ($221 million) of loans, or almost 24 percent of its
total loans in the year ended December 2010, a  filing  to the
exchanges shows.  “Any improvement in collection of loans from this state
that accounts for as much as 40 percent of the loan book of the
industry will improve the investor and banker sentiment toward
the sector,” said Santosh Singh, a Mumbai-based financial
services analyst at Espirito Santo Securities who has a buy
rating on SKS. “If the Andhra loans were to be written off,
many large microfinance companies will become insolvent.”  SKS plans to fire 1,200 employees, or 35 percent of its
workforce, and shut down 78 of its 180 branches across the state,
it said in a statement on May 10. The decision was announced two
days after the lender reported a loss of 3.3 billion rupees for
the three months ended March 31, compared with 698 million
rupees a year earlier.  ‘Painful Decision’  “Cutting down branches and reducing headcount are
extremely painful decisions for us, but these have become urgent
in view of the present financial situation,” Chief Executive
Officer M.R. Rao said in the statement.  It’s far from certain that the measure will become law.
Singh’s ruling coalition is dependent on the support of allies
including  Mamata Banerjee , who has stymied his efforts to allow
foreign investment. Such opposition, for instance, forced Singh
to scrap his cabinet’s decision in December to permit Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and Carrefour SA to open stores in the country.  “The Indian parliament has a history of rejecting many
proposals already cleared by the cabinet,” said Nitin Kumar, a
Mumbai-based banking analyst at Quant Broking Ltd. “We can only
hope that this bill doesn’t face the same fate.”  The bill is scheduled to be introduced in the current
session that ends on May 22.  Stock Slump  SKS started operating in 1998 as a non-governmental
organization led by  Vikram Akula , an Indian-American with a Ph.D.
in political science from the  University of Chicago . Modeled
after Nobel Laureate Muhammad Yunus’s Grameen Bank in  Bangladesh ,
the company raised 16.3 billion rupees in August 2010 by selling
16.8 million shares at 985 rupees each.  Sequoia, which backed LinkedIn Corp. and Google Inc.,  owns 
6.84 percent of SKS, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock has slumped 92 percent since it was sold to
investors for 985 rupees apiece in August 2010 and is headed for
its worst month since November, when founder Akula quit his
position as chairman after failing to revive earnings. It rose
1.9 percent to 83.25 rupees as of 9:55 a.m. in Mumbai trading.  The lender and some of its unlisted rivals including
Spandana Sphoorty Financial Ltd. are seeking to diversify into
other financial services such as lending against gold to boost
earnings. SKS said gold loans will account for 10 percent of its
assets and as much as 25 percent of its profit in the coming
quarters.  With a new law in place, SKS will focus on recovering
written-off loans worth 12 billion rupees, CFO Raj said. As much
as 85 percent of the lender’s total  outstanding loans  are
outside the state of  Andhra Pradesh  now.  “My understanding is that the majority shareholders in the
company and our creditors are happy about the new rule,” he
said. “From here on we should be able to strengthen our
position quarter after quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  