-- Military Detention Law Blocked by U.S. Judge in New York
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-09-12T22:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/military-detention-law-blocked-by-new-york-judge.html
A federal judge permanently blocked
enforcement of a U.S. law that opponents claim may subject them
to indefinite military detention for activities including news
reporting and political activism.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in  Manhattan  today
ruled that the law, passed as part of the National Defense
Authorization Act for 2012, is unconstitutionally vague.  “Here, the stakes get no higher: indefinite military
detention -- potential detention during a war on terrorism that
is not expected to end in the foreseeable future, if ever,”
Forrest wrote in a 112-page opinion today. “The Constitution
requires specificity -- and that specificity is absent” from
the law.  Forrest made permanent a preliminary injunction against the
law that she ordered in May, ruling today that the statute
violates rights guaranteed by the First, Fifth and 14th
Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. The government is appealing
Forrest’s May order.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, declined to comment on the ruling.  The suit was filed Jan. 13 by a group including former  New
York  Times reporter Christopher Hedges. The plaintiffs contend
that Section 1021(b)(2) of the law allows for detention of
citizens and permanent residents taken into custody in the U.S.
on “suspicion of providing substantial support” to groups
engaged in hostilities against the U.S. such as al-Qaeda and the
Taliban.  Authorized Detention  The plaintiffs claim the law is vague and can be read to
authorize their detention based on speech and associations that
are protected by the Constitution.  Forrest today said that Hedges and four other plaintiffs
“testified credibly to having an actual and reasonable fear
that their activities will subject them to indefinite military
detention” under the law.  Forrest said that Justice Department lawyers failed to
adequately explain terms in the legislation that she said are
ambiguous.  “Could a news article taken as favorable to the Taliban,
and garnering support for the Taliban, be considered to have
‘substantially supported’ the Taliban?” Forrest wrote. “How
about a YouTube video?”  In her opinion, Forrest invited the  U.S. Congress  to
consider amending or repealing Section 1021 to avoid conflicting
with the Constitution.  The case is Hedges v. Obama, 12-cv-00331, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 