-- IMF’s Lagarde Says Greek Euro Exit Would Be Expensive
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-05-16T22:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/imf-s-lagarde-says-greek-euro-exit-would-be-expensive.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said a Greek exit from the euro area
would be “extremely expensive” and hard.  Still, the IMF has to be “technically prepared for
anything because it’s our job,” she said in an  interview  with
Dutch public television broadcast today. “I’m not suggesting
that this is a desirable solution. I’m just saying that this is
within the range of multiple options, one that we have to
technically look at.”  A Greek caretaker government will prepare new elections
probably on June 17 that are shaping up as a ballot on whether
the country should remain a euro member, following inconclusive
May 6 voting that pushed a political party opposed to  Greece ’s
international bailout into second place. The IMF co-financed two
bailout packages to the Mediterranean nation.  To stay within the euro region requires efforts to “abide
by the program which has been put into place” as conditions
attached to the latest loan package, Lagarde said. She said a
euro exit wouldn’t reflect the will of the Greek people.  “No country is immune from hardship happening anywhere,”
Lagarde said. “Within the euro zone, a currency union, what
happens to any member is going to affect others.”  Her comments echo concern by World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  that a Greek exit from the euro could have ripple
effects reminiscent of 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapse was followed by a global financial crisis.  Spain, Italy  “The core question will actually not be Greece, it’s Spain
and  Italy ” just as they try to overhaul their economies,
Zoellick, whose term in office ends June 30, said at an event
organized by the Economic Club of Washington today.  “Where the danger comes in is when events come and they
start to affect confidence and you get illiquidity moments”
that can lead banks or companies to tumble, he said.  In its  World Economic Outlook  published in April, the IMF
cited the “disorderly default and exit” by a euro country
among “tail risks” to global growth.  “If such an event occurs, it is possible that other euro
area economies perceived to have similar risk characteristics
would come under severe pressure as well, with a full-blown
panic in financial markets and depositor flight from several
banking systems,” according to the report. “Under these
circumstances, a breakup of the euro area could not be ruled
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  