-- Industrial Production in U.S. Climbs More Than Forecast
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-16T13:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/industrial-production-in-u-s-climbs-more-than-forecast.html
Industrial production  in the U.S.
climbed more than forecast in April, propelled by gains in auto
manufacturing and utility use.  Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 1.1
percent last month, the most since December 2010, after a 0.6
percent decline in March that was revised from no change, the
Federal Reserve reported today in Washington. Economists
forecast a 0.6 percent gain, according to the Bloomberg News
survey median. Manufacturing, which makes up about 75 percent of
total production, rose 0.6 percent. Utility output climbed the
most in two years.  Motor vehicles  sales  in the first quarter that were the
strongest in four years have buoyed manufacturing, helping make
up for a slowdown in corporate equipment purchases. While U.S.
exports accelerated during the first three months of 2012,
weaker economies in  Europe  and parts of  Asia  remain a hurdle for
American factories.  “Things are looking brighter than they were a few months
ago,” said  Millan Mulraine , senior U.S. strategist at TD
Securities Inc. in New York. “Auto production is doing well
because consumers are buying vehicles, and consumers are buying
vehicles because they feel more positive about their job
prospects.”  Estimates of the 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from gains of 0.2 percent to 1 percent. March industrial
production was previously reported as unchanged.  Housing Starts  Other data today showed builders broke ground on more homes
than forecast in April.  Housing starts  climbed 2.6 percent to a
717,000 annual rate from March’s revised 699,000 pace that was
stronger than previously reported, the Commerce Department said.  Stocks climbed after the figures, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rising 0.7 percent to 1,340.7 at 9:51 a.m. in
 New York .  The figures showed motor vehicle production jumped 3.9
percent in April after a 1.2 percent increase the month before.
Factory output minus production of vehicles and parts rose 0.3
percent.  Auto sales  in the first quarter averaged an annual rate of
14.5 million, the strongest since the same three months in 2008,
according to Ward’s Automotive Group data.  Production of business equipment increased 1.5 percent
after a 0.2 percent gain in March.  Utility Use  Utility production climbed 4.5 percent last month, the
biggest gain since May 2010, after a 0.7 percent gain in March.
Mining output rose 1.6 percent following a 1.7 percent decline.  Today’s report also showed that capacity utilization, which
measures what portion of a plant is producing, increased to 79.2
percent, the highest since April 2008, from 78.4 percent in
March.  A regional report yesterday showed manufacturing picked up
in May. The  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York’s  general economic
index  climbed to 17.1 from April’s 6.6. Readings greater than
zero signal expansion in the index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern Connecticut.  W.W. Grainger Inc. (GWW) , a supplier of maintenance, repair and
operating equipment, in April reported a 12 percent increase in
sales. The company, based in  Lake Forest ,  Illinois , has been
expanding in the U.S. and investing overseas.  “Industrial production was really strong in the first
quarter,” Grainger Chief Financial Officer Ron Jadin said in a
May 8 earnings call. “We’re anticipating as we look at the year
that industrial production will grow at a slower rate, still
expand, but at a slower rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  