-- MIT Names Venezuelan-Born Provost Reif as 17th President
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-05-16T17:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/mit-to-announce-new-president-to-succeed-susan-hockfield-1-.html
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
named L. Rafael Reif, a Venezuelan-born electrical engineer and
administrator, as its 17th president.  Reif, 61, has been MIT’s provost, or chief academic
officer, for the last seven years. He will assume the presidency
on July 2. The university, in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , selected
Reif at a meeting today.  In 2007, Reif promoted a faculty-led effort to address
issues of race and diversity at MIT, including an investigation
of impediments to the recruitment and retention of minority
faculty. In a news conference, Reif, part of the first
generation in his family to attend college, stressed his own
background as an immigrant who arrived in the U.S. as a graduate
student speaking little English.  “It is incredibly humbling for me to be standing here as
the president-elect of MIT,” Reif said. “I cannot tell you
that this is a dream come true, because this is a dream I never
dared to imagine. My story is not too different from that of
many at MIT. I grew up in a home wealthy in integrity and
principles and values, but poor in everything material.”  Leo Rafael Reif is the youngest of four sons of Eastern
European Jewish refugees who fled  Europe  in the late 1930s,
according to his MIT biography. The family lived first in
Ecuador and then Colombia before settling in Venezuela. His
father worked as a photographer and the family spoke Spanish and
Yiddish at home. Reif was born in Maracaibo, Venezuela, and
moved to Caracas with his family at age 9.  Affirmative Action  Reif, whose surname is pronounced as “Rife,” will take
over the presidency of MIT as the U.S. Supreme Court has said it
will be revisiting the consideration of racial diversity in
college admissions. In a telephone interview, Reif said he feels
“strongly” about the issue and that MIT is preparing a brief
in defense of the practice.  Reif, who graduated from college in Venezuela, earned a
master’s degree and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from
 Stanford University  near Palo Alto,  California .  Reif joined MIT as an assistant professor in 1980, earned
tenure in 1985 and, in 2005, became provost, generally
considered the No. 2 position in a university. His research has
focused on microelectronics, and he holds 15 patents and is
author or co-author of five books.  As provost, he cut $50 million out of MIT’s budget and
formed partnerships with researchers in  Abu Dhabi ,  Singapore  and
 Russia , the university said.  Online Learning  The new president is also an advocate of online learning,
overseeing last December’s introduction of a plan to offer
content free to students outside the university.  “Rafael brings with him a career as a distinguished
engineer and a gifted administrator, and his 30 years of
achievement at MIT speak to a profound dedication to, and
understanding of, the institute,” John S. Reed, chairman of the
MIT Corporation, the school’s governing body, said in a
statement.  Reif succeeds Susan Hockfield, 61, MIT’s first female
president, who came to the private university after serving as
provost at  Yale University  in New Haven,  Connecticut . At her
inaugural address, she unveiled plans to establish the  MIT
Energy Initiative , which has since developed new solar cells,
 wind turbines  and fuel-producing viruses.  The university, which admitted its first students in 1865,
counts among its alumni the economist Paul Krugman, who received
a doctorate, and John Thain, chairman and chief executive
officer of New York-based CIT Group Inc., who earned a
bachelor’s degree in engineering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  