-- Italy Tax Agents on Frontline of Anti-Austerity Backlash
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-05-17T10:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/italy-tax-agents-on-frontline-of-anti-austerity-backlash.html
For 10 years, Daniela Ballico has
been knocking on Romans’ doors seeking back taxes. Now with
 Italy ’s tax-collectors on the front line of an anti-austerity
backlash, she no longer has the courage to ring their bells.  Equitalia, the state tax-collection agency, has been
targeted in a wave of attacks as Italians chafe under stepped-up
efforts to recover an estimated 120 billion euros ($153 billion)
in lost revenue from evasion. On May 12, a Molotov cocktail
exploded outside Equitalia’s Livorno office, one day after a
parcel bomb was delivered to the  Rome  headquarters, site of a
December explosion that tore off part of the general manager’s
hand.  “I have never seen such a tense atmosphere” said Ballico,
who has been employed by Equitalia since 1998 and is now on
temporary leave to work for the UGL labor union. “They call us
loan sharks, bloodsuckers; my colleagues have to deal with
anxiety and stomach aches every day and they are scared.”  The crackdown is part of Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s 20
billion-euro austerity plan that also brought higher taxes, cuts
in public spending and record gasoline prices. While the
measures may have helped bring down bond yields from euro-era
records, they helped push the economy into its fourth recession
since 2001, making it harder even for law-abiding Italians to
keep up with tax payments.  Rising Violence  Monti today reiterated his government’s “unconditional
support” for the tax revenue agency, “firmly” condemning the
attacks, he said in a statement after meeting with the agency’s
head, Attilio Befera, and Equitalia staff, in Rome. “We can and
we must discuss how to reduce the fiscal burden, trying to go
after those who escape from taxation,” he said.  Italy will boost security measures against the rising
threat of violence, including stepping up the use of armed
forces to safeguard more than 14,000 sites across the country,
the  Interior Ministry  said today in a statement after a meeting
with the country’s top security officials.  The government has already raised alert levels at some
sensitive sites and may even use the army to defend the tax
agency, Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri told newspaper
la Repubblica in an interview on May 13.  Attacking State  “I would like to stress that attacking Equitalia is the
equivalent of attacking the state,” she told the daily.  The government predicts that the country’s tax burden, or
tax as a percentage of  gross domestic product , will rise to 45.1
percent this year from 42.5 percent in 2011, and won’t start
falling until 2015. Italy ranked fourth-highest in the European
Union by that measure in 2011.  Italy’s tax-revenue agency recovered 12.7 billion euros
from evasion in 2011, up 15.5 percent from 2010. Monti’s
government is counting on a further increase this year to help
meet its pledge to slash the deficit even with the recession
deepening.  The government didn’t include revenue from evasion in its
2012 budget and plans to use any recovered funds as a buffer
should regular income miss its target because of the slump. The
government forecasts the economy will contract 1.2 percent this
year, while the  International Monetary Fund  predicts a
contraction of 1.9 percent.  As part of the crackdown on  tax evasion , authorities have
targeted owners of luxury cars and boats to stop transgressions
by the wealthiest Italians. Still, much of the anger directed at
Equitalia is from people with more modest means as the agency is
responsible for collecting everything from missed mortgage
payments to parking tickets and delinquent school lunch fees.  Hostages  Earlier this month, a 54-year-old small businessman facing
financial difficulties and tax debts of around 2,400 euros, took
15 hostages at an Equitalia office near Bergamo for several
hours before surrendering to police.  Even as Monti and other politicians seek to quell rising
social tensions, anti-austerity protests are spreading with
Equitalia serving as a symbol of broader indignation. Around 200
former  Fiat SpA (F)  workers occupied the Equitalia office in the
Sicilian town of Termini Imerese on May 9 to protest the Italian
automaker’s decision to shut a plant employing more than 1,400
workers. On May 11, demonstrators clashed with police outside
Equitalia’s offices in Naples.  Years of Lead  Authorities are concerned that the rising discontent will
fuel more violent attacks in a country with a history of
domestic terrorism. Hundreds of people were killed in bombings
by the leftist Red Brigades and fascists groups in the 1970s and
1980s in a period known as the Years of Lead. In a throwback to
the days when executives and politicians were kneecapped, or
shot in the knees, an executive of a  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  unit was
shot in the leg outside his home in Genoa on May 7 in an attack
claimed by a group calling itself the Informal Anarchist
Federation.  The FAI yesterday made a written threat against Monti,
Cancellieri and senior officials of Italy’s tax agency.  “As the debt crisis worsens, we are likely to see more
episodes like this,” said Alberto Mingardi, head of the pro-
free market Bruno Leoni research center in Turin, about the
attacks on Equitalia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  