-- Mitsubishi-led Group to Buy Stake in Chevron Fields, Nikkei Says
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-05-16T03:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/mitsubishi-led-group-to-buy-stake-in-chevron-fields-nikkei-says.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Nippon Yusen K.K.,
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  and  Japan ’s government, will jointly
buy a $4.35 billion stake in  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Wheatstone natural
gas project in Australia, the Nikkei newspaper reported.  The group will take a 10 percent stake in the gas fields
and an 8 percent interest in the liquefied natural gas
facilities, the newspaper said today, without saying how it got
the information. The agreement means  Tokyo Electric , known as
Tepco, will have a smaller stake in Wheatstone than the amount
it agreed to buy in 2009.  The A$29 billion ($29 billion) Wheatstone project is among
several Australian LNG projects aiming to tap rising Asian
demand led by Japan as the country turned to thermal power
generation in the absence of nuclear power after the Fukushima
disaster. Tepco, the owner of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant, invited the other Japanese companies to join it
as it deals with the costs of cleaning up Fukushima, the Nikkei
said.  Tepco and Mitsubishi will spend $70 million and $330
million respectively to acquire 8 percent and 40 percent stakes
in a venture that will obtain the interest in the Australian  gas
field , the Nikkei reported. Nippon Yusen and the government-
owned Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp. will invest $90
million and $350 million while the Japan Bank for International
Cooperation will buy preferred shares without voting rights in
the venture for $280 million, the newspaper said.  The JBIC will also provide about $2 billion in loans to the
venture while private banks will lend $1.3 billion, the
newspaper said.  Tepco spokesman Masateru Araki and Mitsubishi spokesman
Shunsuke Nanami declined to comment on the Nikkei report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  