-- Liverpool Fires Dalglish After Worst League Finish in 18 Years
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-17T01:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/liverpool-manager-dalglish-fired-after-worst-finish-in-18-years.html
Liverpool fired manager  Kenny Dalglish  after the 18-time English soccer champion’s worst
league finish since 1994.  Dalglish, 61, met with principal owner John W. Henry and
club chairman  Tom Werner  in  Boston  earlier this week. He’d been
in charge since January 2011, having taken over from  Roy Hodgson . Nicknamed “King Kenny,” he was a favorite of
Liverpool fans following a successful playing career at the
club, and was in his second spell as manager.  “Results in the Premier League have been disappointing and
we believe to build on the progress that has already been made,
we need to make a change,” Werner said in a  statement  yesterday
on Liverpool’s website. “Our ambition remains resolute to
return this great club to the elite of England and  Europe , where
it belongs.”  Liverpool, which has spent about 100 million pounds ($159
million) on new players since the start of 2011, was eighth in
the Premier League this season, 37 points behind champion
 Manchester City . The team won the second-tier Carling Cup in
February to secure its first trophy in six years and lost to
Chelsea in the May 5 F.A. Cup final.  Club owner Fenway Sports Group said that the decision to
remove Dalglish “was not reached lightly or hastily,” and that
the search for his replacement would begin immediately. Wigan
Athletic’s  Roberto Martinez  is the early favorite for the job
ahead of former Liverpool manager  Rafael Benitez , U.K. bookmaker
Coral Racing Ltd. said.  Low Points  While Dalglish guided Liverpool to two cup finals, the team
lost 14 of its 38 league games. The 1-0 defeat at Swansea four
days ago left the Reds with 52 points, their lowest tally since
the Premier League began in 1992.  “Of course I am disappointed with results in the league,
but I would not have swapped the Carling Cup win for anything as
I know how much it meant to our fans and the club to be back
winning trophies,” Dalglish said in the club’s statement.  Dalglish began his playing career at Celtic before
switching in 1977 to Liverpool. He won multiple honors with the
Reds including the English league, F.A. Cup and League Cup as
well as the European Cup on three occasions.  He won the league three times as Liverpool manager before
guiding  Blackburn Rovers  to the title in 1995. Spells in charge
of Newcastle and Celtic followed before a break from management
and his reappointment at Liverpool.  Dalglish joins director of football Damien Comolli, head of
sports science Peter Brukner and communications director  Ian Cotton  in leaving Liverpool in recent weeks as Fenway Sports
Group -- which also owns baseball’s  Boston Red Sox  --
restructures the club.  ‘Debt of Gratitude’  “He did more than anyone else to stabilize Liverpool over
the past year and a half and to get us once again looking
forward,” Werner said. “We owe him a great debt of
gratitude.”  Earlier this month, Liverpool posted a club-record loss of
49.4 million pounds for the fiscal 2011 year. The loss was
mainly related to costs associated with plans for a 70,000-seat
stadium that have been scrapped and severance payments to ex-
employees including Hodgson, who was fired as manager after six
months. Hodgson joined West Brom, leading the midlands team to
its highest finish in the Premier League this season before
being named England manager on May 1.  FSG, controlled by hedge fund trader Henry, bought
Liverpool in October 2010 after lenders to former owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  forced a sale when the pair defaulted
on a loan linked to their 2007 buyout. FSG wrote off 200 million
pounds of debt owed by the previous administration.  No Champions League   Liverpool has struggled on and off the field as losses have
climbed to almost 100 million pounds during the past three
years. Fans protested against Gillett and Hicks during their
ownership and the team missed Europe’s elite  Champions League 
for a third straight season.  The Reds’ failure to reach the competition reduces
television and marketing revenue by least 25 million pounds. It
may also hurt the club when it comes time to renew or replace
its record 81 million-pound shirt sponsorship deal with London-
based bank  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)  A 25 million-pound contract
with U.S. jersey supplier Warrior starts next season.  “The owners have removed the debt and everything is now
being put in place to compete commercially and financially with
our main rivals,” Liverpool managing director  Ian Ayre  said on
the club’s website. “The only missing piece of the jigsaw, the
most important piece of the jigsaw, is football and success in
the Premier League.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  