-- J&J’s Zytiga Helps Eliminate Early-Stage Prostate Cancer
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-17T20:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/j-j-s-zytiga-helps-eliminate-early-stage-prostate-cancer.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Zytiga, approved
last year to treat metastatic prostate cancer, helped eliminate
tumors in high-risk patients whose malignancy hadn’t yet spread,
a small study found.  The pill was given as an initial therapy before surgery to
58 patients with aggressive tumors that were confined to the
 prostate  gland, a group typically treated with radiation. These
patients are rarely cured by surgery and previous studies using
older drugs failed to improve survival, said Mary-Ellen Taplin,
an associate professor at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston .  One-third of those on Zytiga for six months showed no
cancer or only trace levels when the prostate gland was removed,
said Taplin, who is the lead researcher. Fifteen percent of men
on it for three months had a similar benefit. The drug, with
$200 million in worldwide  sales  in 2011, may eventually generate
$1 billion annually, said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at Wells
Fargo Securities in New York, in a May 1 note to investors.  “What we’ve shown is that the concept is valid, that in
some patients you can eliminate the cancer completely,” Taplin
said in a telephone interview. “To really prove what the
overall benefit is to a patient with this type of approach, you
would have to do a very large trial.”  J&J fell less than 1 percent to $63.55 at the close of
 New York  trading. Dendreon Corp., which makes a rival medicine
to Zytiga, dropped 11 percent to $7.65.  $5,000 Cost  J&J’s once-a-day drug, which costs about $5,000 a month,
targets a protein to  block  production of the androgen hormone
that fuels prostate cancer growth. While other medications can
stop androgen production in the testes and adrenal glands,
Zytiga also shuts it down inside the tumor itself.  Participants in the study were also given the generic
hormone therapy leuprolide and steroids.  Prostate cancer is the  most-common  tumor in men, according
to the  American Cancer Society . Fifteen percent of the 218,000
Americans diagnosed with it each year have it spread beyond the
walnut-sized gland that lies between the bladder and urethra,
according to the  National Cancer Institute .  J&J, which helped fund the initial study, isn’t planning
any additional research on the use of Zytiga as an initial
therapy in men with high-risk, local disease that hasn’t spread,
said Kellie McLaughlin, a spokeswoman for the  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based company.  The Prostate Cancer Foundation also helped fund the study,
which was conducted by the Department of Defense-supported
Prostate Cancer Clinical Trial Consortium.  Further Studies  Taplin , an oncologist at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
in Boston, said she is working on a trial that adds the
experimental medication ARN-509 from closely held Aragon
Pharmaceuticals Inc., based in  San Diego , to the mixture of
Zytiga and the steroid prednisone used in the current study. She
is also exploring the use of  Medivation Inc. (MDVN) ’s prostate cancer
drug MDV3100, which also blocks androgen production, before
surgery in high-risk patients.  The findings released yesterday will be presented at the
 American Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting in  Chicago  on June
2. The results were released ahead of the event by the
organizers to coincide with the publication of the study’s
abstract.  Among the 29 men who received Zytiga for the entire six
months, three had no signs of cancer once the prostate was
eliminated, while seven had very low levels, Taplin said. One of
the 27 men treated for three months had no cancer, and three had
only a smattering of cancer cells, she said.  Results from a pivotal trial examining the use of Zytiga
before chemotherapy in patients with prostate cancer that has
spread will also be presented at the meeting. The studies may
boost use of the drug in patients who aren’t formally approved
to receive it, making it one of several medicines to accelerate
J&J’s sales growth, Biegelsen, of Wells Fargo, wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  