-- J&J Targets China Acquisitions for Mental Disease Drugs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-16T16:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/j-j-targets-china-acquisitions-for-mental-disease-drugs.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  is “very serious”
about acquiring assets in China to treat conditions such as
mental disease and cancer, to help it match or outpace growth in
the country’s pharmaceuticals market, an executive said.  The company is interested in buying Chinese companies or
products in mental health, oncology, immunology, vaccines and
over-the-counter drugs where the world’s largest health-care
products company wants to build its portfolio, Thad Huston,
president of J&J’s  Xian-Janssen Pharmaceutical Ltd.  unit, said.  “We want to find the right deals, companies that share the
same values as Johnson & Johnson, and that provide innovative
products,” Huston said in an interview in Beijing yesterday.
“We’re not interested in doing a generic or traditional Chinese
medicine acquisition for example.”  Drug spending in  China  is forecast to grow at a compound
annual rate of 19 percent to 22 percent in the five years to
2015, reaching as much as $125 billion, according to an IMS
Health Inc. report published in May 2011. That’s the fastest
growth rate globally, according to the Danbury, Connecticut-
based researcher.  “Our aspiration is to grow at or above market rate” of 17
percent annually, said Huston. Xian-Janssen also wants to come
up with new products through research and development tie-ups
locally, including with China’s  Tsinghua University  and Beijing-
based drugs research startup BeiGene Ltd., he said.  Family Shame  J&J plans to introduce two to three new drugs to China
every year, and this March started selling Invega Sustenna, a
monthly injection to treat  schizophrenia . Chinese social stigma
due to families’ embarrassment about mental illnesses means most
patients do not get treated, Huston said.  About 170 million people in China are afflicted by some
form of mental illness, with more than 16 million suffering
severe mental health conditions,  China Daily   reported  yesterday,
citing 2009 data from China’s National Center for Mental Health.
About 20,000 psychiatrists serve China’s 1.3 billion population,
one-fourth of the international level, China Daily said, citing
the Health Ministry.  “There is a Chinese saying that ’what’s in the family
should stay in the family’, and so problems aren’t really
discussed,” said Huston, who moved to Beijing to manage Xian-
Janssen in September 2010. “When you have over 10 million
patients and about 13 percent get treatment consistently, there
is a huge need and it’s where we can make a huge difference.”  Price Cuts  The company works with local media, and patient groups to
run educational programs and projects to improve rural access to
treatments. It also partners the Ministry of Health to raise
doctors’ awareness, and is making a strong push for the drug to
be reimbursable by public health insurance, Huston said.  China’s efforts to cut drug prices to bring down health-
care costs also mean Western drug companies can no longer rely
on just hiring more sales representatives to grow in the
country, Huston said.  Pharmaceutical companies hired thousands of sales
representatives in recent years in a bid to expand sales in
China, and this growth “is probably not a sustainable model
partly due to the pricing pressure,” he said.  “Price cuts affect everyone and it has  slowed our growth .
But we’ve been very focused on bringing in more innovative
products, and as the portfolio shifts, we think we can get back
to even more stronger levels of growth despite the pricing
challenges,” Huston said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  