-- Japan Growth Pick-Up Clouded by Deepening European Risk
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-05-17T04:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/japan-s-economy-grows-more-than-forecast-4-1-in-first-quarter.html
Japan ’s economy expanded faster than
estimated in the first quarter, boosted by reconstruction
spending that’s poised to fade just as a worsening in Europe’s
crisis threatens to curtail export demand.  Gross domestic product  rose an annualized 4.1 percent from
the final three months of 2011, exceeding all but seven of 27
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, a Cabinet
Office report showed today in  Tokyo . Singapore also reported a
rebound in growth last quarter, while warning about the risk of
a disorderly European debt default.  Policy makers across  Asia  are girding for the impact of any
Greek exit from the euro region that could roil the global 
financial system, with Malaysia’s central bank chief seeing 
possible “catastrophic” consequences for  Europe .  South Korea  
said it has enough currency reserves to weather the storm, while
in Japan, pressure may rise to step up monetary stimulus and act
against what the government calls “excessive” currency moves.  “Japan is on a steady recovery path but this high growth
probably won’t continue,” said  Yuichi Kodama , chief economist
at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. in Tokyo. “The  Bank of Japan 
probably wants to wait and see the effect of their monetary
easing but as economic data will show more moderate growth going
forward, they are likely to face an increase in political
pressure for more actions.”  Expansion Peaked  The yen’s more than 4 percent gain against the dollar since
mid-March may encourage politicians to keep pressing the Bank of
Japan to add stimulus, with the first-quarter expansion likely
to mark the peak for the year after a surge in  consumer spending .  Europe’s debt turmoil is threatening to disrupt exports and
financial markets as  Greece  teeters on the edge of a euro
departure. Greece is heading toward national elections six weeks
after an inconclusive vote on May 6, which pushed a political
party opposed to the nation’s international bailout into second
place, raising the specter of the country leaving the 17-nation
euro area.  “The recovery in the global economy remains fragile and
vulnerable to downside risks,”  Singapore ’s trade ministry said
today as it reported GDP rose an annualized 10 percent in the
three months through March 31 from the previous quarter. “A
disorderly sovereign debt default in the  euro zone ” that would
hurt the global economy and Singapore’s export-dependent
industries cannot be ruled out, it said.  ’Catastrophic’ Result  The consequences of a Greek euro exit would be
“unimaginable” and “catastrophic” for Europe, Malaysia’s
central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television aired today.  “The worst-case scenario is what we saw in Asia, when one
economy collapses, then the market usually moves on to focus on
the next one, then there will be a contagion that will affect
different countries,” Zeti, 64, said in the interview in
Istanbul. “This is what is described by unimaginable and it
will be catastrophic.”  Several U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers said a loss of
momentum in growth or increased risks to their economic outlook
could warrant additional action to keep the recovery going,
minutes of their April meeting released yesterday showed. World
Bank President Robert Zoellick said yesterday that a Greek exit
from the euro could have ripple effects reminiscent of 2008,
when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse was followed by a
global financial crisis.  Korea’s Pledge  South Korea will take “prompt” action on markets if
needed, Vice Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon said after an
emergency meeting in  Seoul  on the euro-area crisis today. The
country has enough foreign-exchange reserves to cope with the
fallout, as financial markets may see more turbulence, Shin said.  Japanese Economy Minister Motohisa Furukawa said today
there’s no change to the government’s stance on taking decisive
action against “excessive” currency moves. The yen’s gain
could hurt Japan’s economy and have various downside effects,
the minister said, adding he will closely monitor European debt
conditions as they are affecting the  currency market .  In  China , authorities on May 12 cut the reserve ratio for
the third time in six months following weaker-than-forecast
economic data. Growth in the world’s second-biggest economy is
likely to accelerate for the first time in seven quarters, a
Bloomberg survey of 21 economists showed.  In Europe, figures are expected to confirm  Spain ’s economy
contracted 0.3 percent in the first quarter, according to a
survey of 20 economists. U.S. jobless claims dropped by 2,000 in
the week ended May 12 to a six-week low of 365,000, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 48 economists.  Prices paid by New Zealand farms, factories and other
producers for commodities and services rose at the slowest pace
in more than two years in the first quarter, a report showed
today.  Hong Kong  is due to release April unemployment data.  Growth Estimate  Japan’s economic growth may be 2.2 percent in the second
and third quarters, and 1.7 percent in the final three months of
the year, according to the average forecast of 40 economists in
a Japan Center for Economic Research survey released May 15.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little changed at 1:02 p.m.
in Tokyo after sliding 1.1 percent yesterday. Today’s GDP report
in Japan revised a fourth-quarter contraction to an expansion.  Japan’s central bank failed yesterday to find enough short-
term government securities to buy under its asset-purchase
program, signaling complications for efforts to spur growth.
Officials may need to buy longer-dated debt or other types of
assets.  The BOJ increased the program for a second time in three
months on April 27 and some lawmakers are urging more aggressive
easing as Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  struggles to secure
support for doubling a 5 percent sales tax to help contain the
world’s largest public debt burden.  Sony Sales  Europe’s woes may fuel renewed demand for the yen as a
haven, with the  currency trading  at 80.26 per dollar as of 1:03
p.m. in Tokyo after climbing to a postwar high of 75.35 in
October.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s largest consumer electronics
exporter, gets a fifth of its sales from Europe.  “The risk will be the yen’s appreciation if the risk-off
mode among investors continues,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief
economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. in Tokyo and a former
BOJ official. “The overseas factors aren’t looking positive for
Japan’s economy.”  Noda has pledged more than 20 trillion yen ($249 billion)
to rebuild areas devastated by last year’s earthquake and
tsunami. Public investment rose 5.4 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months, the first increase in three
quarters, today’s report showed.  Subsidy Effect  Government subsidies for purchases of fuel-efficient cars
may expire in August, weakening demand later this year,
according to Hiroaki Muto, a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  Consumer spending was the biggest contributor to Japan’s
growth in the first quarter, bolstered by the government subsidy
program, today’s report showed. Public investment and exports
also grew from the previous three-month period.  “The increase in consumer spending would be temporary as
it was boosted by the government’s measures,” Muto said.
“Given that the jobless rate remains high and wages are near
flat, it will be difficult for consumers to increase spending
considerably.”  At the same time, Japanese companies plan to increase
machinery orders at a faster pace this quarter, signaling some
continued domestic support for the economy, a report showed
yesterday.  Energy Constraints  “The positive surprise is that private consumption has
come back so strongly, including durable goods,” said Martin Schulz, a senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in
Tokyo who has done research for the Bank of Japan. “With demand
now recovering on the back of government action, we should see
deflationary trends subside.”  Constraints on energy use may add to economic challenges.
Japan may impose rolling blackouts and electricity-savings
targets this summer as utilities struggle to power factories and
light homes with all nuclear reactors offline.  In Kansai, which accounts for about 20 percent of the
economy and is the nation’s second-most important industrial
heartland, consumers face the biggest limit on power use, the
government says. The western region is home to Osaka, Kyoto and
Kobe cities as well as the headquarters of  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,
Sharp Corp. and Nintendo Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  