-- Jeremy Lin’s Knicks Status Is Central in NBA-Union Dispute
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-16T16:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/jeremy-lin-s-status-with-knicks-is-central-in-nba-union-dispute.html
The  New York Knicks ’ ability to re-
sign Jeremy Lin while maintaining flexibility to add other
players will be at stake in an arbitration hearing sought by the
National Basketball Association players’ union.  The  National Basketball Players Association  filed for the
hearing to fight a stipulation in the collective bargaining
agreement that the league says strips the Knicks of rights
allowing teams to exceed the salary cap in re-signing their own
players.  The action was taken two days ago on behalf of Lin, Knicks
teammate  Steve Novak , the Los Angeles Clippers’ Chauncey Billups
and the Portland Trail Blazers’ J.J. Hickson, the union said in
a news release.  At issue is a stipulation in the 2005 and 2011 labor deals
that says players maintain their so-called Bird and Early Bird
rights if they switch teams “by trade.” Bird rights are named
for former Boston Celtics Hall of Fame player  Larry Bird , and
Early Bird rights are a form of the rule for players who have
been in the league a shorter time.  The union argues the rule should include players claimed
off waivers.  “Bird and Early Bird rights are among the most valuable
rights that players have under the collective bargaining
agreement,” Billy Hunter, the union’s executive director, said
in a statement. “These rights simply cannot be extinguished in
the absence of an affirmative decision by a player to select a
team through free agency.”  Definition Details  The NBA interprets the word “trade” as it is commonly
used, a swap between two teams. That would not include players
who move to a new franchise through waivers, as Lin did in
December, joining the Knicks after being waived by the  Golden
State Warriors  and  Houston Rockets .  “We are confident that our interpretation of the agreement
is correct,”  Mike Bass , a spokesman for the NBA, said in a
statement.  The four players become free agents on July 1.  Lin is a Harvard University graduate who went from bench
warmer last season to the Knicks’ starting point guard in
February, averaging 14.6 points and 6.2 assists per game as the
Knicks made the playoffs. Novak led the NBA with a .472 3-point
shooting percentage. Maintaining their Bird rights would allow
the Knicks to re-sign them and use their $5 million mid-level
salary-cap exception on another player.  The 23-year-old Lin last played on March 24 before surgery
to repair a torn meniscus. He missed the Knicks’ opening-round
playoff series with the  Miami Heat , which  New York  lost 4-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 