-- JPMorgan Shareholders Sue Dimon Over $2 Billion Loss
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-16T18:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/jpmorgan-shareholders-sue-dimon-over-2-billion-trading-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  shareholders
sued the bank and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  in two
separate cases over the company’s $2 billion trading loss.  An Arizona trust filed a securities-fraud lawsuit in which
it seeks to represent all investors who lost money on the stock
as a result of alleged misstatements by the bank about its
losses. In the second case, an individual investor asked for
damages on behalf of the company from Dimon, the bank’s board
and other executives. Both suits were filed late yesterday in
 Manhattan  federal court.  In the fraud suit, the trust seeks damages for investors
who bought JPMorgan stock from April 13, when Dimon called
concerns over the bank’s trading risk “a complete tempest in a
teapot,” to May 10, when he disclosed the trading loss
publicly.  “The trades in question, however, were anything but a
tempest in a teapot, and quickly went from bad to worse,”
according to the complaint filed by Saratoga Advantage Trust --
Financial Services Portfolio, based in Goodyear,  Arizona .
“During the week following the April 13 conference call, losses
from the trades ballooned to as much as $200 million per day.”  In the action seeking damages on behalf of the company,
called a shareholder derivative suit, the plaintiff claims
JPMorgan executives and directors permitted a radical change in
the bank’s exposure to undisclosed  investment risk .  Dimon Statement Cited  “The defendant Dimon went so far as to publicly and
vigorously dispute that any investment safety regulation was
necessary for financial institutions such as JPMorgan, because
the company was purportedly so careful with its investments that
no such regulations would be necessary,”  James Baker , a
California resident, said in his complaint. “All of the
individual defendants knew this was simply not the case.”  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment on the lawsuits.  The shareholder fraud suit seeks unspecified damages on
behalf of investors.  The derivative suit seeks unspecified damages from the
officers and directors for the bank.  It also asks for a court order requiring that JPMorgan
improve corporate governance by allowing its shareholders to
vote on proposals to strengthen board supervision, to install
two shareholder representatives on the board, to test internal
audit and control policies and to ensure that management be
immediately informed about unacceptable trading risks.  Credit Products  The trading losses came on synthetic credit products, which
are derivatives tied to credit performance. In disclosing the
$2 billion loss on transactions he said were intended to manage
risk, Dimon cited “egregious” failures by the bank’s chief
investment office.  JPMorgan named Matt Zames to lead the office, succeeding
Ina Drew, who retired May 14 amid news of the $2 billion loss.  JPMorgan fell 21 cents to $36.03 at 1:50 p.m. in  New York .
The stock advanced 23 percent this year before the losses were
disclosed.  The cases are Baker v. Dimon, 12-cv-03878, and Saratoga
Advantage Trust -- Financial Services Portfolio, 12-cv-03879,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  