-- JPMorgan May Take Center Stage at Hearings on Dodd-Frank
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-05-16T16:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/jpmorgan-may-take-center-stage-at-hearings-on-dodd-frank-rules.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and regulators
may face increasing pressure to explain the lender’s $2 billion
trading loss as the misstep becomes fodder for lawmakers still
haggling over a regulatory overhaul enacted two years ago.  A day after JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Jamie Dimon told shareholders there was no justification for the
“egregious mistakes” by the biggest and most profitable U.S.
bank,  Federal Reserve  and Treasury Department officials faced
lawmakers amid conflict over the meaning of the losses at a
House hearing on systemically important financial firms.  “There is no doubt that this week’s news of JPMorgan’s
trading losses has raised significant questions about the
supervision of risk,” said Representative Shelley Moore Capito,
the West Virginia Republican leading today’s hearing of her
House Financial Services subcommittee.  The panel’s inquiry, scheduled before Dimon disclosed the
loss on May 10, deals with a Dodd-Frank Act designation that
will impose higher capital standards and more regulatory
scrutiny on firms whose collapse could imperil the economy. It
follows calls by lawmakers for formal review of JPMorgan’s
trades, with Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the Senate
Banking Committee’s top Republican, saying Dimon “absolutely”
should be called to testify before his panel.  Political Split  The politics underlying the debate have split lawmakers by
party lines, with Democrats including Senator  Carl Levin  using
the loss to bolster the case for tighter restrictions on banks.
Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who leads
the Financial Services panel, pushed back against that view.  “We are again hearing from some of our colleagues that we
need a law which will essentially prevent a business from losing
money or taking risk,” Bachus said. “No law can do that, nor
should a law prevent a company from taking risks.”  Unless the “facts are diametrically different” from what
lawmakers have been told, depositors and taxpayers aren’t at
risk from the bank’s loss, Bachus said.  While neither house of Congress has set hearings dedicated
to JPMorgan’s disclosure, today’s comments by lawmakers show the
New York-based bank won’t escape the Washington spotlight.
Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota
Democrat, said he’s planning hearings on financial stability and
Dodd-Frank implementation that will give lawmakers a chance to
address the issue with regulators.  ‘All the Facts’  Lawmakers from both parties and both chambers are calling
for reviews and hearings. Representative Michael Capuano, a
Massachusetts Democrat who sits on the House  Financial Services (HIG) 
Oversight and Investigations panel, requested a hearing on the
issue last week. Bachus, in a statement yesterday, said he will
set a hearing on the public-policy implications of the loss.  “I don’t think we know what all the facts are,” Senator
 John Cornyn , a Texas Republican and chairman of the  National
Republican Senatorial Committee , said yesterday. “Certainly I
would support the call for an investigation to find out.”  As lawmakers question regulators, JPMorgan is responding by
reaching out. The bank’s Washington operation has deployed
representatives to brief House and Senate staff members on the
strategy that led to the losses, according to three
congressional aides familiar with the briefings.  Volcker Rule  The discussions have emphasized that the trades were meant
to hedge risk -- not as proprietary trades targeted by Dodd-
Frank’s Volcker rule -- and that JPMorgan is conducting an
internal audit to identify failures and wrongdoing, according to
the aides who participated in or were informed of the briefings.  JPMorgan has had a strong presence on  Capitol Hill ,
spending $7.6 million on lobbying in 2011, almost $2 million in
the first quarter of this year and distributing more than
$340,000 in campaign contributions from its federal political
action committee since the start of 2011. Much of that money is
directed to House and Senate leadership and lawmakers on the
Senate Banking and House Financial Services panels, according to
federal filings.  The bank’s Washington office has dedicated resources for
responding to lawmakers’ inquiries, according to a person with
knowledge of the bank’s strategy.  Treasury, Fed  Treasury and Fed officials were the first to face lawmakers
poised to probe JPMorgan as Lance Auer, Treasury’s deputy
assistant secretary for financial institutions, and  Michael
Gibson , director of the Fed’s Division of Banking Supervision
and Regulation, testified before Capito’s panel.  The full Financial Services Committee is scheduled to hear
tomorrow from Securities and Exchange Commission Enforcement
Director  Robert Khuzami , Fed General Counsel  Scott Alvarez  and
top lawyers from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency. Lawmakers said yesterday
they were preparing questions specifically about the bank.  “I certainly expect that the losses at JPMorgan Chase will
be something we talk about,” said Representative  Brad Miller , a
North Carolina Democrat who said he plans to use the bank’s
disclosure to drive discussion over whether to force the break
up of the largest financial institutions.  Dimon, who had his pay package of $23 million in salary and
bonus for his 2011 performance approved yesterday by 91.5
percent of shareholders, told investors in Tampa yesterday that
the bank has a “fortress balance sheet to manage surprises and
setbacks like this.” Still, he said, the losses “never should
have happened. I can’t justify it.”  Even with Dimon’s expressions of contrition and removal of
executives responsible for the loss, lawmakers said scrutiny of
JPMorgan is unlikely to let up any time soon.  “I have the greatest respect for  Jamie Dimon , I like him,
but this is a bad deal,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  