-- JPMorgan Said to Cut 20 London Investment-Banking Jobs
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-05-16T19:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/jpmorgan-said-to-eliminate-20-investment-banking-jobs-in-london.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, will eliminate 20 investment-banking jobs
in  London  as market conditions weaken, according to a person
with knowledge of the cuts.  The  staff cuts  aren’t related to the $2 billion loss at the
New York-based company’s chief investment office in London, said
the person, who asked for anonymity because the investment bank
reductions haven’t been made public. The firm has about 8,000
employees in the London investment bank, the person said.  Lenders are trimming staff amid pressure to cut expenses as
new revenue becomes scarce and regulators demand more capital.
Banks pulled back from making new loans to package into bonds as
 Europe ’s debt crisis roiled credit markets. Trading revenue from
securitized products at the 10 biggest global investment banks
dropped to about $10 billion last year from about $17.5 billion
in 2010, according to data from consultant Coalition Ltd.  JPMorgan eliminated some senior  mortgage traders  and
salespersons in the U.S. investment bank earlier this year,
according to people with direct knowledge of the moves. The firm
also dismissed about 5 percent of its equities traders and sales
staff on March 20 and cut about 100 employees in its treasury
and securities services unit in January, according to three
people with knowledge of those moves.  Sticking With Iksil  The bank continues to employ Bruno Iksil, the trader known
as the London Whale whose positions may have distorted prices in
some derivatives markets.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for the
New York-based firm, confirmed Iksil’s status. The New York
Times reported earlier that Iksil is leaving JPMorgan by the end
of this year.  Bloomberg News first reported April 5 that Iksil had
accumulated derivatives that track the financial health of
corporations, and that the holdings were so large that they
distorted prices. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  later
disclosed a $2 billion trading loss that he attributed to an
“egregious” failure at the chief investment office in London,
where Iksil works. Ina Drew, who ran the CIO, retired days after
the loss became public.  A call to Iksil in London was referred to the public
relations office. JPMorgan fell 1.2 percent to $35.82 at 2:52
p.m. in  New York . The stock has gained 7.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  