-- JPMorgan’s Specific Trades Weren’t Monitored
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-16T00:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/jpmorgan-s-specific-trades-weren-t-monitored-regulator-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s individual
trades that led to a $2 billion loss weren’t monitored by the 
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which said it didn’t
 expect to be notified about the positions.  The job of the OCC, which oversees U.S. national banks
including JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., is to oversee wider risk-
management policies and limits and to alert company management
when it sees activities that range far from expectations, said
 Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman.  “There is no requirement to notify regulators of specific
trades and positions or the performance of those trades and
positions, although we do expect to be apprised of significant
developments affecting the bank,” Hubbard said yesterday. “It
is possible that losses could be incurred even when all controls
function properly.”  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said on May 10
the bank made “egregious” mistakes and had so far lost about
$2 billion tied to synthetic credit securities. Federal
regulators are examining what happened, including the Securities
and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, according to people familiar with the probes. The
U.S.  Justice Department  and  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in
New York have also begun a criminal probe, a person familiar
with the matter said.  OCC examiners don’t approve loans, models or investments,
focusing instead on risk controls, Hubbard said, adding that
they don’t typically track a firm’s activities on a live basis.  70 Monitoring JPMorgan  The OCC has about 70 people devoted full-time to monitoring
JPMorgan’s banking activities, including the activity of its
chief investment office where most of the losing trades happened
in a  London  unit. OCC examiners overseas operate from their own
regional offices -- including one in London -- and aren’t housed
inside the banks as they are in the U.S.  Even if that particular unit was in  New York , “it wouldn’t
have an examiner looking at it all the time,” said Robert L. Clarke, who was comptroller of the currency from  1985 to 1992 .
He said examiners set a schedule for how they’ll review major
risk areas of a bank, checking out control mechanisms for each
throughout the year. “They clearly can’t catch all the major
activities.”  Arthur Wilmarth, a law professor specializing in banking
and financial regulation at George Washington University, said
the JPMorgan incident raises questions about how closely
regulators are watching the biggest banks.  Major Risk Positions  “Although JPMorgan’s loss apparently didn’t occur in their
trading book, one would think that the regulators would be
asking for reports on all of the major risk positions held by
the largest banks, wherever those positions are booked,”
Wilmarth said in an e-mail. “One would also think that the OCC
and the Fed would be taking a closer look at trading operations
in London” after trades at a London unit of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  contributed to the need for a federal
rescue.  Clarke, a senior partner at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in
Houston, said the OCC should be held accountable if it missed
shortcomings in the controls. “The examiners should be expected
to test those controls and be sure that they’re working and be
sure that they’re adequate,” he said.  Since the 2008 financial crisis, the OCC has “raised our
bar and expect that our large, systemically important
institutions achieve strong risk management,” Hubbard said,
referring to agency rankings of a bank’s risk management as
weak, satisfactory or strong.  Not Enough People  “It’s enormously challenging for an agency to play catch-
up” in the largest banks, said Clifford Rossi, a former
managing director of Citigroup Inc.’s consumer lending group and
an executive-in-resident at the University of  Maryland ’s Robert
H. Smith School of Business. “There simply aren’t enough people
to watch over all of those things.”  The OCC said yesterday that it is evaluating risk
management strategies and practices at other large banks to
validate their understanding of risk levels and controls.  Blending “hedging and for-profit activities” is a recipe
for trouble, Rossi said. This activity was “vastly complex,”
he said, and couldn’t be easily understood by regulators -- or
even some people at the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net .
JPM US <EQUITY> CN 