-- K&L Gates, Cleary Gottlieb, Cravath, Dewey: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/k-l-gates-cleary-gottlieb-cravath-dewey-business-of-law.html
K&L Gates LLP must face a lawsuit
over drink maker Le-Nature’s Inc.’s collapse, a  Pennsylvania 
appeals court ruled in reinstating a $500 million case against
the law firm.  Bankruptcy trustee Marc Kirschner sued K&L Gates in
September 2009 in Pennsylvania state court, alleging the firm’s
failure to detect fraud at the company resulted in losses of
more than $500 million. K&L Gates was hired by Le-Nature’s to
investigate allegations of improper conduct in 2003, according
to court documents. The trial court’s December 2010 dismissal of
the complaint was an error, the appeals court said.  “We conclude that the amended complaint avers a legally
sufficient basis for concluding that K&L Gates owed a duty to
Le-Nature’s and that K&L Gates’s breach of that duty proximately
caused harm to Le-Nature’s,” the appellate court ruled May 14
in a 54-page opinion.  The court also concluded that Le-Nature’s had asserted a
“viable cause of action” for holding the law firm
“vicariously liable” for the negligence of Pascarella & Wiker
LLP, a financial accounting firm.  Michael Rick, a spokesman for K&L Gates, and Carl Wiker, a
partner with Pascarella & Wiker, didn’t immediately return phone
calls seeking comment on the ruling.  Le-Nature’s, based in Latrobe, Pennsylvania, produced
bottled water, tea and other flavored drinks in Latrobe and a
plant in Phoenix. Creditors pushed the company into bankruptcy
in 2006 demanding that its assets be sold to pay $1.4 million in
debts, about two years before company officials were indicted in
a $800 million fraud.  Le-Nature’s co-founder Gregory Podlucky was sentenced in
October to 20 years in prison for fraud,  tax evasion  and money-
laundering related to the company’s collapse.  The case is Kirschner v. K&L Gates LLP, No. 154 WDA 2011,
Superior Court of Pennsylvania.  Moves  FDIC Counsel Krimminger Leaving to Join Washington Law Firm  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. General Counsel  Michael Krimminger , a senior adviser to former Chairman  Sheila Bair 
during the 2008 financial crisis, is leaving the agency to
become a partner in the law firm of Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP LLP in Washington.  Krimminger, 54, worked in several roles at the FDIC since
1991, including as Bair’s deputy for policy, before becoming the
top lawyer for the agency, which oversees depository
institutions. After he leaves on May 25, his deputy, Richard Osterman, will fill in as acting general counsel while the FDIC
decides on a replacement, the agency said in a statement.  “Mike has been instrumental in developing major policy
initiatives during the most challenging time in the FDIC’s
history,” Martin J. Gruenberg, the agency’s acting chairman,
said in a statement.  Cleary Gottlieb’s banking and financial institutions
practice spans 12 offices in the U.S., Europe,  Asia  and  Latin
America . The practice includes 15 partners and counsel in New
York and  Washington , the firm said. Cleary Gottlieb has about
1,200 lawyers worldwide.  Morgan Stanley Legal Chief Barron Rejoins Cravath  Francis P. Barron, former chief legal officer at Morgan
Stanley, will rejoin Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP as a partner on
July 1 in the New York office. He will be a partner in the
litigation department and a member of the board advisory
practice.  Barron left the firm in July 2010 for Morgan Stanley, where
he advised senior management on issues including the evolving
legal and regulatory environment, the firm said.  Before joining Morgan Stanley, Barron was for 25 years a
litigation partner at Cravath, where he advised corporations,
financial institutions and accounting firms on securities,
antitrust and commercial disputes and federal and state
regulatory matters. He also was a member of Cravath’s board
advisory practice, counseling boards, board committees and
senior managers on issues including government and internal
investigations, shareholder demands and derivative litigation,
and accounting restatements.  In addition to Morgan Stanley, Barron’s clients have
included CBS Corp., Citigroup Inc., DreamWorks Animation SKG
Inc., General Electric Co., General Reinsurance Corp., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG, the firm said.  Cravath has more than 490 lawyers in  New York  and  London .  Ex-Bank of America Associate Counsel Joins Morrison & Foerster  Thomas J. Noto, former associate general counsel at Bank of
America Corp., joined  Morrison & Foerster LLP ’s financial
services regulatory, litigation and transactional practice as a
partner. He will be in the Washington office, though he plans to
transition to  California .  At Bank of America, Noto provided legal support to Bank of
America Home Loans, with responsibilities relating to mortgage
and home equity lending, fair lending and neighborhood lending,
the firm said. Earlier in his career, he worked for five years
as a staff attorney at the Federal Reserve Board’s Division of
Consumer and Community Affairs. He has also served as general
counsel for mortgage lenders including Ameriquest Mortgage Co.  “Tom has broad knowledge of the many issues affecting
mortgage lenders and mortgage servicers in the current fast-
changing environment, including the mortgage regulations that
have flowed from Dodd-Frank,” said Rick Fischer, co-chairman of
Morrison & Foerster’s financial services group.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers in 15
offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Litigation  Dewey & LeBoeuf Sued by U.S. to Take Over Pension Plans  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the failing New York-based law firm,
was sued by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. in an effort to
take over pension plans covering 1,776 lawyers and staff.  The PBGC is seeking the termination of the law firm’s
retirement plans and appointment as trustee, as well as the
transfer of the plans’ records and assets. The government agency
claimed in a complaint filed in  Manhattan  federal court
yesterday that three Dewey pension plans were underfunded by $80
million as of May 11.  The move follows the PBGC’s announcement May 10 that it
would take over Dewey’s pension plans. The agency said it will
guarantee benefits up to limits set by the law, about $56,000 a
year for a 65-year-old retiree.  The firm was sued last week by Vittoria Conn, a 55-year-old
document specialist seeking to sue on behalf of employees she
claims weren’t provided with the legally required notice before
being fired. Conn is seeking 60 days’ pay and benefits for the
fired workers.  The case is Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. v. Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP, 12-CV-3833, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Firm News  Dewey & LeBoeuf  Italy  Staff Form Firm With Rome, Milan Offices  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP lawyers in Italy, led by Bruno Gattai,
will form a new firm known as Grimaldi Studio Legale.  The firm will have 120 lawyers from Dewey, including 18
partners, at offices in Milan, Rome and Brussels, according to
an e-mailed statement. The attorneys licensed the Grimaldi name
from mergers and acquisition lawyer Vittorio Grimaldi, who will
serve as honorary president.  The firm will focus on private equity, energy, competition,
labor, corporate mergers and finance, according to the
statement.  Ropes & Gray Expands in Asia on Private Equity Deals in China  Ropes & Gray LLP, the Boston-founded law firm with more
than 900 lawyers, said it hired two partners from U.S. and U.K.
firms in  Hong Kong  and plans to double its Asia-based lawyers by
the end of the year.  Julian Chung, 51, will join on May 28, when Ropes & Gray
becomes formally licensed to practice Hong Kong law, from
London-based Norton Rose LLP, the  Boston  firm said. Gary Li, 36,
joined as a partner from New York-based Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison LLP, on May 10. Both lawyers will work on
private equity investments in publicly listed companies, Ropes &
Gray said.  “It’s a response to a specific request from our clients,”
said Marcia Ellis, a Hong Kong-based partner at Ropes & Gray.
She said private equity firms are increasingly investing in
public companies in mergers and acquisitions and as cornerstone
investors in initial share sales.  Ropes & Gray joins other U.S.-based law firms such as
Kirkland & Ellis LLP in increasing the number of private equity
and capital markets lawyers in Hong Kong. Wall Street firms,
including Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
LLP, have also started advising on local law in the Chinese
city, catching up to U.K.-founded firms that have offered local
law advice since Hong Kong was a British colony.  The new Hong Kong and South Korean practices will
contribute to an almost doubling of the number of lawyers the
firm has in Asia, from 35 at the end of 2011 to more than 60 by
the end of 2012, Ellis said.  The firm has more than 1,000 lawyers and professionals with
offices in Boston,  Chicago , Hong Kong, London, New York,  San
Francisco ,  Shanghai , Silicon Valley, Tokyo and Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  