-- Kazakhtelecom Retreats Most Ever as Dividend Date Passes
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-16T10:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/kazakhtelecom-retreats-most-ever-as-dividend-date-passes-2-.html
AO Kazakhtelecom (KZTK)  plunged the most
since it was listed as the shares traded without the right to
collect a record dividend.  Kazakhtelecom tumbled 67 percent to 9,999 tenge, the
biggest drop since it went public in February 2002. That dragged
the seven-stock Kazakhstan Stock Exchange Index KASE down 12
percent to 1,023.91 by 3:33 p.m. in Almaty, making it the worst
performer worldwide. Trading in the stock was halted.  “The shares dropped by almost the same amount as the
dividend,” Stanislav Yudin, an analyst at Aton LLC in Moscow,
said by phone. Investors can “no longer profit from the
dividend today, following the cut-off date.”  The Central Asian country’s phone monopoly set its payout
for the first quarter at 18,559 tenge ($125.51) per common share
and at 1,328 tenge for the full year 2011,  according to a
statement  May 8. The dividend will be made to investors who held
shares as of midnight May 15, the company said. Kazakhtelecom
may be using all of its earnings from the sale of a 49 percent
stake in the Kcell mobile operator last year for the payout,
 Renaissance Capital  analysts wrote in an e-mailed note April 27.  $864 Million  The telecom company accounts for a 5.8 percent weighting in
the country’s benchmark index. Stock exchange rules prohibit
trading in shares that have fallen 30 percent or more in a
session, according to a statement on the exchange’s website.  Kazakhtelecom earned about $864 million from the December
sale of the Kcell stake to a subsidiary of  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,
according to Renaissance Capital. The deal contributed more than
half of the parent company’s 50 billion tenge in profit last
year, Arnur Nurkatov, chief financial director at Kazakhtelecom,
told reporters yesterday.  Net income, excluding profit from the Kcell sale, may reach
22 billion tenge this year, Nurkatov said.  Kazakhstan is the second-biggest oil producer in the former
 Soviet Union  after  Russia . It has attracted companies including
Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc, ConocoPhillips, Total
SA, Eni SpA and BG Group Plc.  -- Editors: Alex Nicholson, Peter Branton  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  