-- Korean AAA Spreads Narrowest Since 2007 as New Rules Slow Sales
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-05-16T00:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/korean-aaa-spreads-narrowest-since-2007-as-new-rules-slow-sales.html
South Korean companies’ borrowing
costs are dropping to a five-year low compared with government
yields as new regulations curb bond sales.  SK Energy Co. and  Korea  Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. sold
local debt last month at as little as 18 basis points over
similar-maturity  government securities . The premium demanded to
hold three-year AAA rated bonds over sovereign notes fell 21
basis points this year to 31 on May 14, the lowest since August
2007, according to Koscom Corp.  Corporate issues dropped 18 percent from March to 11.8
trillion won ($10.2 billion) last month as rules took effect
that require arrangers of company debt sales to gauge investor
expectations more closely than before, according to  Korea
Securities Depository  data. Korea Investment Management Co. and
Dongbu Securities Co. predict spreads will narrow further as the
central bank in  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy holds off from
raising  interest rates  to support growth, spurring demand for
assets offering better returns than government debt.  “There is still room for corporate spreads to narrow as
company notes offer better yields and Korean corporates’
fundamentals are steady,” Lee Do Yoon, who oversees 5.3
trillion won ($4.6 billion) of assets from  Seoul  as director of
Korea Investment’s fixed-income division, said in an interview
on May 11. “With the new issuance rule in place, companies are
postponing debt sales until they are sure of its effects.”  Lower Yields  The drop in debt supply helped companies including
 Industrial Bank of Korea (024110)  and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power borrow
at lower rates. The state-owned lender issued one-year notes at
3.49 percent on May 11, compared with the 3.56 percent rate it
agreed to pay on similar-maturity securities last month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Korea Hydro & Nuclear
sold 20-year bonds at 4.14 percent in April, down from 4.32
percent in March.  The  Bank of Korea  has kept its benchmark interest rate at
3.25 percent since June 2011, after five increases in the
previous 12 months raised the  rate  from a record-low 2 percent.
Gross domestic product rose 2.8 percent from a year earlier in
the first quarter, the smallest gain since 2009, and inflation
slowed to a 21-month low of 2.5 percent in April, official
figures show.  ‘Downside Risks’  “The Korean economy is expected to maintain a moderate
trend of growth for the time being, influenced by the global
economic slowdown,” the BOK said May 10 after its last policy
meeting. “In terms of upside and downside risks to the future
growth path, the downside remains significant.”  The yield on  South Korea ’s five-year government  notes  fell
15 basis points to 3.50 percent in the past month, approaching a
September level of 3.40 percent that was the lowest since
January 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Demand for Korean corporate debt is being spurred by
improving credit ratings. Five companies were upgraded for each
downgrade this quarter at Seoul-based Nice Pricing Services, up
from three in the preceding period, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors Service raised South Korea’s
sovereign credit-rating outlook to positive from stable on April
2, citing “strong and improving fiscal fundamentals.”  Notes due 2021 December issued by AAA rated SK Telecom Co.,
South Korea’s largest mobile-phone operator, yielded 3.92
percent on May 14, down from 4.13 percent at the end of last
year, Nice Pricing data show. Woori Asset Management Co., a unit
of the nation’s biggest financial services group, said last
month it favors debt issued by Korean state-run companies over
sovereign and riskier corporate notes.  ‘Lower-Rated’ Bonds  Relative yields on lower-rated corporate debt may fall more
than those on AAA notes, according to Dongbu Securities. Spreads
on three-year A rated bonds over sovereign debt fell 28 basis
points this year to 77 basis points on May 14, the least since
2008 March, according to Koscom, which collates price data from
Korea Exchange Inc., Korea Financial Investment Association and
three credit-rating companies.  The yield on  notes  due August 2016 issued by  Korean Air 
Lines Co., the nation’s biggest carrier, fell 39 basis points
this year to 4.48 percent, according to Nice Pricing. Korean Air
is rated A by the ratings company, the third-highest grade.  “The yield premium on lower-rated companies has more room
to come down,” said Park Cheongho, a credit analyst at Dongbu
Securities, one of South Korea’s bond primary dealers. Spreads
for “A rated companies will probably fall as much as 10 basis
points more on strong demand and little supply,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at
   jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  