-- MTN Says Sabotage, Attacks Hampering Nigerian Services
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-05-17T15:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/mtn-says-sabotage-attacks-hampering-nigerian-services.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
mobile-phone operator, said sabotage, militant attacks and
shutdowns by state agencies seeking undue taxes are hampering
efforts to meet service conditions set by Nigeria’s regulator.  The  Nigerian Communications Commission  on May 11 fined MTN
and  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , or Etisalat, 360 million
naira ($2.3 million) each for failing to meet minimum service
standards.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  must pay 270 million naira and
Globacom Ltd. 180 million naira. The regulator last year
threatened to stop operators from signing customers unless they
cut the number of dropped calls and improve connections.  “There’s been no cognizance of the challenges we operate
in,” MTN Nigeria Communications Ltd. Chief Executive Officer
Brett Goschen said in a May 15 interview in Lagos, the
commercial capital. “The standards that they’ve applied
arriving at the fines, these are really best world standards.”  MTN is suffering damage to its fiber-optic network in
Africa’s biggest oil producer with more than 70 cuts to lines a
month nationwide, it said April 25. In northern Nigeria and the
capital Abuja, bomb and gun attacks blamed on the Islamist
militant group Boko Haram are hindering repairs and building of
new sites. In the oil-rich Niger River delta, MTN is facing
threats by the rebel Movement for the Emancipation of the  Niger
Delta  that its facilities will be destroyed.  Multiple Taxes  While no attacks have specifically targeted MTN’s
operations, network sites or base stations, increased security
measures slow down network maintenance work and roll outs and
incidents of sabotage “take out large numbers of sites at one
time,” Goschen said. “As you fix it, it goes down again.”  Various government and state agencies also shut down some
sites to try collect new levies and taxes without going through
the courts, leading to “multiple taxation and regulation,” he
said. The company only pays fees and operating taxes to the NCC.
Nigeria needs to have one consistent set of taxes and
regulations that it enforces, Goschen said.  MTN is investing $1.4 billion in  Nigeria  this year to
improve infrastructure and capacity. Etisalat on May 12 said it
will spend more than $500 million on its network after being
fined, with the company also citing a lack of power, sabotage
and regular damage for poor service.  MTN runs two diesel generators at each of its network sites
that provide as much as 80 percent of its needs at a cost of 3.5
percent of  revenue , Goschen said. Power cuts occur daily as
demand for electricity is almost double supply.  Overriding Factors  “If it weren’t for these factors we’d meet the quality
standards,” Goschen said. Calls to the mobile phones of Reuben
Muoka, a spokesman for the NCC, didn’t connect. He didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  MTN snapped two days of gains, retreating 1.6 percent to
134.45 rand at the close of Johannesburg trading. The company
has  dropped  6.5 percent this year for a market value of 253
billion rand ($30 billion). That compares with a 4.9 percent
gain in the FTSE/JSE  Africa  All Share Index.  The unit of Johannesburg-based MTN, which has operations in
22 countries in Africa and the  Middle East , has 41.6 million
customers using its network in Africa’s most populous nation of
more than 160 million people. That’s a 50 percent share of
Nigeria’s mobile-phone subscribers, according to the MTN.  The company estimates it will increase its subscriber base
by 4 million this year in Nigeria, its largest market.  ‘Driven Growth’  “We’ve really driven the growth of this market over the
last 10 years on the voice side and then taken a leading market
share of that growth,” said Goschen. “Going forward what we’re
trying to do is the same on the data side and not just only take
the leading market share but actively grow the industry in
Nigeria.”  Mobile-data services, which account for about 5 percent of
revenue from Nigeria excluding test message services, more than
doubled last year.  “We are hoping for higher growth rates” in data, Goschen
said. While voice growth is slowing down, the market is still
only 55 percent penetrated, he said.  MTN is negotiating with lenders to use its mobile money
banking service after signing partnership deals with  Guaranty
Trust Bank Plc (GUARANTY) ,  Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc (IBTCCB)  and Fortis Mobile Money,
Goschen said.  “It’s a huge opportunity to take financial services to the
unbanked,” said Goschen. “We estimate that around two-thirds
of our subscriber base are not banked.”  MTN isn’t considering listing shares on the  Nigerian Stock
Exchange (NGSEINDX)  and has no plans to expand in the country through
acquisitions, he said. The  Nigerian Stock Exchange , the second
largest bourse in sub-Saharan Africa, plans to boost its market
capitalization to $1 trillion by 2016 from just under $80
billion currently and wants telecommunications companies to list
on the exchange to deepen the market. None of the main four
operators are represented on the bourse.  “The authorities should incentivize corporates to list
rather than making it mandatory,” said Goschen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  