-- N.Z. Producer Input Prices Rise 0.3%, Slowest Since 2009
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-05-16T23:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/n-z-producer-input-prices-rise-0-3-slowest-since-2009.html
Prices paid by  New Zealand  farms,
factories and other producers for commodities and services rose
at the slowest pace in more than two years, a sign wholesale
inflation was contained at the start of the year.  Producer input prices gained 0.3 percent in the first
quarter from the three months through December,  Statistics New
Zealand  said in Wellington today. That’s the smallest increase
since a decline in the third quarter of 2009. Input prices rose
2.3 percent from a year earlier.  Prices paid by electricity retailers increased 8.4 percent
as lower flows into hydro storage lakes pushed up wholesale
power prices, today’s report showed. A shortage of lambs
increased the prices paid by sheep farmers, and food
manufacturers paid less for milk and sheep, while other
processors paid less for wool and wood, the agency said.  Producer output  prices, which are paid to factories, farms
and other producers, fell for the first time since the fourth
quarter of 2009, declining 0.l percent, the agency said. From a
year earlier, output prices increased 1.6 percent.  The New Zealand currency rose 6.8 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  and also advanced against the yen, pound, euro and the
Australian dollar during the period, the statistics agency said.
The  price index  is calculated based on exchange rates as of Feb.
15 compared with Nov. 15.  Food manufacturers were paid less as global prices fell and
the currency gained, the agency said. Forest owners received
less for logs and pulp, and paper manufacturers saw lower prices
for their exports, it said.  Payments to farmers for their sheep, wool and milk also
declined, today’s report showed. Prices received by dairy
farmers fell 2.2 percent from the fourth quarter after Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter,
reduced its payments to suppliers, citing falling world prices
and a rising currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  