-- Networks Putting More Sports in Prime Time to Fight DVRs
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-05-16T16:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/nascar-speeds-into-prime-time-as-networks-fight-dvrs-with-sports.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and other television
networks, presenting next season’s schedules to advertisers this
week, are betting that sports coverage will boost ratings and
get viewers to watch more programming live.  Fox is creating a Saturday prime-time sports block of
programming next season, while NBC will air episodes of new
dramas and comedies after Olympics coverage. CBS is airing the
Super Bowl, the most-watched television event in the U.S., as
well as a football playoff game in prime time.  The major broadcast networks are injecting sports into
their nightly lineups to draw viewers ages 18 to 49, a group
targeted by advertisers. Sporting events also tend to be watched
live. That means viewers aren’t taping them on their digital
video recorders and then fast-forwarding past the commercials.  “The stability of sports programming -- its DVR resistance
and large dedicated audience -- becomes even more powerful as
other forms of entertainment become more fractured,” said  Mike Morris , an analyst with  Davenport & Co. , an investment firm in
Richmond, Virginia.  The companies also are using sports coverage to draw
attention to new comedies and dramas that will begin airing in
September. While introducing a new scripted or reality program
after the Super Bowl or another big game is common, networks are
now giving sports a starring role throughout the season.  Upfront Meetings  Broadcast and cable networks are releasing their 2012-2013
schedules in so-called upfront meetings with advertisers,
letting them book advance commitments for the season.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s broadcast network is expected to gain $2.78
billion in commitments, the most of the major networks,
according to a May 11 report from  Spencer Wang , an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC will garner $2.35 billion in ad
commitments ahead of next season, 2 percent more than a year
earlier, while  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC will receive $1.66 billion,
Wang said. Fox, which airs two hours of prime-time programming
each night instead of three, will collect $2.03 billion, he
said.  Fox is creating a prime-time Saturday sports lineup that
includes Nascar races, Ultimate Fighting Championship bouts and
select college football games, Toby Byrne, president of Fox’s ad
sales, told marketers at a presentation on May 14 in New York.  “We are making a bold move into prime time this year, with
live sports taking over most of our Saturday nights,” Byrne
said at the presentation.  College Football  During the past five years, 90 percent of the live sports
Fox aired on Saturday nights won the time slot among viewers 18
to 49, Byrne said. The network has its pick of Saturday college
football games from Pac-12 or  Big-12  schools every week, he
said.  Fox also will air  Major League Baseball  on Saturdays,
according to Eric Shanks, co-president and chief operating
officer of Fox Sports Media Group. The network carries the
baseball playoffs and the  World Series , as well as regular
games.  “We see Saturday nights as the perfect home for quality
sports programming, especially in spring and fall,” Shanks said
in a statement. “We’ve been working hand-in-hand with our
entertainment division and partners, and we’ve put together a
solid schedule that gives us a consistent Saturday night
franchise for the first time ever.”  ‘Widest Possible Audience’  Sports also serves as a segue to other shows. NBC will air
at least two episodes of new programs during its Olympics
coverage starting July 27 to boost interest when the shows
return in September, Bob Greenblatt, chairman of NBC
Entertainment, said this week in an interview. He didn’t say
which programs the network plans to air.  “We think it’s a really smart way to introduce the widest
possible audience to our new shows,” Greenblatt said.  The network announced seven new comedies, including “Guys
With Kids” from  Jimmy Fallon , and five new dramas, including
the sci-fi thriller “Revolution” from “Lost” co-creator  J.J.
Abrams .  NBC’s schedule is designed to capitalize on the momentum
created by the “Sunday Night Football” prime-time broadcast,
the most-watched show of the past season. The network aims to
funnel those viewers into Monday and Tuesday night programs,
Greenblatt said at a presentation this week in New York.  Super Bowl Effect  CBS is poised to claim the most viewers in the 18-to-49-
year-old demographic for the first time in 20 years, boosted by
 Super Bowl  XLVII in February and a crucial prime-time  National
Football League  playoff game.  The network, the most-watched in nine of the past 10
seasons, also is adding seven National Football Conference games
starting in the 2014 season as part of a new nine-year $9.5
billion NFL broadcast pact. It’s already airing American
Football Conference games.  ABC, the only major network without NFL games, relies on
sister network ESPN to produce a Saturday college football
lineup and coverage of National Basketball Association regular
season and playoff games.  ESPN, which carries Monday Night Football, plans to help
promote ABC’s new lineup, Ed Erhardt, the sports network’s
president of marketing and advertising sales, said in an
interview. ESPN, the most-watched U.S. network dedicated to
sports, has reached an eight-year extension with the NFL that
keeps Monday Night Football on the channel through the 2021
season.  Sports also carries strategic value to networks when
they’re negotiating fees with pay-TV operators that want to
carry the broadcaster’s signal, according to Davenport’s Morris.  Cable and satellite companies may be less willing to cut
off those signals if that means losing feeds to eagerly
anticipated games. For advertisers, sports has become a bulwark
against time-shifted viewing and consistently draws younger
audiences advertisers want to reach, Morris said.  “You want to sell cars and beer -- you’re getting a great
captive audience with sports,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  