-- New World Resources Climbs in London on Surprise Profit
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-05-16T13:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/new-world-resources-climbs-in-london-on-surprise-profit-1-.html
New World Resources NV (NWR) , the largest
producer of coking coal for steelmakers in the Czech Republic,
rose in  London  after a surprise first-quarter profit on currency
gains and cost cuts.  Net income increased to 6.2 million euros ($7.9 million)
from 3.4 million euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-registered
company said in a  statement  today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts was for a 4.3 million-euro loss.  NWR boosted sales from its more profitable coking-coal
operations to 56 percent and reiterated it expects them to make
up 48 percent of production this year. The company also produces
thermal coal for power stations.  “We do see continued strong demand for coking coal,”
Chief Financial Officer Marek Jelinek said in an interview.
“The automotive industry, which is very important for us,
continues to grow rapidly in the region,” spurring steel use.  While prices of coking coal negotiated for the current
quarter declined by 8 percent from the prior three months,
Jelinek said global demand may push rates higher again.  NWR was 1.6 percent higher at 336.8 pence as of 1:49 p.m.
in London after earlier rising by as much as 5.7 percent. Its
Prague-traded shares fell 2.6 percent.  Cut Investment  The company owns four mines and two coking facilities in
the Czech Republic and sells to customers including the Czech
unit of  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker. NWR said
it will cut investment in its Debiensko mine in  Poland  to 5
million euros from the previously planned 50 million euros and
review the operation’s future after the discovery of high
volumes of water.  “We have to make sure that Debiensko still represents an
attractive investment opportunity,” Jelinek said. The review
will result in work delays of several months at the mine.  “It looks like the Debiensko project is stopped for now,”
Petr Bartek, an analyst at Erste Group Bank AG’s Czech unit,
said in a note. “It is the only growth project.”  NWR is planning to unlock 30 million metric tons of coking
coal reserves at its Karvina mine in the  Czech Republic .  Currency gains, the main driver of profit growth, advanced
68 percent, and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization slid 34 percent to 54 million euros in the quarter.  While revenue declined by 10 percent to 347 million euros,
the company confirmed its annual production and sales targets.  NWR expects to produce 10.8 million to 11 million tons of
coal and 700,000 tons of coke this year. Sales may reach 10.5
million tons of coal and 600,000 tons of coke, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  