-- New York Mets to Host 2013 MLB All-Star Game, First in 49 Years
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-16T16:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/new-york-mets-to-host-2013-mlb-all-star-game-first-in-49-years.html
The  New York  Mets will host  Major
League Baseball ’s All-Star Game for the first time in 49 years
when the 2013 event is played at Citi Field.  The Mets hosted the All-Star Game in 1964, the year they
opened Shea Stadium.  The game, set for July 16, will mark the record ninth time
the event is held in New York. Yankee Stadium was the site of
the All-Star Game in 2008, the last year that facility was used
before the  New York Yankees  moved to a new venue across the
street.  “This is really a very happy day,” Baseball Commissioner
Bud Selig said at a news conference. “The citizens of this
great city and state will enjoy this event immensely.”  Selig was joined by Mets owner  Fred Wilpon  and New York
City Mayor Michael Bloomberg in making the official announcement
today at City Hall in Manhattan.  “Major League Baseball clearly recognizes that there’s no
stage like New York,” said Bloomberg, who added that the event
will have an economic impact of $191 million on the city.  The Mets opened Citi Field in 2009 and Major League
Baseball had already determined it would hold the All-Star Game
at the ballpark, yet didn’t make an announcement until reaching
agreements with city agencies on services and event logistics,
the  Associated Press  said yesterday.  Selig said the Mets’ legal involvement in Bernard Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme had no effect on the decision. Wilpon and Mets co-
owner Saul Katz agreed in March to pay $162 million to settle
Madoff trustee  Irving Picard ’s $1 billion lawsuit over whether
the Mets’ owners and others blinded themselves to the Madoff
fraud because it benefited their businesses financially.  ‘No Trepidation’  “I was very confident they’d work things out and they
have,” Selig said. “I had no trepidation at all.”  This year’s game is scheduled for July 10 at Kauffman
Stadium in  Kansas City , Missouri, with the winning league
gaining home field advantage in this year’s  World Series .  The National League has won the past two All-Star Games
after ending a 13-year winless streak and holds a 42-38-2 edge
in the series.  The last time the Mets hosted the game, the NL won 7-4 by
scoring four runs in the bottom of the ninth inning. Willie Mays
scored the tying run and Johnny Callison hit a three-run home
run to end the game.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  