-- Nissan Boosts U.S. Altima Capacity to Challenge Toyota
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-05-16T18:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/nissan-boosts-u-s-altima-capacity-to-challenge-toyota.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  said it plans to run
three daily assembly shifts at U.S. plants building a revamped
Altima, as the company tries to challenge  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
Camry, the top-selling U.S. passenger car.  Production of the 2013 Altima began yesterday at Nissan’s
Smyrna, Tennessee, plant and the car goes on sale late next
month. The Yokohama, Japan-based company’s sedan outsold Honda
Motor Co.’s Accord in 2011 and takes aim at Camry this year,
said  Bill Krueger , Nissan’s vice chairman of the Americas.  “We didn’t put all the investment into this product, put
in all the features, with an expectation to be No. 2,” Krueger
told reporters yesterday at the Smyrna plant. “Ultimately, the
consumer is going to vote with their purchase whether or not we
sell more than anyone else.”  Competition among midsize sedans is fierce this year with
the Altima coming on the heels of  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s new
Chevrolet Malibu, and followed by Honda’s revamped Accord and
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s restyled Fusion. Camry, redesigned in 2011,
remains the segment’s volume leader, with sales of  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380) ’s Sonata and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s new Passat sedan rising.  Combined sales of those models and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ’s fast-
selling Optima sedan grew 24 percent this year through April to
674,108, more than double the 10 percent industrywide increase
for all cars and light trucks sold in the U.S., according to
Autodata Corp. Through April, Camry led Altima, the second-best
selling car, by 29,626.  Record Sales  The best year of U.S. Altima sales was 2007 when Nissan
sold 284,762. The Camry also peaked that year at 473,108. Toyota
has said it wants to sell to at least 360,000 this year.  The midsize sedan segment is growing and the combination of
a new Altima and higher production volume will boost sales of
the model, said Alan Baum, principal of auto-industry forecaster
Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,  Michigan .  “Can they grow volume? Yes,” Baum said. “Can they be the
leader in the segment? I don’t think so. Last year they did very
well, but they also benefited from the limited supply of Camrys
and Accords.”  Natural disasters in  Japan  and Thailand last year led to
parts shortages that reduced North American Camry and Accord
production. Those models, typically the volume leaders in
midsize sedans, “are too important for both companies and
they’ll fight to keep them at the top,” Baum said.  Retaining the title of top-selling U.S. car “isn’t a
stated goal,” said Greg Thome, a Toyota spokesman.  “It’s something that’s been so consistent over the years
that it’s something we value,” Thome said. “We know that when
you’re No. 1, everyone is targeting you.”  Rising Capacity  Nissan can build more than 300,000 Altimas a year at
Smyrna, and at its Canton, Mississippi, plant, Krueger said.
Capacity will grow as a result of running three shifts at both
facilities, and may rise to 400,000 units by next year should
U.S. demand for Altimas reach that level, he said.  “We’d figure out a way to do that,” Krueger said in an
interview. He declined to give a specific sales or production
volume target for the new model.  Toyota,  Asia ’s largest automaker, already has capacity to
produce 450,000 Camrys annually at its Georgetown, Kentucky,
plant and at  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) ’s Subaru factory in
Lafayette, Indiana, that builds the model under contract for
Toyota. The two lines “can do more with overtime,”  Mike Goss ,
a spokesman for Toyota’s production unit, said by e-mail,
without elaborating.  The 2013 Altima has a $21,500 base price that’s $200 lower
than that of the current entry-level car. Altima’s 2.5-liter,
182-horsepower engine gets 38 miles (61 kilometers) per gallon
in highway driving, the best in the segment, and 31 mpg in
combined city and highway driving, the company said.  Smartphone connectivity and Bluetooth audio functions are
standard on all versions of the Altima, the company said. The
top-end Altima, with a 270-hp, V-6 engine, will cost $30,080,
Nissan said.  The company’s North American unit is based in Franklin,
 Tennessee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Smyrna, Tennessee, at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  