-- Nomura Said to Plan Ashikaga Bank Sale in IPO This Year
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-05-16T08:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/nomura-said-to-plan-ashikaga-bank-sale-in-ipo-this-year-1-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s largest
brokerage, plans to sell shares of regional bank  Ashikaga
Holdings Co.  in an initial public offering as early as this
year, two people familiar with the deal said.  Ashikaga may begin trading on the  Tokyo Stock Exchange  as
early as December with a market value of 200 billion yen ($2.5
billion) to 300 billion yen, said the people, declining to be
identified as the information is private. Nomura, which owns 46
percent of the Tochigi-based lender, hasn’t decided how much it
will seek to raise, they said.  The IPO would mark Nomura’s second attempt to divest its
stake in the bank after postponing an IPO in 2010, when the
 European debt crisis  roiled markets worldwide. Nomura is
accelerating sales of private-equity investments to boost profit
as  Europe ’s woes continue to hamper earnings growth.  “We are preparing for an IPO, watching the market
circumstances and aiming to list the shares at an early stage,”
said Ikumasa Kobayashi, a spokesman at Ashikaga. He declined to
comment on the timing and size of the transaction. Keiko Sugai,
a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Nomura, declined to comment.  Ashikaga hired Nomura as the lead manager of the IPO and
may sell new shares in addition to existing stock, the people
said. The regional bank may delay the listing until next year,
depending on market conditions, they said.  Nomura shares fell 1.5 percent to 269 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of Tokyo trading. They have climbed 15 percent this year.  IPO Recovery  Funds raised in Japanese IPOs this year have more than
doubled to 32.7 billion yen from a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 19
percent in the first three months this year and has declined 13
percent since then.  Japan Airlines Co. is planning an initial share sale of as
much as 1 trillion yen as early as September, people familiar
with the situation said in January, marking a revival in Japan’s
IPO market, which has only had one offering greater than 1
trillion yen since 1998.  Seibu Holdings Inc., the Japanese rail and hotel operator
part-owned by Cerberus Capital Management LP, has hired five
banks, including Nomura, for a proposed IPO, a person with
knowledge of the matter said this week.  Nomura purchased its Ashikaga stake for 61 billion yen in
2008, when the lender was under government administration,
according to Ashikaga’s regulatory filings. Nomura has also
invested about 59 billion yen in preferred shares and debt.  Private-Equity Sales  The investment bank’s private-equity business posted a 30
percent gain in the year ended March 31 as  net income  fell 60
percent to 11.6 billion yen.  “The deal would help Nomura’s earnings, adding fees for
the underwriting and retail sale in addition to booking  capital
gains ,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “Reducing risky assets is also meaningful,
giving them more freedom to manage their balance sheet.”  Recent Nomura divestitures include the sale of Japanese
family restaurant chain Skylark Co. to Bain Capital LLC for 128
billion yen in October and Tsubaki Nakashima Co., bearing and
machine tool maker, to Carlyle Group LP in March 2011. Nomura’s
private equity-related investments totaled 221.3 billion yen at
the end of March, according to earnings presentation material
released last month.  Ashikaga’s  net income  rose 7.4 percent to 17.2 billion yen
for the year ended March 31, the lender said on May 11. It
boosted deposits by 4 percent and lending by 5 percent in the
fiscal year. The bank, based in Tochigi prefecture about 70
miles (113 kilometers) north of Japan’s capital, filed for
bankruptcy in 2003 and was delisted from the Tokyo Stock
Exchange the following year.  The bank employs 2,800 people and has 150 branches. It had
deposits of about 4.7 trillion yen as of March 31 and had 41
percent of the lending market in its home prefecture in 2011.
 Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and  Canon Inc. (7751)  have factories
in Tochigi, which has a population of about 2 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  