-- Noonan Says Ireland Alone Can Pass EU Treaty in Region
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-05-16T12:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/noonan-says-ireland-alone-can-pass-eu-treaty-in-region.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
said he’s confident voters will back the European fiscal pact
and that the country is the only euro-area member that could
secure public support for such a referendum.  “I am confident that we will win, but not complacent;
we’ll keep campaigning till the end,” Noonan said at  Bloomberg
Link ’s Ireland Economic Summit in Dublin today. “There isn’t a
country of the 17 euro countries at present who could carry this
in a referendum, there isn’t a single country bar Ireland. If we
can carry this that will send a signal out to  Europe .”  Ireland, which is three-quarters of the way through 33.4
billion euros ($42 billion) of budget cuts, is holding the
referendum to enshrine planned European fiscal rules in national
law. Noonan said a rejection of the referendum would force
Ireland to enter “a new kind of an arrangement” rather than be
a full member of the currency union and that’s “always a
precarious position to be in.”  Support among Irish voters for the fiscal pact increased
to 63 percent from 58 percent at the end of April, the Sunday
Business Post reported on May 13, citing a poll carried out by
Dublin-based market research company Red C. The referendum is
due to be held on May 31.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny , speaking at the same event, said
Ireland aims to return to markets next year as planned, and will
stick to the terms of its 67.5 billion-euro bailout program
agreed in 2010.  ‘Very Difficult’  The yield on Ireland’s 2020 bonds, regarded as the
benchmark, has fallen by more than half from a euro-era record
of 15.5 percent in July. While Noonan said backing the treaty
would further boost investor confidence in Ireland,  Greece ’s
situation remains “very difficult.”  “There’s no pressure on them to leave,” he said. “If
Greece sorts itself out democratically, there’s no question
whatsoever of Greece leaving the euro.”  Still, the  European Central Bank  and the European
Commission are planning for “all eventualities,” according to
Noonan. Ireland has received assurances during the crisis from
European authorities that it will be supported if there is
further contagion from Greece, he said.  Greece will hold new elections that may threaten spending
cuts required to secure 240 billion euros in bailouts. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande 
have both said they would consider measures to spur
Greece’seconomy as long as voters commit to austerity.  Crisis Plans  Noonan also said he would like to see a “stronger
relationship” between the euro area’s future permanent rescue
fund and the ECB in solving the crisis in the region.  The Irish economy, which has contracted about 15 percent
since a real-estate collapse in 2008, is in a much better
position than it was this time last year, Noonan said.  The finance minister also said it’s difficult to predict if
Ireland will get a deal on it banking debt. Alternatives exist
to a re-engineering of the promissory notes used to bail out the
former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. if the ECB doesn’t agree to an
accord, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  