-- Norway Krone Near Four-Month Low Against Dollar: Oslo Mover
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-05-16T11:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/norway-krone-near-four-month-low-against-dollar-oslo-mover.html
Norway’s krone held near a four-month
low against the dollar as investors sought refuge in more liquid
currencies after political turmoil in  Greece  reignited concerns
the country may leave the currency bloc.  Greece’s future in the euro was thrown into doubt by the
political standoff following inconclusive May 6 elections,
forcing President Karolos Papoulias to call for new elections
yesterday. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the
next vote will be a referendum on whether Greece exits the euro.  “Krone weakness is related to global events and the
unprecedented uncertainties as regards whether Greece will stay
in the euro,”  Carl Hammer , chief foreign-exchange strategist at
SEB AB in  Stockholm , said in reply to emailed questions. “Small
and illiquid currencies will always suffer in the current
environment.”  The currency hit a four-month low against the dollar
earlier today before paring losses. It was little changed at
6.004 per dollar and strengthened 0.1 percent to 7.6272 per
euro, after reaching almost a three-month low earlier.  The krone hit a nine-year high against the single European
currency in March as investors sought refuge from the European
debt crisis. Krone gains prompted an unexpected  interest rate 
cut in March and a warning from Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen that increased  risk aversion  may lead to a krone squeeze.  The political standoff in Greece has rekindled concern the
country will renege on pledges to cut spending as required by
the terms of its two bailouts worth 240 billion euros negotiated
since May 2010, and, ultimately, leave the 17-nation euro area.  “As long as contagion risks from a potential Greek exit
dominate the  market sentiment , the krone will remain under
pressure,” said Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen, chief currency
strategist at Swedbank First Securities ASA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  