-- NYSE Removed From Bidding for London Metal Exchange
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-05-16T02:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/nyse-removed-from-bidding-for-london-metal-exchange.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  was removed from the
list of buyers of the London Metal Exchange, the largest metals
market.  NYSE Euronext, the biggest U.S. exchange owner, was
notified of the decision, James Dunseath, an exchange spokesman
in London, said yesterday. “We put in a proposal that we
thought offered a fair value. We wish the LME well.”  The LME, which handles more than 80 percent of industrial
metals futures, received multiple proposals by the May 7
deadline for a takeover, the bourse said May 8. NYSE Euronext,
CME Group Inc., Intercontinental Exchange Inc. and Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. made offers for the 135-year old
exchange, said seven people who declined to be identified.  “The LME potential deal looks like a fairly complex
undertaking and there are other companies that people think were
more likely candidates,” said Alex Kramm, an analyst at UBS AG
in New York. NYSE Euronext wasn’t necessarily a “frontrunner,”
he said by phone yesterday.  Allan Schoenberg , a spokesman for CME in London, and Claire Miller, a spokeswoman at ICE in London, declined to comment
whether the exchanges were still in the running for the LME.
 Chris Evans , a spokesman for the LME, declined to comment.  The LME handled a record $15.4 trillion of contracts in
copper and other industrial metals last year, compared with $2.5
trillion in 1999. Metals prices rallied in the past decade as
demand from China, the world’s biggest consumer, overwhelmed
supplies from mines, attracting a surge of interest from
investors. The exchange operates London’s last open-outcry
transactions through a 6-meter-wide (20-foot) ring in which
traders from 12 entitled companies shout out orders. It also
transacts metals by phone and electronically.  LME Floor  NYSE Euronext, based in  New York , was prepared to maintain
open-outcry trading should it acquire the bourse. The LME would
have helped NYSE Euronext expand in  Asia . Both exchanges are
regulated by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, with NYSE
Euronext’s London office at the former trading floor of its
Liffe division. Liffe and LME also operate a network of
warehouses and are investing in clearing to claw back business
from LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  NYSE Euronext owns Liffe,  Europe ’s second-largest
derivatives exchange, which trades commodities including coffee,
cocoa, sugar and wheat. It operates the New York Stock Exchange,
NYSE Arca and the NYSE Amex options markets, as well as equity
markets in Paris, Lisbon, Brussels, and Amsterdam, and Liffe in
London and Paris.  Hong Kong  Exchanges is Asia’s largest bourse,
CME is the world’s largest futures exchange and ICE operates the
second-largest U.S. futures market.  Deadline Passed  The deadline for the latest round of offers for the bourse
was May 7. Selected bidders already have been granted access to
some information and made presentations to exchange officials,
two people, who declined to be identified, said last week.  The LME may be valued at about $1.3 billion, Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Equity Research Desk, an adviser to hedge
funds, said today, keeping its February estimate.  “The LME can fetch a higher price depending on how much
Hong Kong is prepared to pay,” said  Diego Perfumo , an analyst
at Equity Research Desk, by phone yesterday. “The LME is an
attractive asset for  China , which is a big consumer of metals.
They will be able to influence the price discovery of those
commodities through LME’s market structure rules.”  The LME is owned by 70 of its 94 members, including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., JP Morgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. Any
bid will have to be approved by more than 50 percent of
shareholders, with the owners of at least 75 percent of shares
backing the move.  Plans on Hold  Exchanges around the globe appear to be putting on hold
plans to combine, NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer , whose deal with Deutsche Boerse AG failed this year,
said in an interview with CNBC. “I still think ultimately the
destiny for this industry is to have fewer globally integrated
exchanges,” he told CNBC on May 14. “That all appears to be on
hold for the time being.”  Hong Kong Exchanges is confident about its chances of
acquiring the LME, the  South China Morning Post  reported May 8,
citing an interview with Charles Li, chief executive officer.
China accounts for about 40 percent of global copper demand,
according to Barclays Plc. The LME opened its first Asian office
in Singapore in 2010 and started trading reduced-sized metals
contracts last year in partnership with Singapore Exchange Ltd.  Scott Sapp, a spokesman for Hong Kong Exchanges, declined
to comment on NYSE Euronext’s removal from bidding for the LME.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  