-- Loan-Guarantee Winners Back Loans as Republicans Complain
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-05-16T17:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/loan-guarantee-winners-back-loans-as-republicans-complain.html
Executives from four renewable-energy
companies defended a U.S. Energy Department loan-guarantee
program that House Republicans said showed failures in President
 Barack Obama ’s job-creating efforts.  John Woolard, chief executive officer of  BrightSource
Energy Inc. (BRSE) , told lawmakers today that a $1.6 billion guarantee
for a solar-generating facility in  California  will create 1,400
construction jobs at its peak. Without the backing, the company
probably would have invested more overseas, he said.  Executives said the program encouraged investment, and that
the projects were awarded after rigorous U.S. review.  Republicans led by Representative  Jim Jordan  of Ohio,
chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee
stimulus oversight panel, said government shouldn’t pick “who
wins and who loses.”  The program “wasted vast sums of money,” Jordan said
today at a committee hearing.  The Obama administration’s energy programs are being
investigated by  House Republicans , who have focused on the
collapse of Solyndra LLC about two years after winning a $535
million loan guarantee. Jordan’s panel has expanded the probe.  At today’s hearing, Republicans said e-mails from
BrightSource in 2011 showed a cozy relationship with the White
House, and suggested politics was behind the awards. In one e-
mail, Woolard asked  Jonathan Silver , then director of the loan
program, to proofread a letter BrightSource Chairman  John Bryson 
planned to send Bill Daley, White House chief of staff, asking
for help with the Energy Department loan. Bryson is now Commerce
secretary and Daley has left the White House.  ‘Not Appropriate’  Woolard said BrightSource “decided that it was not
appropriate” to write Daley. In April, the department completed
BrightSource’s loan guarantee, more than a year after it gave
the company a conditional commitment.  Woolard said the company won its loan on the merits.  A Jan. 4, 2010, e-mail Woolard sent  Matt Rogers , then
senior adviser on the loan program, reported that Peter Darbee,
then CEO at  PG&E Corp. (PCG) , had “talked directly to Obama about the
program’s challenges.”  Woolard said he was referring to the time required for the
Energy Department to review the loan applications, as Darbee
tried to meet California state renewable-production mandates.  Executives from Abound Solar Inc.,  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and
 Nevada Geothermal Power Inc. (NGLPF)  testified in support of the loan
guarantees and said their awards were based on the merits of
their applications.  Layoffs, Restructuring  Some companies have struggled. First Solar, the world’s
largest maker of thin-film solar panels, fell to a record low in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading May 4 after reporting $401 million
in restructuring costs tied to firing 30 percent of its
workforce.  Abound, which won a $400 million loan guarantee, fired 180
employees in February. The company has drawn down about $70
million of its loan, CEO Craig Witsoe said.  Democrats said the loan program was helping U.S. companies
compete in a global clean-energy market. Representative Dennis Kucinich, an  Ohio  Democrat, said losses in the program so far
are less than expected by Congress.  “I’m left wondering why my Republican colleagues have
devoted four hearings, including today’s, to criticize renewable
energy companies which have received federal support as Congress
intended, in a well-managed program that has returned better
results than Congress even anticipated?” he said.  Gregory Kats, president of Capital-E, a Washington-based
investment firm, said the Department of Energy program helps
U.S. companies compete with rivals from nations that spend more
to support clean energy.  “The largest risk is the DOE slows its loan guarantee
program,” he said. He said the hearing served to undermine
companies Congress should be trying to support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  