-- Obama Said to Approve Order to Boost Yemeni Political Transition
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-05-16T03:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/obama-said-to-approve-order-to-boost-yemeni-political-transition.html
President  Barack Obama  will sign an
executive order authorizing the Treasury Department to freeze
U.S. assets of people and entities working against a political
transition in Yemen, according to a White House official.  The order to be signed today will give the Treasury
Department, in consultation with the State Department, authority
to take action against those deemed by the U.S. to pose a threat
to Yemen’s security, stability or peace, said the official, who
spoke on condition of anonymity before the announcement. The
official declined to release the text of the order last night.  The Obama administration’s move is aimed at promoting an
orderly transition in the Mideast nation. Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi
was elected president of the Arab world’s poorest country in
February after Ali Abdullah Saleh agreed in November to
relinquish power under a Gulf-brokered peace plan after more
than 33 years in office.  The Obama administration’s order comes as the U.S. seeks
ways to combat terrorist activity in Yemen. White House
counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan  visited on May 13 to
discuss “extremist groups” and U.S. assistance with Yemeni
officials, according to a statement from the U.S. Embassy in
Sana’a.  The  Washington  Post reported the order last night.  Brennan’s visit followed the disruption of a conspiracy by
Yemen-based al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula to build a
potentially undetectable bomb in the month before the
anniversary of Osama bin Laden’s death.  Weakened Force  The plot was halted by an “international sting operation”
in which Saudi Arabia’s intelligence agency, working closely
with the CIA, used an informant to pose as a willing suicide
bomber, according to the Los Angeles Times.  Brennan has called al-Qaeda a weakened force and said that
the U.S. must keep tabs on al-Qaeda’s most active branch in the
Yemen area.  Yemen, bordering  Saudi Arabia  and Oman at the southern tip
of the Arabian Peninsula, is struggling to recover from protests
that have weakened the central government’s authority and
reduced oil production to about half of its 250,000-barrel-a-day
capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  