-- OCC’s Curry Cites Banks’ Operational Risk After JPMorgan’s Loss
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-16T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/occ-s-curry-cites-banks-operational-risk-after-jpmorgan-s-loss.html
U.S. Comptroller of the Currency
 Thomas Curry , whose agency is the main regulator for  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s North American bank, said that operational risks
are eclipsing credit risk as the regulator’s chief concern.  Without naming JPMorgan specifically, Curry said that
operational risk -- the risk of loss from failures by people and
bank processes -- is “high and increasing” and made worse when
bank procedures are most complex.  “Some of our most seasoned supervisors, people with 30 or
more years of experience in some cases, tell me that this is the
first time they have seen operational risk eclipse credit risk
as a safety and soundness challenge,” Curry said in remarks
prepared for delivery today before the Exchequer Club of
 Washington . “Rising operational risk concerns them, it concerns
me, and it should concern you.”  Curry said the OCC, which regulates U.S. national banks,
has seen faulty management of the “interrelationship of risks
in different markets on the value of the institution’s assets”
and that the agency has too often seen “conspicuous and
expensive examples of the toll that one form of operational risk
-- flawed risk models -- can take.”  This speech, a week after JPMorgan’s Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the bank made “egregious” mistakes
and had so far lost about $2 billion tied to synthetic credit
securities, is the first scheduled by Curry since being
confirmed by the Senate last month to become Comptroller of the
Currency.  ‘Breakdown of Control’  Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman, said yesterday that the
agency does not “approve specific models” or trades at the
banks it oversees, including JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. He said
the agency focuses on “risk management policies, processes,
procedures, limits and controls” and in the case of JPMorgan
are looking to see whether a “breakdown of control” caused the
bank’s activities to swing far from expectations.  “The primary bank regulators are at fault here for not
anticipating this better and short-circuiting the risk-taking
better, and they have to own up to that responsibility and be
accountable,” said  David Hendler , an analyst at CreditSights
Inc., a New York-based research firm.  In his speech, Curry also cited third-party relationships
and anti-money laundering compliance as frequent points of
operational risk at banks.  “All institutions, regardless of size, must resist the
temptation to under-invest in the systems and controls they need
to prevent greater risk and larger losses in the future,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 