-- Oil Drops to Six-Month Low on Rising Stockpiles, Greek Crisis
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-16T12:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/oil-drops-to-six-month-low-on-rising-stockpiles-greek-crisis.html
Oil dropped in  New York  to the lowest
level in more than six months after U.S. crude stockpiles grew
and talks to form a coalition government in Greece collapsed,
raising concern that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  West Texas Intermediate futures slid as much as 2.3
percent, declining for a fourth day. U.S. inventories rose  6.6
million barrels  last week, data from the  American Petroleum
Institute  indicated. A government report today may show a gain
of 1.8 million, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Greece
will schedule new elections as early as June 10, which German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said will be a referendum on
whether the country stays in the euro.  “We have demand destruction at the same time that supply
risks are being relieved,” said Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu, chief
investment officer at Archbridge Capital in Zug,  Switzerland ,
who predicts that commodities will recover in the second half of
the year. “What took the market by surprise is how quickly the
European economic situation deteriorated. If Greece leaves, it
sets a precedent, and the consequences for Europe would be
catastrophic.”  Crude for June delivery dropped as much as $2.17 to $91.81
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest intraday price since Nov. 3. It was at
$92.72 at 12:41 p.m. London time. Yesterday, the contract fell
0.8 percent to $93.98. Prices are 6.7 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for June settlement, which expires today, slipped
0.6 percent to $111.56 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The more-actively traded July future retreated
0.9 percent to $110.49. The front-month price for the European
benchmark contract was at a  premium  to WTI of $18.76, after
closing at $18.26 yesterday, the widest gap since April 13.  Cushing Record  Oil in New York has long-term technical support at $89.83 a
barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly
chart, that’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the fall
to $32.40 in December 2008 from a record high of $147.27 in July
that year. Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support
levels. Futures last traded at that price in November 2011.  Crude inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for contracts traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , rose
2.8 million barrels last week to a record 46.9 million barrels,
according to the industry-funded API.  “Demand destruction is back on the agenda,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-
markets newsletter in Sydney. “The market is going to remain
weak over the next month or so until we get some clarity of
what’s happening in the world. The Greek turmoil is a problem.”  Seaway Reversal  The reversal of the Seaway pipeline tomorrow to move crude
away from the storage hub at Cushing for the first time may do
little to ease the glut that has kept WTI below Brent for an
unprecedented 21 months, according to Citigroup Inc. and
Barclays Plc.  The line’s capacity of 150,000 barrels a day won’t make
much difference to stockpiles amid “really heavy” refinery
maintenance, said Amrita Sen, a London-based analyst at
Barclays. Supplies will rise as production surges,  Ed Morse ,
global head of commodities research at Citigroup in New York,
said in an April 16 note.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles dropped 2.6 million barrels last
week, the API said. They are forecast to fall  100,000 barrels  in
today’s Energy Department report, according to the median
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Distillate
inventories, a category that includes diesel and heating oil,
slid 1.6 million barrels compared with a projected 150,000
barrel gain.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Greek Crisis  Post-election attempts to form a government in  Greece  broke
down yesterday after nine days as President Karolos Papoulias
failed to broker a coalition in meetings with party leaders in
 Athens . New elections may be held next month. Four surveys have
given the lead to the anti-bailout Syriza party that says it
would tear up the conditions attached to 240 billion euros ($306
billion) of aid.  The euro weakened to an almost four-month low, making
dollar-denominated oil more expensive for holders of the
European single currency.  Shell’s Voser  New York crude has dropped 17 percent since March 1, when
concern that Western sanctions against  Iran  would disrupt Middle
East supplies helped drive prices to $110.55 a barrel, the high
for the year. Brent has fallen 14 percent since reaching $128.40
the same day.  Iran and  International Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors
extended a round of negotiations over the Persian Gulf nation’s
nuclear program after two days of talks ended in Vienna
yesterday with both sides saying progress had been made. IAEA
inspectors will meet again with their Iranian counterparts on
May 21 in the Austrian capital.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser 
said he expects weaker  oil prices  in the second half of the year
as demand growth slows in  China  and other  emerging markets .  Prices in the first half had been elevated because of
tensions between Iran and  Israel , Voser said in a television
interview in Rotterdam today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  