-- Oil Rises From Six-Month Low; Price Declines Exaggerated
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-05-17T07:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/oil-trades-near-six-month-low-on-stockpiles-strategic-reserves.html
Oil rose from the lowest settlement
in six months in New York after economic data in  Japan  beat
estimates and technical indicators signaled declines in crude
prices may be exaggerated.  West Texas Intermediate advanced as much as 1 percent,
climbing for the first time in five days. Futures, down 11
percent this month on concern Europe’s debt crisis will curb
fuel demand, rebounded after falling to technical support
levels. Japan’s economy expanded an annualized 4.1 percent in
the first quarter. Oil also gained as  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  were scheduled to reverse flows
on the Seaway pipeline, pumping crude south from Cushing,
 Oklahoma , to the  Gulf Coast .  “There looks to be a bit of consolidation,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.
“Prices have declined steeply.  Europe  is seen as a source of
risk and we could have several months of this situation hanging
over the market’s head.”  Crude for June delivery rose as much as 91 cents to $93.72
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $93.25 at 3:04 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday fell 1.2 percent to $92.81, the lowest close
since Nov. 2. Prices are down 5.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement dropped 39 cents to $109.36 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The June
contract expired yesterday, falling 53 cents to $111.71. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium to West Texas
Intermediate of $15.75.  Technical Indicators  Oil advanced in  New York  after reaching technical support
at $92.75 a barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On
the daily chart, that’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of
the rise from October’s intraday low of $74.95 to the March high
of $110.55 and is where futures reversed a decline in December.  Crude’s 14-day relative strength index has been below 30
for the past week, signaling prices have fallen too quickly and
further losses may not be sustainable. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  Japan’s economic growth last quarter compared with a median
estimate of 3.5 percent by 27 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Singapore’s non-oil domestic exports increased 8.3
percent in April, compared with a median estimate of 5.9 percent
in a separate survey.  Oil has fallen this week as  Greece  failed to agree on a
coalition government following May 6 elections, raising concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen and derail the global
economic recovery. The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it
will temporarily stop lending to some Greek banks to limit its
risk. The country announced a caretaker administration and will
probably hold new elections next month.  Seaway Reversal  Prices dropped yesterday after U.S. stockpiles rose to the
highest level since 1990 and a report signaled the nation may
release emergency supplies. Crude inventories climbed  2.1
million barrels  last week to 381.6 million, figures from the
Energy Department showed.  The U.S. has called on other Group of Eight nations to
prepare to release strategic oil reserves because of the full
implementation of the European Union’s ban on imports from  Iran 
starting July, the Kyodo news service reported, citing
unidentified officials familiar with Japan-U.S. ties.  Enbridge and Enterprise are expected to reverse the Seaway
pipeline today, according to a filing with federal regulators. A
rise in Canadian and Midwest U.S. oil production, and limited
transportation out of the Cushing storage hub, have created a
supply glut.  Mainline Capacity  “Oil inventories being built up in the Midwest, with
nowhere to go, will start to be relieved because of the
pipeline,”  Victor Shum , managing director at consultant Purvin
and Gertz Inc. in  Singapore . “The recent moderation in  oil
prices  may be temporary, global oil demand is likely to
strengthen in the summer.”  Enbridge, the biggest carrier of Canadian oil to the U.S.,
said yesterday it will spend about $3 billion to boost the
capacity of its mainline system and give western producers
access to refiners in the Midwest and Quebec.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  