-- Oil Drops to Six-Month Low on Supply, Greece
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-05-16T19:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/oil-at-six-month-low-on-rising-stockpiles-greek-crisis.html
Oil fell to the lowest level in more
than six months as U.S. supplies grew to the most since 1990 and
talks to form a coalition government in  Greece  collapsed,
raising concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  Prices declined for a fourth day as the Energy Department
reported oil inventories climbed 2.13 million barrels last week
to 381.6 million. Greece will probably schedule new elections
next month. Oil was also lower after  Kyodo News  reported the
U.S. government called on other Group of Eight countries to
prepare to release strategic oil reserves.  “We are still not out of the woods yet,” said  Tom Bentz ,
a director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York.
“The focus is still on Europe. All the markets are going to be
dependent on how things go there.”  Crude oil for June delivery fell $1.17, or 1.2 percent, to
$92.81 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Nov. 2. Prices have fallen 15 percent since
closing at the 2012 high of $109.77 a barrel on Feb. 24.  Brent oil for June settlement slipped 53 cents, or 0.5
percent, to expire at $111.71 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The more-actively traded July futures
retreated $1.70, or 1.5 percent, to $109.75.  U.S. oil supplies were forecast to rise 1.75 million
barrels last week, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
Nymex futures, gained 2.3 percent to 45.1 million barrels, the
highest level on record, the Energy Department reported.  Market ‘Oversupplied’  “The crude market is oversupplied, and I am going to
sell,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh Trading
Group in  New York . “There is no reason to get excited.”  Total U.S. petroleum demand was little changed in the four
weeks ended May 11. Consumption averaged 18.7 million barrels a
day, up 0.2 percent from the previous week, according to the
Energy Department.  The reversal of the Seaway pipeline tomorrow to move crude
away from the storage hub at Cushing for the first time may do
little to ease the glut that has kept West Texas Intermediate
oil below Brent for an unprecedented 21 months, according to
Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc.  Brent’s premium to New York futures widened by 64 cents to
$18.90 a barrel, the widest spread since April 13 based on
settlement prices for the two contracts closest to expiration.  Seaway Pipeline  The line’s capacity of 150,000 barrels a day won’t make
much difference to stockpiles amid “really heavy” refinery
maintenance, said Amrita Sen, a London-based analyst at
Barclays. Supplies will rise as production surges,  Ed Morse ,
global head of commodities research at Citigroup in New York,
said in an April 16 note.  “There’s plenty of oil everywhere,” said  Sarah Emerson ,
managing director of Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts . “The market is very well supplied.”  Prices also dropped on concern Greece may leave the  euro
zone . A Greek caretaker government will prepare new elections,
probably on July 17, after President Karolos Papoulias was
unable to broker the creation of a governing coalition in
meetings with other political leaders, Fotis Kouvelis, head of
the Democratic Left party, said.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the new
elections will be a referendum on whether Greece stays in the
euro.  Greek Election  “Europe is really dictating trading,” said Tom Essaye,
president of Kinsale Trading in  Palm Beach ,  Florida .  The European Union will ban crude imports from  Iran 
starting in July, prompting the U.S. government to call on other
G-8 members to prepare for a release of emergency stockpiles,
according to Kyodo, which cited unidentified officials familiar
with Japan-U.S. ties. Iran is OPEC’s second-largest oil
producer.  The EU reached an agreement in January to implement the oil
embargo against Iran starting July 1 to pressure the country
over its nuclear program.  Prices briefly rose after the Energy Department report,
which also showed  gasoline inventories  decreased 2.8 million
barrels to 204.3 million.  Distillate supplies , which include
heating oil and diesel, decreased 969,000 barrels to 119.8
million.  “There is a big build in crude inventories but on the
bullish side are the product numbers,” Essaye said. “The
inventory numbers were generally neutral.”  Prices pared losses after minutes of the last meeting of
Federal Reserve policy makers showed several said a loss of
momentum in growth or increased risks to their economic outlook
could warrant additional action to keep the recovery on track.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 587,819
contracts as of 3:11 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 596,463
contracts yesterday, 0.6 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.54 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  