-- Hollande Names Pierre Moscovici as French Finance Minister
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-16T18:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/hollande-names-pierre-moscovici-new-french-finance-minister.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
named  Pierre Moscovici , a former European Affairs minister and a
self-proclaimed social democrat, his finance minister.  Moscovici, 54, will be part of Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault’s government, and will succeed Nicolas Sarkozy’s Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin .  “The government is renewed, it’s the change the French
wanted,” Ayrault said today on France 2 television. “The men
and women with me have all exercised responsibility.”  The new appointee arrives at the  finance ministry  as euro-
area governments struggle to contain fresh speculation that
 Greece  may abandon the single currency, threatening  Europe ’s
economy. The euro has fallen for 12 of the past 13 days as Greek
politicians failed to form a coalition government and opted for
fresh elections after an inconclusive May 6 vote.  In his new job, Moscovici will be charged with convincing
other European governments to back Hollande’s strategy of
shifting the region’s focus to growth from austerity at a time
when  France ’s own growth has stalled. The region’s second-
largest economy posted no growth in the first quarter, national
statistics office Insee said yesterday.  Hollande also named Michel Sapin Labor Minister, Laurent Fabius Foreign Minister and Manuel Valls Interior Minister.
Jerome Cahuzac will run the budget ministry. For the first time,
the French government will have an equal number of men and women
in its cabinet, Ayrault said.  Communist Sympathizers  Moscovici is the son of two renowned psychologists, both
Communist sympathizers. His father was born in  Romania  and took
refuge in France in 1947 after he supported the Communist Party.  The young Moscovici started in politics as a supporter of
the Communist Revolutionary League and left it in his late
twenties for the Socialist Party, where he steadily rose to
become one of its leaders and a specialist of European affairs.  Moscovici, like Hollande, studied at France’s elite
Institute for Political Sciences and Ecole Nationale
d’Administration in Paris. After working for the Socialist Party
for several years, he ran for deputy in 1997 in the eastern
Doubs region.  Shortly after winning the seat, he was appointed European
Affairs Minister by former Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, the
last Socialist in power before Hollande. Moscovici held that
position for five years.  Moscovici has twice won a seat at the European Parliament,
where he joined the foreign affairs commission and the
delegation for relations with the U.S.  ‘Serious Left’  Moscovici, who speaks English, co-heads the lobby group
Cercle de l’Industrie that defends French industry in Europe.  In 2003, Moscovici joined  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  and they
founded a social-democratic movement called “A Gauche en
Europe,” or leftwing in Europe, a pro-market group.  When Strauss-Kahn left for the IMF in 2007, Moscovici took
charge of the Socialist Party’s social-democrat wing. He
remained one of Strauss-Kahn’s biggest supporters until his
arrest in New-York in May last year. He later backed Hollande
and became his campaign chief in December.  Moscovici said he and Hollande work for the ”serious
left” that cuts deficits and puts together “responsible
budgets,” he told RTL radio on April 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net 
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  