-- Hollande’s Berlin Reception Shows He Speaks Merkel’s Language
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-16T10:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/hollande-s-berlin-reception-shows-he-speaks-merkel-s-language.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opened her
first public appearance alongside newly inaugurated French
President  Francois Hollande  with a joke.  Merkel said she was “very glad” that Hollande came to
Berlin the day of his inauguration. “We are even more glad
because he did this despite the lightning strike,” she told
reporters. “Maybe this is good omen for cooperation.”  The 27-minute press conference was delayed by more than 1
1/2 hours after Hollande’s plane was struck by lightning,
forcing him to return to Paris and board a second flight. Their
briefing was marked by grins and an apparent rapport between the
leaders. A working relationship is the minimum needed as the two
pivotal policy makers seek common ground and lead  Europe ’s so-
far unsuccessful effort to fix the financial crisis.  “I want to give a sense of what the friendship between our
two countries” means, Hollande said. “I consider this a
relationship that is balanced and respectful.” France and
 Germany  “want to work together for the good of Europe.”  Hollande left Paris in the rain and arrived in Berlin in
the drizzle. Nicolas Meyer-Landrut, Merkel’s European affairs
adviser, a fluent French speaker, warmly greeted Hollande’s
aides as they waited for the two leaders to walk past a military
guard of honor outside the Chancellery.  Hollande, who paraded along the Champs-Elysees in a French-
made Citroen DS5 hybrid after his inauguration less than 12
hours earlier, drew up outside the Chancellery in a  black
Mercedes S-Class  sedan built in Stuttgart.  Red Carpet  As the two leaders inspected the guard, television cameras
at one point showed Merkel gently guiding Hollande to the right
side of the red carpet as he threatened to veer into her path.  After exchanging pleasantries in English, they switched to
their respective tongues once inside the chancellery to discuss
the debt crisis and “of course  Greece ,” Merkel said. They did
their talking mostly through interpreters and Hollande said that
wasn’t a hindrance.  “It was a common language, namely the language of the
common interest of the will of each one to find solutions,”
Hollande said. “I can assure you that the German chancellor
understands even if one speaks French. And the reverse is true,
too: a French president understands a German chancellor.”  Pictures  released by her office today showed the two
chatting over coffee, then taking their conversation outside to
the balcony that overlooks the Reichstag building and the River
Spree that once formed the border between East and West Berlin.  Glimpses Offered  At their subsequent press conference, Merkel and Hollande
“offered glimpses at possible compromises, confirming the
broadly held views in the markets” that they may get along,
said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .
The impression they gave was that they might “resume the
Franco-German crisis management soon.”  The two share a modest personal style. Hollande has said he
intends to remain in his Paris apartment instead of moving into
the Elysee Palace, much as Merkel has remained in her flat in
central Berlin.  Merkel may find Hollande, the self-proclaimed “normal”
French president, a closer temperamental match than his
predecessor,  Nicolas Sarkozy . A trained physicist who says she
analyzes before deciding and talks about her home cooking in
interviews, Merkel was a contrast to Sarkozy’s “President Bling
Bling,” a leader who sought the spotlight. Their styles were
“like fire and water,” according to a U.S. diplomatic memo
published by Wikileaks.  Merkel and Sarkozy, both 57, were the first leaders of
their countries born after World War II. Yet it took the threat
to the euro for them to form a  united front . They only struck up
a rapport as they declared they would “do everything” to
protect the single currency.  During the French presidential election campaign, Merkel
risked a lasting rift with the Socialist Hollande, also 57, by
publicly backing Sarkozy for a second term, saying that it was
natural to support the head of her sister party.  For all their differences, German and French leaders of
opposing political camps have a history of cooperation. The two
nations, former enemies that fought three wars between 1870 and
1945, were founding members of the European Union that was
created to make military conflict between them impossible.  Social Democrat Helmut Schmidt and Valery Giscard d’Estaing
gave impetus to the Group of Seven in response to the 1973 oil
crisis. Christian Democrat Helmut Kohl and Socialist  Francois Mitterrand  clasped hands at the World War I battlefield cemetery
of Verdun in a gesture of reconciliation. Social Democratic
 Gerhard Schroeder  and Gaullist Jacques Chirac found common cause
in opposing the U.S.-led invasion of  Iraq .  In Berlin last night, Hollande said “it’s not the first
time” that French and German leaders are from opposing
political camps. “But that’s not a debate I want to get into
right now,” he said, waving his hands and drawing a grin from
Merkel. “What I do know is that we have a common task.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Berlin at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  