-- Moore Leads Hedge Funds Betting on JPMorgan Before Losses
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-05-16T14:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/moore-leads-hedge-funds-betting-on-jpmorgan-before-losses.html
Hedge funds Moore Capital Management
LLC and Blue Ridge Capital LLC boosted their stakes in  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  in the first quarter, while Kingdon Capital
Management LLC divested, before the shares plunged because of a
$2 billion trading loss.  Moore, the $15 billion fund in New York run by Louis Moore Bacon, bought 6 million shares of JPMorgan, making the $297.3
million stake its largest U.S. stock holding as of March 31,
according to a filing yesterday with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. John Griffin’s New York-based Blue Ridge purchased
1.85 million shares, raising its stake in the bank to 6.14
million.  JPMorgan has slumped 21 percent since the end of the first
quarter, including an 11 percent decline following the company’s
May 10 disclosure of losses tied to synthetic  credit
derivatives . Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the New
York-based bank made “egregious mistakes.”  Federal regulators are examining what happened, including
the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission, according to
people familiar with the probes. The U.S. Justice Department and
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  in New York have also begun a
criminal probe, a person familiar with the matter said
yesterday.  Omega Advisors Inc., Leon Cooperman’s New York hedge fund,
bought 1.34 million shares of JPMorgan, raising its  stake  in the
bank to 2.22 million, according to a May 14 filing. Tudor
Investment Corp., the $11.1 billion hedge fund run by  Paul Tudor Jones  in Greenwich, Connecticut, purchased 1.27 million shares,
making the bank its second-largest equity position, according to
a filing yesterday.  JPMorgan was the second-most purchased U.S. stock by  hedge
funds  in the first quarter after Medco Health Solutions Inc.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Citigroup Inc., based
in New York, was the fifth-most purchased stock.  JPMorgan was the fourth-largest stock holding among hedge
funds after technology firms Apple Inc., Google Inc. and
Microsoft Corp., the data show.  Soros, Singh  Billionaire  George Soros ’s New York-based investment firm,
Soros Fund Management LLC, bought 606,400 JPMorgan shares in the
quarter, according to a filing yesterday. TPG-Axon Capital
Management LP, Dinakar Singh’s hedge fund in New York, added
520,000 shares, bringing its holding to 3.13 million.  Odey Asset Management LLP, the London-based hedge fund
founded by  Crispin Odey , added almost 148,000 JPMorgan shares,
increasing its position to 2.39 million, according to a filing.  Other funds that boosted to their stakes in the first
quarter include Adage Capital Management LP in Boston, Caxton
Associates LP in  New York  and AQR Capital Management LLC in
Greenwich, Connecticut.  Hedge funds that cut their JPMorgan holdings include
London-based Lansdowne Partners LP, which sold almost 6.6
million shares, leaving it with 17.5 million, according to a
filing.  Maverick Capital Management LP,  Lee Ainslie’s fund that
has offices in Dallas and New York, reported selling 3.7 million
shares of the bank, leaving it about 4.7 million. Eminence
Capital LLC, based in New York, also cut its stake.  Kingdon Capital, run by  Mark Kingdon  in New York, sold its
entire position of 2 million shares, according to a filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  