-- OraSure In-Home HIV Test Kit Moves Closer to FDA Approval
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-16T20:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/orasure-in-home-hiv-test-kit-moves-closer-to-fda-approval.html
OraSure Technologies Inc. (OSUR)  soared the
most in three years after U.S. regulatory advisers backed its
bid to bring to market the first at-home HIV test that lets
people get results without using a doctor or laboratory.  OraSure rose 20 percent to $10.95 at 4 p.m. New York time,
the biggest gain since February 2009, following a unanimous
advisory panel vote yesterday that the benefits of the saliva
test outweigh the risks. The  Food and Drug Administration  should
make a decision on approval within months, said Stephen Lee,
OraSure’s chief science officer.  The OraQuick In-Home HIV Test offers results within 20
minutes and would be sold without a prescription. FDA staff had
raised concern in a  report  May 11 that a high number of people
with HIV would test negative using the Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-
based company’s kit. Approval would make it more likely the
company may be bought, said Caroline Corner, a senior analyst
with McNicoll, Lewis & Vlak in  New York .  “OraSure would make an interesting acquisition for a major
diagnostics company, such as Roche, Abbott or J&J, interested in
the ongoing trend toward rapid and/or oral fluid testing as
standard-of care diagnostic modalities for certain diagnostic
tests,” Corner said in a note to clients today.  If approved, sales of the test may be $20 million next year
assuming a $40 price tag, Corner estimated in a telephone
interview. Today’s share gain pushed the market value of OraSure
to $581.4 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Strategy  Spokesmen at  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ,  Abbott Park , Illinois-based  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and
Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  didn’t respond to
telephone calls for comment on the analyst’s speculation.  The FDA doesn’t have to follow the panel’s recommendation.  FDA panel members said the benefit of testing people who
otherwise wouldn’t know their status outweighed the potential
some users with HIV may test negative.  “We’re putting a statement forward as a committee that we
support this as a new platform, a new strategy to combat this
disease,” Steven Pipe, a panel member and associate professor
of pediatrics and pathology at the  University of Michigan , said
at the meeting of advisers in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Pipe said he is surprised that 250,000 people at risk of
HIV still aren’t tested. The OraSure device may help put a dent
in that number, making the benefit of the test outweigh the risk
of an inaccurate result, he said.  False Negatives  About 1.2 million people in the U.S. have HIV, the virus
that causes AIDS, and 20 percent of those people are unaware
they are infected, according to the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention .  OraSure markets the only FDA-approved rapid HIV test that
detects HIV antibodies in oral fluid and provides results in a
clinic or doctor’s office. The over-the-counter version under
FDA review is the same as the one on the market. Other at-home
kits, such as Home Access Health Corp.’s Express HIV Test
System, require users to send blood samples to a laboratory.  Final-phase trials of the OraQuick home test confirmed
5,384 of 5,385 negative users resulting in one false positive,
according to the FDA staff report. It also detected 106 of 114
confirmed positive users resulting in eight false negatives.  The one used by professionals that is on the market is 99
percent accurate at detecting those with HIV compared with a 93
percent accuracy rate for those with HIV who would test at home.  Acceptable Performance  “We shouldn’t let the perfect be the enemy of the good and
this is an additional option,” Francisco Rentas, a panel member
and director of the Armed Services Blood Program in  Falls
Church ,  Virginia , said during the meeting.  OraQuick would produce one false negative result for every
13 true positive tests, FDA staff said. That would total an
estimated 3,800 people annually with HIV who believe they don’t
have the virus, according to the report. The test would produce
one false positive result for every 3,750 true negative tests
resulting in 1,100 people a year who aren’t infected believing
they are, according to the  report .  The false negatives reported were higher than what the FDA
considers a “minimum acceptable performance” while the false
positives were lower than the agency’s acceptable threshold.  Almost 30 people who spoke during the meeting in favor of
the product said expanding testing to people who might not
otherwise know their status is worth the risk of the false
negatives.  More Weapons  “It is essential that we bring more tests to market,”
said Frank Oldham, president and chief executive officer of the
National Association of People with AIDS, based in  Silver
Spring ,  Maryland . “We need more weapons to reduce HIV
infections. We need tests that can be easily taken and are
easily available.”  Panel members suggest OraSure update the test’s labeling to
ensure people understand the risk of false negatives.  “We will work with the FDA to incorporate the
suggestions,” Douglas Michels, OraSure president and chief
executive officer, said in an interview after the meeting.  More than 16,000 people with AIDS were estimated to have
died in 2008, the CDC said. About 50,000 new U.S. cases are
reported annually, according to the CDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  