-- Mortgage Delinquency Rate in U.S. Fall to 2008 Levels
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-05-16T15:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/mortgage-delinquencies-in-u-s-fall-to-lowest-since-2008.html
The U.S. mortgage  delinquency rate 
declined in the first quarter to the lowest level since 2008 as
an improving job market helped more borrowers pay their bills
and tighter lending standards resulted in fewer defaults.  The share of home loans at least 30 days late dropped to
7.4 percent from 7.58 percent in the previous three months,
according to a report today from the  Mortgage Bankers
Association . The rate peaked at 10.1 percent in the first
quarter of 2010 and was last lower in the third quarter of 2008,
when it was 6.99 percent.  “Delinquencies are clearly continuing to improve,”
Michael Fratantoni, the group’s vice president of research and
economics, said in a statement. “Newer delinquencies, loans one
payment past due as of March 31, are down to the lowest level
since the middle of 2007, indicating fewer new problems we will
need to deal with in the future.”  Falling delinquencies may help limit foreclosures and
solidify a recovery in the housing market as low  interest rates 
combine with decreased prices to stimulate demand. Housing
 affordability  reached a new high in the first quarter and  sales 
of previously owned homes rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier,
data from the National Association of Realtors show.  Housing Starts  Housing  starts  increased 2.6 percent to an annual pace of
717,000 in April, beating analysts’ estimates and adding to
evidence that the real estate market is strengthening, according
to Commerce Department data reported today.  The U.S. jobless rate fell in April to 8.1 percent, the
lowest since January 2009. Rates for 30-year fixed loans
declined to a record 3.83 percent in the week ended May 10,
according to  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-
finance company.  The largest share of troubled loans were originated in 2005
to 2007, according to the bankers group. Stricter lending
standards and deflated  prices  for borrowers who got mortgages
after the housing market collapsed account for better
performance of loans issued since 2008, said  Jay Brinkmann ,
chief economist for the association.  Most borrowers experience late payments in the first three
or four years of a loan, so the worst of the foreclosure crisis
probably has passed, he said.  “We’re back to our long-term trend,” Brinkmann said in a
telephone interview today. “That’s an indication things have
changed.”  Longer Foreclosures  Loans more than 90 days overdue -- the point at which
lenders usually begin the process of seizing a property -– fell
to 3.06 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis from 3.11 percent
in the first quarter and 3.62 percent a year earlier, according
to the mortgage bankers. The share of homes that had received a
foreclosure notice and hadn’t been seized by banks increased to
4.39 percent, up 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, from
the previous quarter, the trade group reported.  Mortgage servicers have slowed the pace of foreclosures
since the fourth quarter of 2010, when they faced allegations of
using improper and fraudulent paperwork to repossess homes with
delinquent mortgages. The five largest servicers, including  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , reached a $25 billion
settlement with state and federal regulators in February.  Four states --  Maryland ,  Delaware ,  New Jersey  and
 Washington  -- had increases in the overdue rate for loans more
than 90 days late. Foreclosure starts decreased in 41 states and
the rate of loans in foreclosures fell in 22 states.  Florida, California  Florida accounted for 24.1 percent of the loans awaiting
foreclosure, followed by  California  with 9.8 percent,  Illinois 
with 6.6 percent,  New York  with 6.5 percent and New Jersey with
5.5 percent, the report showed. Except for California, those
states all require judicial review of foreclosures, which
prolongs the time line for repossessing homes.  “The problem continues to be the slow-moving judicial
foreclosure systems in some of the largest states,” Fratantoni
said in the statement. “While the rate of foreclosure starts is
essentially the same in judicial and non-judicial foreclosure
states, the percent of loans in the foreclosure process has
reached another all-time high in the judicial states, 6.9
percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  