-- Mortgage Principal Reductions Weighed for Fannie, Freddie
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-05-16T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/mortgage-principal-reductions-weighed-for-fannie-freddie.html
The conservator of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac may let servicers forgive debt on a limited number
of mortgages owned or guaranteed by the taxpayer-owned
companies, according to a person with direct knowledge of the 
discussions.  The model could be a new California effort that will pay
for writedowns using federal dollars set aside for regions that
have seen the worst housing-market declines, the person said.
Because the government will bear the full costs of the
California program, mortgages backed by the two government-
sponsored enterprises will be eligible for the first time.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  currently bars principal
reductions on all other troubled loans backed by  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac on the grounds that it would hurt the companies’
finances. So far, FHFA officials have resisted political
pressure from congressional Democrats and financial incentives
offered by the  U.S. Treasury  to change the policy.  FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco and other FHFA
officials want to move beyond the principal-reduction debate and
focus on winding down the two companies and bringing private
capital back into the housing finance system, according to
people familiar with their thinking. After delaying an
announcement on loan forgiveness expected at the end of April,
officials hope to release the new policy soon.  “It really is time for us to start thinking about and
looking toward a more renewed and vibrant housing-finance
system,” DeMarco said in a speech yesterday in  Washington .  Mortgage Modification  DeMarco, speaking to a conference of the National
Association of Realtors, didn’t discuss loan writedowns.
Instead, he touted the GSEs’  existing  mortgage-modification
programs, which often involve reducing monthly payments by
charging zero interest on a portion of a loan and deferring its
repayment.  Treasury officials in January offered Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac (FMCC)  as much as 63 cents for each dollar of principal
reduction, using unspent funds from the Troubled Asset Relief
Program. The FHFA hasn’t released a final decision on whether to
allow the companies to accept those payments.  DeMarco has said he is concerned that debt forgiveness
would create new costs for the taxpayer-funded firms by
encouraging defaults among borrowers who owe more than their
homes are worth but who have kept making payments anyway. Three
out of four underwater borrowers with GSE loans are current.  Treasury officials are downplaying expectations that there
will be widespread reductions in principal on GSE loans.  Economic Justification  “We’re suggesting that it be used only where the economics
justify it relative to the probability and cost of a
foreclosure, and that’s likely to be a relatively small number
of loans,” Timothy G. Massad, assistant  Treasury secretary  for
financial stability, said in an interview last week.  Beginning in June, the California effort will write down
loans using Treasury funds from the Hardest Hit Fund, a
different part of the TARP program than the other financial
incentives offered by Treasury. The  Hardest Hit Fund  allocates
assistance to states with the most serious housing-market
declines. Currently, 18 states and the  District of Columbia  are
participating in the $7.6 billion program.  The auditor for the TARP program last month released a
 report  criticizing the Hardest Hit Fund, noting than only 3
percent of the money had been spent in part because of limited
participation by the GSEs.  The key to the California program is that lenders will not
bear any of the cost of principal reduction, which can reach
$100,000 per loan. An FHFA program could take the same approach,
the person said.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  were taken into U.S.
conservatorship in 2008 after losses stemming from investments
in risky loans brought them to the brink of insolvency. They
have been sustained by almost $190 billion in taxpayer aid and
DeMarco repeatedly has said he is legally bound to return them
to solvency.  Small Percentage  California officials estimate only as many as 9,000
homeowners could be helped by the state’s new program. Likewise,
FHFA has said any nationwide principal reduction program would
only apply to a small percentage of the 11 million underwater
borrowers.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have completed 1.1 million loan
modifications since the end of 2008, and have engaged in more
than 1 million other transactions to avert foreclosures,
including short sales or repayment plans.  FHFA at the end of last year expanded the Home Affordable
Refinance Program to make more underwater borrowers eligible to
refinance into loans at lower  interest rates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  