-- Hospital Top Returns Await Make or Break Court Rule: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/hospital-top-returns-await-make-or-break-court-rule-muni-credit.html
Investors betting President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law will limit hospitals’ unpaid bills have
helped fuel the best returns in the municipal market. The U.S.
Supreme Court may quash the rally next month.  Hospital securities have returned 17 percent in the last
year, the most of 10 industries in a Barclays Capital index
tracking the $3.7 trillion market for local-government debt.  The  Supreme Court  will probably decide in June if the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is constitutional.
The law would force citizens to get insurance or pay a fine, the
so-called mandate at the center of the case, and would expand
state-run Medicaid programs to cover more of the uninsured. Some
investors bought bonds of lower-rated hospitals, anticipating
the requirement would cut unpaid bills, said Bill Black at
Invesco Ltd., which oversees $20 billion in munis.  “There are investors out there who believed the health-
care reform was going to be constitutional,” Black, a senior
portfolio manager, said from  Oakbrook Terrace ,  Illinois . “If
that does happen, then those people made the right bet. If the
whole thing is overturned, they’re going to own hospitals that
will continue to struggle.”  Municipal interest rates close to the  lowest  levels since
the 1960s are drawing buyers to weaker credits. Hospitals and
health-care providers have an average  Standard & Poor’s  rating
of A-, seventh-highest.  Benefit to Issuers  Hospital bonds due in 10 years with an A rating  yield  3.35
percent, the lowest since a Bloomberg Fair Value index began in
1993. The  penalty  over top-grade securities narrowed to 1.36
percentage points last month, the least since February 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Pennsylvania’s Monroe County Hospital Authority, rated A-,
was among issuers to win lower relative borrowing costs when it
sold bonds in March on behalf of Pocono Medical Center.  The agency issued 20-year debt to yield 0.09 percentage
points less than an  index  of similarly rated general
obligations, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In 2007, debt of
that maturity priced to yield 0.39 points above the index, the
data show.  In the lead-up to the decision, Black, who helps run a
high-yield fund at Invesco, said he’s buying hospitals rated
BBB, two steps above speculative grade. He’s avoiding moving
down the rating scale in part because of concern that weaker
facilities may suffer should the mandate be struck down.  March Arguments  The  Supreme Court  in March heard arguments on challenges to
the health-care law. Obama has said declaring the measure
unconstitutional would amount to “judicial activism.” The
justices’ questions boosted the chance that the individual
mandate would be struck down by year-end to about 57 percent as
of yesterday, from 34 percent on the first day of the hearings,
according to InTrade.com, which offers betting on outcomes of
various events.  “Yield doesn’t come free,” said Jamie Pagliocco, director
of bond managers overseeing $30 billion of munis at  Fidelity
Investments  in Merrimack,  New Hampshire . “The individual
mandate is essential to the overall reform. Depending on the
ruling, it could either be status quo or negative” for health-
care bonds.  In an April report, Moody’s Investors Service said losing
the individual mandate “would remove health-care reform’s best
feature for not-for-profit hospitals.” Credit risk would rise
even if the rest of the law were upheld, said Moody’s, which has
a negative outlook on the bonds.  ‘Uncompensated Care’  “Requiring individuals to obtain insurance would reduce
significantly the uncompensated care delivered by hospitals,”
as well as emergency-room visits, the report said.  Uncompensated costs totaled about $57 billion in 2008,
though hospitals get reimbursed for most of that through
government programs, according to the Henry J. Kaiser Family
Foundation in  Menlo Park ,  California .  “The most expensive way to enter the health-care system is
through a hospital’s emergency room,” said Chris Ryon, who
helps manage $7.5 billion of municipals, including about $1.5
billion of hospital debt, at Thornburg Investment Management in
 Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .  At the end of fiscal 2010, 41 hospitals that weren’t part
of a larger system had speculative grades from S&P, up from 38
in 2009, according to a report.  “You’re going to have good hospitals and bad hospitals,”
Ryon said. “Hopefully you’ll own the hospitals that will be
strong and will survive” should the law be struck down, he
said.  Following are pending sales:  SAN FRANCISCO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION plans to issue
about $576 million in revenue debt as soon as May 22, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities mature from 2031
to 2042, the data show. Moody’s Investors Service rates the
bonds Aa3, fourth-highest. The debt will be sold via competitive
sale. (Added May 16)  NEW YORK  CITY plans to sell $800 million of tax-free
general-obligation bonds as soon as next week, according to an
offering document. The refunding debt will be sold to
individuals on May 21 and May 22, and issued to institutions on
May 23, according to a city statement. S&P rates the bonds AA,
third-highest. Bank of America Merrill Lynch will lead banks.
(Updated May 16)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  