-- Housing Starts Probably Rebounded From a Five-Month Low
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/housing-starts-probably-rebounded-from-a-five-month-low.html
Builders in the U.S. probably broke
ground on more houses in April, rebounding from a five-month low
and indicating the industry is stabilizing, economists said
before a report today.  Starts climbed 4.7 percent to a 685,000 annual rate,
according to the median  estimate  of 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Building permits, a proxy for future
construction, may have dropped for the first time this year.
Industrial production rose in April, a  Federal Reserve  report is
projected to show.  Employment gains, cheaper homes and record-low  mortgage
rates  are combining to lift demand and encourage builders to
take on projects. At the same time, distressed properties are
thwarting a quicker recovery in the housing market three years
after the end of the recession it helped trigger.  “Homebuilding is inching up pretty much everywhere in the
U.S.,” said  Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insight
in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “The days when housing was a drag
on the economy are behind us.” Even so, “housing activity is
at depressed levels,” with foreclosures “still a problem for
builders,” he said.  The housing starts figures are due from the Commerce
Department at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington . Estimates in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from 641,000 to 730,000. The report may
also show building permits fell to a 730,000 annual rate from
764,000 the prior month, according to the survey median.  At 9:15 a.m. in Washington, Fed data is projected to show
industrial production rebounded in April after two consecutive
months of little change. Output at factories, mines and
utilities rose 0.6 percent, according to the Bloomberg survey
median.  More Optimistic  The outlook for residential real estate is improving,
figures signaled yesterday. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index of  builder confidence  jumped to a
five-year high, the Washington-based group reported.  Borrowing costs remain attractive. The average rate on a
30-year fixed mortgage fell to an all-time low of 3.83 percent
in the week ended May 10, according to data from Freddie Mac
going back to 1971. The average 15-year rate dropped to 3.05
percent, also the lowest ever, the McLean, Virginia-based
mortgage-finance company said.  A housing affordability  index (S15HOME)  that’s based on a combination
of resale prices,  household income  and  mortgage rates  reached an
all-time high in the first quarter, the National Association of
Realtors reported yesterday.  Investors also are upbeat about prospects. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index advanced almost 39
percent this year through yesterday, outpacing a 5.8 percent
gain in the broader  S&P 500. (SPX)   Multifamily Homes  One source of strength in residential construction is that
work on apartment projects has climbed as the foreclosure crisis
turned more Americans into renters. While demand for multifamily
units, which include townhouses, is projected to provide
homebuilders with new business, it remains volatile.  In the U.S. Southeast region, which has lagged behind the
U.S. recovery the past three years, building is accelerating,
led by new construction of condominiums in Miami, according to
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  Chief Executive Officer William Rogers.
Housing in the Nashville,  Tennessee , and Washington markets is
“back on the upswing,” while Marco Island and Sarasota,
 Florida , “are showing improvement,” he said.  “We are starting to see some traction,” he said in an
interview in Atlanta, where the lender is based. “In housing,
things are stabilizing to stabilized.”  Builders still have to contend with a stream of distressed
houses returning to the market, adding to inventory and pushing
prices even lower.  Federal Reserve  Foreclosures and tight credit markets remain a constraint
on the housing industry, said Federal Reserve Governor  Elizabeth
Duke  in a speech yesterday before the National Association of
Realtors Midyear Legislative Meetings and Trade Expo in
Washington.  Still-elevated foreclosures are “indicative of a historic
level of homeowner stress,” she said. At the same time, “they
are down from their post-crisis peaks, and there are signs that
further gradual improvement may lie ahead.”  The unresolved status of government-sponsored mortgage
firms  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  is restraining the recovery in
housing by helping to choke off credit, she said. Mortgage
lending is also being hampered by uncertainty over the outlook
for  home prices  and government regulations.  There are “some promising signs in the trend of  house
prices  as well” and “somewhat encouraging” indicators of
housing construction activity, Duke said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  