-- Tower Bersama Loan Said to Attract Cathay United Bank Pledge
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-05-16T05:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/tower-bersama-loan-said-to-attract-cathay-united-bank-pledge-1-.html
PT Tower Bersama Infrastructure (TBIG) ’s
$325 million loan has attracted a $5 million commitment from
Cathay United Bank Co., according to a person familiar with the
matter.  The borrower is awaiting one final response from a
potential lender before completing general syndication, the
person said, asking not to be identified because the details are
private.  The Jakarta-based provider of telecommunications
infrastructure received a $40 million commitment from  Industrial
& Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. in general syndication, another
person familiar with the matter said on May 14. The loan has
also attracted pledges of $20 million each from PT Bank Danamon
 Indonesia  and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., and $4 million from
Bank of China Ltd., the person said.  Gavin Caudle, an adviser to the board of directors and a
founder of the company, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail
and telephone message today seeking comment on the financing.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., DBS Bank Ltd., Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. and United Overseas Bank Ltd. were hired to help arrange
the senior debt facility, according to a March 21 e-mailed
statement from OCBC. Proceeds will be used to help fund Tower
Bersama’s purchase of 2,500 mobile phone towers from PT Indosat
and for other capital expenditure requirements, according to the
statement.  Banks that joined the loan as arrangers prior to general
syndication include PT Bank Central Asia, PT Bank Negara
Indonesia Persero, CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., Credit Agricole SA,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Qatar National Bank SAQ, Caudle said on
May 11 in response to e-mailed questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  