-- Lloyds Banking Said to Suspend Two Traders Amid Libor Probe
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-05-16T11:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/lloyds-banking-said-to-suspend-two-traders-amid-libor-probe.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s
second-biggest government-backed lender, suspended at least two
derivatives traders in a probe of potential interest-rate
manipulation, two people briefed on the matter said.  Foreign-exchange derivatives trader Alexandre Dube and
interest-rate derivatives trader John Argent, both based in
London, were sent home about two months ago, said the people,
who declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
discuss the matter.  Both are listed as active on the U.K. Financial Services
Authority’s register of people approved to work in the industry.
Attempts to reach them through the Internet, work phone numbers
and directory assistance were unsuccessful. Dube didn’t respond
to calls to his mobile phone, which was switched off.  Lloyds joins  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , UBS AG,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and ICAP Plc in suspending,
dismissing or putting on leave traders as part of the
investigations into interest-rate manipulation. Regulators have
requested information from banks and interdealer brokers as part
of a global investigation into whether there were attempts to
manipulate the London, Tokyo and euro interbank offered rates,
known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission,  U.S. Department of Justice ,  Japan ’s
Financial Supervisory Agency and the U.K. Financial Services
Authority are all investigating whether traders colluded in the
setting of money-market  interest rates . European Union antitrust
regulators and the Swiss Competition Commission are also
investigating.  Lawsuits Filed  A spokesman for Lloyds said the bank doesn’t comment on
individual employees.  “As with many others in the sector, the group is assisting
various regulators in their ongoing investigations into the
setting of Libor,” London-based Lloyds said in a statement
today. “Until these investigations are completed, it would be
inappropriate for us to comment any further.”  Lloyds said in March it had been named in private lawsuits
in the U.S. relating to how various banks set Libor and was also
cooperating with government agencies in their investigations.  Libor, a benchmark for about $360 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is derived from a survey of banks conducted
daily on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in  London .
The lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from
one another for 15 different periods, from overnight to one
year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss
francs. After a predetermined number of quotes are excluded,
those remaining are averaged and published for each currency by
the BBA before noon.  Argent was hired by Lloyds in 2001, while Dube joined the
firm from  National Bank of Canada  in 2006, according to the FSA
register.  A call to Argent’s work phone was answered by a colleague
who didn’t identify himself who said the trader had been off
work for several weeks for personal reasons. The colleague said
he couldn’t specify when Argent would return.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  