-- Petrobras Gains Most Since 2010 on Crude Exports: Rio Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-05-16T21:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/petrobras-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-oil-export-growth.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s
biggest oil producer in deep waters, surged the most since
October 2010 after an increase in first-quarter crude exports
boosted revenue.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known,
gained 4.3 percent to close at 19.29 reais in Sao Paulo. Earlier
the stock climbed as much as 6 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since Oct. 26, 2010.  Oil exports rose 20 percent from a year earlier to 497,000
barrels a day after the company sold inventories, Petrobras said
in a regulatory filing. Sales climbed 22 percent to 66.13
billion reais ($33.2 billion) in the quarter after international
 oil prices  increased 13 percent, Petrobras said.  “The market liked the export numbers a lot,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 70 million reais at Leme
Investimentos in Florianopolis,  Brazil , said in a telephone
interview today. “The results are helping this recovery after
the shares fell a lot.”  Petrobras has fallen 10 percent this year, compared with a
0.5 percent gain in Brazil’s Bovespa benchmark stock index.  Net income  dropped 16 percent to 9.2 billion reais, or 71
centavos a share, from 10.99 billion reais, or 84 centavos, a
year earlier, Brazil’s state-controlled producer said late
yesterday. Per-share profit beat the 64-centavo average of four
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Gasoline Sales  Higher prices for Brazil’s heavy grades of oil compared
with the Brent benchmark increased export revenue, Buenos Aires-
based Bank of America analyst Frank McGann said in a note to
clients. Fuel sales rose 10 percent in the quarter, driven by 24
percent growth in gasoline sales.  “The company’s increase in oil exports and its use of
inventories at lower prices mainly explained the better-than-
expected operating performance in the period,” Bradesco SA
analysts led by Auro Rozenbaum said in a note to clients
distributed today.  Petrobras increased prices for gasoline and diesel by 10
percent and 2 percent, respectively, on Nov. 1. The first boost
in more than three years reduced the discount with international
prices.  “We had more exports at higher prices,” Chief Financial
Officer Almir Barbassa said at a press conference in  Rio de
Janeiro .  Deepwater Discoveries  The company bought gasoline imports at a 17 percent premium
compared with domestic prices during the first quarter,
Rozenbaum said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo  before
the report was released. Fuel imports gained 46 percent to
406,000 barrels a day from a year ago and 3 percent from the
fourth quarter.  Petrobras is investing $224.7 billion over five years to
build refineries,  develop deepwater fields  and ramp up output at
Lula, the largest discovery in Brazil’s history. Petrobras is
spending more than any other major  oil company  as it develops
fields in waters as deep at 2,800 meters (9,186 feet) that are
trapped under a layer of salt.  The Brazilian producer said it discovered more oil in the
so-called pre-salt region during the quarter, including Carioca
Sela and Carcara in the Santos Basin and Pao de Acucar in the
Campos Basin. Petrobras started output at the Cascade field in
the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  in the period.  Brent crude  averaged $118.45 a barrel in the first quarter,
up from $105.52 a year earlier. Brent oil for June settlement,
which expires today, slipped 0.4 percent to $111.81 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Petrobras’ production costs rose 14 percent to $12.98 a
barrel because of an increased amount of water produced with oil
at the company’s fields in the Campos Basin. Water produced with
oil normally rises as fields age. Petrobras also increased
maintenance work at offshore platforms, boosting costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  