-- Philippines Trails Neighbors on Poverty Fight: Chart of the Day
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i n h   B u i
-- 2012-05-16T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/philippines-trails-neighbors-on-poverty-fight-chart-of-the-day.html
The Philippines has lagged behind its
neighbors in  Southeast Asia  in reducing poverty even as its
economic expansion mostly kept pace the past two decades, which
may stall efforts to achieve an investment-grade debt rating.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the change in gross domestic
product of the Philippines, Thailand and  Malaysia  in dollar
terms since the end of 1988. The lower panel shows the change in
each country’s poverty rate, defined as a percentage of the
population, using World Bank data. Both graphs are normalized to
show how each country has performed relative to 1988.  Standard & Poor’s ,  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors
Service all rate the Philippines below investment grade,
deterring some asset managers from buying the nation’s debt.
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima has said the assessments are
too low, citing the government’s ability to borrow at rates
similar to investment-grade countries.  “The Philippines has lagged in its poverty-reduction
agenda and that is why rating agencies are focused on revenue
growth,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a Singapore-based economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “More revenue would allow the government
to invest in human capital, education and health, which will
eventually lead to reduction in poverty rates and better quality
of life.”  Fitch rates the Philippines one step below investment grade,
while S&P and Moody’s currently have the sovereign rating at two
levels below. President  Benigno Aquino  has gone after tax
evaders and corrupt officials as part of an effort to gain an
investment grade before his term ends in 2016. Thailand is rated
the third-lowest investment grade by Moody’s and S&P. Malaysia
is one level higher than Thailand by both.  Benchmark 10-year Philippine bond yields are trading at
5.26 percent, compared with 5.92 percent for 10-year Italian
notes and 8.46 percent for 10-year Russian debt, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg News at about 4 p.m. Manila time
yesterday. S&P rates Italy four steps above the Philippines and
 Russia  three levels higher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Minh Bui in Sydney at 
 mbui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Miller at 
 lmiller@bloomberg.net  