-- Philippine Peso Drops Most in 18 Months on Europe: Manila Mover
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-05-16T08:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/philippine-peso-drops-most-in-three-months-on-europe-bonds-fall.html
The Philippine peso fell by the most
in 18 months as  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis damped demand for
higher-yielding emerging-market assets. Bonds dropped.  The benchmark  share index  has lost more than 7 percent
since May 8 as the possibility of  Greece  leaving the euro and a
territorial dispute between the  Philippines  and  China  reduced
investor appetite for local equities.  Money sent home  by
overseas workers rose 5 percent in March from a year earlier,
the least in 12 months, the central bank reported yesterday.  “The Greek impasse is hurting sentiment and the tension
with China is taking its toll on the stock market, coupled with
broader profit-taking,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at
Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “Uncertainties in the external
environment may also affect hiring and remittances, the growth
pace of which has slowed.”  The peso fell 0.9 percent to 43.040 per dollar at the close
in Manila, the most since November 2010, data from Tullett
Prebon Plc showed. It touched 43.080, the weakest level since
March 23. One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-
rate swings used to price options, rose 25 basis points, to 6.75
percent.  Tensions between China and the Philippines have risen since
a standoff began last month between ships from both countries
over an island in the  South China Sea . China’s Xinhua News
Agency reported last week that Ctrip.com, the country’s largest
online travel company, and Beijing Caissa International Travel
Service Co. halted tours to the Southeast Asian nation.  The yield on the 5.875 percent March 2032 peso bond rose
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.22 percent,
according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp.  Inflation may cool this year and next after the government
cut fares for jeepneys, a common form of Philippine transport,
central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said yesterday.
Consumer prices rose 3 percent in April from a year earlier,
accelerating from a 30-month low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  