-- Philippines to Buy Military Jets Amid Sea Dispute With China
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-16T08:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/philippines-plans-to-buy-military-jets-amid-dispute-with-china.html
The  Philippines  may buy two squadrons
of military jets for as much as $1.6 billion, President  Benigno Aquino  said, as the country pushes to modernize its defenses
amid a territorial dispute with China.  The government could buy new training jets for between $400
and $800 million per squadron and upgrade the planes to
fighters, Aquino told Bombo Radyo today. The seller would be a
“progressive nation” and not the U.S., the Philippines’ main
ally, he said. A squadron includes between 16 and 24 jets.  “It may be from  Europe , or somewhere nearer,” Aquino told
Bombo Radyo. “That’s what the Armed Forces of the Philippines
is studying to make it more economical.”  Aquino’s administration has embarked on a plan to upgrade
the country’s military, which currently has no viable fighter
jets. The plan is part of efforts to better address external
threats and territorial disputes, which include increased
tension with  China  over disputed waters in the South China Sea
that are rich in fish, oil and gas.  “The standoff with China made the issue of a credible
external defense an urgent one,” Ramon Casiple, executive
director of the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform,
said in a telephone interview in  Manila . “There are various
territorial issues for which you need a credible external
defense, not just the shoal.”  In a May 4 interview with Bloomberg News, Aquino said the
Philippines has focused on quelling insurgencies and
lawlessness, and that its ability to respond to external threats
“has been very, very severely diminished.”  China has become more assertive over its claims to the
 South China Sea , while the U.S., which has a mutual defense
treaty with the Philippines, has shifted its military posture
toward the Asia-Pacific region.  Scarborough Standoff  The latest standoff, over a reef that the Philippines calls
Panatag Shoal and China refers to as Huangyan Island, began in
April when Chinese ships blocked the Philippines from inspecting
Chinese fishing boats in the area. Aquino reiterated the
Philippines’ claim on the reef in today’s radio interview.  “It’s our exclusive economic zone and we need to preserve
our patrimony according to our constitution,” he said.  The Philippines plans to acquire 10 new helicopters and 21
refurbished ones this year for maritime surveillance, Aquino
said in the May 4 interview.  The Philippines signed a five-year agreement with  Italy 
earlier this year for the purchase of military hardware. Aquino
didn’t specify today whether the money potentially spent on
planes would be in addition to previous estimates for defense
expenditures.  Defense Undersecretary Hernando Manalo said in January the
nation aims to spend as much as 70 billion pesos ($1.6 billion)
through 2020 to modernize its forces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  