-- Pickens Shuns Chesapeake Stock For First Time Since 2008
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/pickens-shuns-chesapeake-stock-for-first-time-since-2008.html
T. Boone Pickens , the Texas
billionaire who spent the past decade promoting U.S. natural gas
as an alternative to Middle East oil, has walked away from the
nation’s second-largest gas producer and the man he calls a
friend as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s value dropped by a fourth.  Pickens’s sale of almost half a million Chesapeake shares
in the past six weeks comes as the 83-year-old hedge-fund
manager maintains his longstanding praise for Chesapeake’s
“visionary” chief executive officer, Aubrey McClendon. The
decision to unload his stake marks the first time Pickens hasn’t
held shares in the company since 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Both men, born in Oklahoma, have been vocal proponents of
gas, joining forces to push for legislation to increase the
fuel’s use and often entwining their business interests.
Chesapeake last year agreed to invest $150 million in a Pickens
company that builds natural-gas fueling stations.  “We got out of the natural-gas stocks and Chesapeake was
one of them,” Pickens said on CNBC yesterday. Even after
selling the shares, Pickens said people shouldn’t bet against
McClendon despite potential conflicts of interest that have
caused shares to plunge and triggered  Internal Revenue Service 
and Securities & Exchange Commission probes.  Pickens began dumping Chesapeake shares during the first
quarter, when his Dallas-based BP Capital Management LP fund
sold 71,000 shares, or 12 percent of its stake, according to a
May 15 filing. The remaining 499,055 shares were sold by May 10,
when Pickens said he no longer owned any stock.  Buying Encana, Devon  Even as Pickens was trimming his Chesapeake holdings in the
first three months of this year, he was accumulating stock in
 Encana Corp. (ECA)  of Calgary and Oklahoma City-based  Devon Energy
Corp. (DVN) , two of the largest North American gas producers.  Those stock selections may indicate Pickens’s abandonment
of Chesapeake had more to do with McClendon’s entanglements than
the outlook for gas prices, said Tim Rezvan, a New York-based
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. who has a neutral rating on
Chesapeake.  “We know that EnCana and Devon are two of the biggest gas
producers in the  United States ,” Rezvan said in a phone
interview yesterday. “If you want exposure to gas but one of
your biggest holdings has balance sheet and governance concerns,
you’ll go look elsewhere for companies that don’t have those
kinds of problems.”  ‘Visionary’ CEO  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma  City, has tumbled 37 percent
this year, the worst performance by an oil and gas producer in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The shares, which fell 24
percent in the six weeks Pickens’s fund was selling the bulk of
its stake, declined 4.2 percent to $14.04 in  New York  yesterday,
the lowest closing price since March 2009.  Chesapeake’s board announced May 1 it will strip McClendon,
who co-founded the company 23 years ago, of his chairmanship.
The IRS, SEC and board are reviewing personal loans McClendon
obtained using his stakes in company-operated wells, some of
which involved borrowing from financiers that also did business
with Chesapeake.  McClendon, 52, will remain CEO as the company seeks to sell
$20.5 billion in assets this year and next to plug a cash-flow
shortfall.  Philip Weiss , a New York-based analyst for Argus
Research, has estimated the funding gap may reach $16 billion by
the end of 2013.  Bridge Loan  Chesapeake has borrowed $4 billion at 8.5 percent interest
from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  to tide
it over until the company can raise cash by selling oilfields in
Texas and a stake in some Oklahoma and Kansas prospects.  Chesapeake’s largest investor, Southeastern Asset
Management, on May 7 said management should consider selling the
company if the price is right. It urged Chesapeake to focus on
operations rather than engaging in public relations and
appearing at conferences with Wall Street analysts.  Jay Rosser, a spokesman for Pickens, didn’t respond to
phone message yesterday seeking an interview with his boss. Jim Gipson, a Chesapeake spokesman, declined to make McClendon
available for an interview.  “Aubrey’s a visionary,” Pickens said yesterday. “He gets
out over his skis sometimes, but don’t bet against Aubrey.”  McClendon and Pickens have more often seen eye-to-eye on
business. In July, Chesapeake agreed to invest $150 million in
 Clean Energy Fuels Corp. (CLNE) , a California-based company that builds
stations for natural-gas fueled vehicles. Pickens is its founder
and largest individual shareholder.  ‘Few Disagreements’  The two men also support the Natural Gas Act, legislation
that would boost use of the fuel by vehicles. McClendon said in
a video posted on YouTube that he was a supporter of the Pickens
Plan, which would reduce U.S. use of oil from the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries and increase renewable power.  McClendon said on a conference call last year that “one of
the few disagreements” in his life with Pickens came from the
elder oilman’s support for wind power. McClendon said the
renewable resource wouldn’t be able to compete with gas-fired
 power plants .  Mike Cantrell, a former president of the Oklahoma
Independent Petroleum Association, said he got a firsthand
glimpse of the personal bond between the men during a gathering
a few years ago at Pickens’s  Texas  ranch when he brought up
wind-development plans.  “You could tell they were real close,” said Cantrell, the
vice president of government and regulatory affairs at
 Continental Resources Inc. (CLR)  “But Aubrey was the first one to
take on his premise a little bit.”  Pickens said yesterday Chesapeake will survive the current
crisis. The company will be able to raise the cash to fill a
funding shortfall this year, getting $6 billion from selling oil
and gas assets in the Permian Basin, Pickens predicted.  Asked if he was putting his money where his mouth is and
buying the shares, Pickens responded, “No.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  