-- Pig’s Head, Tripe Ragu Served With Jay-Z at Perla: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/pig-s-head-tripe-ragu-served-with-jay-z-at-perla-review.html
Jay-Z’s “Ghetto Anthem” pumped
through the sound system at Perla, with the rapper suggesting
that we all go souse ourselves by sipping “The Cris.”  That’s  Cristal Champagne , for us old-timers who wrongly
thought this was going to be just another Italian restaurant in
 Manhattan ’s West Village.  No reservations unless you’re four or more. That explains
why well-dressed couples fill up the bar, sniffing their bourbon
for pepperoni bitters and listening to Nate Dogg croon about
making “bodies turn cold.”  We slip into a comfortable booth opposite a portrait of Mos
Def, fingers pressed to temple like a gun, face covered like an
urban mujahideen.  I bite into a tiny PB&J and smile. It’s crustless and, more
important, slicked with foie gras.  This was the scene around 11 p.m. on a Friday at Perla,
whose Italian fare is laden with as much fatty foie as a French
restaurant.  Perla is no less edgy, musically or gastronomically, than
 Mario Batali ’s Babbo, where we’ve all feasted on goose liver
ravioli while listening to Eminem.  Lovely. I ask a waiter what kind of cheese he’s shaving
over my cavatelli. “Foie gras,” he deadpans. The pink petals
add a gentle musk to an already hearty duck ragu ($16).  Too much? Perhaps you’d rather luxuriate in the softness of
fried pig’s head against the gelatinous feel of seared foie gras
($22).  Rapping Ringmaster  Perla isn’t for everyone, and this 65-seat spot is no
Babbo-killer. Still, with a packed house and first rate
macaroni, Perla is the city’s best new Italian restaurant in
over a year.  Gabe Stulman is the ringmaster. He’s the guy behind the
“Little Wisco,” empire of West village restaurants: Fedora,
Jeffrey’s Grocery and Joseph Leonard.  Dude looks like a lumberjack: Thick black beard, tanned
leather skin, hefty plaid shirts. At the bar, he asks a couple
how they like the gnocchi ($12). He already knows the answer.
It’s a classic red sauce dish that’s disappointed you at
Frankies 457 and elsewhere. Here it’s fantastic: soft potato
dumplings in marinara with a hint of chili and a dab of ricotta.  Offally Good  Spaghetti with rock shrimp ($17) takes tomatoes to the
opposite extreme. Even with basil, the summery sauce is almost
neon pink. Your lips pucker.  Those desiring more restraint will take refuge in the
garganelli ($14). Chef Michael Toscano coaxes the acid and anger
out of the tomatoes with a nice little tripe ragu. The flavor of
the stomach is subdued: tripe for the offal-averse.  Salad? Perla tosses orecchiette with ramp pesto and sausage
($15), imparting the clean perfume of garlic, onions and fennel.
And then there’s the short-rib agnolotti ($15), glazed in short
rib drippings so concentrated you’ll be hard-pressed to finish
all 10 or so little pillows.  Good thing the homemade pastas are judiciously portioned as
mid-courses. Just the same, Perla permits half-pours of wine to
keep your finances and sobriety in check.  Three-ounces of vouvray brut ($8) pack enough effervescence
to counter the heat of soft shell crab with pickled chilis
($19). Though a bottle of  Paul Blanck  at $70 isn’t a bad
investment either; the Alsatian riesling slices through an oily,
crispy red snapper ($32) with aplomb.  Guinea Hen  Guinea hen comes with foie gras sugo. Order a half-pour of
lean, light primitivo ($8) to respect the bird’s delicate
flavors. That $28 fowl is way better than $65 chicken cacciatore
for two; the latter boasts bland breast meat and a sugar-sweet
sauce.  Things can get a bit stuffy near the wood-burning oven in
back. Smarter diners eat at the bar. Or better yet phone your
extended family to reserve the table for eight up front. The
open windows provide a breeze for enjoying the $95 ribeye for
two.  Don’t let the 56-day-aging scare you. The beef boasts
entry-level minerality, without any liver or game aftertaste.
Fire-roasting creates a chewy, salty crust and a crimson rare
interior. The meat sports enough marbling to render your tannic
Gigondas ($18.50) all soft and gushy.  Finish with date cheesecake ($10) or sugar cookies, and
relax as  The Fugees , who broke up long ago, sing via streaming
audio at this instant West Village classic.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes below $30.  Sound Level: Around 80 decibels, quieter before 6pm.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Skip the flavorless $35 strip steak.  Special Feature: That wood oven makes pizzas after 11 p.m.  Back on My Own Dime: Often for the pastas.  Perla is at 24 Minetta Lane, near Sixth Avenue.
Information: +1-212-933-1824 or  http://perlanyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on movies and
 Warwick Thompson  on London theater.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 