-- Pinnacle Airlines Can Take Delta’s $74 Million Loan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-16T22:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/pinnacle-airlines-can-take-delta-s-74-million-loan.html
Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ) , the bankrupt
airline won approval to borrow as much as $74.3 million from
Delta Airlines Inc. after a judge overruled objections from a
group of shareholders.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber in Manhattan court
today approved the company’s request for the so-called debtor-
in-possession loan that will fund operations in bankruptcy. The
loan requires Pinnacle to take on money-losing contracts to
provide services to Delta and sets a timeline for it to
renegotiate labor terms with its unions and file an exit plan.  “It’s undisputed that Delta is the only game in town and
that the debtor desperately needs this money,” Gerber said, as
he heard hours of testimony over whether Delta had tilted
Pinnacle into bankruptcy and created onerous loan terms for its
own benefit.  A group of shareholders had objected to the loan, saying
Delta was strong-arming Pinnacle.  The group includes Nantahala
Capital Partners LP and Blackwell Partners LLC, among others,
according to court papers.  Gerber said objectors failed to consider that without the
loan, the company would run out of money as of June 1, and ruled
that poor operational performance and increased expenses, not
Delta, forced the company into bankruptcy.  Complex Agreements  A union had also said the loan didn’t give enough time to
renegotiate complex labor agreements, and had withdrawn its
objection today, citing modifications made since Pinnacle’s
initial request for the loan in April.  Sean Menke, Pinnacle’s chief executive officer, testified
under questioning by Jeffrey Jonas, a lawyer for the
shareholders, that to make money on the contracts with Delta,
Pinnacle will need to negotiate cuts to, or reject its labor
contracts. He said 50 percent of the company’s costs are labor-
related.  Pinnacle said that without the loan, it would have to
liquidate. Only Delta had agreed to give it a loan, and the
terms reached were the best possible after a month of
negotiations, Pinnacle said in court papers.  “This isn’t a particularly attractive loan for someone who
doesn’t have an interest in this organization,” said Lisa Beckerman, bankruptcy counsel for Pinnacle.  Initial Request  Pinnacle’s initial request to take the loan was delayed and
the offer was renegotiated to meet the concerns of a committee
of unsecured creditors, who said they supported the revised deal
due to its more lenient milestones.  A union representing 1,800 flight attendants and 900 ground
workers, United Steel, Paper & Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing,
Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International
Union, also withdrew its objection today based on the changes.
The union had initially said in court papers that the loan was a
“sub rosa” plan, one that would determine the outcome of the
reorganization without allowing Pinnacle to consider other
options.  The union also said in court papers that labor terms
proposed by Pinnacle on May 8 call for changes to medical
benefits, holiday pay and other benefits, and that negotiations
over them will probably be “complex and time consuming.”  Equity Holders  Equity holders had maintained their objections today,
saying the money-losing agreements it requires with Delta will
ultimately hurt recovery for shareholders. Delta negotiated
terms to serve itself because it has “an enormous amount of
leverage” over the company as its sole customer and trade
partner, lawyers for shareholders wrote.  Delta also “undertook several coercive actions” with
Pinnacle before its bankruptcy which brought the need for the
loan about, and the loan will essentially force Pinnacle to
assume key contracts with the airline to fly planes which Delta
is tied to through long-term leases, equity holders said.  The airline, based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , listed assets of
$1.5 billion and liabilities of $1.4 billion in the Chapter 11
filing, saying costs had risen as revenue declined.  As it restructures, Pinnacle, which provides flights for
Delta,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , and  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC) , said it plans to wind down regional services for United by
Nov. 30 and cease flying for  US Airways  by June. It will halt
United Express services by Aug. 1.  Pinnacle has also said its $74.3 million loan from Delta
would help it repay a $44.3 million debt to the larger airline.
It flies about 200 regional jets for Delta, the world’s second-
largest carrier. Delta’s business has traditionally accounted
for 80 percent of Pinnacle’s flying.  Pinnacle shares traded at 12 cents around 12:30 ET, down
from 69 cents on April 2, the first trading day after its April
1 bankruptcy filing.  The case is In re Pinnacle East Coast Operations Inc., 12-
11343,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (New
York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 