-- Prolor May Seek Partner to Market Growth Hormone Product
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-05-16T22:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/prolor-may-seek-partner-to-market-growth-hormone-product.html
Prolor Biotech Inc. (PBTH) , an Israeli
company developing improved versions of existing medicines, may
seek a partner for its growth-hormone treatment as final trials
are set to begin this year, President Shai Novik said.  The company, which yesterday raised $35 million through a
share offering, has enough cash to conduct late-stage studies of
the product, known as hGH-CTP, in adults with growth-hormone
deficiency as well as mid-stage testing in children with the
ailment, Novik said yesterday in an interview near  Tel Aviv .  “Can we do it on our own? Yes,” Novik said. “However,
when you look at the marketing and sales channels, it would make
much more sense, even if we develop it on our own, to partner
with someone, at least for distribution and marketing
purposes.”  Prolor, based in Nes-Ziona, Israel, plans to tap a $3
billion human growth hormone market as it races to become the
first to offer a longer-lasting version of human growth hormone
that could be injected once weekly. Abnormally small children
and adults with growth-hormone deficiency currently take daily
injections of treatments such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Genotropin,  Novo
Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) ’s Norditropin, and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Humatrope.  Prolor said on May 7 its mid-stage study of hGH-CTP in
adults showed that a single injection could potentially replace
seven consecutive daily injections of commercially available
human growth hormone therapies.  ‘Major Improvement’  “Prolor’s technology would be a major improvement and
obviously a very attractive change for patients and
physicians,” Bart Classen, an analyst at Summer Street Research
Partners, said by telephone. “Any of the companies making
short-acting hormone could be interested in buying them. There’s
definitely a strong chance that the company will be acquired or
partner up with a number of the larger companies who would have
a natural interest in this product.”  Phillip Frost, chairman of generic-drug maker  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , owns about 20 percent of Prolor.
Teva, which paid $6.5 billion to acquire U.S. biotechnology
company Cephalon Inc. last year, needs new sources of revenue as
its top-selling treatment, a branded multiple-sclerosis medicine
called Copaxone, faces increased competition.  More than 50,000 adults in the U.S. are growth-deficient
and 6,000 new cases are reported each year, according to the
 Human Growth Foundation . Side effects of hormone deficiency can
include increased fat mass, diminished muscle strength, physical
energy and stamina.  Stock Gains  Prolor shares were little changed at $5.20 in  New York 
yesterday. The company’s shares have risen 22 percent this year.  By attaching a small peptide named CTP to proteins, Prolor
says it can significantly increase the longevity of treatments.
The company is seeking to develop additional longer-lasting
drugs in the fields of hemophilia, Type 2 diabetes and obesity.  Merck & Co. (MRK)  in January 2010 won approval in  Europe  to sell
a new fertility treatment known as Elonva, based on the CTP
technology used by Prolor. Merck and Prolor are both licensees
of the technology from  Washington University  in  St. Louis . Merck
has the exclusive license for use of the CTP technology with
four fertility hormones while Prolor has the exclusive license
to apply CTP to all other therapeutic proteins and peptides.  “The fact that Merck’s Elonva is already in the market is
quite a straightforward validation of our technology,” said
Novik.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at   khallam@bloomberg.net  