-- Quinn Confronts Banks in Bid to Become NYC’s First Gay Mayor
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-16T18:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/quinn-confronts-banks-in-bid-to-become-nyc-s-first-gay-mayor.html
Christine Quinn , New York City
Council speaker, mayoral frontrunner, gay-rights activist and
bride-to-be, pointed to Manhattan’s Chelsea Hotel in a gesture
telling tenants she was on their side.  “Asbestos literally lurks in the air shafts,” she said,
after gathering residents and television crews for a Sunday
morning tour to inspect moldy walls and rusty refrigerators
inside the former home to poets and musicians from Dylan Thomas
to  Bob Dylan .  The next day, landlord Joseph Chetrit told tenants they
could drop their lawsuit; he would make the repairs. For Quinn,
45, it was a victory using a negotiating style that can be
combative and conciliatory. She’s used that formula to climb to
the top of the field jockeying to succeed Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , 70, who’s barred from seeking a fourth term in 2013.  “She’s a throwback to the Irish-American political bosses
in the history books,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of the
Quinnipiac Polling Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut . Its May 10
 survey  found that she led a five-candidate Democratic field with
26 percent approval, twice as much as her nearest rival. “She’s
always thinking, ‘What do we need to win?’”  Under Quinn’s leadership, the council yesterday overrode
the mayor’s veto of a law setting minimum pay for service
workers in city-leased buildings. The mayor said the market
should determine what they earn. Quinn countered that Bloomberg
in 2002 signed a similar law covering health-care workers with
no subsequent job losses or harm.  ‘Very Good Job’  Bloomberg, who vowed to veto a bill Quinn pushed through
the council yesterday forcing banks to report neighborhood
lending practices, will be among the guests at her May 19
wedding to lawyer Kim Catullo, 45, along with Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and U.S. Senators  Charles Schumer  and Kirsten Gillibrand.  “Chris Quinn has done a very good job as the speaker,”
Bloomberg said today during a City Hall news conference, when
asked whether their recent disagreements have changed his view
of her as a potential mayor. “It’s not for me to take sides,
certainly not now, in a race -- I don’t even know who’s going to
be running -- but Chris Quinn is very competent and would be a
very good mayor.”  Wedding Plans  The wedding will take place 10 days after President  Barack Obama ’s support for same-gender marriage focused national
attention on the issue. Bloomberg, her City Hall negotiating and
sometime-sparring partner, joined her last year in helping
persuade state lawmakers to legalize such unions. She would be
New York’s first openly homosexual mayor.  Bloomberg, who is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP, and Quinn are also bargaining in what
she describes as an “annual dance” over the city’s $68.7
billion budget, which requires council approval before June 30.  The speaker, who grew up in suburban Glen Cove,  Long
Island , the daughter of an electrical engineer and a social
worker, has said the budget won’t pass unless tens of millions
of dollars in Bloomberg-proposed cuts to child care, after-
school programs and 20 fire companies get restored.  The job of council speaker has proved to be a political
dead end for Quinn’s predecessors. Peter Vallone Sr., who
likened the task of leading the 51-member legislature to
“herding cats,” lost a bid for mayor in 2001. Gifford Miller,
speaker for three years starting in 2002, lost his run for the
Democratic mayoral nomination in 2005.  Opposition, Support  Vallone, a Democrat, fought former Republican Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani , boasting that he helped kill his plan to pay for a new
Yankee Stadium in  Manhattan . Miller also opposed Bloomberg’s
proposals, from zoning changes to school policy to solid-waste
management. Quinn, in contrast, has negotiated and partnered
with the mayor -- an independent who has run three times on the
Republican ballot line -- on budgeting, waste management and
land use.  She has mixed opposition with support, backing Bloomberg
when he sought a third term in 2009. She stopped speaking and
walked away from an April 30 City Hall rally celebrating passage
of the so-called prevailing-wage bill, chastising a supporter
for uncivil language when he referred to the mayor as “Pharaoh
Bloomberg.”  “Gifford had a very adversarial relationship with the
mayor, and I think you could argue that he had that for all the
right reasons,” Quinn said in an interview last week. “One of
my takeaways was I thought that I could be more productive if I
had a less contentious, more results-focused relationship.”  Hudson Yards  Quinn, whose trademarks include her red hair and loud
laugh, won election in 1999, representing a district on
Manhattan’s west side that runs from 57th Street through Times
Square, Hell’s Kitchen and Chelsea south through  Greenwich
Village  to Canal Street. She was previously chief of staff to
her predecessor, Thomas Duane, who’s now a state senator.  Her district included Hudson Yards, a swath of underused
land stretching from 42nd to 29th Streets between Eighth Avenue
and the  Hudson River , which the Bloomberg administration turned
into the largest rezoning in city history.  She organized meetings of residents and officials, and
negotiated changes in the master plan in 2005 and in 2009,
adding hundreds of affordable-housing units, open space, a
school and a theater.  ‘Middle Point’  “This was the middle point between her going from
community activist to mayoral candidate,” said Anna Levin, who
was then a member of the local community board and who now
serves on the Planning Commission. “She played a critical
behind-the-scenes role in bringing the community groups
together.”  Quinn’s critics include a group of bloggers who question
her progressive credentials. Their opposition stems from her
support for the mayor’s push to change the city charter, which
permitted him -- and her -- to run for third terms in 2009.  Donny Moss, who blogs for  votechristinequinnout.com , says
Quinn backed the  term-limits  extension for Bloomberg because her
own mayoral prospects were tarnished. The  New York  Post in 2008
reported that she participated in a practice, which predated her
leadership, whereby money was allocated to fictitious
organizations so it could be doled out to community groups later
in the budget year.  Quinn ended the practice and instituted rules that required
council members’ names to be linked with any appropriations of
discretionary funding. A federal investigation closed in 2011,
without any action taken, Quinn has said.  “She has betrayed the public trust by overturning term
limits, by stripping the City Council of the democratic process,
using discretionary funds and committee assignments to control
the way council members vote,” Moss said in an interview.  Quinn shrugged off the criticism.  ‘No-Name Blogger’  “I don’t work for them,” she said. “My job is not to
make some random no-name blogger happy. My job is to get things
done, and that means working with and for everyone who can help
move agendas forward.”  Peter Vallone Jr., a Queens Democrat and son of the former
council speaker, said Quinn cut his discretionary funds 42
percent to $838,321 last year after he held a press briefing on
the day of her State of the City speech to oppose her and
Bloomberg’s plan to rename the Queensboro Bridge after former
Mayor Edward Koch.  For Lewis Fidler, a Brooklyn Democrat and chairman of the
council Youth Committee, who’s depending on Quinn’s clout to
obtain more money for after-school and early-child-care
programs, those are the gestures and prerogatives of a leader.  “You know when you’re on the wrong side of her,” he said.
“If you do give her the courtesy of letting her know if you’re
going to disagree, she’s going to respect that. But you do need
to be thoughtful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  