-- Rajoy Risks Bailout Yields in Trial of Spain’s Funding
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-05-17T14:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/rajoy-risks-bailout-yields-in-trial-of-spain-s-funding.html
Spain  sold the maximum amount of
notes targeted today as borrowing costs rose and 10-year bond
yields approached levels that drove nations including Greece and
 Portugal  into bailouts.  Spain sold 2.49 billion euros ($3.2 billion) of debt as the
yield on notes maturing in July 2015 rose to 4.876 percent from
4.037 percent when they were last auctioned two weeks ago.
Spanish 10-year bond yields eased after the auction to 6.334
percent, remaining near the 7 percent mark that pushed Greece,
Ireland and Portugal toward European rescue packages.  The auction “fits the recent pattern that the Spanish
Treasury is able to get its supply away, but at an ever-
increasing cost,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “This points to
the fact we’re running out of road of debt sustainability for
Spain. Ultimately, some form of outside intervention will be
necessary.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said yesterday that Spain
faces the “serious risk” of losing access to debt markets and
called on European institutions for support. The Treasury is
trying to sell bonds after foreign investors’ share of the
nation’s debt fell to the lowest since 2003. Spanish banks
picked up the slack with the help of emergency funding from the
 European Central Bank .  Potential ‘Accident’  “Spain is potentially the biggest euro-zone accident
waiting to happen,” saidNeil Williams, chief economist at
Hermes Fund Management in  London . “Unless there is a sudden and
sustainable improvement in Spain’s underlying competitiveness,
the next round of euro-zone governments’ support will have to
stretch beyond the debtor nations currently on investors’
radars.”  Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said today
that Spain deserves support for its bonds in recognition of its
efforts to cut the  budget deficit  and overhaul the shrinking
economy. The ECB has no plans for immediate actions as it
conducts a comprehensive review of all its policy tools, two
euro-area officials said yesterday.  “We are doing everything necessary in terms of budget
adjustments and reforms, and we understand there should be a
certain reaction from the ECB,” Jimenez Latorre told reporters
in Madrid.  Confidence Game  Before today’s auction, Spain had already sold 53 percent
of its planned medium and long-term issuance for this year,
according to the  Economy Ministry . It also sold notes today
maturing in January 2015 at an average rate of 4.375 percent and
April 2016 bonds at a yield of 5.106 percent.  “Spain, once again, is where the confidence game is
played,” said Sebastian Paris Horvitz, chief market strategist
at HSBC Private Bank Suisse in Geneva. “A circuit breaker to
end the current negative spiral is needed, given the pressure on
Spain.”  Foreign investors cut their holdings of Spanish debt to
219.6 billion euros as of the end of March, or 37.5 percent of
the total, compared with 281.4 billion euros, or 50 percent, at
the end of last year, data from the Treasury show. Spanish banks
increased their holdings to 170.6 billion euros from 94.4
billion euros after the ECB offered banks unlimited funds for
three years.  The Frankfurt-based central bank may need to take
additional measures to ease Spanish yields, said Peter Goves, an
analyst at Citigroup in London.  Credible Backstop  “In our view, the ECB remains the only credible backstop
to arrest the current turmoil,” he said in an e-mailed note.
“Combined with the weak macro backdrop, concerns about
political paralysis in  Greece  and the need to support the
Spanish banking sector,  risk aversion  is rising.”  Spanish bond yields have risen almost 60 basis points since
elections in Greece on May 6 failed to produce an outright
winner. Greek voters return to the ballot box on June 17 as
expectations increase that the nation may leave the currency,
fanning contagion through the southern euro region.  Rajoy also signaled yesterday that the ECB should take
measures to stabilize Spanish bond yields as he raised the
possibility the country may lose access to financial markets.
Rajoy has repeatedly threatened Spaniards with the risk of a
bailout as he seeks to convince them to accept austerity. Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro adopted his rhetoric yesterday.  Budget cuts “are what decide whether we can finance
ourselves or not,” he told lawmakers in  Madrid . “What we are
going to see in Spain are the welfare cuts of a country that
can’t finance itself if we don’t do what we have to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  