-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Reaches 7-Month Low on Fed, ECB
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-05-16T21:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/treasury-yield-is-10-basis-points-from-low-on-greece.html
Treasury 10-year note yields reached
a seven-month low as Federal Reserve policy makers said more
economic stimulus may be needed and the  European Central Bank 
said it will suspend some operations with Greek banks.  Several U.S. central bank officials said increased risks to
their economic outlook could warrant additional action to keep
the recovery on track, minutes of their last meeting showed.
 U.S. government debt   declined  earlier as optimism about the
economic outlook damped demand for safe assets. A U.S. sale of
$13 billion of 10-year inflation-indexed notes tomorrow is
forecast to produce a record low negative yield.  “With the minutes, there probably is a little
recalibration going on,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income
trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for
institutional investors. “There’s an indication that the Fed
has a certain degree of resolve to do something if the economy
should falter.”  The benchmark 10-year yield fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.76 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent
security due May 2022 rose 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 29/32.  Record Low  The yield touched 1.75 percent, the lowest since Oct. 4. It
reached a record low 1.67 percent on Sept. 23 after a Group of
20 finance chiefs failed to ease concern the global economy was
on the brink of another recession.  Ten-year yields also  climbed  as high as 1.82 percent
earlier after reports showed U.S. builders broke ground on more
homes than forecast in April and industrial production climbed
more than projected, propelled by gains in auto manufacturing
and utility use.  Treasuries returned 2.7 percent in the past two months,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsened. Investors tracking the MSCI All-Country World
Index of  stocks  lost 8.4 percent in the same period.  The 10-year TIPS offering tomorrow is a reopening of the
note sold in January and is yielding negative 0.39 percent. The
notes to be sold tomorrow are yielding negative 0.35 percent in
pre-auction trading. The record low auction yield of negative
0.089 percent was March 22.  Attractive Offer  “Break-even levels do look attractive,” said Aaron Kohli,
an interest-rate strategist BNP Paribas SA in New York, one of
21 primary dealers that are required to bid at government debt
auctions. “QE3 would probably benefit TIPS because it would
increase forward expectations for inflation,” he said referring
to addition Fed debt purchases, known as quantitative easing, or
QE.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, known as the break-even rate
of inflation, was 2.11 percentage points after falling to 2.09
points May 14, the least since Feb. 1. The figure is close to
the 2.15 percentage point average during the past decade.  The Fed cut its target for the  federal funds rate , which
banks charge each other for overnight loans, to a range of zero
to 0.25 percent in December 2008. It repeated in its latest
statement April 25 that economic conditions will probably
warrant keeping the target low at least through late 2014.  “Several members indicated that additional monetary policy
accommodation could be necessary if the economic recovery lost
momentum or the downside risks to the forecast became great
enough,” according to minutes of the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s April 24-25 meeting released today in Washington.  Fed Policy  “Markets just reacted to increased odds of potential
policy,” said  John Briggs , a U.S. government bond strategist at
RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , a primary dealer.
“If they’re going to do additional easing in a few months, or a
month or two, that means the first hike is further off.”  Housing starts rose 2.6 percent to a 717,000 annual rate
from March’s revised 699,000 pace that was stronger than
previously reported, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median estimate of 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a rise to 685,000.  Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 1.1
percent last month, the most since December 2010, after a 0.6
percent decline in March that was revised from no change, the
Fed reported today in  Washington . Economists forecast a 0.6
percent gain, according to the Bloomberg News survey median.  Economic Reading  “The data is actually coming in much better than I would
have expected, especially on the housing front,” said Krishna Memani, director of fixed income at OppenheimerFunds Inc. in New
York, who manages $70 billion. “A lot of pessimism has already
been priced in. At 1.80 percent, it doesn’t require” the Fed
“to say anything to go to 2.20 percent, 2.30 percent fairly
quickly.”  The 10-year rate will increase to 2.51 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
financial companies, with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  The ECB said it will temporarily stop lending to some Greek
banks to limit its risk as President Mario Dragi signaled the
ECB won’t compromise on key principles to keep  Greece  in the
euro area.  The Frankfurt-based central bank said it will push the
responsibility for lending to some Greek financial institutions
onto the Greek central bank until they have sufficiently boosted
their capital. “Once the recapitalization process is finalized,
and we expect this to be finalized soon, the banks will regain
access to standard Eurosystem refinancing operations,” the ECB
said in an e-mailed statement.  Greek Policy  Greece’s inability to form a government has driven concern
the country will renege on pledges to cut spending as required
by the terms of its two bailouts negotiated since 2010, pushing
borrowing costs higher and potentially leading it to leave the
euro area. Greek 10-year yields rose above 30 percent today for
the first time since the nation’s debt was restructured in
March.  ‘The concern here isn’t so much about Greece, per se, but
about the contagion effect,” said Michael Pond, co-head of
interest-rate strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, a primary
dealer. “This increases uncertainty about the likely events of
the next couple of months and the contagion effect on the
European banking system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  