-- Senate Rejects Five Budget Plans Amid Republican Complaints
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-05-16T22:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/republicans-seize-control-of-senate-agenda-to-force-budget-votes.html
The  U.S. Senate  rejected five
competing budget plans as Republicans attempted to embarrass
Democrats for failing to adopt a budget this year.  Taking advantage of an obscure Senate rule, Republicans
today forced votes on their budget plans as well as one modeled
on President  Barack Obama ’s tax-and-spending request.  Though each was defeated, the votes were designed to
emphasize Republican complaints that Senate Democrats refuse to
explain how they’d reduce the government’s $1.2 trillion budget
 deficit . Republicans say that voters’ anxiety about the deficit
will outweigh their concern for domestic programs targeted for
cuts.  “Democrats can’t even put a plan on a piece of paper,”
said Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican. “As far as I can tell, their only plan is to take
shots at our plans and hope nobody notices that they don’t have
one of their own.” The votes, he said, will show the public
“who’s got a plan to fix the mess we’re in and who doesn’t.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said Republicans were
“wasting a day of the Senate’s time on useless, political show
votes,” maintaining that last year’s deal to raise the debt
limit amounts to a budget.  ‘Case of Amnesia’  “Republicans have developed a case of amnesia,” said
Reid, of Nevada. “Why else would they walk around Washington
claiming we don’t have a budget?”  Republicans took advantage of a Senate rule allowing any
lawmaker to require votes on a budget if the chamber’s Budget
Committee hasn’t produced a fiscal blueprint by April 1.  The chamber rejected, on a 41-58 procedural  vote , House
Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan’s plan calling for deep cuts
in  government spending  as well as in taxes. Five Senate
Republicans opposed Ryan’s plan, among them  Scott Brown  of
Massachusetts and  Dean Heller  of Nevada, both of whom face
competitive election contests.  “We need to end our out-of-control spending” and “to do
that, we need to work together, Democrats and Republicans,”
Brown said in a statement.  The plan based on Obama’s February budget request was
 rejected  0-99.  “Finding unanimous, bipartisan agreement in
Washington is a rare sight, but the president has achieved it,”
said Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican.  A trio of competing Republican plans, each calling for
steeper cuts than Ryan’s budget proposal did, also was rejected.
Senator Rand Paul’s proposal to end Medicare, cut Social
Security benefits and eliminate four Cabinet departments failed
on a 16-83 vote.  Utah Senator Mike Lee’s bid to cut the size of the
government in half over the next 25 years fell, 17-82. Senator
Patrick Toomey’s plan would have balanced the budget in eight
years, far faster than Ryan’s budget that wouldn’t eliminate the
shortfall until 2040. It was rejected on a 42-57  vote .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at   bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at   jschneider50@bloomberg.net  