-- Richemont Full-Year Profit Beats Estimates on Asian Sales
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-05-16T16:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/richemont-full-year-profit-beats-estimates-on-sales-in-asia.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the
second-biggest luxury goods company, reported full-year profit
that beat analysts’ estimates as sales were boosted by buoyant
demand for high-end goods in the Asia-Pacific region.  Net income climbed 43 percent to 1.54 billion euros ($1.96
billion) in the 12 months through March 31, the Geneva-based
company said today in a statement. The average of 14 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was 1.36 billion euros. Revenue
gained 29 percent to 8.87 billion euros, including growth of 43
percent in Asia-Pacific.  Richemont rose the most in nine months in Zurich trading.
The maker of Cartier jewelry gets about 42 percent of revenue in
Asia-Pacific, where the luxury market will expand as much as 16
percent this year, according to Bain & Co. The forecast excludes
 China , which the researcher estimates will grow as much as 22
percent. Richemont said sales in April rose 29 percent on a
reported basis and 20 percent excluding currency swings.  “Richemont continues to lead the pack in terms of organic
growth rates,” HSBC analysts including  Antoine Belge  wrote
today in a note. The current year “is off to a staggering
start.” HSBC has a neutral recommendation on the stock.  The shares gained 8.1 percent, the steepest advance since
Aug. 11, to 57.65 Swiss francs.  ‘Cautious Optimism’  While mindful of unstable economic conditions, particularly
in the euro zone, Richemont is convinced of the resilience and
long-term prospects of its maisons, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Johann Rupert said in the statement. “We therefore look
forward to the future with cautious optimism,” he said.  Excluding currency swings, sales climbed 46 percent in the
Asia-Pacific region, 20 percent in  Europe , 30 percent in the
Americas and 9 percent in  Japan , the company said.  While growth has slowed in some Chinese coastal cities, the
country is doing very well overall, Rupert said today on a call
to reporters. Richemont hasn’t seen any sign of demand waning in
Europe, the CEO also said, adding that he’s been surprised by
the region’s resilience.     Full-year sales growth in Europe
was a “notch” slower than the prior year, the company said.  Revenue from Richemont’s watch division, which includes
Jaeger-LeCoultre timepieces, climbed 31 percent to 2.32 billion
euros, exceeding the 2.25 billion-euro average estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Asia  imported more than half of
 Switzerland ’s watches last year, according to the Federation of
the Swiss Watch Industry.  Net-A-Porter  Sales at the jewelry unit increased 32 percent to 4.59
billion euros. Richemont in March said Stanislas de Quercize,
who heads the Van Cleef & Arpels brand, will succeed Bernard Fornas as chief executive of Cartier by the end of 2012.  Montblanc sales climbed 8 percent to 723 million euros,
while other businesses, which include online fashion retailer
Net-A-Porter and the company’s watch-component manufacturing
activities, climbed 27 percent to 1.23 billion euros.  Richemont plans to open about 70 stores this year, while
cash will be used for organic growth, Rupert said. There are no
acquisitions on the immediate horizon, he said.  Richemont also said today it will buy back as many as 10
million A shares, or a 1.7 percent stake, through the market
over the next two years. The stock will be held by the company
to hedge awards to executives under a stock option plan.  The company also proposed a  dividend  of 55 centimes a
share, up 22 percent on the prior year, to be paid on Sept. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 