-- Robotic Arms Allow Paralyzed Patients to Grasp Objects
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-05-16T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/robotic-arms-allow-paralyzed-patients-to-grasp-objects.html
Two people  paralyzed by strokes  were
able to control robotic arms by using only their thoughts, a
medical advance that may one-day lead to the developement of more
-sophisticated prosthetic limbs.  One patient, a 58-year-old woman, used a robot arm to sip a
drink on her own for the first time since her stroke 15 years
before, according to a study published today in the journal
 Nature . The woman and a 66-year-old man grasped foam targets
using the limbs in the clinical trial.  The researchers are seeking to mimic the spinal cord’s
ability to send signals to paralyzed limbs, said John Donoghue,
director of the Institute for Brain Science at  Brown University 
in Providence,  Rhode Island . Monkeys have been able to
manipulate the artificial arms in studies, and this trial brings
the ideal of human use one step closer, he said.  “For a patient who’s paralyzed, especially one who’s
totally paralyzed, being able to reach out and grasp a coffee in
the morning is really amazing,”  Donoghue , an author of the
study, said in a telephone interview.  The man and the woman had been paralyzed since having brain
stem strokes in 2006 and 1996, respectively. That they were
unable to move for so long before trying the robot devices
showed that the part of the brain that controls movement, called
the motor cortex, hadn’t been rewired for other uses, a concern
from the animal studies, Donoghue said.  The work is notable because while some of the animal
research was in normal-bodied monkeys, these patients were
severely disabled and had been for years, said Nicholas Hatsopoulos, chairman of the committee on computational
neuroscience at the  University of Chicago . He also works on
brain-controlled prosthetics, though he wasn’t involved in
today’s research.  Nerve Signals  A baby aspirin-sized sensor that monitors neural signals
was implanted in part of each participant’s motor cortex.
Computers turned the person’s nerve signals into commands for
the devices.  Both patients controlled an artificial limb called the Deka
Arm System, made by  Deka Research and Development Corp . The
woman also used a DLR Light-Weight Robot III, made by  Deutsches
Zentrum für Luft-und Raumfahrt  in  Germany .  In one task, the patients used the Deka Arm to grasp foam
targets in less than 30 seconds. One was successful 62 percent
of the time; the other succeeded in 46 percent of the tries. The
woman also attempted the foam task with the DLR Light-Weight
Robot, which is heavier than the other arm, and was successful
at the foam task 21 percent of the time.  Grasping Bottle  She also used the heavier arm to drink, successfully
grasping a bottled drink and moving it to her mouth to sip
through a straw four of six times.  The woman’s brain device, dubbed BrainGate and made by
 BrainGate Co. , was implanted five years ago, and that it still
works assuages concerns the body might blunt its signal by
forming scar tissue around the product or attacking it, Donoghue
said. Wires for the device exit a port in her head, and hook
into an electronics cabinet about the size of a dormitory
refrigerator.  The length of time the female patient’s electrode had spent
in her brain was encouraging, said  Lee Miller , a professor of
physiology at Northwestern University’s Feinberg School of
Medicine in  Chicago , who also works on brain-controlled
prosthetics and wasn’t involved in this study.  “You don’t want brain surgery every three years,” Miller
said in a telephone interview. Also, the brains of some animals
have changed after rejecting the electrodes in previous
experiments, hurting the chance that another implanted device
would work, he said.  Donoghue’s group is testing a wireless version of the
device, with a transmitter about the size of a matchbox to go
under the skull’s skin. That work is in animal tests, he said.  The study was funded by the  National Institutes of Health ,
the Department of Veterans’ Affairs, and the  Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency , among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  