-- Romney Calls for Caution on Regulations After JPMorgan Loss
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/romney-says-regulators-must-be-cautious-after-jp-morgan-loss.html
Mitt Romney , saying business losses
are part of “the way America works,” urged caution in adopting
new regulations in response to the $2 billion trading loss by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   In his first direct comments on the bank’s missteps, Romney
said, “I would not rush to pass new legislation or new
regulation.”  The presumptive Republican presidential nominee was
interviewed in a podcast yesterday with blogger  Ed Morrissey  of
Hot Air in which Romney also addressed his work as a private
equity executive. As for JPMorgan, he cautioned, “This is, in
the normal course of business, a large loss but certainly not
one which is crippling or threatening to the institution.”  Though regulators should investigate the trades to
understand what happened at the company, Romney framed the loss
as an example of capitalism at work.  “This was not a loss to the taxpayers of America; this was
a loss to shareholders and owners of JPMorgan and that’s the way
America works,” he said. “The $2 billion JPMorgan lost,
someone else gained.”  JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ,
who disclosed the loss last week, told shareholders there was no
justification for the “egregious mistakes” by the biggest and
most profitable U.S. bank. In two suits filed this week in
Manhattan federal court, shareholders sued the bank and Dimon
over the loss.  Central to Message  Romney, co-founder of private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC,
has made repealing the Dodd-Frank law that seeks to strengthen
financial regulations a central part of his campaign message,
calling it one of several overly burdensome laws backed by
President  Barack Obama  that costs jobs.  He has remained mostly silent on what, if anything, he
would replace the law with to prevent the types of risky
behavior that sparked the 2008 financial crisis.  A 59-point economic plan released by his campaign in
September 2011 calls for replacing the law with a “streamlined
regulatory framework” guided by three themes: More transparency
for inter-bank relationships, enhanced  capital requirements  and
“provisions to address new forms of complex financial
transactions.”  For Obama’s re-election bid, the JPMorgan difficulties have
offered an opportunity to contrast the positions of the two
candidates.  “It is amazing that there are still those who are out
there arguing we should repeal  Wall Street  reform, that we
should let Wall Street write their own rules again,” White
House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said on May 14.  Changed Environment  While Romney supported the federal bailout of the banking
system, known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, he said in
yesterday’s interview that the economic climate has changed and
banks now should be allowed to fail.  “My own view is that if a large bank gets in difficulty,
why, it can fail,” he said. “There’s no reason why the
shareholders or bondholders of a bank can’t lose their funds if
a bank were to get in trouble.”  In the course of his campaigning, Romney has also toughened
his position on the Sarbanes-Oxley financial accounting overhaul
enacted in the wake of the Enron Corp. scandal. After initially
saying he would favor amending that law, he sharpened his
stance.  Asked by a voter on March 3 in Beavercreek,  Ohio , if he
planned to “basically repeal” the Sarbanes-Oxley measure,
along with the health-care overhaul Obama pushed through
Congress and the Dodd-Frank measure, Romney responded, “Yes.”  Modern, Updated  “By the way, when I get rid of Obamacare and I get rid of
Dodd-Frank and I get rid of Sarbanes-Oxley, it doesn’t mean I
don’t want to have any law or any regulation,” Romney said.
“It means I want to make sure it’s modern, it’s updated, it
goes after the bad guys, but it also encourages the good guys.”  Romney also in yesterday’s interview addressed attacks over
his record at Bain Capital, saying he wasn’t responsible for job
losses at GST Steel -- the subject of an Obama’s campaign
advertisement this week.  “The most recent attacks are really off-target,” he said.
“Their problem, of course, is that the steel factory closed
down two years after I left  Bain Capital . I was no longer there.
So that’s hardly that was something that was on my watch.”  Romney left Bain Capital in 1999 to go run the Winter
Olympics, two years before GST steel went bankrupt.  Creating Jobs  He also repeated a claim often made by his campaign that
under his tenure the firm created 100,000 jobs. Neither Bain nor
the campaign has been able to document that figure in response
to repeated requests by Bloomberg News. Bain Capital doesn’t
track jobs lost or gained as a result of their investments.  Democrats have cast Romney as a corporate raider eager to
sacrifice jobs for higher profits. An outside group backing
Obama released an ad attacking Romney over GST Steel, which
fired workers and declared bankruptcy in 2001, eight years after
being bought by Bain.  “If we lost, they made money. If we survived, they made
money,” said Pat Wells, identified as a former GST employee, in
the ad funded by Priorities USA Action. “He’ll give you the
same thing he gave us: nothing. He’ll take it all.”  Obama campaign officials also continued their efforts to
turn Romney’s business experience into a political liability,
highlighting what they have termed “consequences of Romney
economics.”  Former Employees  On a conference call with reporters featuring former
employees of Dade Behring Inc. and American Pad & Paper, deputy
Obama campaign manager  Stephanie Cutter  said Romney was focused
on creating wealth for a handful of investors like himself
instead of jobs for everyone else.  “Romney once again made a fortune on the backs of their
misfortune,” Cutter said.  Vice President  Joe Biden  scorned “Romney economics” in a
speech in Ohio, saying the Republican’s approach is “as long as
the government helps the guys at the top to do well, workers and
small businesses and communities, they can fend for
themselves.”  Bain fired back, wading into the debate with an unusual
public statement.  “We understand that in a political campaign our exemplary
28-year record will be distorted and complex business situations
will be portrayed in a simplistic way,” the company wrote in a
statement distributed to reporters. “We are extremely proud of
our employees and management teams.”  The public statement is a rare step for the usually media-
shy firm and illustrated concerns among private equity investors
that the politics of the presidential campaign will further
tarnish their industry.  Trade Group Video  The Private Equity Growth Capital Council, a trade group for
the industry, released a video this week describing their
business model.  “We expected the general election would bring new attention
to private equity, but what is lost in the politically charged
debate is the fact that private equity has pumped hundreds of
billions of dollars into the  U.S. economy , supporting and
strengthening tens of thousands of businesses in all 50
states,” said  Ken Spain , a spokesman for the organization.  Bain said the firm invested more than $100 million and
“many thousands of hours” into turning around GST Steel, which
would have closed in 1993 without their investment.  “This was unfortunately at a time when the  steel industry 
came under enormous pressure, and nearly half of all U.S. steel
companies went into bankruptcy,” the firm said in its
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  