-- Rousseff Swears in Commission to Probe Dictatorship Crime
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-05-16T17:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/rousseff-swears-in-commission-to-probe-dictatorship-crime.html
President  Dilma Rousseff , who was
imprisoned and tortured during  Brazil ’s 1964-85 military rule,
today pledged with tears in her eyes that a commission designed
to probe rights abuses then would not seek revenge.  “What drives us is not revenge, hate or the desire to re-
write history but the need to understand it fully without hiding
or camouflaging it,” she said during the swearing-in ceremony
for the commission. “If there are sons without fathers, fathers
without tombs, tombs without bodies, there cannot be a history
without a voice,” she added, near tears and sparking repeated
standing ovations.  One of the seven commission members is the lawyer who
represented Rousseff when she was tortured with electric shocks
while jailed between 1970 and 1972 for belonging to the Marxist
underground that fought the junta.  Rousseff’s push for the nation of 190 million inhabitants
to come to terms with its past, caused tension with armed forces
members already concerned about growing legal action to hold
officers accountable for the disappearance and torture of
dissidents. Hundreds of retired military officers signed a
petition denouncing the commission in March.  More than 475 people disappeared after being detained
during the dictatorship, and thousands were illegally arrested
or tortured, according to New York-based  Human Rights Watch .  A 1979 Amnesty Law exempts from prosecution both those who
engaged in armed resistance and military officials who may have
committed crimes prior to that date. The country’s  Supreme Court 
approved the law’s wide scope in 2010.  Amnesty Law  While she honored those who fought and died for the return
to democracy, Rousseff suggested she would also respect the
Amnesty Law.  “I also recognize and value political pacts that led us to
re-democratization,” she said in the presence of the country’s
top brass.  Unlike several of its South American neighbors, Brazil has
never sentenced a military officer for violence during the 21
years of dictatorship. In March, Federal prosecutors in Para
state for the first time filed criminal charges accusing an
officer of human-rights violations. After a court rejected the
charges on grounds that they are barred by the Amnesty Law,
prosecutors filed similar charges in April in  Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  