-- Rupee Sinks to Record Low as RBI Considers Action: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-05-16T11:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/rupee-sinks-to-record-low-on-greece-euro-exit-risk-mumbai-mover.html
India ’s rupee fell to a record low as
concern debt-stricken  Greece  will abandon the euro bolstered
demand for dollars and curbed bids for emerging-market assets.  The currency dropped the most in more than five months
after Greek political leaders’ attempts to form a coalition
following a May 6 election broke down yesterday. The  Reserve
Bank of India  is closely observing the rupee’s movement and will
act if needed, central bank Deputy Governor H.R. Khan told
reporters at Pokhara in Nepal today, without elaborating.
Separately, Deputy Governor K.C. Chakrabarty said in Mumbai that
the monetary authority isn’t looking to protect any rupee level.  “The price action today is largely due to broad-based
dollar strength,” said Nick Verdi, a currency strategist in
Singapore at  Barclays Capital . “In this environment, where the
dollar is rallying, I think the Indian authorities are limited
in reversing some downmoves in the rupee.”  The rupee declined 1.3 percent to 54.4950 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That is the
biggest drop since Dec. 12. The currency touched an all-time low
of 54.5225 earlier and is down 6.6 percent this quarter,  Asia ’s
worst performance.  The rupee’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, rose 100 basis
points, or 1 percentage point, to this year’s high of 13
percent.  ‘Weak’ Fundamentals  The currency briefly pared losses today after Bloomberg UTV
reported, citing sources it didn’t identify, that the central
bank may sell dollars directly to  oil companies  through so-
called special market operations, to ease demand for the
greenback in the foreign-exchange market. Alpana Killawala,
spokeswoman for the  Reserve Bank , did not respond to an e-mail
and two calls to her mobile phone.  India’s “weak” economic fundamentals are pressuring the
currency more than global factors, according to  ING Vysya Bank
Ltd. (VYSB)  The trade deficit swelled to a record $184.9 billion in the
year ended March 31 and  industrial output  shrank 3.5 percent in
March from a year earlier, government figures showed this month.
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the outlook on the nation’s BBB- sovereign
debt rating to negative on April 25.  “What needs to be done is to restore investor confidence
that has completely eroded over the past few months,” said
Upasna Bhardwaj, Mumbai-based economist at ING Vysya. “We
require sound fundamentals to attract capital inflows that are
needed to fund the current-account shortfall.”  Six-month onshore currency forwards were trading at 56.20 a
dollar, compared with 55.46 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 56.41 from 55.58. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  