-- Russian Funds Flee as Anti-Putin Demonstrators Dig In
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-05-17T16:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/russian-funds-flee-as-anti-putin-demonstrators-dig-in.html
Investors are fleeing Russia as
demonstrators against President Vladimir Putin dig in,
exacerbating the impact of Europe’s debt crisis on the country’s
markets, money managers from Frankfurt to Moscow said.  Activists who clashed with police before Putin’s May 7
inauguration are protesting non-stop in Moscow, using the  Occupy
Wall Street  movement’s tactics. As the benchmark RTS equity
index entered a  bear market , Russia-focused equity funds
recorded $251 million of outflows in the seven days to May 9,
the most this year, while  China  lost $127 million,  India  $148
million and  Brazil  $167 million, EPFR Global data show.  Tensions have risen as opposition leaders Alexei Navalny
and Sergei Udaltsov face potential charges punishable with as
much as three years in jail. The threat of a crackdown is
intensifying a sell-off in equities, bonds and the ruble sparked
by  Greece ’s possible exit from the euro and the falling price of
oil, the country’s chief export, said Zina Psiola, chief
executive of Granite Investment in Zurich.  “The protests are just one expression of discontent but
money speaks louder than the people on the street as we are
seeing with the capital and equity outflows,” Psiola, whose
company manages about $90 million including Russian stocks, said
in a phone interview.  Bear Market  The  dollar-denominated RTS index  was the world’s worst-
performing major index today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gauge closed 4.4 percent down at 1,313.43 in
Moscow, pushing this month’s decline to about 18 percent.  The larger ruble-denominated  Micex index  entered a bear
market, losing 3.5 percent to 1,287.79, a 21 percent drop from
this year’s March 14 high. OAO Sberbank, the country’s largest
lender, tumbled 7.2 percent.  “If we hadn’t had this problem with Greece, the impact of
the potential jailing of Navalny on Russian bonds would have
been very minimal,” Sergey Dergachev, who helps oversee $8.5
billion in emerging-market funds at Union Investment Privatfonds
in  Frankfurt , said in an e-mail. “When everything gets worse,
investors remember all the political stuff and a vicious selling
cycle starts.”  Rule of Law  While Putin has pledged to make the country’s political
process more democratic and strengthen the rule of law, an
increasing number of Russians are also seeking to move funds out
of the country to shield their wealth from his 12-year reign,
said Edward Mermelstein, a New York-based attorney who
represents Russian investors in the U.S.  Capital flight reached $42 billion for the first four
months of 2012, more than half of last year’s $80.5 billion
outflow, which was the second-highest level since central bank
records began in 1994.  “Putin is going to have problems containing the
protests,” Mermelstein said in a telephone interview. “If he
doesn’t make the changes he’s promised, he’s going to find it
very difficult to justify his presidency.”  Capital outflows are being caused by Russian banks’ needs
to meet their creditor obligations in other countries and a move
out of  emerging markets  by global investors, central bank
Governor  Sergei Ignatiev  told lawmakers yesterday.  Shield Themselves  “In  Europe , there is a sovereign debt crisis and there is
turbulence on financial markets, not only in Europe but in other
markets too,” Ignatiev said. “That’s why foreign investors are
trying to shield themselves and pulling out of emerging
markets.”  Putin’s opponents, who mounted the biggest rallies in more
than a decade to protest alleged fraud in December parliamentary
elections, are demanding new legislative and presidential polls.  While authorities have fulfilled pledges to relax the rules
for registering political parties and restore direct elections
for regional governors, mayoral polls in cities including
Astrakhan triggered disputes over alleged fraud.  Police beat demonstrators in Moscow with batons and
arrested hundreds of them on May 6 and in the following days
during a series of unauthorized gatherings. When riot police
dismantled a week-old protest camp near the Chistye Prudy subway
station, arresting 20 people, activists moved yesterday to
another square near the Moscow Zoo.  ‘Stay on the Streets’  “We’re determined to force the authorities to take us
seriously,” said Ilya Yashin, who’s coordinating the protests.
“As long as they don’t meet our demands, we’re prepared to stay
on the streets.”  Opposition organizers said Putin’s decision to skip the
Group of Eight summit hosted by U.S. President  Barack Obama  this
week is evidence that their tactics are succeeding in driving a
wedge between the Russian leader and the West.  “Putin is casting himself outside the civilized world,
he’s responsible for capital flight because he’s the one who’s
creating the conditions for political and economic
instability,” Yashin said in a May 14 interview at the
encampment broken up by police yesterday in a dawn raid.
“Putin’s image today is of a usurper who only preserves his
power with the help of repression and police batons.”  Police detained Yashin and several other protesters last
night as they broke up the new camp at Barrikadnaya, close to
the U.S. Embassy. Yashin was sentenced today to 10 days in jail,
Interfax reported.  About 50 activists gathered again this morning at the
Barrikadnaya protest site, activist and television presenter
Ksenia Sobchak said on her Twitter Inc. account.  G-8 Snub  Putin decided not to attend the summit of the world’s
leading industrialized nations to show U.S. President Barack
Obama his displeasure over American criticism of Russian
elections and the police action against protesters, Alexei Pushkov, a senior ruling-party lawmaker, said May 14.  The Russian leader on May 9 told Obama in a telephone call
that he can’t attend the G-8 meeting in Camp David because he
needs to make decisions concerning the new Russian government,
the White House said.  While some Putin critics including the leader of the pro-
democracy party Yabloko,  Grigory Yavlinsky , have accused
activists of provoking police violence, the Chistye Prudy site
became a focal point for opposition. Thousands of people marched
last weekend through Moscow’s central boulevards led by
novelists and poets on a protest walk that converged on the
camp. Artists plan to lead another march next weekend.  Higher Fines  Pro-government lawmakers plan tomorrow to give preliminary
approval to an increase in the maximum fine for protesters who
violate the law to 500,000 rubles ($16,100) from 2,000 rubles,
Vladimir Pligin from the ruling United  Russia  party said today.
The opposition condemned the initiative as an attempt to stifle
the constitutional right to free expression.  “If the government tries to get heavy-handed, the
protesters will just disperse, emerge in a new format and things
will become bigger,” said  Clemens Grafe , chief economist at
 Goldman Sachs in  Moscow.  The new Cabinet of Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev , who
stepped down as president to allow Putin’s Kremlin return, may
not have “sufficient political clout” to pursue investor-
friendly policies and keep spending under control,  Goldman Sachs (GS) 
said in a research note this week.  While foreign companies already in Russia are familiar with
the risks, those who are considering whether to invest are
concerned about political stability and economic predictability,
said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog, the
investment bank owned by state-run  OAO Sberbank. (SBER)   “All the headlines are being hogged by the opposition and
the message going out to the West is that there is still a
political threat,” Weafer said. “Investors had expected the
protests to end with the presidential elections and even though
they are at a low level, the glowing embers keep the risk they
will turn into a raging inferno at some point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  