-- Russia Stocks Sink to 7-Month Low as Oil Drops on Greek Concern
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-16T15:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/russia-stocks-sink-to-7-month-low-as-oil-drops-on-greek-concern.html
Russia ’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell to the
lowest level since October as oil dropped after Greek talks to
form a coalition government collapsed, raising concern the
region’s debt crisis will worsen.  The 30-stock Micex Index lost 0.7 percent to 1,335.10 by
the close in Moscow. OAO Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender,
fell 1.5 percent. OAO Rostelecom lost as much as 3.8 percent
after its weighting in the MSCI Russia Index was reduced.  Oil fell to a six-month low, losing as much as $2.17 to
$91.81 a barrel in New York. New elections in Greece may be
scheduled as early as June 10 after President Karolos Papoulias
failed to broker a governing coalition in meetings yesterday.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the vote would
be a referendum on whether the country stays in the euro. In
Russia, President  Vladimir Putin  starts consultations with Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s Cabinet candidates today.  “The most important thing is that the Greek political
situation won’t be resolved until the new elections,” Dominic Hewing, a portfolio manager at Lanturno Financial Corp., said by
phone. “The risk of a Greek exit from the Eurozone is gathering
momentum.”  The dollar-denominated  RTS  fell 1.9 percent to 1,373.82.
The index’s 3.6 percent slide on May 14 saw its retreat from
this year’s March 19 intraday peak breach the 20 percent
threshold analysts say marks a so-called  bear market .  Sberbank Stake Sale  Sberbank dropped to 86.88 rubles. Bank Rossii has not ruled
out selling a stake in Russia’s biggest lender this year,
central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev told lawmakers today in
the State Duma, the lower house of parliament.  The central bank plans to sell the 7.6 percent stake in the
Moscow-based lender as part of the government’s push to reduce
its stakes in Russia’s largest state-controlled corporations.  The Micex will follow RTS into a bear market if it declines
below 1,311.696, a 20 percent drop from this year’s intraday
high on March 15.  Russia is the first of the so-called BRIC countries to
enter a bear market in 2012. The BSE India Sensitive Index is
down 13 percent from its peak and  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index is down
17 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has been in a bear
market for more than a year.  “Russia’s main exposure to the continuing crisis in the
 euro zone  is the contagion to the price of oil, as concerns grow
that a deepening euro-zone crisis may affect global growth and
demand for commodities,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at
Troika Dialog in Moscow, said in an e-mailed note.  Fitch, Magnitogorsk  Russia received almost 50 percent of budget revenue from
oil and gas sales last year, according to government estimates.
Russia-focused equity funds recorded this year’s biggest
outflows for the week ended May 9, posting redemptions of $188
million, according to EPFR Global.  Fitch Ratings  cut the credit rating outlook for OAO
Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel to negative from stable, citing the
company’s 2011 leverage in a report today. Fitch affirmed
Magnitogorsk’s rating at BB+. The stock closed up 0.5 percent at
10.392 rubles.  Panagiotis Pikrammenos will head a caretaker government in
 Greece  ahead of a new round of elections on June 17, state-run
Athens News Agency reported, without citing anyone.  Russian stocks  pared losses  as U.S. data showed output at
factories, mines and utilities increased 1.1 percent last month,
the most since December 2010, after a 0.6 percent decline in
March that was revised from no change. Economists forecast a 0.6
percent gain. Earlier today, a report signaled the U.S.
residential real estate industry is stabilizing.  MSCI Russia “Reshuffle”  OAO Rosneft, OAO Inter RAO UES and LSR Group had their
weighting on MSCI Inc.’s Russia index increased, according to an
analyst note by VTB Capital today.  Rosneft became the fourth-biggest Russian stock on the
index with a 6.4 percent weighting compared with 4.95 percent
for OAO Novatek, according to an e-mailed copy of MSCI Inc.’s
report. Novatek shares fell 0.7 percent to 328.23 rubles, while
Rosneft rose 1.3 percent to 203.09 rubles.  The changes will see a “reshuffling” in the MSCI Russia
10/40 gauge which “can trigger outflows of up to $301 million
from Novatek and inflows of up to $542 million into Rosneft,”
VTB Capital analysts led by Alexey Zabotkin wrote today.  OAO Rostelecom, Russia’s dominant fixed-line operator, sank
0.7 percent to 123.70 rubles after its weighting was reduced to
2.3 percent, according to MSCI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  