-- Rwanda, Ivory Coast to Sell International Debt, Moody’s Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-05-16T15:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/rwanda-ivory-coast-to-sell-international-debt-moody-s-says-1-.html
Rwanda and  Ivory Coast , two of the
fastest growing economies in Africa, may sell debt abroad within
the next two years to help fund investment in the continent’s
development, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  “International issuance will be a part of the solutions to
access the resources needed for development of sub-Saharan
Africa,” Aurelien Mali, a sovereign credit analyst at Moody’s,
said in an interview in Johannesburg today.  Economic growth will reach 7.6 percent this year in Rwanda,
and 8.1 percent in Ivory Coast, surpassing the sub-Saharan
African average of 5.4 percent, the  International Monetary Fund 
said last month.  The economy of Rwanda, which is recovering from a 1994
genocide that left 800,000 people dead, has expanded an average
of 4.5 percent annually since 2005, according to the
IMF. That’s the fourth fastest in sub-Saharan Africa after
Angola, Ethiopia and Equatorial Guinea.  A Eurobond would be the first such issue for Rwanda, which
has a sovereign credit rating of B by  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard
& Poor’s , five steps below investment grade and on a par with
Cameroon and Lebanon. The nation is the highest-ranked country
in East Africa for business-friendly policies, according to the
 World Bank ’s 2012 Doing Business Report, which considered
factors including paying taxes and registering a business.  Ivory Coast, the world’s largest cocoa producer, stopped
paying interest on its international debt in January last year
during a five-month election stand-off and violent conflict. The
government said in a Jan. 23 statement it plans to restart
payments.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andres R. Martinez at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ; Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 