-- Same-Sex Unions Bill Shows Stakes for Obama in Colorado
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/same-sex-unions-bill-shows-stakes-for-obama-in-colorado.html
The defeat of a same-sex  civil unions
bill  in Colorado shows how Democrats will try to use rising
support for gay couples’ rights to help President  Barack Obama 
win the battleground state and its nine electoral votes in
November.  Governor John Hickenlooper, a first-term Democrat, called a
special legislative session this week forcing Republicans, who
had killed the bill once before, to do it again in the glare of
more publicity. The measure would have permitted same-sex
couples to inherit each other’s property, take family leave and
make medical end-of-life decisions for one another.  Polling done last month suggests that the defeat of civil
unions could help Obama, who carried Colorado in 2008, repeat
the victory by appealing to the state’s swing voters, said Jim
Williams, of Raleigh, North Carolina-based  Public Policy
Polling , a Democratic research firm.  “It’s not a winning issue for Republicans with a lot of
the key swing groups in  Colorado ,” Williams said. “There’s
been a question on a presidential level if Obama can bring out
young voters like he did in 2008. When you have Republicans so
out of step on an issue that is a no-brainer for voters under
30, that might energize them to vote.”  About 77 percent of Colorado voters under 30 think gay
marriage should be legal, according to  poll results  released by
Williams’ firm April 13. The survey also found that 62 percent
of the state’s voters approved the same-sex civil union measure,
with 83 percent of Democrats in favor and 75 percent of
independents supporting the bill.  ‘Divisive Issues’  Republicans think voters will be alienated by Democrats’
decision to force the civil-unions issue, said Colorado House
Speaker Frank McNulty, who used legislative tactics to defeat
the bill last week and again on May 14, on the first day of
Hickenlooper’s special session.  “We ought not and should not be spending time on divisive
issues,” said McNulty, the top Republican in the state
legislature. “It appears Governor Hickenlooper is out of touch
with most Coloradans. Our House GOP remains commited to getting
Colorado back to work. Kitchen table issues like  job creation 
and economic uncertainty are those issues that weigh on
Coloradans minds.”  Hickenlooper’s push to keep civil unions in the public eye
may peel professional suburban Republican voters away from the
party in November, said Bob Loevy, a Republican and retired
political science professor at Colorado Springs-based Colorado
College.  ‘Drives a Wedge’  “It keeps the issue alive and drives the wedge deeper in
the Republican party,” Loevy said. “It’s a very big split in
the party, both nationally and in Colorado. Upscale, better
educated Republicans are driven away.”  The question now is how effectively coalitions on both
sides of the issue will be able to mobilize their constituents
in the fall, said Steve Sanders, a visiting assistant professor
at the  University of Michigan Law School  who has studied the
politics of same-sex marriage.  “The social conservatives in  Colorado Springs  were going
to be mobilized against Obama in any case,” Sanders said. “The
question is by what additional margin will they be energized by
his support for same-sex marriage and will his supporters be
able to show their appreciation by counter mobilizing.”  The battle between Hickenlooper -- a moderate Democrat
known for his ties to the state’s business leaders -- and  House
Republicans  is likely to remain in fresh Coloradans’ memories
this fall, Loevy said.  “Over the 44 years I’ve been here this is probably the
most divisive issue we’ve had,” Loevy said.  Amendment 2  The issue of gay marriage first flared in Colorado two
decades ago, when voters approved Amendment 2, making it
unconstitutional to pass special interest legislation that
benefited gays and lesbians. The  Supreme Court  subsequently
found the initiative  unconstitutional .  In 2006, voters rejected a domestic partnerships ballot
initiative and amended the state constitution to declare
marriage a contract between a man and a woman.  In the six years since then, Coloradans have increasingly
embraced gay rights, with 53 percent of voters surveyed in April
by Public Policy Polling saying they think gay marriage should
be legal.  Representative  Don Coram , vice chairman of the state
affairs committee and a Republican from Montrose, Colorado, said
on May 14 that he voted against the civil union measure -- even
though his son is gay -- because his constituents in the
southwestern part of the state oppose it.  “I’m concerned the gay community is being used as a
political pawn,” Coram said during the committee’s
deliberations. “If you were to bring this to a vote I think
there’s a chance it would happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  