-- Samsung, Hynix Slump After Report on Apple’s Elpida Order
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-05-16T06:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/samsung-hynix-drop-after-apple-elpida-report-seoul-mover.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and SK  Hynix (000660) 
Inc., the top two makers of computer memory chips, slumped in
Seoul trading after a Digitimes report that  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  increased
semiconductor purchases from their competitor.  Samsung fell 6.2 percent, the most since October 2008, to
1,230,000 won at the close in Seoul. The stock was the  biggest
contributor  to the benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI) ’s 3.1 percent decline,
while Hynix lost 8.9 percent to 23,050 won, the biggest drop
since Aug. 19.  Apple placed orders with Elpida Memory Inc. to buy mobile
DRAM chips amounting to about half the volume produced at the
Japanese company’s Hiroshima factory, Digitimes  reported 
yesterday, citing unidentified industry officials. Samsung and
Hynix, the world’s two largest makers of such chips used to hold
data in mobile devices, both  supply  Apple.  “Investors appear to be using the report as an opportunity
to take some profits after the stocks outperformed the market
earlier this year,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund
manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $27 billion.  Samsung advanced 24 percent this year as of yesterday’s
close and Hynix had risen 15 percent, compared with a 4 percent
gain in the Kospi. Samsung climbed to a record high of 1,410,000
won on May 2.  Hynix is getting more orders for mobile DRAM chips from its
customers amid industrywide demand growth, Park Seong Ae, a
Seoul-based spokeswoman for the chipmaker, said by phone.  An Elpida spokesman, who wouldn’t be named because of
company policy, declined to comment on the report, as did  Steve
Park , a Seoul-based Apple spokesman. James Chung, a Seoul-based
spokesman for Samsung, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Samsung, which also supplies displays for Apple, gets  7.6
percent of its revenue  from the U.S. company, while the portion
for Hynix is 7.8 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Elpida filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Feb. 27 after
losing money for five quarters. Micron Technology Inc. said this
month it’s in talks to buy the Japanese competitor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  