-- SAP Chairman Plattner Courts Startups, Asian Customers
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-05-16T11:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/sap-chairman-plattner-courts-startups-asian-customers.html
SAP AG (SAP)  Chairman  Hasso Plattner  said
the German software maker is stepping up efforts to court new
business in Asia as well as from the startup community centered
in Silicon Valley, California.  Plattner also said the company plans to announce a new
addition to its six-member executive board in the coming month.  SAP  executives  are taking the stage at a conference in
Orlando, Florida, to discuss the company’s High-Performance
Analytics appliance, or Hana, which is designed to help analyze
large amounts of data. The software maker is using Hana to woo
new users -- from small companies in Northern California to
larger businesses in  China , Plattner said.  “It’s great to have contact with startups,” said
Plattner, who is chairman of SAP’s supervisory board.  Hana’s “radically different approach” may let SAP use the
software to compete with databases from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , Plattner said.  Taulia Inc., a San Francisco startup, said it’s using Hana
to broker discounting deals between buyers and suppliers.
AlertEnterprise, which makes risk-management software for
businesses, is also a customer, Plattner said.  Hana Customers  Chinese retailer Suning Appliance Co. and bottled water
distributor Nongfu Spring Co. are running Hana installations.  SAP, based in Walldorf, Germany, is also trying to make
headway in cloud computing software while protecting its main
business of selling software that helps companies manage
operations.  SAP is competing with Oracle, the  largest maker  of database
software, and smaller cloud-computing companies such as
Salesforce.com, Workday Inc. and  NetSuite Inc. (N) , which have made
inroads into its applications sales with programs that customers
access over the Web, rather than install on their own computers.  In December, SAP bought online human-resources software
maker SuccessFactors Inc. for $3.4 billion, and in April named
the SuccessFactors CEO, Lars Dalgaard, to its executive board.  SAP this week announced a new  cloud-computing division 
headed by Dalgaard with 5,000 people, and said it will ship new
online payroll and sales software.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  