-- Scouring the World for the Best Small-Cap Stocks
-- B y   L e w i s   B r a h a m
-- 2012-05-16T17:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/scouring-the-world-for-the-best-small-cap-stocks.html
     Robert Gardiner and Blake Walker ran some of the
best-performing mutual funds in the nation during their years
at Wasatch Advisors. Gardiner was lead manager of Wasatch
Micro Cap Fund from July 1995 through 2006, producing a
cumulative 1,138 percent return, versus 228 percent for the
average small-cap growth fund. Walker became lead manager of
the Wasatch International Opportunities Fund in 2005 and
co-manager with Gardiner of the Wasatch Global Opportunities
Fund in 2008, which they ran through June 2011 -- both funds
with top results.  Needless to say, there was much excitement when Gardiner
and Walker left to start their own fund shop last July:
Grandeur Peak Global Advisors in Salt Lake City. With them
came a number of former Wasatch employees, including Spencer
Stewart, a former analyst and son of Wasatch founder Sam
Stewart. Last October they launched Grandeur Peak Global
Opportunities and Grandeur Peak International Opportunities.
(Both have 1.75 percent expense ratios, net of fee waivers.)
The shop has $200 million, a shadow of Wasatch’s $10.2 billion
at the end of 2011. An edited transcript of Lewis Braham's
conversation with Grandeur chief investment officer Walker
follows.  Q. How does Grandeur Peak differ from Wasatch?  A. We wanted the benefit of having a nimble asset base
again. We’re also approaching investing from a purely global
perspective as far as industry analysts go, without any
division between the domestic and international side.
Otherwise, we’re basically following the core Wasatch
philosophy of buying growth companies that can dominate an
industry, are taking market share, are self-funded, have clean
balance sheets and have high returns on capital and assets.  We find those by systematic diligent screening. There are
66,776 companies listed on my Bloomberg terminal. If you
exclude those that don’t trade and those in countries you’ll
never go to, you’re left with about 30,000. Each week we’re
looking at a given country or industry -- going through the
entire universe, trying to find those with good numbers. On an
initial screen we may say, "Show us every company with a
return on capital in excess of 15 percent." Our hurdle rate on
most things is 15 percent.  Q. You invest in three kinds of companies --
best-in-class growth companies (or BICs), fallen angels and
stalwarts. Can you give me an example of a best-in-class
growth company?  A. Wirecard in Germany is an electronic payment
processor. If I buy something online and you’re the
retailer, you’re responsible and have all the liability for
the transaction. You want to mitigate any liability by going
with a good processor.  Wirecard has its own bank, so it captures more of the
processing fee, and it has great technology because it’s been
dealing with cross-border transactions in Europe forever. They
have great risk systems, good technology and they’re getting
scale. It’s been growing its revenues over the last five years
at a 40 percent annual rate. It trades at 22 times
earnings, so it’s a little expensive.  Q. What's another best-in-class company that isn't
expensive?  A. Hy-Lok is a Korean manufacturer of precision fittings
and valves for the petrochemical and ship-building industries.
It trades at 9.8 times trailing earnings. Its five-year sales
growth rate is 16 percent and the operating income has grown
17 percent on a 10-year basis.  At the end of the day, when you look at our portfolio
versus its benchmark, we always have two to three times the
operating margins and a third of the debt-to-capital ratio, so
our balance sheets are much cleaner. And we’re paying roughly
the same valuation as the benchmark. Our companies are growing
faster and we’re not paying anything more for that growth.  Q. That's because you tend to invest in
smaller, less-well-known companies?  A. Small caps are a big part of our story. Institutional
analysts don’t cover many small, foreign stocks. That’s a huge
advantage to us. If you look at the investable universe, 90
percent of the investable universe is between $100 million and
a $1 billion in market cap.  Q. How do you do check out 30,000 companies? Do you
travel a lot?  A. I just spent a week in Taiwan, a week in Japan and a
week in Canada. In the last six months we’ve been to
Brazil, South Africa, all over Europe, all over North
America, all over Asia. You’ve got to get out and knock on a
lot of doors.  Q. Does it concern you that during a panic, small caps
tend to get hit hard because they’re illiquid?  A. It’s a bit of a worry. Being as valuation-sensitive as
we are helps in downturns. If you’re truly a long-term
investor, you like downturns. It gives us a buying opportunity
in super high-quality stuff that we wouldn’t otherwise get.
And there’s a silver lining in downturns for our companies.
Because they are high quality, they are gaining market share
from weaker companies in downturns.  Q. How much do you have in emerging markets in the Global
Opportunities Fund?  A. About 35 percent of our companies are domiciled or
have significant exposure to emerging markets.  Q. Isn’t that high for a global fund?  A. Developed versus emerging is a misleading factor. The
lines are blurring. All our natural resource companies listed
in Canada and the U.K. are all selling into China and their
growth is 100 percent contingent on whether China imports more
or less copper, for instance. The beauty of global investing
is you can go anywhere to get exposure to a country.  For instance, we like the trend toward more inspection of
electronic devices. Miniaturization is happening in a big way
in electronics. You can’t eyeball the devices anymore to see
if the electrical connections and soldering are good. You need
lasers or high-precision camera. There’s a Korean company
called Koh Young Technology, another in Taiwan called Test
Research and a third in Germany called Viscom that do this
kind of work. We have exposure to all three. But most of their
factories are going up in China. Koh Young and Test Research
are battling it out there for the business of major
electronics manufacturers like Foxconn.  Q. Wasatch is famous for closing funds to new investors
before they get too big. Do you anticipate doing the same
thing?  A. We’re going to close our entire firm at $1.5 billion
to $2 billion. Our goal is not to be big. We just want to be
really good. We’ll likely close Global Opportunities to new
investors around $400 million; it's $150 million now.
 