-- Serb Opposition Leader Partners With Anti-EU Party Before Vote
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-16T14:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/serb-opposition-leader-partners-with-anti-eu-party-before-vote.html
Serbian opposition leader  Tomislav Nikolic  reached an agreement with an anti-European Union party,
committing to policies aimed at keeping Serbia politically and
militarily neutral if he wins May 20 presidential runoff.  The partnership was outlined in an agreement signed by
Nikolic, the leader of the Progressive Party, and the  Democratic
Party  of Serbia led by former Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica,
who wants Serbia to scrap its three-month old candidate status
for EU membership and any further efforts to joining the bloc.
In turn, Kostunica urged his voters to back Nikolic on Sunday.  The two parties, which are both targeting  Russia  for future
investments, will pursue policies that will “enable citizens to
vote in a free referendum” on whether Serbia should become an
EU member or stay neutral, according to the agreement.  Nikolic enters the second round of the presidential
election on May 20, facing off Democratic Party leader and
incumbent  Boris Tadic . The outcome will determine whether Serbia
keeps striving for EU membership under Tadic or turns east for
political and economic ties under Nikolic’s leadership.  Tadic won the first round of presidential election, while
his party finished second in a concurrent parliamentary race,
giving it six seats less than the Progressive Party’s 73 in the
250-member assembly. His Democrats have already agreed with the
third-placed Socialist Party of former Serbian strongman
 Slobodan Milosevic  to form a new government. Both coalitions
need a third partner for a 126-strong majority in parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  