-- Serb Rate Moves Hang on Fiscal Policies, Central Bank Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-16T13:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/serb-central-bank-says-rate-moves-hang-on-fiscal-consolidation.html
Serbia ’s central bank may consider
raising interest rates if the government fails to reverse the
trend of a widening budget deficit, Vice Governor Bojan Markovic
said.  Political leaders need to form a government quickly
following May 6 general elections and look to consolidate
finances, the Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije said in its
quarterly inflation report, released today.  The Balkan country, trying to avoid a second recession in
three years, needs to renew its loan program with the
 International Monetary Fund  and cut the budget deficit from 6
percent of gross domestic product in the first quarter to help
calm investors and stabilize financial markets.  The central bank’s assessment of a recent widening of the
 budget deficit  is that it “is temporary” and if the gap
“remains persistently high” monetary-policy makers may be
forced to raise the benchmark interest rate, Markovic told
reporters in presenting the report.  The bank left its  two-week repurchase rate  unchanged at 9.5
percent on May 10, for a fourth consecutive month, amid a
weakening of the dinar. The currency dropped to 112.9078 at 1:07
p.m. in Belgrade, its lowest level in a decade.  Presidential Runoff  Serbia will hold the second round of presidential elections
on May 20, pitting Democratic Party leader and incumbent  Boris Tadic  against  Tomislav Nikolic , the leader of the opposition
Progressive Party. The outcome may determine whether Serbia
keeps striving for European Union membership under Tadic or
turns east for political and economic ties under Nikolic’s
leadership.  Tadic won the first round, while his party finished second
in a concurrent parliamentary race, giving it six seats less
than the Progressive Party’s 73 in the 250-member assembly.
His Democrats have already agreed with the third-placed
Socialist Party of former Serbian strongman  Slobodan Milosevic 
to form a new government. They need a third partner to garner a
126-strong majority in parliament and have said talks will start
after the presidential run-off.  If the government is not formed soon, Markovic said, the
central bank “can certainly not wait for three months or so
with its policy response.”  Renewing Loan  Renewing a $1.3 billion precautionary loan which the IMF
suspended in February on evidence slippage on fiscal targets
would be sufficient and Serbia probably wouldn’t need a more
binding program “if it takes appropriate fiscal consolidation
measures,” Markovic said.  Public debt rose to almost 47 percent of gross domestic
product, breaching self-imposed fiscal rules that limit the
fiscal gap at 4.5 percent of GDP and public debt at 45 percent.  Serbia’s economy contracted 1.3 percent in the first three
months of 2012. The central bank sees the economy growing 0.5
percent this year. Growth may be more modest if the government
tightens spending, according to the report.  The dinar has weakened 6.5 percent against the euro this
year amid a lack of capital inflows, high energy imports due to
freezing cold weather in February and after two big foreign
investors,  United States Steel Corp. (X)  and  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  left the market earlier this
year, Markovic said.  ‘Temporary’ Weakness  The dinar weakness and a widening current account deficit
have resulted in a 2 billion-euro ($2.55 billion) decline in
official foreign-currency reserves in four months through April.  The bank has spent almost 770 million euros to slow the
dinar’s declines because of the belief that “pressures on the
dinar are only temporary.”  Inflation remains the least of all central bank worries
even as the central bank sees inflation gradually “rising and
reaching its peak in the first half of 2013, occasionally
exceeding the upper end of the tolerance band,” Markovic said.  The  consumer price index  fell to a “lowest level since
1980” of only 2.7 percent in April or 12 percentage points
below its April 2011 level, he said. The end-2012 inflation
target is 4 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points.  The inflation forecast is based on the assumption that
economic output in the euro area, Serbia’s main investor and
trading partner, will contract 0.5 percent in 2012 and grow 0.9
percent in 2013, with the  European Central Bank  keeping its main
 interest rate  at 1 percent through the end of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  