-- Several on FOMC Said Easing May Be Needed on Faltering
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-05-16T19:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/several-on-fomc-said-easing-may-be-needed-on-faltering.html
Several Federal Reserve policy makers
said a loss of momentum in growth or increased risks to their
economic outlook could warrant additional action to keep the
recovery going, minutes of their last meeting showed.  The members of the rate-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee  “indicated that additional monetary policy
accommodation could be necessary if the economic recovery lost
momentum or the downside risks to the forecast became great
enough,” according to minutes of the panel’s April 24-25
meeting released today in Washington.  Central bankers saw Europe’s debt crisis and a fiscal
tightening caused by a failure of U.S. lawmakers to agree on a
budget as risks to the recovery, the minutes showed. A
discussion of such risks may give central bankers greater scope
to ease policy than a focus on indicators such as growth or
inflation, said Roberto Perli, a former member of the Fed’s
Division of Monetary Affairs staff.  “It is easy to see how downside risks to the forecasts
could become large because you have  Europe  which could hit in
the near term, and you have a U.S. fiscal cliff as we approach
the end of the year,” said Perli, a managing director at
International Strategy & Investment Group in Washington.  Central bankers last month affirmed their plan to hold
interest  rates  near zero at least through late 2014 as they
sought to push down an unemployment rate that has stayed above 8
percent for more than three years. Any decision to ease further
“still remains data dependent,” Perli said. “It doesn’t sound
like they have made up their mind.”  Too-Low Inflation  At the March meeting, “a couple” of FOMC members said
additional action may be needed if the economy lost momentum or
if inflation were too low.  Stocks fluctuated and Treasuries erased declines after the
release of the minutes. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2
percent to 1,327.51 at 3:40 p.m in  New York . The yield on the
10-year Treasury was little changed at 1.76 percent. The yield
has dropped from 1.98 percent on April 25.  Policy makers also discussed the conditions for any change
in the 2014 horizon for low rates. The minutes cited a lack of
confidence in their forecasts as one reason to leave the
guidance unchanged.  “Some members recalled that gains in employment
strengthened in early 2010 and again in early 2011 only to
diminish as those years progressed,” the minutes said.
“Moreover, the uncertain effects of the unusually mild winter
weather were cited as making it harder to discern the underlying
trend in the economic data.”  Jobs Report  Policy makers met before a Labor Department report on May 4
showed U.S. employers added 115,000 jobs in April, the least in
six months. The unemployment  rate  fell to 8.1 percent, the
lowest since January 2009, as people left the  labor force .  More recent data has allayed concern the job market is
cooling. First time  claims  for  unemployment benefits  declined to
a one-month low of 367,000 in the period ended May 5, Labor
Department data showed last week.  At their meeting, Fed officials had detailed discussions
about additional communications measures. The Fed staff
presented an exercise that showed how policy makers’ views could
be portrayed under alternative economic scenarios.  “Some participants stated that exercises using alternative
scenarios, with appropriate adjustments, could potentially be
helpful for internal deliberations and, thus, should be explored
further,” the minutes said. “However, no decision was made at
this meeting regarding future exercises along these lines.”  Policy Rules  Fed officials also discussed the usefulness of simple rules
as a guide for policy makers and the public. The idea has been
promoted by Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser in public
comments.  “Participants planned to discuss further, at a future
meeting, the potential merits and drawbacks of using simple
rules as guides to monetary policy” decisions and for
communications, said the minutes, which do not identify
participants by name.  The Fed today also announced that all meetings will now
last two days to allow “ample time” for discussions. Last
year, five of the panel’s eight meetings lasted two days, and
the others were one-day meetings. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
now hold press conferences in conjunction with the meetings
scheduled for the third month of each quarter, the Fed said.  Operation Twist  The Fed said at its April meeting that the central bank
would continue its swap of $400 billion of short-term debt with
long-term debt to lengthen the average maturity of its holdings
and help lower the interest rate on Treasuries, a move dubbed
Operation Twist. The Fed is scheduled to complete the program at
the end of June.  Richmond  Federal Reserve  Bank President  Jeffrey Lacker 
dissented twice at the meeting. He cast a vote against the
extension of reciprocal currency swap arrangements with the
central banks of Canada and  Mexico  because he opposes foreign
exchange intervention by the Fed and direct lending to foreign
central banks, the minutes said.  Lacker also voted against the 2014 pledge in the FOMC’s
statement because in his view “an increase in the federal funds
rate was likely to be necessary by mid-2013 to prevent the
emergence of inflationary pressures,” the minutes said.  Stocks and bond yields have fallen since the central bank’s
most recent meeting on April 24-25 as data on the labor market
weakened and amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  Stocks Decline  The  S&P 500 index  fell 4.3 percent since the Fed’s meeting
through yesterday on signs of weakness in the job market and
concerns the  European debt crisis  was deepening.  The central bank said in forecasts released with its April
statement that it expects the  unemployment rate  to fall to 7.8
percent to 8.0 percent by the final three months of this year.
Gross domestic product is likely to rise by 2.4 percent to 2.9
percent this year, according to the so-called central tendency
estimates that exclude the highest and lowest forecasts.  Economic growth slowed to a 2.2 percent annual rate in the
first quarter of this year from 3 percent in the final three
months of 2011.  A stabilization of housing, the industry at the heart of
the financial crisis, may boost the economy.  Builders broke ground on more homes than anticipated in
April, Commerce Department data showed today. Housing starts
rose 2.6 percent to a 717,000 annual rate. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index of builder
confidence jumped to a five-year high in May, a report from the
group showed yesterday.  ‘Much Better’  “The headlines for the last three months in housing have
been much better,” Douglas Yearley, the chief executive of Toll
Brothers Inc., the largest U.S. luxury home builder, said in a
May 9 teleconference. “Unemployment is beginning to come down
and I think everybody just feels better about where housing is,
where the economy is, and we’re all seeing the benefit of
that.”  Industrial production, a mainstay of the expansion, is
extending its gains, a report from the Fed showed today.  Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 1.1
percent last month, the most since December 2010, after a 0.6
percent decline in March that was revised from no change, the
Federal Reserve reported today in  Washington . Economists
forecast a 0.6 percent gain, according to the Bloomberg News
survey median.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  