-- Sina May Post Second Straight Loss as Weibo Costs Climb
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-05-16T04:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/sina-may-post-second-straight-loss-as-weibo-costs-climb.html
Sina Corp. (SINA) , operator of the Twitter-
like Weibo microblog in China, may post a second straight
quarterly loss because of increased spending.  “It is essential for us to build a more dominant scale in
order for us to be successful in the long term,” Chief
Executive Officer Charles Chao said on a conference call today
after Sina reported a loss in the first quarter. The Shanghai-
based company may post an “operating loss” this quarter, Chao
said.  Sina plans to raise spending on Weibo 45 percent this year
to upgrade the service and win users and advertisers against
competition from rivals including  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) 
Government rules requiring microblog users to verify their
identities, which slowed growth at Weibo in the first quarter,
and any other new restrictions won’t deter investments in the
service, Chao said.  “In spite of the regulatory uncertainty, we will continue
to invest heavily in Weibo,” Chao said. The new rules “had an
impact” on Weibo’s growth in the first quarter, and the service
added about 30 million users in the period taking the total to
324 million at the end of March, Chao said.  Sina fell 1.1 percent to $51.68 in  New York  trading
yesterday before its earnings announcement. The stock has
declined 0.6 percent this year, underperforming the Hong Kong-
traded shares of Tencent,  China ’s biggest Internet company.  First-quarter  net loss  was $13.7 million, compared with a
profit of $15 million a year earlier, Sina said yesterday. The
loss was projected at $19.3 million, according to the average of
10  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 6
percent to $106.2 million.  Second-quarter revenue may be between $126 million and $129
million, Sina forecast. That compares with the $131.5 million
average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Slow Start’  “We got off to a slow start in our brand advertising
business, largely due to a slowdown in the macroeconomic
conditions in China,” Chao said. Business was slightly better
this quarter, and Sina may post increased sales from sales of
advertising related to the Olympics games this summer, he said.  Sina at present gets most of its  revenue  from sales of
display advertising on its Web portal. The company started
advertising sales on Weibo last month, which may make a
“meaningful” contribution in the second half, Chao said.  In December, China began requiring users in cities
including Beijing, Guangzhou and Shenzhen to register their real
names. That rule will be expanded to other regions,  Wang Chen ,
minister of the State Council Information Office, said in
January.  In March, Sina and Tencent disabled the comment function on
their microblog services for 72 hours, after authorities
detained six people accused of spreading rumors of a coup
attempt in Beijing. Government oversight of the social media
platforms have tightened as they’ve grown in popularity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  