-- Singapore Airlines Halts Athens Flights After 40 Years
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-05-16T11:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/singapore-airlines-to-halt-athens-abu-dhabi-flights.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , flying to
Athens since 1972, will halt the service to the Greek capital
starting October because of weak demand.  Asia’s second-largest carrier by market value will also
halt service to  Abu Dhabi , with the last flights to the two
cities from Singapore leaving on Oct. 26, Singapore Air said in
an e-mailed statement today. The carrier currently offers two
weekly services to Athens and three to Abu Dhabi.  “The suspensions are in line with Singapore Airlines’
policy to match capacity to prevailing market demand,” the
carrier said. The airline has flown to Abu Dhabi since 2006.  Singapore Air plans to slow capacity growth to 3 percent in
the year ending in March compared with 5 percent in the previous
12 months amid global economic uncertainties and higher fuel
costs. The carrier posted a  surprise loss  in the quarter ended
March 31, its first in more than two years.  Athens  International Airport SA,  Greece ’s top airport, last
month reported a 11 percent drop in first-quarter passenger
traffic as the nation’s economic crisis hit travel spending and
protests dented Greece’s image abroad.  Singapore Air rose 0.5 percent to close at S$10.33 in
Singapore before the announcement. The stock has climbed 1.7
percent this year, trailing a 7 percent gain in the benchmark
Straits Times Index.  The airline industry’s profit will drop 62 percent this
year as fuel costs rise, the  International Air Transport
Association  forecast on March 20. Air China Ltd., the world’s
largest carrier by market value, and China Southern Airlines Co.
both posted lower profits for the three months ended March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  