-- Skechers Settles Cases in U.S. on Sneaker Claims for $45 Million
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-05-16T16:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/skechers-settles-u-s-case-on-sneaker-ad-claims-for-40-million.html
Skechers U.S.A. Inc. (SKX)  agreed to pay
$45 million to resolve U.S. and state allegations it deceived
customers into believing its Shape-ups athletic shoes will help
them lose weight and strengthen their buttocks and legs.  Skechers, based in Manhattan Beach, California, also made
false claims in advertising for its Resistance Runner, Tone-ups
and Toners shoes, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission said today
in a statement.  “Skechers’ unfounded claims went beyond stronger and more
toned muscles,” said  David Vladeck , Director of the FTC’s
Bureau of Consumer Protection, in the statement. “The company
even made claims about weight loss and cardiovascular health.”  The agency has been critical of how companies have marketed
toning shoes. In September, Reebok International Ltd. agreed to
pay $25 million after FTC accused the company of making false
advertising claims about its version of the shoes.  Skechers “vigorously” denies the allegations, said David Weinberg, the Company’s chief financial officer, in a statement.  “Skechers could not ignore the exorbitant cost and endless
distraction of several years spent defending multiple lawsuits
in multiple courts across the country,” Weinberg said.  Skechers fell 33 cents, or 1.8 percent, at 11:52 a.m. in
 New York .  The settlement relates to investigations that involved the
FTC, along with  attorneys general  from 44 states and the
 District of Columbia , according to the agency.  The FTC will receive $40 million from Skechers while the
states will get $5 million, most of which will be refunded to
customers, Vladeck told reporters today at a Washington news
conference. The company also will pay $5 million in attorneys’
fees, according to a Skechers statement.  Skechers advertisements challenged by the FTC include one
for Shape-ups that told consumers they could “get in shape
without setting foot in a gym,” according to the statement. The
agency alleged that the company made unsupported claims that the
shoes would provide more  weight loss  and muscle toning than
regular fitness shoes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  