-- Smart Girls Wear Flats, Leave Heels Behind
-- B y   R a c h e l l e   B e r g s t e i n
-- 2012-05-16T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/smart-girls-wear-flats-leave-heels-behind.html
Not everyone was a big fan of the
stiletto. Just like  Christian Dior ’s voluptuous, bell-shaped
skirts, the tall, thin heels drew criticism even at the height
of their popularity.  In a primer called “The Essential Eve: A Guide to Women’s
Perfection,” a doctor advised: “Excessively high heels will
always be a source of danger to feet and eventually to health.”
Wearing such shoes causes the calf muscles to contract so much,
he said, “it becomes almost impossible to walk.”  A New York Times headline in May of 1955 warned that
“Posture Is Affected by Size of the Heels.” Yet, in this
article, Dr. Gerald Warner of Buffalo, New York, recommended
that for the sake of their carriage, tall women should wear high
heels while short women should stick to low ones.  Warner also contradicted the wisdom that heel enthusiasts
should sometimes opt for sneakers or flats to give their arches
a break. “Above all,” he said, “women should wear the same size
heels consistently.”  Still, in the 1950s, many women varied their heels.
Throughout the decade, housewives wore saddle shoes and ballet
flats during the day and swapped them for more flattering shoes
when their husbands arrived home. Flats were also trendy among
teenage girls. Bobby-soxers were named for the way they rolled
their socks down over their Mary Janes or saddle shoes.  Flats Rebellion  For beatniks, style was an obvious manifestation of
countercultural ideals, a way of rejecting the structured,
starchy fashions of their parents. Men grew beards, wore
untucked shirts and workingman’s denim, as well as European-
influenced accessories like off-center berets and dark glasses.
Women with loose-hanging hair wore pants and dark, neutral
colors to prove they were absolutely not blossoming flowers. On
their feet were flat, comfortable shoes that snubbed their
mothers’ balancing acts.  If “the girl with low/ and sensible heels/ is likely to
pay/ for her bed and meals” -- as the Saturday Evening Post
warned -- so be it.  “ Funny Face ,” the 1957 movie starring  Audrey Hepburn , told
the story of Jo Stockton, a mousy -- and mouthy -- Greenwich
Village bookstore clerk turned reluctant “It Girl” model,
after a demanding fashion magazine editor discovers her, and
introduces her to a photographer. ( Fred Astaire , channeling the
legendary Richard Avedon, does the rest.)  The plot was hardly beatnik-friendly: Jo stands by her
anti-fashion philosophy to a point but, after learning her
academic idol is a cad, ultimately finds love with the older
photographer. The last shot is of Jo in a New Look-influenced
Hubert de Givenchy wedding gown.  Hepburn, with her coltish figure and intelligent doe eyes,
was an actress drastically unlike  Marilyn Monroe . Both
actresses, however, had a Cinderella-like relationship with
Hollywood master shoemaker Salvatore Ferragamo. For Hepburn, he
created elegant, restrained, “sensible” shoes. At 5 feet 7
inches, the actress was tall for a woman of her generation and
had long, slim feet, which Ferragamo said were “in perfect
proportion to her height.  For a dance number in “Funny Face,” Ferragamo designed a
pair of black suede slip-on loafers to go with Hepburn’s
Givenchy-designed black turtleneck sweater and cropped black
stovepipe pants. But Hepburn balked at wearing the spotless
white socks meant to go with the outfit. How could she draw
gleaming arrows toward her sizeable feet? Yet director Stanley Donen wouldn’t back down, and Hepburn wore them. After seeing
the film for the first time, she wrote to Donen, “You were right
about the socks. Love, Audrey.”  The ’Beat Look’  After “Funny Face,” beatnik-inflected styles entered the
vernacular of haute couture. In the late 1950s, after  Yves Saint Laurent  became head of Christian Dior’s fashion house, he
presented the “Beat Look,” a collection of turtlenecks and biker
jackets. It was an early instance of street style affecting high
fashion. Unfortunately for Saint Laurent, Vogue criticized the
experiment as designed for young women “possessed of superb legs
and slim, young goddess figures,” and it cost him his job.  These midcentury pop-culture moments marked stilettos as
flirtatious and feminine, and flats as quirky and intellectual.
Flats became the purview of the alternative youth culture.  The 1950s were a historically rigid decade, in which women
could be either a lonely intellectual or a vapid sexpot. The
question of whether one could be both an Audrey and a Marilyn
didn’t emerge until the 1960s, when the sexuality of the
stiletto and the practicality of the flat merged in the low-
heeled boot -- made for flirting, butt-kicking and, most
important, walking.  (Rachelle Bergstein is a writer and editor in  New York .
This is the fourth of five excerpts from her new book, “ Women
From the Ankle Down: The Story of Shoes and How They Define Us ,”
which will be published on May 29 by HarperCollins. The opinions
expressed are her own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3 ,  Part 5 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Eduardo Saverin’s
citizenship  and  stopping Somali pirates ;  Ezra Klein  on  U.S.
economic bright spots ;  Amity Shlaes  on  supply-siders and
austerity ;  Caroline Baum  on  digging out of debt ; Harry L. Davis
on  what makes a good leader ;  Steven Greenhut  on why  California
is still golden .  To contact the writer of this article:
Rachelle Bergstein at  rachellebergstein@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  