-- SMIC Leads ADR Drop to Four-Month Low on Growth: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-05-16T22:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/smic-leads-adr-drop-to-four-month-low-on-growth-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities in  New York  sank to
the lowest level in four months, led by  Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp. (SMI) , on concern growth in the
world’s second-largest economy is slowing.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. fell 1 percent to 94.33 yesterday,
posting a 10 percent drop over 10 straight days of declines.
Semiconductor Manufacturing tumbled to a three-year low,
shrinking the discount to its Hong Kong shares, after it was cut
from the MSCI China Index.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of China’s third-
most visited website, led gains as it signed up advertisers for
its Twitter-like service.  The Shanghai Securities News said combined net lending for
China’s four biggest banks was  almost zero  in first two weeks of
this month, after the nation reported its slowest pace of growth
in almost three years in the first quarter.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , whose
gauges are tracked by about $3 trillion of funds worldwide, will
remove the shares of the  Shanghai-based chipmaker  as of May 31,
the index provider said in a report yesterday after the close of
the market.  “Quite clear now, growth is slowing,”  Kevin Carter , the
chief executive officer at Baochuan Capital Management LLC in
Walnut Creek, California, said yesterday by phone. “Pricing can
go even lower. Sentiment is weighing” on Chinese stocks in the
U.S., he said.  China ETF Sinks  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined 2.3 percent to
$33.93, the lowest level since Dec. 19.  The Shanghai Composite Index of mainland stocks slid 1.2
percent to a four-week low yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. shares fell 0.4 percent.  Global stocks have tumbled this week as concern mounted
that Greece will be forced to leave the euro area. The  European
Central Bank  has no immediate plans to increase stimulus even as
market tensions mount, according to two euro-area officials, who
declined to be named.  Europe  is  China ’s biggest export market.  The Bloomberg China index is on track to erase this year’s
4.7 percent gain as reports showed China’s industrial production
grew at the slowest pace since 2009 in April, while imports and
exports rose less than analysts expected. The government has
slashed its growth target for this year to 7.5 percent, from an
8 percent goal over the previous seven years as it shifts its
focus from exports to domestic consumption.  “Until we can obtain more clarity about the structural
drivers of the economy and the corporate sector, we remain
underweight,” John-Paul Smith, Deutsche Bank AG’s London-based
emerging-market strategist, wrote in an e-mailed report.  Semiconductor Manufacturing  American depositary receipts  of Semiconductor
Manufacturing, a Shanghai-based chip maker, fell 9.6 percent to
$2.08 yesterday, as MSCI rebalances its China index. The ADR
traded at a 2.1 percent discount to its equivalent shares in
 Hong Kong , which tumbled 11 percent.  Sina jumped 11 percent to $57.41, the most since Feb. 28.
The company said after the market closed on May 15 that its
 adjusted losses  for the first quarter totaled 21 cents per
share, compared with the  average estimate  of a loss of 23 cents
in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Advertising sales on Weibo,
which has 324 million users, may make a “meaningful”
contribution in the second half, Chief Executive Officer Charles Chao said on a conference call.  Credit Suisse AG boosted its rating on Sina to outperform
from neutral.  Barclays Capital  raised it to overweight from
equalweight.  ‘Competitive Advantage’  “Saying ‘meaningful contribution’ is a positive
development because Sina is very, very conservative,”  Adam Krejcik , an analyst at  Roth Capital  in  Newport Beach ,
California, said in a phone interview. “Sina’s advertising
growth in the second half should exceed the overall market pace
because of Weibo. That’s Sina’s competitive advantage. I cannot
be more positive on the stock than I am now.”  Renren Inc. (RENN) , a social networking website, rose 7 percent to
$6.25. The company on May 15 posted earnings losses in the first
quarter that were smaller than analysts expected.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) , a Beijing-based education
service provider, tumbled 18 percent to a record low of $4.65
after it delayed filing its annual report and said it may
reverse as much as $15 million in revenues in 2011 until cash is
collected. Trading volume was more than six times the three-
month daily average.  Increasing Scrutiny  The filing delay came as overseas listed Chinese companies
face increasing scrutiny globally by regulators and investors
over their financial reporting and corporate governance. Sino-
Forest Corp., the Chinese tree grower accused of fraud by short-
seller Carson Block, filed for  bankruptcy protection  in March.  “In this volatile, choppy environment, there’s not much
room for even the appearance of a problem,” Erik Lam, the
director of Asian equity sales at Auerbach Grayson & Co. in New
York, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Because all these
things going on, everyone believes any kind of delay equals
fraud in China.”  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , a Chinese developer of computer
desktop and anti-virus software, will boost this year’s sales by
as much as 85 percent as user-friendly tools attract
advertisers, Chief Financial Officer Alex Xu said in an
interview in Beijing yesterday.  Qihoo can weather a slowdown in the world’s second-largest
economy as it benefits from rising online advertising revenue
after 2011 sales jumped 191 percent to $167.9 million, Xu said.
Shares rose 4.7 percent to $20.72 in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  