-- South Africa’s Retail Sales Decline in First Quarter
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-16T13:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/south-africa-s-retail-growth-accelerates-to-6-8-in-march.html
South African  retail sales  growth was
little changed in March and sales declined in the first quarter,
damping chances of faster economic expansion in  Africa’s largest
economy  this year.  Sales rose 6.8 percent from a year earlier compared with a
revised 6.7 percent increase in February, Pretoria-based
Statistics South Africa said on its website today. The  median
estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of 10 economists was for annual
growth of 6.6 percent. While revenue rose 2.1 percent from a
month earlier, it declined a seasonally adjusted 1.2 percent in
the fourth quarter compared with the previous three months, the
statistics agency said.  “The retail sector really didn’t fair really well in the
first quarter, which isn’t very good in terms of what it means
for gross domestic product growth,” Jeffrey Schultz, an
economist with  ABSA Group Ltd. (ASA) , said in a phone interview from
Johannesburg.  Slower economic growth will reduce pressure on the central
bank to raise  interest rates  this year to curb price increases.
The economy expanded 3.2 percent in the fourth quarter,
according to the statistics agency. Manufacturing production
unexpectedly dropped 2.7 percent in March as a debt crisis in
 Europe , which buys about a third of South Africa’s factory
goods, cut demand for exports.  Low for Longer  The  Reserve Bank  has kept its benchmark rate at 5.5
percent, the lowest level in more than three decades, since
November 2010 to support economic growth.  The economy will probably expand about 3 percent this year,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in an interview on May 11.
That is less than half the rate Gordhan estimates is needed to
meet a goal of cutting unemployment to 14 percent by 2020. The
 jobless rate  was 25.2 percent in the first quarter, the most of
61 nations tracked by Bloomberg.  “Interest rates remain a very helpful buffer to the South
African consumer,” Schultz said. “Low for longer is looking
more and more the likelihood for interest rates at the moment.”  Inflation slowed to 6 percent in March and the central bank
forecasts it will remain close to the top end of its 3 percent
to 6 percent target range this year.  The decline in the first quarter may signal that domestic
demand is losing momentum,  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  said in a note to
clients.  “Weaker growth is likely as the year progresses as
 consumer confidence  is affected by weak employment and some
worries about  job security , while high inflation and
administered price increases will erode purchasing power,” it
said.  The rand weakened less than 0.1 percent to 8.3115 against
the dollar by 3:36 p.m. in Johannesburg trading. Forward-rate
agreements starting in 12 months dropped 4 basis points to 5.89
percent as investors pared bets on an interest-rate increase in
the next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  