-- South African Retailers at Most Expensive Headed for Fall
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-05-17T15:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/south-african-retailers-at-most-expensive-headed-for-fall.html
Investors speculating on rising
African wealth are driving South African retailers to the
 highest valuations  on record in a sign to Investec Asset
Management and  Renaissance Capital  the shares are set to fall.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa General Retailers Index (JGENR)  has jumped 45
percent since  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  announced plans two years ago
to buy  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , South Africa’s largest
wholesaler. The gains pushed the 10-member index to 18.1 times
reported earnings, 55 percent higher than its 10-year average
and above the  MSCI Emerging Markets Retail Index (MXEF0RT) , which trades
at 15.2 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Just
eight months ago, valuations on South African retailers were
lower than their emerging market peers.  Investors are “overcooking” valuations on expectations of
an African-expansion boost, said Diane Laas, an equity analyst
at Cape Town-based Investec Asset Management, which oversees
more than $90 billion. “I’m not convinced.”  Retailers including Cape Town-based  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) ,
Durban, South Africa-based  Mr Price Group Ltd. (MPC)  and Cape Town-
based  Truworths (TRU)  International Holdings Ltd. plan new stores from
Angola to Nigeria to benefit from rising wealth in the world’s
poorest continent. Africa’s swelling middle class may boost
household spending 63 percent to $1.4 trillion 2020, according
to a 2010 report by New York-based McKinsey & Co.  ‘Avenue for Growth’  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which has 184 billion pounds
($293 billion) in assets, sees further gains for South African
retailers. The Aberdeen, Scotland-based  money manager  has this
year raised its stakes in Durban, South Africa-based Spar Group
Ltd., Cape Town-based Clicks Group Ltd., Truworths and Massmart,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investec Asset
Management hasn’t added to its holdings in the stocks, the data
show.  “Over time there is an avenue for growth in Africa,” said
Gabriel Sacks, an assistant  fund manager  at Aberdeen in  London .
“I know that’s a long way away for some of them, but we are
long-term shareholders and if anyone will be able to play those
markets, we believe its South African corporates.”  Foreign investors own about 70 percent of Truworths,  South
Africa ’s largest clothing retailer, from 67 percent a year ago,
and more than 90 percent of Massmart, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Almost 60 percent of shares in Mr Price and 54 percent of
Woolworths Holdings Ltd. are owned by foreign funds, increasing
from 51 percent for both stocks in May 2011. Aberdeen owns about
 12 percent of Truworths  and 13 percent of Johannesburg-based
Massmart.  Cheaper Than Peers  Some South African retailers are cheaper than emerging-
market peers even after the rally. Truworths, trading at 14
times its expected earnings for June 2013, compares with 18
times December 2013 earnings for SACI Falabella,  Chile ’s largest
retailer by market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Shares of Lojas Renner SA, Brazil’s biggest listed clothing
retailer, are equivalent to 17 times December 2013 earnings,
while Massmart is valued at 19 times June 2013 earnings.
Aberdeen also owns stock in  SACI Falabella (FALAB)  and Lojas Renner, the
data show.  If the retailers aren’t able to spend their cash on an
African expansion or their growth slows, the companies will
probably pay out higher dividends, Sacks said in a May 4
interview.  Challenges at Home  South Africa’s economy isn’t growing fast enough for its
retail companies to be trading at higher valuations than those
in  Russia  or  China , Investec Asset Management’s Laas said in a
May 7 interview.  The nine-member MSCI China Retailing Index trades at an
average 10 times 2013 earnings, while OAO Magnit, the only
retailer on Russia’s Micex Index, trades at 16 times 2013
earnings.  South Africa’s economy expanded 2.9 percent in the fourth
quarter compared with 4.5 percent in Chile, 4.8 percent in
Russia, 8.1 percent in China and 4.7 percent in  Turkey ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. South  Africa ’s
 unemployment  rate, the highest of 61 nations tracked by
Bloomberg, unexpectedly climbed to 25.2 percent in the first
quarter, as builders and factories in Africa’s biggest economy
shed jobs.  Valuation Reasons  Mr Price, the clothing and linen retailer that trades at 22
times earnings, may fall 23 percent in the next year to 83 rand,
according to Jeanine Womersley, a retail analyst at
Johannesburg-based Renaissance BJM, who rates the stock hold.
The stock fell 0.6 percent to 104 rand by the close in
Johannesburg.  Woolworths, a Cape Town-based food and clothing retailer,
may decline 20 percent to 40.60 rand, Shamil Ismail, a Cape
Town-based retail analyst at BNP Paribas Cadiz Securities Ltd.,
who rates the stock a sell, said in a March 30 note. Woolworths
slumped 1.4 percent to 49 rand in Johannesburg.  “The South African retailers are priced for perfection,”
Chris Gilmour, an analyst at Johannesburg-based Absa
Investments, said today by phone. “Even so, there are reasons
for the valuations. These companies are managed on a par with
first-world peers, but at the same time can benefit from
emerging-market growth.”  Clicks, Massmart, Woolworths and Mr Price declined to
comment on valuations of their stocks, according to e-mailed
comment from Woolworths press office and spokesmen Graeme
Lillie, Brian Leroni and Lynette Lambert.  Fond Foreigners  Progress in expanding into sub-Saharan Africa is stalled by
power shortages, legal and regulatory differences, poor
telecommunications and a scarcity of formal retail space such as
shopping malls, Truworths Chief Executive Officer Michael Mark
said in an e-mailed response to questions on May 11.  Foreign investors are “quite fond of South African retail
because of their successful history,” Mark said, adding that
local investors see the stocks as expensive. “It depends on
your perspective.”  After opening a store in Botswana more than 20 years ago,
Truworths has 21 of its 552 outlets outside its home market,
including  Namibia , Swaziland and Mauritius. South Africa
accounts for 98 percent of  sales , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To mitigate risks, Truworths follows an “incremental
expansion plan” which allows the company over time to better
understand the operating environment and market potential, Mark
said.  ‘Next Asia’  Shoprite, Africa’s largest supermarket chain with 1,730
outlets, opened its first store in Namibia in 1990 and has 123
stores in 15 countries outside South Africa that accounted for
about 10 percent of  fiscal 2011 sales . Shoprite may spend 1.5
billion rand over the next three years On Nigerian property to
help build sites.  Mr Price said in 2009 it is looking at  Nigeria  for an
expansion and opened a test store in Ikeja Mall in Lagos in
March 2012.  “Retailers are tending to look at Africa as the next Asia
and considering enormous growth that could come out of there as
it formalizes,” said Jeanine van Zyl, a retail analyst for Cape
Town-based Old Mutual Investment Group of South Africa, which
manages 472 billion rand from Cape Town. Investors “are pricing
in Africa way before it actually happens because Africa is a
very slow story,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  