-- Spain Debt Fight Intensifies as Valencia Test Looms: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-05-16T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/spain-debt-fight-intensifies-as-valencia-test-looms-euro-credit.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s bid to fight off the  European debt crisis  is about to
intensify as his government wields new powers to tame the
country’s indebted regions.  Regional officials from Rajoy’s  People’s Party  will today
face their first attempt to persuade Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro that Valencia, which accounts for 10 percent of the 
Spanish economy, can avoid default without intervention. 
Deficits beyond the grasp of Madrid helped push the nation’s 
10-year bond yields to a five-month high of 6.5 percent 
yesterday.  The collapse of regional finances is pushing Rajoy to
reverse 35 years of devolution that saw public spending soar for
projects in Valencia such as Formula One racing events and a new
opera house. The European Union predicted last week that  Spain 
will miss deficit-reduction goals this year and in 2013.  “Valencia will be the focus because of its size and
importance,” Jose Carlos Diez, chief economist at Madrid-based
brokerage Intermoney SA, said in an interview. “There is a lot
of pressure from Brussels and the  ratings agencies , and they
need to give a signal.”  The regions were mainly responsible for Spain’s budget
slippage last year as they missed their deficit target by more
than 100 percent. Rajoy said May 8 he’ll intervene if necessary
and told administrations to halve their shortfall this year to
1.5 percent of gross domestic product.  Rising Rates  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond has risen 1.5
percentage points since March as investors doubted Rajoy’s
ability to curb the deficit. The rate is approaching the 7
percent level that pushed  Greece , Ireland and Portugal to seek
rescue funds from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund .  Rajoy has won powers to rein in deficits. A law passed last
month sets out a road map that starts with today’s meeting at
which regions presenting budgets to fit national policies and,
nine months later, allows Madrid officials to impose cuts and
tax increases.  The northern region of Asturias, accounting for 2.2 percent
of economic output, also is at risk of intervention as an
impasse leaves representatives unable to form a government to
deliver spending cuts.  Regional finances are “a black box that always yields bad
surprises when you open it,” ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, a Spaniard, said on April 24.  Electricity Shutdown  The challenge Valencia poses for Rajoy is both political
and economic. While indebted regions like Castilla La Mancha
were Socialist fiefdoms, Rajoy’s party has run Valencia for 17
years.  Valencia’s 400 million euros ($509 million) of 5.5 percent
April 2013 bonds yielded 16.48 percent yesterday, according to
Bloomberg trader bid prices. That’s almost double the 8.912
percent yield on two-year bonds issued by  Portugal , which was
rescued last year by the EU and IMF.  In Valencia, the regional capital, the effects are evident.
The city hall’s power was cut off in February because of  unpaid
bills  and garbage is piling up in the streets of the Cabanyal
neighborhood. Ballester Fandos elementary school ran out of
paper and other teaching materials after funding dried up for
eight months, Principal Vicent Ripoll said in an interview.  “We’ve never seen anything like this,” Ripoll said.
“This is due to the bad management of politicians who didn’t
anticipate the crisis.”  Bribery Probe  Compounding Rajoy’s predicament, seven former Valencian PP
officials were named as suspects last year in a bribery probe,
according to a court spokeswoman who declined to be identified.
They may be accused of using  public  money to overpay for
services from businessmen they were close to between 2005 and
2009, according to a July court ruling.  A party spokeswoman in Valencia who asked not to be named
declined to comment on the investigation.  Valencia’s sun-drenched beaches along the Mediterranean
coast and the free-market policies of its government made it the
epicenter of the boom that propelled Spain’s economy for almost
a decade. Local developer Enrique Banuelos saw his company
Astroc Mediterraneo SA surge tenfold in its 2006 initial public
offering before the real estate collapse shriveled its value and
left the region with thousands of empty seaside holiday homes.  Spain’s third-largest city spent about 2.4 billion euros
hosting the America’s Cup in 2007 as well as Formula One races.
Officials hired local architect-turned international superstar
 Santiago Calatrava  to build an avant-garde opera house in a
dried up river bed. The project’s costs tripled, according to
Joan Calabuig, a spokesman for the Socialist group in  city hall .  Budget Hole  Now a budget hole is forcing regional President Alberto
Fabra to cut benefits, investment and wages to reduce a deficit
that totaled 3.68 percent of GDP last year. He leads Spain’s
second most-indebted region after Catalonia, with a debt load at
19.9 percent of GDP.  Valencia, rated junk by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service, tapped state-owned credit institute ICO for a
1 billion-euro  credit line  in February and wants another 1.68
billion-euro loan for bond redemptions this month of 1.47
billion euros. Fabra is seeking another 4.2 billion euros of
syndicated loans to repay over 10,000 suppliers.  “‘The PP won big electoral victories when we were living
in a delirious bubble,” Calabuig said. “Now the show is
over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  