-- Spammers Invade Pinterest-Era Social Media, Avoid E-Mail
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-05-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/spammers-invade-pinterest-era-social-media-avoid-e-mail.html
For 10 days,  jewelry maker  Michelle
Espinoza thought a single photo on the social website Pinterest
was going to ruin her business.  It was an image of one of the pearl cuff bracelets she
designs and sells, nestled among snapshots of other coveted
items that users display on Pinterest, a virtual bulletin board.
Yet anybody who clicked on the picture could end up unwittingly
watching pornography or downloading a virus.  “I can’t gauge how many customers I lost,” Espinoza,
based in Santa Rosa Beach,  Florida , said in a phone interview.
“But I did have people messaging me asking, ‘Are you linked to
spam?’ I was just distraught.”  When  Pinterest  debuted two years ago, e-mail was still the
favored format for  spam  messages peddling diet schemes, sexual
enhancement and other unsolicited services. Since then, better
filters have banished more spam from inboxes, pushing tens of
billions of pieces of mass marketing to social-media sites,
according to Dan Olds of Gabriel Consulting Group in Beaverton,
Oregon.  “Social spam can be a lot more effective than e-mail
spam,” said Mark Risher, chief executive officer of anti-spam
software provider  Impermium  in  Palo Alto ,  California . “We see a
lot of it, and we see it increasing. The bad guys are taking to
this with great abandon.”  Spammers create as many as 40 percent of the accounts on
social-media sites, Risher said. About 8 percent of messages
sent via social pages are spam, approximately twice the volume
six months ago, he said.  Spam Blockades  The looser the controls, the more prevalent the fake
accounts. While  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s largest social
network, has matured enough to spot and stop much of the
attempted spam, younger entrants like Pinterest have yet to
erect effective blockades.  Erica Billups, a spokeswoman for Palo Alto-based Pinterest,
declined to make executives available for interviews.  “As a growing service, Pinterest is not immune to
challenges faced by sites across the Web including spam,” she
said in an e-mailed statement. “Our engineers are actively
working to manage issues as they arise and are revisiting the
nature of public feeds on the site to make it harder for fake or
harmful content to get into them.”  Some 50,000 people may open a spam message on Facebook
within one hour,  Chester Wisniewski , senior security adviser in
 Vancouver  for anti-spam vendor Sophos Ltd., said in an
interview. Spammers can make money by advertising goods for
vendors, selling their own products, stealing personal
information through surveys, or installing viruses that can grab
consumer data.  ‘Con Artists’  “For an average Facebook scam, it’s easily on the scale of
e-mail scam,” Wisniewski said. “It’s a rather mature economy
of con artists.”  Facebook and Twitter Inc. -- social media’s old guard --
have bulked up on programmers and security specialists to
deflect spam. When that fails, they go to court.  In January, Facebook sued  Adscend Media LLC , accusing the
company of running scams on fraudulent pages designed to bait
users into visiting other websites. A typical lure cited in
Facebook’s suit: “You will be SHOCKED when you see this video.
Simply “Like” this page to see the video.”  At least 280,214 users were tricked into interacting with
spam set up by the defendants in the case,  Menlo Park ,
California-based Facebook said, calling the practice
“Likejacking.”  Canceled Accounts  About 80 percent of Adscend’s monthly revenue of $1.2
million came from Facebook scams at one point in time, the
social network said. Adscend said this month it settled the case
for $100,000 without admitting wrongdoing.  Twitter last month sued  Skootle Corp. ,  JL4 Web Solutions , a
man affiliated with  TweetBuddy.com  and four other individuals,
claiming that they were responsible for spam that had caused
some users to cancel accounts. Twitter said it spent more than
$700,000 to combat spam attacks by the defendants.  TweetBuddy.com created software to automate the creation of
fake accounts and mass distribution of tweets, Twitter said in
the suit. TweetBuddy.com also sold Twitter accounts to spammers,
according to the court filing.  “We hope this suit acts as a deterrent to other spammers,
demonstrating the strength of our commitment to keep them off
Twitter,” the company said in a  blog  posted the day it filed
the lawsuit. The Tweet Buddy site now says its products have
been pulled from the market and urges users to comply with
Twitter’s terms of service.  ‘Integrity Systems’  Twitter, based in  San Francisco , also set up software to
analyze links posted on the site and shut down any containing
malware or malicious content, which helped eliminate hundreds of
thousands of abusive accounts.  “Tens of millions of dollars are spent on our site
integrity systems including hundreds of full time employees,”
Facebook spokesman Frederic Wolens said.  Facebook has been expanding its URL  blacklist  system, which
uses data from partners including  Intel Corp .’s McAfee to detect
and block known threats.  Facebook Immune System  inspects every
action on the site, using the reputation of the cookie or IP
address involved to halt any suspicious action.  Pinterest encourages users to form a virtual neighborhood
watch and report spam before it spreads. Last month, Pinterest
posted  a blog  suggesting that consumers use a “Report Pin”
button to identify spam.  Pinterest Spam  On Pinterest, spam often lurks in the embedded links
attached to photos, making it tricky for users to spot.
Espinoza, the 40-year-old jewelry maker, said she contacted the
company at least 10 times in as many days before the fraudulent
links tied to images of her bracelets were banished.  Lauren Williamson, a 31-year-old in suburban  Chicago ,
didn’t even sign up for Pinterest to get spam from the site.
After somebody else used her e-mail for a Pinterest account, she
now gets several spam messages each week. She said she e-mailed
Pinterest twice attempting to fix the problem and then gave up
when she got no response. She says the messages keep coming.  “I get e-mails from mortgage brokers and online
retailers,” she said in an interview. “It’s an annoyance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  