-- Spanish, Italian Bonds Advance as Greek Government Named
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-05-16T15:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/spanish-italian-bonds-advance-as-greek-government-named.html
Spanish and Italian bonds rose,
leading gains among government debt issued by  Europe ’s high-
deficit nations, as  Greece  named an interim government to
prepare for elections aimed at ending a political impasse.  German bund yields climbed from within one basis point of a
record low as signs of progress in Greece damped demand for the
region’s safest securities. Greek bonds gained. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds instead of bunds
earlier widened to a euro-era record after Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  said the country risked being shut out of
financial markets.  “There’s been some short-covering in Spain and Italy,”
said  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income strategist at  Barclays
Capital  in London. “There’s been no change in fundamentals.
Greece needs to have a government. There are still concerns that
they may leave the  euro zone .” Short covering refers to
investors ending bets a security will decline.  The Spanish  10-year yield  fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 6.30 percent at 4:21 p.m. London time after
climbing to 6.51 percent, the highest level since Nov. 29. The
5.85 percent security due January 2022 rose 0.355, or 3.55 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,272) face amount, to 96.80.  Italy’s  10-year bond  yield dropped four basis points to
5.83 percent. It earlier climbed to 6.01 percent, a level last
seen on Jan. 31.  Caretaker Government  The Greek caretaker government that was agreed on today in
 Athens  will prepare new elections probably on June 17, Democratic
Left leader Fotis Kouvelis said. The administration will be led
by Panagiotis Pikrammenos, head of the Council of State, the
highest administrative court, Independent Greeks leader  Panos Kammenos  said after talks with other party leaders in Athens.  The new ballot will follow inconclusive May 6 elections.
Opinion polls say the Syriza party, which is opposed to Greece’s
international bailout, may get the greatest number of votes,
complicating Greece’s efforts to avoid running out of cash by
early July.  The German  10-year bund  yield was unchanged at 1.47 percent
after falling to 1.44 percent, within one basis point of a
record low 1.434 percent reached on May 14.  Greece’s 2 percent bond due in February 2023 rose for the
first time in 12 days. The yield dropped 55 basis points to
28.86 percent after rising above 30 percent today for the first
time since the nation’s debt restructuring in March. The price
gained 0.455 to 14.725 percent of value.  ‘Astronomical Prices’  Spanish bonds fell earlier after Prime Minister Rajoy
called on the European Union to take measures to support public
debt sustainability.  He told reporters there was a risk investors will stop
lending to  Spain  or charge “astronomical prices” after the extra
yield investors demand to hold Spanish debt instead of German
bonds widened to a euro-era record of 5.07 percentage points.  Irish notes fell for a ninth day amid speculation voters
will reject a referendum this month that would enshrine planned
European fiscal rules in national law.  “We’ve seen selling across the curve in Ireland,” said
 Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “There are two aspects
to the selling, the first simply being the contagion effect of
possible Greek exit from the euro, the second being Ireland’s
own referendum risk, due on May 31.”  The Irish two-year yield climbed 43 basis points to 6.72
percent after reaching 7.15 percent, rising above 7 percent for
the first time since Jan. 12.  Volatility in Irish securities was the highest in the euro
area, followed by Portugal, according to measures of 10-year
bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  