-- SSE Profit Rises as Energy-Grid Gain Counters Gas Sales Drop
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-05-16T15:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/sse-profit-rises-7-7-as-energy-transmission-counters-sales-drop.html
SSE Plc (SSE) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
energy supplier, said fiscal full-year profit climbed 7.7
percent as higher earnings from electricity and gas transmission
countered falling energy sales.  Adjusted profit after tax rose to 1.12 billion pounds
($1.79 billion) in the year through March from 1.04 billion
pounds a year earlier, the Perth, Scotland-based company said
today in a statement.  SSE has benefited from regulated rates for power and gas
distribution, even as weakening demand and rising costs erode
revenue from electricity generation.  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the largest
U.K. household gas supplier, also reported lower income from its
residential energy unit last year amid a “challenging” market.  The wholesale cost of gas rose about 20 percent in SSE’s
fiscal year, while profitability at gas-fed  power plants  dropped
about 75 percent, it said today. Wholesale prices, a 20 percent
decline in household gas use and winter storms presented “major
challenges,” even as operating profit from the networks unit
gained 6.7 percent, Chairman  Robert Smith  said in the statement.  “We do expect over the coming three years to see market
conditions improve,” Chief Executive Officer Ian Marchant said
today on a conference call. Profit margins for gas-fired power
generation will “get back to equilibrium” within 12 to 18
months, he said.  Shares Increase  SSE advanced 4 pence, 0.3 percent, to 1,329 pence in
London. The stock has risen 2.9 percent this year, valuing the
company at 12.6 billion pounds.  Capital expenditure gained to a record 1.71 billion pounds
from 1.44 billion pounds a year earlier, Marchant said. The
company produced more than 70 percent more electricity from
hydropower plants and wind farms than in the prior fiscal year.  “We believe 2012/13 will be another tough year, but we
continue to expect higher generation profits in the medium term
from growing wind capacity and rising wholesale prices,” Martin Brough and James Brand, analysts at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a
note. “This should support ongoing real dividend growth.”  SSE plans a full-year dividend of 80.1 pence a share. The
utility has paid an above-inflation dividend every year for the
past 12 and says it plans to maintain that policy. It has
committed to paying out at least 2 percent more than inflation
this year.  Operating profit from electricity transmission rose 55
percent over the year, while gas-distribution unit Scotia Gas
Networks contributed 44 percent more than a year earlier, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  