-- St. Jude's Device Reduces Blood Pressure in a Month
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-16T06:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/st-jude-s-device-reduces-blood-pressure-in-a-month.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s device
designed to treat hypertension by searing nerves that contribute
to the condition significantly reduced  blood pressure  within a
month, a study found.  The trial involving 47 patients found St. Jude’s EnligHTN
device cut systolic blood pressure, the top number that measures
force when the heart is contracting, by 28 millimeters of
mercury after 30 days. The risk of dying from  heart disease 
doubles with every 20 point increase in systolic  blood pressure ,
said Stephen Worthley, director of interventional cardiology at
Royal Adelaide Hospital in Australia.  Results released today at medical meeting EuroPCR in Paris
showed the device lowered blood pressure twice as much as
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s Symplicity, the market leader, said Worthley,
who led the study. Blood-pressure readings for patients treated
with EnligHTN may fall further, based on the experience with
Symplicity, Worthley said.  “In this first in-man study that we’ve undertaken, not
only is this new catheter safe, we’ve seen no complications at
all,” Worthley said in a telephone interview. “At 30 days, a
very early time point, we’ve seen a marked reduction in blood
pressure. We know that those sorts of blood pressure reductions
lead to a greater than halving of heart attack and stroke, and
this is within only 30 days.”  The devices from  St. Paul , Minnesota-based St. Jude and
Minneapolis-based Medtronic are approved in  Europe  to treat
people with high blood pressure that doesn’t respond to
conventional drug therapy. Studies show 10 percent to 25 percent
of the 1.2 billion people worldwide with high blood pressure
aren’t able to reach their goals with medications.  Recommended blood pressure is 120 millimeters of mercury
over 80 mmHg, according to the  American Heart Association . The
lower number, called diastolic pressure, is obtained when the
heart is filling with blood.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  