-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Senegal (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-16T14:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-senegal-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Senegal:  An International Monetary Fund (IMF) mission headed by Mr. Herve Joly
visited Senegal May 2-15, 2012 to conduct the third review of the
three-year arrangement under the Policy Support Instrument (PSI),
approved in December 2010. Members of the mission met with the President
of the Republic, the Prime Minister, and the Ministers of Economy and
Finance and of Energy, as well as representatives of the BCEAO, other
senior government officials, and representatives of the private sector,
civil society, and the development partners.
At the end of the visit, Mr. Joly made the following statement:
The mission welcomes the determination of the new government to
pursue the implementation of the program supported by the policy support
instrument (PSI, 2011-13). The principal objectives of the program are
to: (i) keep public finances under control so as to maintain macroeconomic
stability; (ii) increase fiscal revenue with a view to creating greater
fiscal space for the financing of priority expenditures; (iii) pursue
the consolidation of public financial management and improve governance;
and (iv) promote private sector development. These objectives are
consistent with those of the new government.  Senegal  is, however, facing
a difficult external environment, a resurgence of regional instability,
and the impact of a severe drought on the population and the economy.
These developments create the need to make adjustments in the
implementation of the program without calling into question the program’s
guiding principles.  Macroeconomic developments in 2011 were less positive than expected
because of the drought in the Sahel region. The steep decline of
agricultural production despite sound results in the other sectors
of economic activity has limited GDP growth to 2.6 percent.
Inflation stood at 3.4 percent in 2011, driven by the increase of food
and transport prices, in a context of rising global commodity prices.
An upturn in growth is anticipated in 2012, to 3.9 percent,
notwithstanding a less favorable external environment. A recovery of
agricultural production (assuming normal rainfall patterns) and
public investment in infrastructure are expected to support growth.
Inflation should remain moderate, at about 2.5 percent, in 2012.  There was a significant slowdown at end-2011/early 2012 in the program’s
implementation, in a tense pre-electoral context. The fiscal deficit
target for 2011 was not met because of current expenditure overruns
and tax revenue shortfalls. Progress was made in the implementation
of structural reforms, but at a markedly slower pace than envisaged
in the program.  The discussions between the authorities and the mission focused on how
to keep public finance developments under control. In the absence of
remedial measures, the fiscal deficit could exceed 8 percent of GDP
this year-clearly, an unsustainable level. There are several reasons
for this situation, which will require different policy responses.
The need to provide assistance to drought victims and the downturn
in growth make the upward revision of the deficit target warranted.
A large portion of the deficit’s widening appears, however, to stem
from the provision of energy price subsidies (electricity tariffs,
petroleum product), which are expected to reach the very high cost,
for public finances, of CFAF 150 billion in 2012 (2 percent of GDP).
The mission urges the authorities to replace these subsidies with
measures that are more efficient and better targeted to the poorest
segments of the population. Eventually, the 2012 deficit target was
raised from 5.6 percent to 6.4 percent of GDP. The new target should
be achieved through major efforts to reduce government current spending
and the postponement of some non-priority capital expenditure.
The government has also committed to make up for the late payments to the private
sector accumulated before the presidential elections.  The mission congratulates the authorities for their firm commitment to
improve public governance, transparency, and the efficiency of public
expenditure; it notes that steps in this direction have already been
taken or announced, such as the reduction of the size of the government
and the restructuring of agencies. The mission also welcomes the
authorities’ confirmation of their intention to pursue the other key
reforms in the program, in particular in the areas of taxation and energy.  The conclusion of the third review of the program by the IMF Executive
Board could take place in July 2011.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 