-- Statement by the IMF Mission to United Arab Emirates (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-16T14:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-united-arab-emirates-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to the
 United Arab Emirates :  On May 14, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with the United Arab
Emirates.
Background
The recovery of the economy is continuing despite the uncertain
global economic environment. High  oil prices  and increased production,
strong growth in  Asia , and the UAE’s perceived safe haven status in
the context of the regional turmoil contributed to an estimated real
GDP growth of 4.9 percent in 2011. Despite the continued weakness of
the construction and real estate sectors in the wake of the 2009 crisis,
real nonhydrocarbon growth picked up to an estimated 2.7 percent last
year, supported by trade, logistics, and tourism. For 2012, oil production
is projected to be flat, whereas nonoil growth is expected to strengthen
further to 3.5 percent. Inflation remained low at 0.9 percent in 2011,
mainly due to a continuing decline in housing rents, and price
pressures are expected to remain subdued this year.
The Dubai World debt restructuring was completed, but several other
troubled government-related entities (GRE) are still in the process
of restructuring. GRE indebtedness, refinancing needs and reliance on
foreign funding remain high, with about $30 billion GRE debt maturing
this year and significant amount of debt falling due in 2014-15.
Despite the accommodative monetary stance under the peg to the  U.S. dollar ,
lending to the private sector has remained sluggish as excess capacity in
the real estate sector and the debt overhang still limit lending
opportunities. The banking sector has remained well-capitalized and
profitable, despite a continued rise in nonperforming loans and higher
provisioning.
Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors welcomed the continued economic recovery and
favorable nearterm outlook, but noted downside risks from the uncertain
global environment and regional geopolitical tensions. Going forward,
Directors encouraged the authorities to continue their efforts to
sustain growth and diversify the economy, while maintaining
macroeconomic and financial stability.
Directors regarded the fiscal stance as appropriately focused on a
gradual consolidation to unwind the large fiscal stimulus undertaken in
response to the 2009 crisis without undermining the economic recovery.
They particularly welcomed the consolidation plans in Dubai, which will
help improve the emirate’s debt sustainability in the face of contingent
liabilities related to governmentrelated entities (GRE) and the still
weak real estate market. Noting the recent federal salary hike and the
planned increases in development spending in  Abu Dhabi , Directors
emphasized the importance of managing the composition of public
expenditure carefully. They commended the authorities’ efforts to
strengthen coordination of fiscal policies between the federal and
emirate governments.
Directors agreed that a continued accommodative monetary stance under
the peg to the U.S. dollar would counteract fiscal tightening and support
the economic recovery. They took note of the staff assessment that the
 exchange rate  has remained broadly aligned with fundamentals, and agreed
that the exchange rate peg continues to serve as an effective nominal
anchor for the economy.
Directors noted the progress made in restructuring and managing the debt
of GREs, but stressed the need for further efforts to mitigate the
fiscal risks posed by these entities. They cautioned that GREs are
still faced with high refinancing needs and are reliant on foreign funding.
In this context, Directors encouraged further deleveraging and
strengthening of impaired GRE balance sheets, increased transparency,
and improvements in corporate governance at GREs.
Directors took note of the resilience of the banking sector grounded
on ample liquidity and capital buffers. They nonetheless encouraged
the authorities to continue monitoring closely the financial situation
of individual banks and their ability to cope with adverse shocks.
Directors emphasized the importance of shielding the banking system
from taking further GRErelated risks, including by avoiding channeling
bank funding to nonviable GREs. In this regard, they welcomed the
recent introduction of aggregate lending limits to GREs. Directors also
suggested further strengthening the governance framework for the
financial sector. Looking forward, they encouraged the development of
domestic debt markets, which would among other things support banks’
liquidity management in preparation for the introduction of the Basel III
liquidity framework.
Directors welcomed the authorities’ efforts to strengthen the
statistical base, including the plans for improving the national accounts,
balance of payments, fiscal accounts, and labor market statistics.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  