-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Latvia (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-16T14:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-latvia-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Latvia:  Statement at the Conclusion of the First Post-Program Monitoring
Mission to Latvia  An International Monetary Fund (IMF) mission visited Riga May 7-16
for the first post-program monitoring discussions--part of the IMF’s
regular surveillance of countries with IMF credit outstanding above
200 percent of quota. The mission cooperated closely with an European
Commission mission that visited for post-program surveillance
discussions. At the end of the visit, IMF mission chief Mark Griffiths
issued the following statement:  Latvia’s economy is recovering strongly. Growth rose to 5.5 percent
in 2011, and reached 6.8 percent year-on-year in the first quarter of
2012, led by higher domestic demand. The mission has raised its 2012
growth forecast to 3.5 percent. Short-term indicators suggest 2012
growth might end up slightly higher, provided the external environment
does not deteriorate. Underlying inflation remains low, and headline
inflation should fall to around 2.6 percent in 2012, provided there
are no shocks to world energy or food prices.  This year’s budget deficit should fall to around 2 percent of GDP,
well below the 3 percent Maastricht criterion. Tax revenues in the
first quarter of 2012 came in above plan. Given the strength of domestic
demand, the bulk of this overperformance should be saved. However,
some additional spending in areas that have adjusted the most and where
funding in the 2012 budget was limited--primary health care, road
maintenance, and the social safety net--could be warranted. Public
sector wages need to be made more competitive with the private sector,
to stem the loss of highly qualified staff and to recruit staff needed
to strengthen tax administration. But any spending increases would need
to be limited and well targeted.  Major changes to the  tax code  or to spending are best made when
preparing the annual budget, not in the middle of the year or through
supplementary budgets. Given that unemployment remains high at around
15 percent, if tax cuts are introduced, they would be best targeted at
lowering labor costs, especially for the long-term unemployed.
Although cutting the VAT may appear attractive, given that earlier
crisis-related increases were substantial and the VAT is now slightly
higher than in neighboring countries, it could also boost consumption
and weaken the current account.  For 2013, we continue to have concerns over proposals to save money
by decentralizing the funding of GMI, since poorer local governments
will have difficulties paying this. We hope that the study being
conducted by the  World Bank  and the Ministry of Welfare will provide
recommendations on how to prevent poverty traps and better target
social assistance, and that these recommendations will be included
in the 2013 budget.  The authorities are implementing their structural reform agenda.
The Fiscal Responsibility Law is being aligned with the Fiscal Compact,
but more work is needed on the methodology for computing the structural
fiscal balance. On Mortgage and  Land Bank  (MLB), the authorities should
sell all commercial assets unless there is clear evidence that the bids
are well below market value. Once the sales process is completed, the
remaining development part of MLB should be merged with other development
finance institutions, to create a single development financial institution,
and the banking license removed. In 2011, the government injected L58
million (0.4 percent of GDP) into airBaltic. The government should
closely monitor implementation of the new business plan to return the
airline to profitability quickly and should sell the airline to a strong
strategic investor to avoid further taxpayer losses.  The authorities have made good progress toward the program’s exit
strategy of euro adoption. Impressive fiscal consolidation during the
program means the Maastricht fiscal criteria should be met with a large
margin. Despite successes in keeping underlying inflation low and
returning to investment grade, meeting the inflation and interest rate
criteria will be challenging given the impact of external shocks and
uncertainty surrounding the level of the reference values for the
Maastricht criteria. Joining the euro would be beneficial for the
Latvian economy: exchange rate risk would be eliminated, financial
market stability should improve, and  interest rates  should fall.
The authorities should continue their strong policy implementation to
increase the chances that the Maastricht criteria for euro adoption
are met sustainably.  The IMF team would again like to thank the authorities for their
generous hospitality and frank discussions during the mission, the
many social partners and non-government officials who made time to
meet with us, and to the Mayor of Salacgriva for hosting us and for
showing us examples of sustainable development projects.”  Further information:  http://www.imf.org/external/country/LVA/index.htm   SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 