-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Italy (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-16T12:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-italy-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Italy :  With broad political support, the authorities have embarked
on an ambitious and wide-ranging agenda that has lifted Italy
from the brink and is now seen as a model for fiscal stabilization
and growth-enhancing reforms. However, the work has only just
begun, and a lot remains to be done to revive growth and restore
dynamism to the economy. The emphasis should continue to be
on comprehensive structural reforms to boost productivity and labor
participation, a supportive fiscal strategy that is both
growth-friendly and sustainable, and steps to promote a more dynamic
and resilient banking system. Italy’s success also depends on
progress at the European level to resolve the crisis and promote growth.  The economy is expected to contract this year due to strong headwinds
from fiscal consolidation, tight financial conditions, and the
global slowdown. Economic activity is expected to recover in early
2013, led by a modest pickup in exports and investment. Headline
inflation is expected to ease only gradually, as the impact of
weak demand will be partly offset by higher indirect taxes.  The risks to the outlook are tilted to the downside. Renewed
financial turmoil could push government bond yields higher,
tighten bank credit, and weaken activity. Slow progress in
implementing needed fiscal and structural reforms could undermine
confidence and raise concerns about Italy’s fiscal position.
On the upside, a more robust global recovery or faster progress in
reforms could boost  market sentiment  and activity.
Italy’s outlook also depends on continued progress at the European level
in creating a more complete monetary union. A more integrated euro area
with greater fiscal and financial discipline and risk sharing would
provide a more durable solution to the euro area crisis and, combined
with further monetary easing and unconventional measures as needed by
the  European Central Bank  (ECB), support Italy’s adjustment efforts.
Maintaining the momentum for reform will be important to address
stagnant productivity and entrenched structural weaknesses that have
constrained Italy’s medium-term growth potential. The difficult
business environment, fragmented labor market, and limited competition
in services have contributed to the poor growth performance and a loss
in competiveness. The high level of youth and long-term unemployment
risks creating a “lost generation” with lasting consequences for growth.
Addressing these weaknesses is a key priority for reviving growth
and alleviating the social cost of the crisis.
I.   Structural Reforms to Jumpstart Growth
The potential gains to growth from deeper structural reforms are
substantial. IMF staff estimates suggest that product and labor
market reforms that bring Italy closer to OECD best practices could
increase the level of GDP by about 6 percent over the medium term.
The government has embarked on important reforms to deregulate the
service sector and make the labor market more inclusive and flexible.
Accelerating these reforms, and locking in now the necessary legislative
and administrative changes, would strengthen confidence and create
momentum for further reforms. Greater coordination at the EU level,
especially in strengthening the single market for energy, transportation,
and services, would also support Italy’s efforts in these areas.
The labor market reform bill should be passed quickly to reduce uncertainty
and encourage new hires. The bill promotes open-ended and apprenticeship
contracts for young workers and makes  unemployment insurance  more universal.
It also facilitates hiring by allowing companies to lay off workers for
economic reasons and reducing the cost of dismissal. Clarifying further
the conditions for reinstatement via the judicial process would reduce
uncertainty and facilitate out-of-court settlements of dismissal disputes.
More is needed to bridge the gap between permanent and temporary workers
and address the high unemployment of youth and women. The cost of new
regular hires could be lowered by allowing for a more flexible open-ended
contract for new workers that gradually increases employment protection
with tenure. This would also facilitate the employment of young workers.
Reducing the marginal tax rates for married second-earners would help
raise female labor participation (one of the lowest in the OECD).
Allowing companies and workers to first set firm-level contracts,
unless they agree to opt out and abide by national ones, would better
match wages to productivity, while greater differentiation of public
wages across regions would support private wage flexibility and
employment, especially in the South.
In product markets, priority should be given to accelerating reforms
in the energy, public and professional services sectors with the
broadest impact on growth. Completing the planned separation of gas
distribution and production by end year would improve competition
and eventually help drive down energy prices, which are among the
highest in the euro area. Accelerating the opening of professional
orders would also strengthen competition and lower rents. A greater
push for privatization, especially for local public utilities, would
enhance the efficiency, cost, and quality of public services.
Increasing the efficiency of the judicial system would have wide-ranging
benefits for reducing the backlog of legal cases, lowering business
costs and uncertainty, and strengthening labor market reforms.
Helping small and medium-size enterprises (SMEs) grow would facilitate
the shift of resources to new growth areas. Reducing the high cost of
startups and streamlining tax and other regulations would lower business
uncertainty and costs. Expanding risk-based--as opposed to
collateral-based--lending would improve SMEs’ access to credit, while
developing further the  venture capital  and private equity industry
would expand the availability of risk capital. Recent initiatives to
foster firm recapitalization, such as the allowance for corporate equity,
are welcome in this regard. In addition, reforms to promote greater
inward FDI (among the lowest in the OECD) would allow SMEs to benefit
from the growth in global supply chains and technology transfer.
II.   Making Fiscal Consolidation More Growth-Friendly
The government has enacted an impressive fiscal package to
improve the primary surplus. The package features significant and
front-loaded consolidation; pension reforms to strengthen long-term
sustainability; a modest shift from direct to indirect taxes
(in support of a so-called “fiscal devaluation”); and more aggressive
action against  tax evasion . As a result of these measures, the primary
surplus of the general government is expected to rise significantly,
to above 4 percent of GDP by 2013, the highest in the euro area.
The fiscal adjustment this year and next is appropriate. The sizeable
improvement in the structural primary balance in 2012-13 will weigh
heavily on growth but is critical for fiscal sustainability. The mission
welcomes the increased focus on targeting a structural balance which
adjusts for the economic cycle and allows fiscal policy to remain
flexible in a more severe downturn. To bolster the recovery, the
mission welcomes the government’s efforts to identify and implement
the needed expenditure cuts to avoid an increase in the VAT rate later
this year.
Shifting further the composition of adjustment towards expenditure cuts
and lower taxes would better distribute the burden of adjustment,
thereby supporting growth. Cutting government expenditure, such as the
public sector wage bill or other areas identified in the ongoing spending
review; reducing Italy’s sizeable tax expenditures; and stepping up
efforts against tax evasion would create space for growth-supporting
measures. These measures could include: reducing the labor tax wedge
to boost employment; raising the allowance for corporate equity to
encourage investment; or financing a modest, well-targeted increase
in public infrastructure investment. Staff estimates that a sizeable
shift in the composition of adjustment could raise the level of GDP
by 1 percent over the long term.
The newly adopted constitutional fiscal rule is an important instrument
for strengthening fiscal discipline and policymaking. Adopting a binding
multi-year expenditure framework and unifying and enhancing the role
of spending reviews in the budget process would buttress the credibility
of the fiscal rule. The fiscal council will be important in assessing
fiscal developments and improving accountability, and should be set
up fully independent in terms of staffing, funding, and work agenda.
Locking in prudent fiscal policies over the medium term would improve
confidence and support growth. Looking beyond 2013, the ongoing
spending review should expeditiously identify further cuts to
unproductive expenditure and use some of the savings to reduce debt.
With the debt-to-GDP ratio projected to decline only gradually, the
fiscal position will remain vulnerable to market distress or an
economic slowdown. To raise the buffer against such shocks, targeting
a 1 percent of GDP structural surplus from 2014 onwards as the
medium-term anchor for the fiscal rule would put the debt ratio on a
more robust downward path, even under adverse conditions.
The credibility gains from a faster pace of debt reduction could
lower borrowing costs significantly, especially once European market
conditions stabilize.
The stock of outstanding public payments needs to be addressed.
Completing quickly the stocktaking exercise to determine the size
of pending and overdue payments at the central and subnational levels,
along with a strategy for improving the reporting and timeliness of
public payments, would strengthen expenditure control and
accountability.
Such a strategy should be complemented by improved coordination among
all levels of government and continued incentives for fiscal prudence
also at the subnational levels.
The debt management strategy should seek to maintain the favorable
maturity structure of debt and diversify the investor base. Moving
to provide collateral in swap transactions would further strengthen
financial stability. Subsequent regular reporting of such transactions
in government accounts would enhance transparency. In addition, the
authorities should assess the scope to mobilize public assets, including
through privatization and other means, to maximize revenue generation
and reduce public debt.
III.   Promoting a More Dynamic and Resilient Banking System
Italian banks continue to benefit from their large and stable retail
funding base, low leverage, and traditional lending model which has
limited exposures to risky assets. The resilience of the system has
been supported by firm supervision and regulation. Italian banks
weathered the global financial crisis and strengthened their capital
base without large-scale equity support from the government.
Despite these strengths, banks remain pressured by concerns about
the economic outlook and link with the sovereign. Gross impaired
loans (including bad, substandard, restructured, and past-due loans)
have risen to 11 percent in 2011, from less than 6 percent before
the crisis. Together with a decline in provisioning rates below the
pre-crisis levels, this leaves Italian banks vulnerable to the
downturn, especially from the weaker SME and construction sectors.
Exceptional liquidity support from the ECB has been critical for
meeting banks’ funding needs and has helped prevent a sharp
contraction of credit.
Reducing impaired loans would free up resources for new lending.
Banks’ buildup of impaired loans reflects both an inefficient legal
process that delays loan write-offs and the flow of new bad loans
arising from the slowdown. The growing stock and slow pace of disposal
have constrained core profitability and tied up funding and capital.
Supervisors should encourage banks to develop strategies for selling,
restructuring or writing down impaired loans to free up resources for
lending. The development of a market for restructuring distressed
assets could be facilitated by ensuring adequate bank provisioning,
aligning more closely tax deductibility of loan loss provisioning and
write-offs, and streamlining bankruptcy and foreclosure procedures.
Banks should maintain adequate capital and liquidity buffers to
remain resilient to the downturn. The  Bank of Italy  (BoI) should
continue to encourage large banks under the European Banking Authority
(EBA) to meet their capital needs by raising equity or disposing of
noncore assets, rather than cutting loans. To further enhance
transparency, the BoI should consider extending its stress tests to
a larger set of institutions, including mid-sized banks, and publish
the results in its regular Financial Stability Reports. This would help
market participants assess banks’ capacity to withstand a slowdown and
funding distress and anchor market discipline. Encouraging banks to
improve their capacity to post eligible collateral at the BoI would facilitate
access to Eurosystem liquidity facilities.                                            We are grateful to the authorities and our counterparts for their
hospitality and open and constructive discussions.  An IMF team visited Italy from May 3 to May 16, 2012, for the annual
evaluation of the economy as part of the regular consultations under
Article IV of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement.
This statement describes the preliminary findings of the staff.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  