-- Straw Tells News Corp. Ethics Probe Press Ties Can Hurt Standing
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-16T10:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/straw-tells-news-corp-ethics-probe-press-ties-can-hurt-standing.html
Jack Straw, the foreign secretary
under former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair , told an ethics
inquiry triggered by News Corp.’s phone-hacking scandal that
close ties with the media may damage a politician’s integrity.  “Every politician wants to have the best relationship they
can with the press, because it’s the prism through which their
work is perceived, but if you get too close, your own position
becomes compromised and can undermine your integrity,” Straw
said in testimony today in  London .  Judge Brian Leveson, who is overseeing the inquiry, is
examining the press’s relationship with politicians, celebrities
and police. He heard testimony earlier this week from Blair’s
press chief, Alastair Campbell, who said the ex-prime minister
felt he had to deal with “right-wing”  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman
 Rupert Murdoch  to get his message across to the public.  The inquiry, triggered by widespread phone hacking at News
Corp.’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid, is running
parallel with police probes of News Corp. journalists that
resulted in criminal charges being filed yesterday against
Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. unit and a close friend of Murdoch.  Straw said he regularly sat next to Brooks on a commuter
train to London and discussed politics and “gossip” about
people in the news. He stopped sitting next to her in 2009,
around the time she became CEO of News International, he said.  Brooks testified last week that she was friends with Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and exchanged  text messages  with him.
Cameron’s Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt is facing calls from the
opposition Labour party to resign, after e-mails produced as
evidence at the Leveson inquiry showed an aide offered inside
information on Hunt’s views to a News Corp. lobbyist when the
company was offering 7.8 billion pounds ($12.4 billion) for full
control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   “Everyone concedes it’s been an over-cozy relationship,”
Leveson said today, referring the media’s ties to lawmakers in
general.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  