-- Successful Leaders Must Learn to Act Many Parts: Harry L. Davis
-- B y   H a r r y   L .   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-16T23:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/successful-leaders-must-learn-to-act-many-parts-harry-l-davis.html
Much has been written about the
qualities of successful leaders. These attributes often seem to
float above any specific context, in the same way that a
consumer’s preference expressed in a focus group is assumed to
be equally present when that person is shopping in a grocery
store or preparing a meal at the end of a long and tiring day.  Yet a leader’s success in attracting followers -- the
essence of effective leadership -- is dependent upon how people
perform in their roles in front of specific audiences. It’s in
the day-to-day, meeting-to-meeting performances that someone
moves key initiatives forward.  Metaphorically speaking, leaders appear in many “plays” as
part of their duties, leading a tense meeting on reducing costs
or guiding a team charged with exploring growth opportunities.
Leaders also take on different roles throughout their career,
evolving from specialists in a given function to generalists who
must view the company as a whole.  Former Secretary of State  George Shultz  understood the need
to shift roles for different audiences. In his 1993 memoir,
“Turmoil and Triumph: My Years as Secretary of State,” he wrote:
“In business, you have to be very careful when you tell someone
working for you to do something, because chances are high that
he or she will actually do it. In government, you don’t have to
worry about that. And in the university, you aren’t supposed to
tell anyone to do anything in the first place.”  Varied Career  Recognizing these differences undoubtedly contributed to
his success in a career that also included stints as dean of the
University of Chicago business school, secretary of labor,
 Treasury secretary  and president of Bechtel Group.  Having taught countless MBA students for almost five
decades, I’m not suggesting that conceptual knowledge is
unimportant. But leaders must also have the capacity to turn
information into meaningful actions, and action skills demand a
deep understanding of the audience and of oneself. In the same
way that companies get stuck in comfortable routines that lessen
their competitiveness, so, too, can leaders get stuck in the
“how” of their own performances.  Barbara Lanebrown  -- a Chicago Booth MBA who is also a
playwright, director and actor -- and I have worked with many
executives to bring more attention to the artistry of
leadership. In a period of significant technological change,
expanded operations throughout the world, and longer career
spans, one’s ability to perform effectively across a diverse set
of contexts may be the necessary condition for sustained
contributions. From our experience, there is a positive net
present value from supplementing “head smarts” with a healthy
dose of “street-smarts.”  Imagine that John has performed well as a chief operating
officer in a very hierarchical company. Roles and
responsibilities are clearly defined and everyone knows the
critical measures of performance. John is successful because he
communicates clearly to those who report to him. He is decisive,
focused, confident, and unrelenting in holding others
accountable.  Now imagine two different career paths. John is promoted to
chief executive officer. He’s now dealing with many constituents
outside of the organization. He no longer attends daily meetings
with department heads. He finds himself having difficulty
communicating with his new audiences. On a different path, John
could move to another organization within the same industry. He
discovers that this company is much less hierarchical. Directing
others or pleasing his boss is no longer as critical. The
organization doesn’t operate with military precision. He then
finds himself wondering if he made the right decision and if he
can be effective in this new environment.  Effective Bridge  Continuing to perform one’s role in the same way over time
is often comfortable; trying to express newer qualities may not
be. It’s easy to listen to an inner voice that says, “I’m the
kind of person who always sees the flaws in others’ position, so
unless I keep pointing out the flaws, I won’t be me.” But having
an impact doesn’t depend solely on me. Rather, it’s a question
of the set of qualities I need to bring forth in order to be an
effective bridge between an important goal for my organization
and the audience that will be critical in implementing actions
that support the goal.  When someone strives for greater agility, they must
confront the somewhat counterintuitive notion that they have
many possible identities. At times, patience is valuable; at
other times, impatience should be expressed. It’s appropriate
for a leader to show a warmer side in front of some audiences,
and to display a more aloof quality to others. The part of us
that can energize others is valuable when an organization needs
more momentum; the part that can project calm is valuable when
pressure and fatigue have taken hold. We can all gain access to
a diverse set of personal qualities. The challenge is to
acknowledge these assets and use each when appropriate.  Steven Sample, the former president of the University of
 Southern California , ends his 2002 book, “The Contrarian’s Guide
to Leadership,” with some advice he received early in his
career: “Many men want to be president, but very few want to do
president.”  The distinction between being and doing is valid. However,
it’s not productive to view the doing aspect of leadership as
something to dread -- quite the contrary. If someone has
auditioned and got the part, it’s exciting to bring “downstage”
those inner qualities needed to bring that role to life, to
practice again and again, and then to deliver for the audience a
performance that is authentic, memorable and meaningful.  (Harry L. Davis, professor of creative management at the
 University of Chicago  Booth School of Business, is a contributor
to  Business Class . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Eduardo Saverin’s
citizenship  and  stopping Somali pirates ;  Ezra Klein  on  U.S.
economic bright spots ;  Amity Shlaes  on  supply-siders and
austerity ;  Caroline Baum  on  digging out of debt ;  Steven Greenhut 
on why  California is still golden ; Rachelle Bergstein on
 countercultural footwear .  To contact the writer of this article:
Harry L. Davis at  Harry.Davis@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  