-- Supply-Siders’ Case for Austerity Carries No Shame
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-05-16T23:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/supply-siders-case-for-austerity-carries-no-shame.html
The scarlet letter these days is
still an A, but it isn’t A for adultery. It is A for austerity.  Especially careful to eschew the A label are conservatives
and supply-side economists, those who wrote legislation for
 Ronald Reagan  or subsequent Republican leaders. Supply-siders
prefer to be known as advocates of growth. Many conservative
policy makers fear they will earn the disdain of the supply-side
giants, the movement’s eminences, by pushing “budget cuts”
instead of “growth.”  Among themselves, Republicans worry that the budget
emphasis of  Paul Ryan , the House Budget Committee chairman, will
hurt the party by earning it the austerity label. The party will
go down faster than  Herbert Hoover  in 1932. But there’s also an
argument that Republican fear of the scarlet letter is
exaggerated. And that the austerity concept is misunderstood.  Growth happens more easily when people believe that
government is, and will remain, small. Austerity makes
government smaller. Sometimes you have to have austerity first,
so that you have trust, and growth can come later. Even some
supply-siders say this.  Herewith, the case. Start with the nightmare the U.S. fears
replicating:  Europe . That financial disaster wasn’t just a
crisis about pension obligations. It was a crisis of trust.
First, markets and individuals trusted European governments when
they said their budgets balanced over the long run. Stable
governments with balanced budgets would leave the economy some
room to grow and realize the advantages of a new continent-wide
currency. Then the observers realized the governments were
lying. Restoring trust is harder than killing it.  Europe’s Bad Example  The simplest way for European governments to restore voter
and market trust is to cut national budgets dramatically. Even
by half. Such deep cuts, however, are deemed politically
impossible. The Europeans will do just about anything to avoid
seriously reducing their budgets, including raise tax rates, so
they can get more revenue on paper. These tax increases are the
kind of austerity that supply-siders have historically deplored.
It’s true that higher taxes deter activity, but partly because
they give license for larger government by supplying cash for
future spending.  The reality is that the smaller, more trustworthy
government is best for growth, and to get there the budget has
to be balanced. Balancing the budget proves authorities will
sacrifice to earn trust.  If one instant plan for Europe is to halve national
budgets, another is a two-step strategy: Budget cuts now, with
lower tax rates at once, or codified to kick in shortly. The
reductions now are austerity. But the austerity is the down
payment by the government to show its good will. The tax-rate
cuts promise the opportunity of growth.  Because the dollar remains the currency of reserve in the
world, the U.S. situation can proceed slightly more leisurely.
But only slightly. The best move to assure that the U.S. won’t
be trapped like  Spain  or  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in coming years is
to cut the budget now, and lock in a future of lower tax rates
with a law passed at the same time as the budget. But to earn
the trust, the budget cut -- the emblem of smaller government --
must be prominent.  It was disappointing to see Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  the other day trash Congressman Ron Paul’s
plan to cut a quarter of the  federal budget . The reason Romney
opposed the plan of the Republican from  Texas , he explained, is
that “taking a trillion dollars out of a $15 trillion economy
would cause our economy to shrink [and] would put a lot of
people out of work.”  Primacy of Trust  Unemployment now, yes. But there is also evidence that
long-term unemployment will be just as bad if the U.S. doesn’t
cut the budget in the short term. That evidence is called the
1970s.  Once you accept the primacy of trust and small government,
you can look around and find some surprising advocates, even
among star supply-siders. “If cutting spending is austerity,
then I am for it,”  Arthur Laffer  told me this week. Laffer isn’t
just any old tax cutter. He personally wrote the papers and
articles that inspired much Reagan tax-cut legislation.  What he is saying now is that to belabor the austerity
problem too much is counterproductive; after all, “all
 government spending  is taxation,” he says.  Milton Friedman  said
the same. On spending, right now, Laffer’s position is as
austere and categorical as they come: “Any government spending
that stimulates is dumb.”  To suggest that budget cutting should come even a
nanosecond before tax cuts is to stamp on the tenderest
Republican neuralgias. Republicans recall that when a law in the
Reagan years included a schedule of delayed tax cuts, businesses
postponed investment, and that cost the party politically.  But not enough to prevent Reagan’s re-election. The
“politically impossible” concern is exaggerated, too. My own
work on the 1920s covers a period when the government cut the
budget more than  Ron Paul  suggests, in fact by half, with some
tax cuts along the way and more promised. Voters and markets
took the budget cut as a down payment and trusted that the
country was headed in the right direction. As the government
redeemed that faith with the tax cuts, commerce stirred. The
economy grew without inflation. Could the tax cuts have come at
the same time as the budget cuts? They did. Would it all have
worked if the tax cuts preceded the budget cuts by years? No.  Today’s debate has a disingenuous aspect. Trust now
matters. The real way to establish trust isn’t to trash
austerity. It is to find a way to reduce the budget, not for the
sake of budgeting alone but to prove that the leaders really
want the government to be smaller. The tax cuts must come along,
and fast, but commitment to smaller government matters most. If
that’s austerity, it’s time to don the scarlet letter.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Eduardo Saverin’s
citizenship  and  stopping Somali pirates ;  Ezra Klein  on  U.S.
economic bright spots ;  Caroline Baum  on  digging out of debt ;
Harry L. Davis on  what makes a good leader ;  Steven Greenhut  on
why  California is still golden ; Rachelle Bergstein on
 countercultural footwear .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  