-- Most Stocks in Switzerland Advance as Richemont Rallies
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-16T15:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/swiss-stocks-pare-decline-as-richemont-swatch-advance.html
Most  Swiss stocks  advanced,
rebounding from the lowest level this year, as Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA rallied after earnings topped estimates.  Richemont, the owner of the Cartier brand, surged 8.1
percent after profit topped analysts’ estimates. Swatch Group
AG, the world’s biggest watchmaker, jumped 2.7 percent.
 Straumann Holding AG (STMN)  increased 9.1 percent as the biggest maker
of dental implants said it plans to more than double in size.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.1 percent to 5,872.73 at the
close in Zurich as 12 stocks rose and eight declined. The
measure retreated to the lowest level since Dec. 22 yesterday as
 Greece ’s May 6 election left it struggling to form a government.
The broader Swiss Performance Index gained 0.2 percent today.  “Western stock markets and key risk-centric proxies are
likely to activate a temporary relief rally from very oversold
price conditions,” said Ron William, a technical strategist at
MIG Bank in Lausanne,  Switzerland . “Uncertainty remains,
though, and the social mood remains in a bearish cycle and
market volatility is likely to rise from its historic lows.”  President Karolos Papoulias failed in a bid to broker a
governing coalition in meetings yesterday with party leaders in
 Athens . Panagiotis Pikrammenos, head of Greece’s Council of
State, the highest administrative court, will be sworn in as
head of the caretaker administration later today.  The new elections will probably be held on June 17. A
formal announcement of the date will be made after the new
parliament is sworn in tomorrow and then dissolved.  Nervous Greeks  Greek central bank chief,  George Provopoulos , told
Papoulias this week that financial institutions are becoming
anxious about their prospects as Greeks pull out cash after the
inconclusive May 6 elections, according to the transcript of the
president’s meeting with party leaders on May 14 that was
published yesterday.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and new French President
 Francois Hollande  said they would consider measures to spur
economic growth in Greece as long as voters committed to the
austerity demanded to stay in the euro.  The European Union may also “approach Greece with
proposals,” Merkel said late yesterday at a joint press
conference with Hollande during his first official visit to
Berlin. “Greece can stay in the euro area,” and “Greek
citizens will be voting on exactly that,” she said.  U.S. Economy  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed builders
 broke ground  on more homes than anticipated, indicating the
residential real estate industry is stabilizing. Starts rose 2.6
percent to a 717,000 annual rate from March’s revised 699,000
pace that was stronger than previously reported.  The number of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
today was 25 percent higher than the 30-day average, according
to data compiled by Bloomebrg.  Richemont jumped 8.1 percent to 57.65 Swiss francs, heading
for the biggest rally since August, after reporting full-year
net income of 1.54 billion euros ($1.96 billion), exceeding the
average 1.36 billion-euro analyst estimate. Revenue was 8.87
billion euros, more than the 8.63 billion euros analysts had
projected. The company will buy back as much as 1.7 percent of
its shares.  Swatch (UHR)  advanced 2.7 percent to 397.50 francs.  Straumann surged 9.1 percent to 159.90 francs, the biggest
gain since November 2008, as it said it aims to “more than
double” its current size by 2020 in terms of net revenue and
employees. The company forecast a gross margin in the range of
76 percent to 78 percent and an operating margin of as much as
25 percent in 2020.  Straumann is also buying a 49 percent stake in Neodent, a
privately-held Brazilian dental implant company, for 260 million
francs ($276 million) in cash.  Transocean Ltd. (RIGN)  climbed 0.9 percent to 41.48 francs after
Nigel Browne, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., raised the
stock to neutral, the equivalent of hold, from underperform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  