-- Syrian Heart Patients Set to Feel Economy’s Squeeze
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-05-17T14:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/syrian-heart-patients-set-to-feel-economy-s-squeeze.html
Joseph Bahri is determined to keep
his pharmaceuticals factory in Damascus open, even though he’s
running out of key ingredients and can’t afford to import more.  “We’re doing our best not to close down,” Bahri said in
an interview in his office off a busy street of the Syrian
capital. The factory owner says he’s already dropped several
product lines since the uprising against President Bashar al- Assad began last year. Lamenting the plunge in the Syrian pound
that’s driven up the cost of imports, he says he’ll stop making
heart-disease drugs once a stock of raw materials imported
before the devaluation runs out.  Fourteen months of violence have pushed  Syria  into a slump,
with trade and tourism drying up and unemployment surging,
without sparking an economic crisis so acute as to pose an
immediate threat to Assad. Even as he’s continued to send
security forces to crush protests after agreeing to a United
Nations-backed cease-fire, his government has increased
subsidies and put more Syrians on the state payroll, while
businesses seek alternative markets in allied nations such as
Iraq and Iran.  “The economy is going to continue to decline,” said
Ayesha Sabavala, a Syria economist with the Economist
Intelligence Unit in  London , in a phone interview. “But whether
the economy will decline to the extent that it will actually
cause the regime to change tactics -- that is probably not
likely. Not in the near term, anyway.”  Shrinking Economy  More than 9,000 people have been killed by Assad’s security
forces since March last year, when protests began as part of the
wave of uprisings in the  Middle East , according to a UN estimate
in late March. The opposition, backed by the U.S. and most
European and Arab nations, is calling on Assad to step down and
pave the way for a transitional government, and increasingly
taking up arms to fight his rule.  The president yesterday told Russian state television that
sanctions are hurting the Syrian people not its government, and
that this month’s elections showed the ruling Baath party
remained popular. Splits have surfaced within the opposition.
Burhan Ghalioun, head of the Syrian National Council, told Al
Arabiya television today that he wants to quit as head of the
umbrella group. The Local Coordination Committees, a network of
activists, criticized the council and threatened to suspend its
membership, the  Associated Press  reported.  Waiting for Gas  The pound has lost about one-third of its value, pushing
prices higher and slashing the purchasing power of Syrians on
fixed incomes. International embargoes have disrupted trade,
bank lending has slumped and businesses have closed.  The $65 billion economy shrank 3.4 percent in 2011 and will
contract another 5.9 percent this year while the  budget deficit 
widens to 18 percent of output, the EIU forecast in March.
Central bank Governor Adib Mayaleh, interviewed at his office in
Damascus on May 10, said  inflation  was 15 percent in January,
while declining to give data for growth or other indicators.  Sanctions plus devaluation have left imports scarce or too
expensive for many Syrians. At gas stations, long lines of men
wait to fill blue or gray cylinders with cooking gas. Oil
Minister Sufian Alao told state television on May 12 that local
gas meets 60 percent of needs, and said he is working to avert
shortages by finding new sources for the rest.  At the other end of the market, a woman in a Damascus
boutique asks to see the new collection and is told none has
been ordered. Most of the customers who might be able to afford
the clothes have left town, the saleswoman says. Another shopper
at a food store says she can’t afford Betty Crocker cake mixes
or Nutella chocolate spread after prices doubled.  Coffee, Backgammon  Syrians are hoarding cash “because they don’t know what
tomorrow will bring,” Sonia Khandji, a board member of the
 Damascus Chamber of Commerce , said in an interview. “We’re in a
period of stagflation.”  More than 6,000 small factories and businesses closed last
year, said Khandji, who runs a company that makes hair-care
products. Some banks shut down in cities such as Homs that were
the scene of the bloodiest clashes, she said.  Tourism has ground to a halt after a boom between 2005 and
2010, when arrivals rose 14 percent a year and revenue exceeded
$7 billion, contributing 12 percent of gross domestic product
and employing 13 percent of the workforce, according to Tourism
Ministry figures.  In the capital’s covered  Hamidiyyeh bazaar , there are few
customers at shops offering embroidered tablecloths, boxes
studded with mother-of-pearl, Persian carpets and clothes made
from Syrian cotton. Some salesmen play backgammon, others were
gathered outside their shops for coffee and a chat. A jeweler
said he has received some business from Syrians selling gold
rings, pendants and earrings to help pay for food.  Agriculture Strong  Nabil Sukkar, a former World Bank economist and managing
director of the Syrian Consulting Bureau in Damascus, which
advises the government, businesses and international
organizations, said private-sector job losses exceeded 100,000
last year, pushing unemployment above 20 percent. The government
has reversed course from the liberalization it was pursuing
before the revolt, and now employs more people. It also
increased energy subsidies last year while maintaining payments
for sugar, rice and pita bread.  Still, Sukkar said, the economy can survive the
difficulties for at least another year. Agriculture, almost one-
fifth of GDP, “is in very good shape because of two consecutive
rainy seasons” and can make up for shortfalls elsewhere. Plus,
Syria started the crisis with high foreign exchange reserves and
low external debt of about $7 billion that leaves it room to
borrow, he said.  ‘Can’t Beat Us’  Sukkar cited the international embargo as Syria’s main
economic challenge. “Unless the sanctions are removed, Syria is
not going to go back to normal,” he said.  Businesses and consumers are adapting to life under the
sanctions. Some traders buy banned goods from neighboring
Lebanon or other Arab countries. Others are looking for new
markets for their products, especially in friendly nations. Iraq
and  Iran  are buying more Syrian exports, Sukkar said. More than
300 Syrian companies participated in a trade fair in Iran last
month after the two countries signed a free trade agreement, the
official Syrian Arab News Agency reported.  Syrian smartphone users have found ways around limitations
on downloading applications. Some get hold of them abroad, where
their online IDs work. Others have downloaded virtual private
network connections or other proxies. Many just deposit their
devices at local stores, which will install apps for fees
ranging from 300 pounds ($4.73) each to 1,500 pounds for a
multiple install.  “They can’t beat us,” said a female shopper in a pink
baseball cap as she picked up her freshly updated phone from a
computer store.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at  dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  