-- U.K. Unemployment Extends Decline in Sign of Stabilization
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-05-16T11:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/u-k-unemployment-unexpectedly-falls-in-stabilization-sign-1-.html
U.K. jobless claims  fell for a second
month in April and a wider measure of unemployment dropped in
the first quarter, providing further evidence of stability in
the labor market.  Jobless-benefit claims fell by 13,700 from March, the
biggest drop since July 2010, to 1.59 million, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. The median forecast of
24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of
5,000. Unemployment as measured by International Labour
Organization methods fell to 8.2 percent in the first quarter
from 8.3 percent in the three months through February.  The figures provide a boost for Prime Minister  David Cameron , with the economy in recession and his approval ratings
at all-time lows. Employment rose 105,000 in the first quarter,
the most for a year. Economists say the deepening euro-region
crisis may push up unemployment this year and the  Bank of
England  today cut its growth forecasts.  “The figures could get worse,” said  Vicky Redwood , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “The return to
recession will knock business confidence and prompt job cuts.
While private sector employment is rising at the moment, overall
the picture looks weak.”  The pound fell against the dollar and was trading at
$1.5924 as of 12:13 p.m. in London, down 0.4 percent on the day.
The 10-year gilt yield fell 4 basis points to 1.85 percent. It
earlier fell to a record 1.821 percent.  Market Tension  The Bank of England published its quarterly growth and
inflation outlook today against a backdrop of heightened market
tensions as  Greece  faces new elections that may determine
whether it stays in the euro area.  Governor  Mervyn King  warned of the risk of a “storm”
coming from the 17-nation currency union, where only  Germany 
prevented a return to recession in the first quarter, and said
the outlook for U.K. growth is weaker than the bank predicted in
February.  In the three months through March, ILO unemployment fell
45,000, the biggest fall since the three months ended April last
year, to 2.63 million people. The drop in jobless claims last
month followed a 5,400 decline in March, which was revised from
a previously estimated 3,600 increase.  It marked the first
back-to-back fall since late 2010.  Part-Time Work  Still, a third of all unemployed people had been out of
work for more than a year in the first quarter. In addition, the
increase in employment was entirely driven by an 118,000 gain in
part-time work, suggesting employers remain cautious about
hiring. The number of people working part-time because they
could not find a full-time job climbed to a record 1.42 million.  “There are still too many people in part-time work who
want to work full time, and still too many people in long-term
unemployment,” Cameron told lawmakers during his weekly
question-and-answer session in Parliament today. “We’re not
remotely complacent.”  Concerns about the economy and criticism that the
government is out of touch with ordinary voters have taken their
toll on the two-year-old coalition of Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats, with both parties losing seats to the Labour
opposition in local-council elections this month.  An Ipsos MORI poll yesterday showed Labour leading the
Conservatives by 43 percent to 33 percent and the approval
ratings of both Cameron and his Liberal Democrat deputy  Nick Clegg  at record lows. On the economy, voters no longer see the
Tories as the best party, the survey of 1,006 adults taken May
12-14 showed.  Hit Hard  Britain was hit harder than most developed nations by the
financial crisis and has been slow to recover, with output in
the first quarter still 4 percent below its pre-recession peak
in early 2008.  The country’s 8.2 percent jobless rate compares with 8.1
pecent in the U.S., though it is well below the 10.9 percent in
the euro region, where property busts in Spain and Ireland
shattered the labor-intensive house-building industry.  It is also below the peaks reached after recessions in the
early 1980s and early 1990s, when unemployment climbed above 10
percent. That suggests firms have hoarded workers, leaving scope
for a renewed round of job shedding if the recovery proves
weaker than anticipated.  Underlining the squeeze on household budgets that is
weighing in growth, annual pay growth slowed to 0.6 percent in
the first quarter, the lowest since 2009, today’s figures
showed. Pay growth less bonuses was unchanged at 1.6 percent.
Inflation accelerated to 3.5 percent in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  