-- S&P 500 Caps Longest Slump in 1 Month on Europe Concerns
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-16T20:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/u-s-stock-index-futures-pare-their-earlier-decline.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
dropped a fourth day, the longest decline in a month, as concern
Greece’s debt crisis is worsening offset better-than-estimated
reports on U.S. housing starts and industrial production.  Financial stocks fell the most in the S&P 500 among 10
groups as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. sank at
least 2.1 percent.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  slid 2.5 percent as commodities
retreated after the Dollar Index rose for a record 13th straight
day.  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  tumbled 20 percent, the biggest drop ever,
on disappointing results.  General Motors Co. (GM)  rose 2.3 percent as
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. disclosed a stake in the automaker.  The S&P 500 retreated 0.4 percent to 1,324.80 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time, reversing an earlier advance of as much as 0.8
percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  decreased 33.45
points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,598.55, the lowest level since
Jan. 18. About  7.6 billion  shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges today, or 15 percent above the three-month average.  “The situation in Europe is extremely precarious,” said
Barry Knapp, the New York-based head of U.S. equity strategy at
Barclays Plc. “More needs to be done. You can’t have a lot of
confidence that assets will stabilize.”  Concern about Europe’s crisis drove the S&P 500 down 2.4
percent in four days and trimmed this year’s gain in the gauge
to 5.3 percent. The  European Central Bank  said it will
temporarily stop lending to some Greek banks to limit its risk
as President  Mario Draghi  signaled the ECB won’t compromise on
key principles to keep Greece in the euro area.  Economic Data  Equities rose earlier today as economic data bolstered
optimism the U.S. could withstand fallout from Europe. Several
Federal Reserve policy makers said a loss of momentum in growth
or increased risks to their economic outlook could warrant
additional action to keep the recovery going, minutes of their
last meeting showed.  “Several Fed members are now saying more action may be
needed, but they are not taking action,” said Peter Jankovskis,
who helps manage about $2.9 billion at Oakbrook Investments in
Lisle, Illinois. “Certainly the situation in Greece is
troublesome. It’s getting to a point where it gets harder and
harder to envision Greece staying within the euro.”  Eight out of  10 groups  in the S&P 500 retreated today as
 financial (S5FINL)  and raw material indexes lost at least 1.1 percent.
The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to the
economy fell 1 percent. Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, sank 2.5 percent to $8.49. Bank of America decreased
2.6 percent to $7.11. JPMorgan slid 2.2 percent to $35.46.  Shareholder Suits  JPMorgan’s shareholders sued the bank and Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  in two separate cases over the company’s $2
billion trading loss. The bank continues to employ Bruno Iksil,
the trader known as the London Whale whose positions may have
distorted prices in some derivatives markets.  Brian Marchiony , a
spokesman for the New York-based firm, confirmed Iksil’s status.
The New York Times reported earlier that Iksil is leaving
JPMorgan by the end of this year.  J.C. Penney slumped 20 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$26.75. The department-store chain led by Apple Inc.’s former
retailing chief reported a first-quarter  loss  and sales that
fell more than analysts projected.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  dropped 13 percent to $39.50, the
lowest level since October 2010. The operator of namesake and
Hollister stores reported first-quarter revenue that  missed 
analysts’ estimates and said same-store sales will decline this
fiscal year amid weakness in Europe.  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  decreased 5.7 percent to $13.91. The largest
office-supply retailer reported first-quarter sales of $6.1
billion, missing the average analyst estimate of $6.19 billion.  Warren Buffett  Some car companies and auto-parts suppliers gained as
Warren Buffett’s firm said it had 10 million shares of GM on
March 31 and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the industry has
“significant” potential to gain from volume and margin growth.
GM rose 2.3 percent to $21.91.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT) , the
biggest U.S. tiremaker, added 4.9 percent to $10.69.  General Electric Co. climbed 3.3 percent to $19. Its
finance unit will resume payouts to the parent company that were
suspended in  2009 (GE)  during a freeze in credit markets. Restarting
the dividend is a milestone in GE Capital’s recovery from the
financial crisis, when the unit suffered $32 billion of credit
losses and received capital infusions from the parent.  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  jumped 7.5 percent, the biggest gain in the
S&P 500, to $24.05. The money manager with 18 straight quarters
of net redemptions plans to issue debt to help repurchase $1.25
billion of bonds from private-equity firm KKR & Co.  Facebook’s IPO  Facebook Inc. (FB)  investors such as Accel Partners and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. increased the number of shares they’re selling
in the social network’s initial public offering, boosting the
sale to as much as $16 billion.  Existing holders will offer  241.2 million  shares, bringing
the total on offer to 421.2 million, a regulatory  filing  today
shows. Accel, the biggest seller in the IPO, raised the amount
it’s selling by 28 percent, while Goldman Sachs more than
doubled its shares on offer.  Facebook, girding for the largest-ever IPO of a technology
company, yesterday boosted the offering’s price range to as much
as $38 a share, indicating a market value as high as $104
billion. While the expanded IPO may mean the appetite for shares
is strong, insiders’ decision to pare holdings further may
heighten some investors’ concern over Facebook’s earnings
growth, said Greenwood Capital’s  Walter Todd .  ‘Wonder Why’  “If the demand wasn’t there, they wouldn’t have upsized
the deal,” said Todd, who oversees about $940 million as chief
investment officer at the Greenwood, South Carolina-based firm.
“On the other hand, when you see insiders unloading their
stakes, you start to wonder why. I could see it turning some
institutional investors off.”  Investors will be able to avoid losses in the broader
equity market this year by buying stocks with larger-than-
average dividends, said David Kostin, chief U.S. equity
strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “The scarcest commodity in the world is yield,” the New
York-based strategist said in a radio interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “You
have negligible returns” in most asset classes. “Where are you
getting any income? You are going to get it in the form of
dividends.”  Kostin has a year-end projection for the equities gauge of
1,250, according to a weekly survey by Bloomberg News. The S&P
500 has a dividend yield of 2.13 percent, according to Bloomberg
data. Ten-year Treasuries yield 1.76 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  