-- U.S. Proposes Anti-Rollover Technology Mandate for Trucks
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-05-16T21:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/u-s-proposes-anti-rollover-technology-mandate-for-trucks.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
proposed to require electronic stability control in heavy-duty
trucks and buses, part of an effort to reduce rollover crashes
that result in about 700 fatalities each year.  The draft regulation, issued today by the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration , calls for the technology in two
to four years after the rule becomes final.  “We’ve already seen how effective stability control can be
at reducing rollovers in passenger vehicles,” NHTSA
Administrator  David Strickland  said in a statement. “Now, we’re
expanding our efforts to require stability-enhancing technology
on the many large trucks, motorcoaches and other large buses.”  The proposed regulation may benefit Bendix, the Elyria,
Ohio-based unit of Munich-based Knorr-Bremse AG, more than
competitor  Meritor (MTOR)  WABCO, a joint venture between Troy,
Michigan-based Meritor Inc. and  WABCO Holdings Inc. (WBC)  of
Piscataway,  New Jersey . Stockholm, Sweden-based  Haldex AB (HLDX)  also
offers the technology.  Electronic stability control uses engine torque and
computer-controlled braking of individual wheels to help the
driver maintain control in emergency situations, keeping wheels
on the ground and trailers from swinging.  Bendix Benefits  Brake supplier Bendix has offered electronic stability
control since 2005 at $1,800 to $2,400 for each truck, Fred
Andersky, the company’s director of government affairs, said in
an interview. It had sold more than 175,000 systems as of March
31, including a record 57,000 units in 2011, he said.  Fleets often command discounts of as much as 50 percent,
and technology costs may go down as the mandate kicks in,
improving economies of scale, Andersky said.  Truckmakers such as  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , which sells Volvo and Mack
big rigs, and Peterbilt, made by  PACCAR Inc. (PCAR) , have made
electronic stability control standard, Andersky said.  “If there was going to be a mandate, electronic stability
control is the right technology,” Andersky said. “It’s going
to do what NHTSA needs it to do. It’s going to save more lives.
It’s going to prevent more crashes.”  Meritor WABCO also sells electronic stability control,
though its fleet customers have preferred a less costly
alternative called roll stability control, or RSC, Meritor WABCO
President Jon Morrison said in an interview last year.  Less Property Damage  NHTSA said it opted for ESC over RSC because it will
prevent more crashes, providing more economic benefit. Besides
avoiding fatalities and injuries, companies will save from less
property damage and lost travel time, NHTSA said.  Electronic stability control can reduce risks on slippery
surfaces or while taking evasive action, limiting jack-knife
crashes, Troy, Michigan-based Meritor WABCO said in a statement
today.  “We continue to develop leading technology that will help
our customers save lives, save property and make our highways
safer,” Morrison said in the statement. “We agree with NHTSA’s
recognition of the benefits of ESC technology.”  The highway safety agency said the technology may prevent
as many as 56 percent of rollover crashes and another 14 percent
of loss-of-control crashes. Agency researchers estimate it would
prevent 2,329 crashes and save 49 to 60 lives a year.  It will cost about $1,160 for each truck on average to add
electronic stability control, NHTSA said.  The consequences of a big rig rolling over can be dramatic,
such as when a tanker-truck crashed in 2009 in Indianapolis,
sparking a fireball fueled by liquid propane. The crash closed
14 miles (23 kilometers) of Interstate 65 for eight hours.  Rollover Wrecks  Having a rollover wreck increases a truck driver’s fatality
risk by 30 times, according to the  University of Michigan ’s
 Transportation Research Institute , which conducted research
NHTSA is using to back its rulemaking.  NHTSA estimates that 26 percent of trucks and 80 percent of
buses in the 2012 model year will be equipped with ESC. About
150,000 trucks and 2,200 buses will be covered by the rule,
leading to a total industry cost of about $113.6 million, NHTSA
said.  “A fairly significant number of rollovers would have been
stopped with roll stability control,” said Tim Kraus, president
and chief operating officer of the Heavy Duty Manufacturers
Association. “Anything that can achieve that end is
important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  