-- Lufthansa Says It May Make Bid for Portuguese Airline TAP
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-05-16T08:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/lufthansa-says-will-consider-purchasing-tap-in-portugal.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  is considering
a bid for state-owned carrier TAP SGPS SA to strengthen its
position in  South America  and protect its partnership with a key
member of the Star Alliance.  “We will always look if someone approaches us, especially
if it’s a Star carrier, so we will definitely also look at
TAP,” Christoph Meier, a Lufthansa spokesman, said in a phone
interview. “There are definitely reasons why they would be
interesting. Their home market, for one.”  TAP-Transportes Aereos Portuguese SGPS SA Chief Executive
Officer Fernando Pinto said last month there are more investor
groups interested in the state-controlled airline besides
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , which has
repeatedly expressed its desire to buy the carrier.  Portugal ’s government has agreed to sell TAP this year as
part of a plan to raise funds and comply with the terms of a 78
billion-euro ($99 billion) bailout from the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund . Lufthansa has 11 percent of the
market to South America from Europe, compared with 22 percent
for IAG and 21 percent for  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, according to
 Stephen Furlong , a Dublin-based Davy Holdings analyst.  Lufthansa is “much smaller than the other two, and you can
see why they might have interest in expanding in Latin
America,” said Furlong, who has a “neutral” rating on
Lufthansa. “The worth will be less financial and more what’s
the franchise network flow and value from  Latin America  and
particularly Brazil.”  Shares Drop  Lufthansa  fell  as much as 13 cents, or 1.5 percent, to 8.57
euros and was down 0.3 percent as of 10:23 a.m. in Frankfurt
trading. The stock has declined 5.5 percent this year, valuing
the Cologne, Germany-based airline at 3.97 billion euros.  TAP’s privatization process has begun with informal
contacts between the government and interested bidders, Pinto,
who is advising the Portuguese government on the sale, said
April 17. The government still doesn’t have an estimate on how
much the company is worth and formal meetings with the groups
haven’t started, he said at the time.  The government has yet to decide what percentage of TAP it
plans to sell to investors, Pinto said, adding that the
airline’s future owner will have to inject capital in the
company.  Meier was confirming comments made by Lufthansa CEO
Christoph Franz in an interview with the Financial Times. Franz
said the priority remains turning around the unprofitable
Austrian Airlines unit.  BMI Sale  “The Lufthansa CEO has for the first time explicitly
expressed an interest in buying the Portugese carrier TAP, which
adds spice to a sale that has already attracted IAG,”  Joe Gill ,
an analyst at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in a note
today. “He also underlined the consolidation impulse that is
beating strongly across  Europe  which will result in more mergers
and failures among some carriers.”  Lufthansa completed the sale of U.K. unit BMI to IAG on
April 20, after failing with attempts to turn around the
unprofitable carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  