-- Lundbeck Sees Lower Libido Risk With New Antidepressant
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-05-16T14:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/lundbeck-sees-lower-libido-risk-with-new-antidepressant.html
H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) ’s experimental
antidepressant may appeal to patients unhappy with the sexual,
weight- and sleep-related side effects that can occur with
existing treatments.  The Danish company this week said LU AA21004 showed
statistically significant results in eight of 10 late-stage
studies that will support regulatory filings in the U.S. and
 Europe  this year. The drug addresses “a huge unmet need” as
more than 40 percent of patients stop taking available
medications because of side effects or because they don’t feel
much better, Chief Executive Officer Ulf Wiinberg said in an
interview in  London  today.  The medicine has “almost a placebo-like side effect
profile, with no negative impact on weight, sex or sleep,”
Wiinberg said.  The new drug is likely to be prescribed as a second-line
treatment for patients who don’t respond to or can’t tolerate
cheaper generic options, he said. It will help Lundbeck, the
Nordic region’s second-largest drugmaker, replace lost revenue
from its best-selling Lexapro antidepressant, which went off-
patent in the U.S. in March. Lexapro generated almost 8.5
billion kroner ($1.5 billion) in sales last year.  Detailed results from the late-stage studies of LU AA21004
will be released in June. Unlike existing treatments like
Lexapro and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Prozac, which are known as
selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors, or Lilly’s Cymbalta, a
a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, Lundbeck’s drug
has a new mechanism of action as a multi-modal neurotransmitter.  No Heart Irregularity  That accounts for the better side effect profile, Anders Pedersen, head of the company’s research and development, said
in a phone interview yesterday. In addition, no cardiovascular
irregularity has been observed in patients taking the medicine,
which will be important for the regulatory review, Wiinberg
said.  Approval may come in the second half of next year,
according to Jefferies International Ltd. analysts, coinciding
with the patent expiration for Cymbalta, which had 2011 sales of
$4.16 billion.  While SSRIs such as Lexapro and Cymbalta are unlikely to be
replaced as first-line treatments, “this still leaves a
potential multi-billion-dollar market opportunity for AA21004 if
its profile proves to be sufficiently differentiated as a
second- or third-line option,” Jefferies analysts said in a
note to investors after Lundbeck’s May 14 announcement.  Anti-Alcohol Drug  Lundbeck, which focuses on illnesses related to the central
nervous system, has several other drugs in late-stage clinical
trials, including treatments for psychosis, schizophrenia and
stroke. It is also expecting European regulatory approval of
nalmefene, an anti-alcoholism drug, later this year.  The company entered a partnership in November with  Japan ’s
 Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. (4578)  to develop and commercialize as many
as five psychiatric drugs in a deal that could be valued at $1.8
billion.  The company is hunting for more deals to expand its
pipeline, with collaborations like the one with Otsuka more
likely than acquisitions, Wiinberg said today.  “We will continue to do deals,” he said. “We are having
lots of discussions, all the time.”  Lundbeck has also been speaking with banks about
contingency plans in the event that the euro fails, he said. The
company mostly sells to wholesalers in southern Europe, with
little revenue from the hospital sector, so receiving payment
isn’t a major concern, Wiinberg said.  “We’re getting paid less, but we are getting paid,” he
said.  The company is  diversified geographically , with sales in
U.S., Japan,  Latin America  and  China  helping to offset any
decline in Europe. Lundbeck’s European sales fell 6 percent in
the quarter ended March.  “We have good long-term growth prospects,” Wiinberg said.
“Right now, our primary focus is to execute on what we have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  