-- Rupert Murdoch Made Brooks a Priority, As Did Prosecutors
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-05-16T19:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/murdoch-made-brooks-a-priority-in-his-scandal-as-did-prosecutors.html
News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
arrived in London last July to take charge of a burgeoning
phone-hacking scandal and was asked by reporters what his
priority was.  “This one,” the 81-year-old media mogul snapped,
gesturing to red-haired Rebekah Brooks, the chief executive of
his company’s U.K. publishing business, who was standing at his
side.  Prosecutors in London, it turns out, had the same priority.  Yesterday Brooks, 43, became the highest ranking News Corp.
executive to be charged in the 17-month-old investigation that
has seen about 50 people arrested on suspicion of involvement in
voice-mail intrusion, police bribery or computer-hacking.  One of six defendants who include her husband and her
former assistant, she is accused of obstruction and conspiracy
to pervert the course of justice by destroying e-mails and other
relevant evidence. She denied the charges. Her husband, Charlie,
described the prosecution as a “witch hunt.”  From Murdoch there was uncharacteristic silence. Just a
year ago, the media titan threw all his support behind Brooks,
designating her as the company’s main line of defense against
the widening phone-hacking probe.  He spoke out on her behalf last July, even after it was
revealed that phone-hacking had taken place on her watch as
editor of the News of the World. He accepted her resignation
July 15 with regret and refused to blame her during his
subsequent testimony before Parliament.  When the  London  media ran titillating stories in February
that Brooks had received a retired police horse for her own
personal use, Murdoch came to her defense, writing in Twitter
messages: “Now they are complaining about R Brooks saving an
old horse from the glue factory!”  Rupert Blamed Others  Even last month, giving testimony before a judge-led
inquiry into media ethics, Murdoch refused to blame Brooks for
problems linked to her watch at his London tabloids. He assigned
blame to a former lawyer and another editor at News of the
World.  With Brooks now accused of trying to obstruct Scotland
Yard’s inquiry into phone hacking and police bribery and not of
those scandal crimes themselves, Murdoch is learning the price
of standing by one of his favorite editors at all costs.  “It’s fascinating how people reciprocate loyalties,” said
 Jeffrey Sonnenfeld  of the Yale School of Management. “Murdoch
stands by his people. When he puts his trust in you, it takes a
lot to shake it.”  Murdoch’s willingness to allow Brooks to manage the
company’s initial response to the phone-hacking matter
demonstrates the perils of a dual-class stock structure that
gives him almost complete personal control over the publicly
traded company, said  Charles Elson , director of the Weinberg
Center for  Corporate Governance  at the  University of Delaware .  Murdoch Not Accountable  “Your accountability is effectively to yourself” in such
situations, Elson said. “If you’re accountable to a board and
investors, you tend to be more circumspect than if you’re not.
In the end, the harm to you is nothing, since the problem of
losing control of your business is non-existent. The
consequences to you are much less severe than in a standard
corporate structure because there’s nothing they can do.”  From the moment the police investigation was begun in
January 2011, Brooks seemed to misjudge the gravity of
challenges she and New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA)  faced, according to
people familiar with her conduct who gave the following account.
She retained BCL Burton Copeland, the same law firm that
successfully contained a 2006 police inquiry into voice-mail
hacking.  Lack of Cooperation  By April, Sue Akers, the deputy assistant commissioner in
charge of the Scotland Yard inquiry, expressed dissatisfaction
with the lack of cooperation she was getting from the firm.
Brooks sent two newly hired deputies,  William Lewis  and  Simon Greenberg , to meet with Akers to make amends.  At the same time, internal evidence emerged at News
International, News Corp.’s U.K. unit, that police bribery had
also taken place at News of the World to secure tips.  Brooks assured two members of Murdoch’s management team in
 New York ,  Joel Klein , the head of News Corp.’s education
division, and Lon Jacobs, the general counsel, that everything
was under control, even with the newly discovered evidence of
bribery.  The men retained  Brendan Sullivan  of Williams & Connolly
LLP, one of the top criminal defense lawyers in the U.S., to
advise the company. Last May, Brooks flew to  Washington  to meet
one-on-one with Sullivan. A senior News Corp. executive
described her as “very persuasive” in her discussions with
Sullivan and other members of top management.  May Dinner  A week later, Murdoch convened a dinner at his townhouse in
London at which Sullivan set the ground rules for how the crisis
would be handled. He expressed confidence in Brooks, and her
ability to manage the company’s relationship with the police.  Sullivan cautioned the attendees, who included News Corp.
Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  and Deputy Chief Operating
Officer  James Murdoch , that Brooks might wind up getting charged
as a result of the inquiry. Based on the information available
to him, those charges wouldn’t be warranted, he said.  Sullivan also advised Brooks to retain her own lawyer.
Brooks complied, but instead of hiring an attorney outside the
circle of law firms already engaged on the matter, she asked Ian
Burton, the lead partner of Burton Copeland, to represent her
personally.  Brooks didn’t appear to grasp the potential conflict that
might ensue if her personal interests ever deviated from the
interests of News International, according to a News Corp.
executive with direct knowledge of the matter.  Close to Murdochs  Brooks joined News of the World in 1989, the year she
turned 21. In 1995, she was promoted to deputy editor of the
paper and three years later, named deputy editor of The Sun, a
more powerful position in the world of Murdoch tabloids.  In 2000, she became editor of News of the World. In 2003,
she returned to The Sun, this time as editor. Over the next
several years, she cultivated a strong relationship with Rupert
Murdoch, occasionally joining him and his family on vacations
and socializing with him during his visits to London.  In 2007, James Murdoch was named chairman and chief
executive, Europe and  Asia  for News Corp. as well as executive
chairman, News International, the News Corp. unit which
published both tabloids, as well as The Times and The Sunday
Times. Brooks began working with the younger Murdoch, who didn’t
share his father’s affection for newspapers.  In 2009, she succeeded James Murdoch as chief executive of
News International, while he took on more global
responsibilities. Brooks was one of the few people who moved
easily between James Murdoch’s circle of top managers in London
and Rupert Murdoch’s top lieutenants in New York, according to a
former senior executive who worked with her in London.  Fiercely Competitive  She was fiercely competitive and responded directly to any
challenges facing her  company . When The Guardian first reported,
in July 2009, that hacking hadn’t been confined to a single
“rogue reporter,” as News Corp. had insisted, Brooks declared
that The Guardian had “substantially and likely deliberately
misled the British public.”  At the same time, her position atop the company that
published Murdoch’s U.K. newspapers also gave her political
clout. In 2009, she blew off a request from a Parliamentary
committee that she testify about the problem of phone hacking.  Her resignation from News International, where she had
worked for 22 years, came only after revelations in The Guardian
last July that phone hacking had occurred at News of the World
when she was in charge.  Brooks’ exit from News International may have been softened
by a compensation package which -- for executives at her level
in the company -- usually includes a car and driver, as well as
fees for legal representation and public relations services.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International, and
 David Wilson , Brooks’ spokesman, declined to comment on any
separation package.  Ever Loyal  Despite the circumstances of her departure, Brooks appears
to remain loyal to Murdoch. At the Royal Courts of Justice last
week, where the Leveson Inquiry into media ethics is being held,
Brooks was interrogated at length about the power she amassed
through her position as the head of News International.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Brooks defended herself against allegations that she used
her access to Prime Minister  David Cameron  to argue on behalf of
News Corp.’s attempt to buy the 61 percent of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  that the company didn’t already own.  She insisted she argued in favor of the BSkyB bid only in
response to what she described as an extraordinary “anti-Sky
bid alliance” that had formed against Murdoch.  ‘Gossipy’ Questions  Brooks also took issue with what she described as
“gossipy” questions from Robert Jay, the lead lawyer for the
inquiry, regarding the closeness of her relationship with
Murdoch.  “I think a lot of it’s gender-based,” she said. “I think
that my relationship with Mr. Murdoch -- if I was a grumpy old
man of Fleet Street, no one would write the first thing about
it, but perhaps otherwise I get a lot of this criticism and
gossip.”  Jay was unmoved by Brooks’s suggestion that his questions
were “gossipy” in nature.  “Same sort of stuff one reads or did read in the News of
the World and continues to read in The Sun,” he said. “Isn’t
that true?”  “Yes, but we’re not in a tabloid newsroom now, are we?”
Brooks replied.  Nor may she ever be again if convicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  