-- Turkish Bonds Rise First Day in Four on Lower Funding Rate Bets
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-16T14:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/turkish-bonds-rise-first-day-in-four-on-lower-funding-rate-bets.html
Turkish bonds rose for the first time
in four days on bets the central bank will continue lending at
the lowest policy rate as long as the lira outperforms its
emerging-market peers.  The  yield  on benchmark two-year debt fell seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 9.53 percent at the close
in Istanbul, the biggest decline in almost a week. The lira
appreciated for the first time in four days and traded 0.4
percent stronger at 1.8179 per dollar.  Yields reached the highest level since March 23 yesterday
after the central bank cut the funding it provides to lenders at
the lowest policy rate by half as the lira slumped to the
weakest level since Jan. 20.  “Yields on short-term debt are falling because people
think the central bank will continue to fund at 5.75 percent as
the lira is trading better than other markets,” Onur Bayol, a
fixed-income trader at Denizbank TAS, said in e-mailed comments.  Against the dollar, the lira fared better than the Russian
ruble, Czech koruna, South African rand, Polish zloty and
Hungarian forint over the past five days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Turkish central bank varies the funding rate on a daily
basis, maintaining borrowing costs within a 5.75 percent to 11.5
percent interest-rate corridor introduced last year. It resumed
lending at its lowest policy rate two days ago after refraining
from funding at this rate since May 3.  “Foreigners see the increase in yields as a buying
opportunity,” Sercan Kiliclar, a fixed-income trader at  Akbank
TAS (AKBNK) , said in e-mailed comments.  The U.S. Dollar Index, a measure against six major
counterparts, rose for a 13th day to a four-month high after
 Greece ’s political leaders failed to form a ruling coalition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  