-- Veolia Gets New Directors as Frerot Pledges to Reduce Debt
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-16T17:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/veolia-gets-new-directors-as-frerot-pledges-to-reduce-debt-1-.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  Chief
Executive Officer Antoine Frerot won shareholder approval today
for new board members after pledging to focus on “promising”
countries while slashing debt and spending.  The Paris-based utility will push ahead with asset sales in
the U.K. and U.S. as well as selling the transport business,
Frerot told an annual meeting in Paris during which he defended
the “transformation” of the company.  Frerot has shaken up management of Veolia this year and
nominated new directors in a bid to bolster his position. His
plans for asset sales and debt reduction depart from the
strategy under predecessor  Henri Proglio , still a director, who
expanded Veolia to 77 countries. The new directors come after a
boardroom struggle during which Proglio was reported to have
tried to oust Frerot.  “We will have a more concentrated and more profitable
company,” Frerot said today. “We’ll need two years for all the
cost-cutting, deleveraging and management overhaul.”  Shareholders today approved Georges Ralli, who was already
on the board, for a new mandate as the representative of holder
Groupama SA, while Serge Michel also won a new term.  Maryse Aulagnon, Nathalie Rachou and Jacques Aschenbroich
were voted in as new directors as was Olivier Mareuse as the
representative of Caisse des Depots et Consignations, the
biggest shareholder.  Director Acrimony  Changes at the top of Veolia have been accompanied by
acrimony. Outgoing director Jean-Francois Dehecq was quoted
yesterday in Le Monde newspaper as saying Frerot’s strategy is
based on financial ratios, “short-term accounting” and
“wretched” asset sales to boost the share price.  Dehecq is “wrong,” Frerot said today in response to a
question.  The utility reported on May 4 a 12 percent slump in first-
quarter earnings after a “difficult” economy hurt waste
operations and profit from domestic water contracts. The
European waste-collection business is in decline and profit
margins on French water contracts are narrowing, Pierre-Francois Riolacci, Veolia’s vice president in charge of finance, said
during a presentation of the earnings.  Veolia is targeting a reduction in net debt to less than 12
billion euros from 15 billion euros by the end of 2013. It plans
to sell 5 billion euros of assets this year and next, cut
operating costs by 120 million euros in 2013 and narrow its
geographic reach.  The utility is aiming to complete the sale of its U.K.
water and U.S. waste companies in July, Riolacci said today.
Talks are ongoing with two potential acquirers for the utility’s
stake in the Transdev transport business, Frerot reiterated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  