-- AT&T, Verizon Face Off Over Rollout of Family Data Plans
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-16T21:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/verizon-in-63-billion-faceoff-with-at-t-over-family-plans-tech.html
Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  are
both preparing to roll out shared-data pricing plans this year.
Whoever makes the first move will transform the way the industry
charges for wireless service.  The new shared plans, which may be announced as early as
next month, would let customers split one bucketful of Internet
data between their phones, iPads and other wireless devices,
providing an economical option for families, small businesses or
people with a lot of Web-connected gadgets.  With billions of dollars at stake, Verizon and AT&T are
hesitant to test the waters first, said  Chetan Sharma , an
independent wireless analyst. Getting the approach right could
reduce customer turnover and get more users to embrace data
plans, which  brought in  $62.7 billion industrywide last year,
according to trade group CTIA. A wrong move would lower the
amount of money that subscribers pay, while increasing network
traffic and the cost of maintaining networks.  “They are watching each other,” said Sharma, who covers
telecommunications from Issaquah,  Washington . Once one U.S.
carrier introduces a shared data plan, the rest of the industry,
including  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and  T-Mobile USA , won’t be far
behind, he said.  Consumers have a growing appetite for data plans, which let
people surf the Web and use other Internet functions on their
devices.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone has fueled demand by making it easy
to use data-intensive features, such as online applications and
the Siri voice-activated personal assistant.  Canada’s Example  While U.S. carriers already offer family plans to
consumers, they’re more focused on calls. Each user and device
is  typically  assigned an individual data plan, often at $10 to
$50 apiece.  For carriers, the rewards of offering shared data can be
huge, said Reade Barber, a vice president at  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , Canada’s largest wireless carrier. His
company would know: It adopted the strategy in 2009.  “The number of people using data at Rogers just
exploded,” he said. More than 25 percent of Rogers’ family-plan
subscribers use shared data plans, he said. “We attracted a lot
of new users of data.”  The approach can entice consumers who only pay for voice or
texting plans to pony up for data, bringing extra money to
carriers. Or a family might shell out more for their data plan
to let the kids have  Internet access  on their phones. Families
may boost monthly bills by $15, said Susan Welsh de Grimaldo, an
analyst at  Strategy Analytics  in Newton,  Massachusetts .  Risky Bet?  The risk for carriers is that customers who are currently
happy to pay for separate data plans -- say, for their kids or
an iPad -- will consolidate them and lower their bills.  The approach also may increase network traffic and costs.
Today a consumer may pay for 2 gigabytes of data a month but
only use 500 megabytes, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York . With more devices tied
to the same data plan, the unused portion would shrink. That
could force carriers to ramp up  capital spending , he said.  “The business may be getting more capital intensive,”
Moffett said.  Still, it would benefit carriers if consumers become more
dependent on their data plans. Today, most wireless customers
only use their carriers for their phones. If the price is right,
they may add an iPad, laptop or some other hardware.  Health Monitors  The shared-pricing approach is part of a push to get users
to pay for wireless service for everything from health monitors
to Internet TVs. There will be  more than 250 million  active
devices on shared plans globally by 2015, up from a few million
in 2011, according to  Infonetics Research Inc.   “When billing and service plans are a little more user-
friendly, customers will be more interested in adopting more
devices,” said  Shira Levine , an analyst at Campbell,
California-based Infonetics.  Sales of the iPhone and other smartphones could get a boost
as well. About  15 percent  of all smartphones sold by 2015 will
be part of shared-data plans, according to Infonetics. At Rogers
in  Canada , a typical smartphone user pays twice as much as a
voice-only user.  While U.S. carriers already offer some Internet-sharing
plans, they generally work with Wi-Fi access -- not cellular
connections. Sprint’s  MiFi 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot by Novatel
Wireless  product provides Internet connectivity to as many as
five Wi-Fi devices located nearby. Plans start at $35 a month. A
tethering plan at T-Mobile lets a smartphone function as a Wi-Fi
modem, supporting as many as five gadgets for  $15 a month .  Verizon’s Motivation  Verizon may have the most urgency to take the shared-data
approach because it wants to spur users to add more devices,
such as tablets, Sharma said. AT&T has made more progress in
that area, in part because of the iPad. Apple picked AT&T as the
first U.S. carrier to offer iPad service when the tablet debuted
in 2010, though Verizon now supports the product as well.  In the first quarter, AT&T added 230,000 connected devices.
Verizon doesn’t break out those figures.  Verizon, based in  Basking Ridge ,  New Jersey , has said it
plans to offer shared-data pricing in the next few months.  “We are probably going to launch data share plans this
summer,” Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo said in an
interview. “We think we will be the leader in this category. It
will be a new innovative pricing plan for data. You can expect
tiered pricing.”  LTE Phones  Shammo updated the strategy today in a presentation to
investors at a JPMorgan Chase & Co. conference. He said the
company will start shared-data plans on new LTE devices, which
means people upgrading from the 3G standard would have to give
up their unlimited plans. Upgraders would be “moving away from,
if you will, the unlimited world” and shifting into a tiered
shared-data plan, Shammo said.  AT&T, which ranks second to Verizon in U.S. wireless
customers, is less specific.  “We’ll have something later this year,” said Ralph de la
Vega, president of the Dallas-based company’s mobility division.  The shift will probably change the way consumers use
tablets, Sharma said. Only 10 percent to 12 percent of tablets
sold today use cellular connectivity, with most relying on Wi-Fi
links, he said. Attractive pricing plans could boost that number
to 50 percent, Sharma said.  Users of shared-data plans also tend to stay with their
carriers longer, Rogers’s Barber said.  “It helps our churn,” he said. “People have a plan they
believe is good for them.”  Surprise Bills?  For now, Sprint and T-Mobile aren’t supporting the switch
to shared data plans. The two companies, ranked third and fourth
in the U.S. market, say the approach will make it harder for
families to track how the data is being used. That may lead to
more surprise bills for consumers, said Will Souder, vice
president of operations and business planning at Sprint.  Still, more than  60 percent  of smartphone owners are
interested in shared plans, according to  Strategy Analytics .
That may make the change unavoidable for the industry.  “Data pooling is inevitable and makes all the sense in the
world for the carriers,” said Dan Hays, a consultant with
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. “It creates an environment where
people can use more devices without having to think about it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  