-- Viacom Settles Dispute With Time Warner Cable Over IPad Viewing
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/viacom-settles-with-time-warner-cable-over-viewing-on-ipads-1-.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , the owner of MTV,  Comedy
Central  and the Paramount film studio, agreed to resolve a legal
dispute with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , allowing cable customers to
see Viacom shows on devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  “All of Viacom’s programming will now be available to Time
Warner Cable subscribers for in-home viewing via Internet
protocol-enabled devices such as iPads,” the companies said
yesterday in a  joint statement  posted on Viacom’s website. Time
Warner Cable won’t be paying more to stream shows on the
gadgets, according to two people familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the terms are private.  Viacom sued in 2011, seeking an order blocking Time Warner
Cable from distributing Viacom programming on portable
electronics. Time Warner Cable also sued, seeking a ruling from
the court that its contract with Viacom allowed the distribution
of content on the devices.  The case underscored tensions between media companies and
pay-television providers over how television content can be used
in the iPad era. Consumers are increasingly watching TV on
computers, tablets and other mobile devices, and cable companies
are eager to accommodate them.  Last August, Viacom resolved a similar lawsuit against
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , which had been distributing Viacom’s
programming on the iPad. The companies said Cablevision could
continue to run Viacom’s programs on the devices.  Shares of Viacom, based in New York, rose less than 1
percent to $47.25 yesterday. Time Warner Cable climbed less than
a 1 percent as well, to $76.35.  Fees Rise  Viacom, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , reported
better-than-anticipated profit last quarter on increased fees
from pay-TV operators. The company’s media networks unit, which
contributed 92 percent of operating profit in fiscal 2011, saw a
15 percent increase in domestic fees for its cable networks.
U.S. ad sales rose 1 percent from a year earlier, following a 3
percent decline in the previous quarter.  Time Warner Cable also settled a dispute over Viacom’s
Country Music Television. The cable provider will continue to
carry the channel, the companies said in yesterday’s statement.  The case is Viacom International v. Time Warner Cable, 11-
02387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  