-- Victims’ Visas Divide Congress on Domestic Violence Bill
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-05-16T21:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/victims-visas-divide-congress-on-domestic-violence-bill.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
passed its version of legislation to reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act.  The House today passed the bill, 222-205, on a mostly
party-line vote. Democrats criticized the Republican-written
measure as part of the party’s “war on women.”  “They don’t want to hear us talk about the war on women,
but this is a direct assault on women’s lives,” Gwen Moore, a
Wisconsin Democrat, said before the vote. Moore, who sponsored a
proposal similar to a bill passed by the Democratic-dominated
Senate, said she was once raped. Democrats said the Republican
proposal would force immigrant victims to choose between staying
with their abusers and risking deportation.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration prefers the Senate-
passed version, S. 1925, and his administration threatened a
veto of the House bill. Six Democrats joined 216 Republicans in
voting for the House bill, while 23 Republicans and 182
Democrats opposed it.  Both parties put female lawmakers at the forefront of the
debate. Republican Sandy Adams, a freshman lawmaker from central
 Florida  who was a deputy sheriff before coming to Congress,
sponsored the House bill. Adams said she had personal experience
with the victims the bill is meant to aid, and that her first
marriage was an abusive relationship from which she escaped.  ‘I Am Offended’  “I have sat quietly and tried to behave here but I am
offended when I hear that this does not protect victims,” Adams
said. “As someone who has been in the situation, who has been
on the scenes of these crimes, we are trying to reauthorize
something that’s very important to victims. Victims, not
politics.”  The 1994 Violence Against Women Act and later
reauthorizations of the law have easily passed both chambers of
Congress.  The grants to women’s shelters and police training weren’t
at issue, as the House and Senate versions would authorize
spending of about $660 million annually. Instead, the debate
centered on immigration visas for victims of domestic violence,
gay rights and which party would be the best choice for women
voters.  The House bill would curtail special visas reserved for
immigrant victims of abuse who cooperate with  law enforcement .
Current law allows such visas to be used as a start toward legal
permanent residence or citizenship. The House measure would
block that path to citizenship in almost all circumstances
unless the accused person is deported.  ‘Inexcusable’  In the Senate, a group of  Senate Democrats  joined with
House colleagues in calling for action on the Senate bill, which
passed that chamber on a 68-31 vote April 26. Every woman in the
Senate, and almost a third of Republicans, supported it.  “What is happening in the House is inexcusable,” said
Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat. She said the House
bill wouldn’t provide adequate help for groups including
immigrants, gays and college students.  With each chamber rejecting the other’s plan, the competing
Violence Against Women Acts would have to be merged before
becoming law.  The House bill is H.R. 4970.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  