-- Vodafone Said to Consider European Reorganization
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-05-16T13:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/vodafone-said-to-consider-european-reorganization.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is considering a
reorganization after the departure of European chief Michel Combes, potentially setting out succession candidates at the
world’s largest mobile-phone company, two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  One scenario involves separating Vodafone’s European
operating companies into a group consisting of western  Europe 
and a second entity made up of Turkey, central and eastern
Europe, the people said, declining to be identified because the
deliberations are confidential. A third group would include
Vodafone’s assets in southern Africa and  India , said the people,
adding that the discussions are at an early stage.  Paolo Bertoluzzo, 46, who runs the Italian unit, and Serpil Timuray, the head of Vodafone Turkey, are among internal
executives seen to take on greater responsibilities, alongside
Michael Joseph, the former CEO of Vodafone’s Kenyan subsidiary
who is now director of global payments, said Will Draper, an
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  London .  Bertoluzzo is also a board member of  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) ,
the South African division of Newbury, England-based Vodafone.  After Combes’s departure, “any person who fills that
similar position has the potential to move to a bigger role,”
said Guy Peddy, an analyst at Macquarie Securities in London.
“That’s the opportunity that’s now been provided.”  McKinsey Roots  Simon Gordon, a Vodafone spokesman, declined to comment on
a replacement to Combes and any potential reorganization or
succession plans.  Vodafone shares declined as much as 1.4 percent and traded
1 percent lower at 168.75 pence as of 2:40 p.m. in London. The
stock has fallen 4.7 percent this year through yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao , a former McKinsey &
Co. partner, is embarking on his third revamp of Vodafone’s
structure since taking over in 2008. Combes, the former Europe
CEO, will leave Vodafone at the end of July to run  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s
SFR French wireless unit. Colao formerly held both positions of
deputy CEO and Europe chief when he rejoined Vodafone in 2006.
He hasn’t said how long he plans to remain as CEO.  Vodafone is seeking to refocus on western Europe, its
largest market by sales, as service-revenue growth slows, held
back by declining spending in Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal.
A new western Europe unit would have revenue of more than 14
billion pounds ($22 billion) in the six months through September
2011, followed by India and Vodacom with sales of about 4.9
billion pounds. Vodafone is scheduled to release full-year
 earnings  on May 22.  Verizon Dividend  Vodafone is also waiting upon U.S. partner  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  to consider a dividend from their wireless
venture for the second year in a row. Vodafone has a 45 percent
stake in  Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S. mobile carrier.  The Turkish operations, which had the fastest growth in
service revenue last quarter than in any other market, doesn’t
fit within the current structure, Colao said last week.  “I cannot put it either in mature and sophisticated Europe
or in  emerging markets  because it is at the same time
sophisticated and emerging,” Colao said in a May 10 interview
with Bloomberg HT TV in Turkey, when asked how he viewed the
Turkish market.  “I have to say in this sense it’s clearly an engine for
growth, it’s also a sophisticated market and so in that sense
it’s also a European market,” he said.  Vodafone said today Deputy Chairman  John Buchanan  will
stand down from the board this summer. Buchanan, a Vodafone
director since 2003, was appointed chairman of British
semiconductor designer  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  this month. Luc Vandevelde, the former Marks & Spencer Group Plc chairman, will
become a senior independent director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  