-- Vodacom May Lose Congo Shares as Court Orders June Sale
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-05-16T12:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/vodacom-may-lose-congo-shares-as-court-orders-june-auction-sale.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)  may lose its
shares in a wireless unit in the  Democratic Republic of Congo 
after a court ordered the confiscated stock be auctioned next
month if a $21 million dispute with a consultant isn’t settled.  The commercial court, based in the capital Kinshasa, issued
an order on May 14 to sell by public auction Vodacom’s 510,000
shares in its 51-percent held  Vodacom Congo SPRL  unit in order
to enforce its Jan. 25 judgment that Vodacom pay Moto Mabanga’s
Namemco Energy (Pty) Ltd. a $21 million consulting fee,
according to court documents provided by Mabanga.  The court’s head clerk, Jose Roger Mbonga Kinkela,
confirmed the veracity of the document and the announcement of a
public auction when approached yesterday at the Gombe commune of
Kinshasa. The shares were seized by the court from Vodacom on
March 26.  “We believe that the contemplated seizure and sale of
shares in Vodacom Congo is legally flawed and would taint any
participating third parties,” Richard Boorman, a Vodacom
spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to questions today. “We
have accordingly instituted legal action against this process.”
He didn’t immediately respond to further questions.  The commercial court said in the announcement that “in the
case of failure of payment of the amount due to the plaintiff,”
it will proceed with a sale of the seized shares at the
headquarters of the court on June 3.  Customers Increase  Mabanga sued Johannesburg-based Vodacom, a unit of  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , last year, seeking a $40.8 million success fee for
work done during 2007 and 2008. The commercial court ruled on a
reduced award in January. Mabanga was already paid a $2.8
million service fee for the consulting work, which Vodacom
maintains was a full and final settlement of its obligations.  The 510,000 shares represent Vodacom’s entire holding in
the Kinshasa-based unit that increased its customers 33 percent
to 5.1 million in the quarter through December, Vodacom said on
Feb. 8.  “Before the court announcement I have been receiving
telephone calls from people who wanted to know if the shares
were available,” Mabanga said in a mobile-phone interview from
Kinshasa. “The sale is not a Mabanga process, it’s a court
process. I just want to be paid my money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 mantshantsh@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  