-- Walker Dislikes Job Numbers, So He Puts Out New Version
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-16T19:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/walker-dislikes-job-numbers-so-he-ll-put-out-his-own.html
When  Wisconsin  job numbers compiled
by the U.S. government were on the upswing last year, Governor
 Scott Walker  traveled to Milwaukee to tout them as proof that he
was turning around the state’s economy.  Now that Bureau of Labor Statistics figures have shown for
months that the state is losing more jobs than any other,
Walker, a Republican who faces a June 5 recall election,
released his own numbers today. They say that the  state  gained
23,321 jobs last year instead of losing 33,900, as the bureau
reported.  Walker’s estimation came the day before the bureau is to
update the state’s employment portrait. Walker promised to
create 250,000 jobs by the end of his first term in 2014.  “The actual data clearly shows that Wisconsin gained
thousands of jobs in 2011,” Walker said in a statement today.
“Now, the  unemployment rate  is the lowest it has been since
2008.”  The  rate  dropped to 6.8 percent in March from 7.7 percent
in January 2011. The national rate in March was 8.1 percent.  Walker’s Democratic opponent, Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett,
dismissed the governor’s numbers as a political concoction.  Worst in Class  “Walker is desperate to distract from his worst-in-the-
country jobs record,” Phil Walzak, the campaign’s
communications director, said in a statement from Milwaukee.  Wisconsin was ranked last among states and the  District of
Columbia  in economic health in 2011, the first year of Walker’s
tenure, according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States.  With less than three weeks before the recall election, job-
creation has become the dominant issue.  “The governor set himself up,” said Andy Feldman,
director of BadgerStat, a nonpartisan statistical website that
measures Wisconsin’s governmental performance. “The 250,000-
jobs promise was a ploy, and he’s set himself up by creating the
focus on a goal over which he has very little control.”  The recall, which grew out of protests against curbs on
collective bargaining for most public employees, is a replay of
the 2010 contest, in which Walker defeated Barrett by about
125,000 votes.  Steven Deller, an economics professor at the  University of
Wisconsin-Madison , said Walker’s budgetary austerity and a
“tremendous amount of uncertainty” generated by the recall
“have kind of put the brakes on the state economy.”  Clamping Down  “It’s businesses, it’s households -- people simply don’t
know what’s going to happen,” Deller said. “And what do you do
when you don’t know what’s going to happen? You pull back.”  The Walker administration has complained that federal data
don’t reflect improvement in the state’s jobless rate.  “Our workforce has actually been expanding over the last
six months,”  John Koskinen , chief economist at the Wisconsin
Revenue Department, said in a May 10 speech to the Association
of Government Accountants.  In July, there were no objections when the federal
government reported the biggest month-over-month job gains the
state had seen in almost eight years.  “To have 9,500 net new jobs in the state at a time when
the country saw just 18,000 net new jobs all across the country
is incredibly good news,” Walker said July 21 in  Milwaukee .  Feldman, in a telephone interview from Madison, said jobs
numbers are bound to be “mostly political fodder” with less
than three weeks remaining before the election.  “Numbers and statistics delivered in a very partisan
atmosphere are completely seen through the lens of a political
party,” Feldman said. “Imagine what Republicans would be
saying if the jobs numbers were weak and it was Governor Barrett
who had won two years ago? They’d be screaming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  