-- War on Somali Piracy Needs Rules and Impregnable Citadels
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-16T23:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/war-on-somali-piracy-needs-rules-and-impregnable-citadels.html
Question: How do you make a meeting
of a slow-moving, little-known and largely powerless United
Nations agency into a sexy event?  Answer: pirates!  The 90th session of the  International Maritime
Organization ’s Maritime Safety Committee, under way in  London ,
will cover much territory, including passenger-ship safety
(“Remember the Costa Concordia”), standards for voyage data
recorders and the protection of crew members’ hearing from
engine noise.  But the big topic is piracy, not just off the coast of
Somalia -- where there were 237 attacks last year, up from 219
in 2010 -- but increasingly off western  Africa ,  South America 
and  Southeast Asia . The incidents cost the shipping industry,
insurers, navies and  law enforcement  more than $7 billion in
2010.  Navies cannot efficiently police an Indian Ocean danger
zone that is larger than Western Europe. The  European Union 
forces’ aerial attack on a pirate supply line on the Somali
coast on Tuesday was a swashbuckling raid, but will have little
long-term benefit.  Increasingly, shipping companies have turned to private
security. That may account for the Somali pirates’ decreasing
effectiveness. While the number of attacks was up in 2011, the
pirates succeeded in hijacking only 28 vessels last year, as
opposed to a record 49 in 2010, according to the  International
Maritime Bureau , a division of the  International Chamber of
Commerce .  Liability and Reputation  Yet these rent-a-Marines have become a mixed blessing. A
 video  of guards haphazardly firing at suspected pirates from the
deck of the cargo ship Avocet has recently set off a round of
second-guessing by ship owners worried about liability and the
industry’s reputation, as well as the possibility that pirates
will adopt more violent tactics.  Given the hodgepodge of flag-state, shore-state and port-
state laws that ships encounter on a long voyage, there is no
way to standardize the training and actions of private security
personnel. (As of now, security teams sometimes have to  dump
their weapons overboard  before entering a jurisdiction with
strict gun-control laws.) The shipping industry is effectively
self-regulating, and often opts for the lowest common
denominator in terms of ethics. A proposal coming before the IMO
this week, however, could supply a needed framework on anti-
piracy measures.  The  Baltic and International Maritime Council  -- whose
members represent about 65 percent of global tonnage -- and the
International Organization for Standardization are proposing a
 standard for accreditation and certification  of private
maritime-security companies. The guidelines could cover
everything from rules of engagement to the management of
firearms to training in lifesaving. The IMO should support the
initiative, and push for a  global convention  that would create a
legal structure for prosecuting open-water piracy -- a Hague for
the High Seas.  Shipping companies can also be encouraged to come to their
own rescue. Outrunning the threat is an option. There has never
been a report of a successful attempt by pirates to board a ship
moving at greater than 18 knots (33 kilometers per hour). But
many cargo ships cannot maintain or even reach such speeds, and
doing so over the long haul can be expensive. Owners claim that
given high fuel costs, maintaining maximum speeds can cost
$50,000 to $200,000 a day -- more than hiring guards for the
entire voyage.  Fortress for Crew  It may be futile to expect shippers to run at full speed
through an entire danger zone, as recommended in the industry’s
 current Best Management Practices . Rather, with better
information sharing among the various navies in the  Indian Ocean 
and timely assessments of pirate action from risk consultants
and shipping companies themselves, ships’ masters can learn what
particular areas to avoid or speed through.  Too often the ships are sitting ducks for the relatively
lightly armed pirate gangs. Modern designs and retrofitting
should incorporate so-called citadels on board: safe rooms
equipped with food, water and other needs for a fixed period.
Potentially, the crew could  remotely operate  cameras, water
cannons, high-frequency sound weapons and tear gas. In general,
military forces will not board a captured ship if they suspect
that pirates and hostages are intermingled; if the crew is in a
citadel, the raid is on. Pirates know this as well as anyone,
and might move on to easier prey.  In the end, the only “cure” for Indian Ocean piracy will be
stability and economic growth in  Somalia . Not even the strongest
citadel afloat can hold out till that distant day. But a global
agreement among owners and global bodies like the IMO on
standards and practices can make the wait less dangerous and
costly.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Eduardo Saverin’s
citizenship ;  Ezra Klein  on  U.S. economic bright spots ;  Amity
Shlaes  on  supply-siders and austerity ;  Caroline Baum  on  digging
out of debt ; Harry L. Davis on  what makes a good leader ;  Steven
Greenhut  on why  California is still golden ; Rachelle Bergstein
on  countercultural footwear .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 