-- Wheat Jumps Most Since March as Dry Weather Hampers Crops
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-05-16T19:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/wheat-rises-to-two-week-high-as-dry-weather-curbs-kansas-crop.html
Wheat rose the most since March on
speculation that hot, dry weather will curb production in
 Kansas , the biggest U.S. grower of winter varieties.  Little or no rain has fallen in parts of southwest and
central Kansas in the past month, National Weather Service data
show. The dry weather has affected the critical filling stage
when grain forms inside the head of the wheat plant, Kansas
State University agronomist Jim Shroyer said. Plants turned
white, and heads formed with little or no grain inside, he said.  “The center part of the state is one of the worst areas,
and dry areas are expanding because we haven’t had any
moisture,”  Larry Glenn , an analyst at Frontier Ag in Quinter,
Kansas, said by telephone. “We have another chance for rain
this weekend, but they’re talking about spotty thundershowers,
and that’s not what we need.”  Wheat futures for July delivery gained 5 percent to settle
at $6.3875 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
the biggest one-day gain since March 30. The commodity earlier
touched $6.3975, the highest since May 2. The price has jumped 7
percent this week on the dry Kansas weather.  About 52 percent of Kansas’s winter wheat was in good or
excellent condition as of May 13, down from 60 percent a week
earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said this week.  Warm, dry weather is forecast for most of the U.S. Great
Plains and Midwest today, Telvent DTN Agricultural Meteorologist
Joel Burgio said in a report. Temperatures in the southern
Plains will be above normal, and rainfall will be below normal,
he said.  ‘Horrid’ Conditions  “Conditions in the central Plains are horrid, and the
forecast for southern Iowa and Illinois are very hot,” Nick
Higgins, an analyst at Rabobank in  London , said. “Definitely,
the U.S. heat is driving the market.”  The price also surged after Iraq said it bought 400,000
metric tons of wheat from the U.S.,  Australia ,  Russia , Romania
and  Kazakhstan . The supplies are set for delivery in July and
August, Amer Abdel-Aziz, the country’s grain board spokesman,
said by telephone in  Baghdad  today.  Crops in southern Russia, the country’s main grain-
exporting area, were damaged by drought, said  Viktor Zubkov , the
acting first deputy prime minister. A lack of rain in the area
for more than a month has lowered soil moisture, Zubkov said at
a meeting in Moscow today, according to a statement on the
government’s website.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $14.4
billion in 2011, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  