-- Xstrata $60 Billion Philippine Mine May Stall at Church Door
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-05-16T09:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/xstrata-60-billion-philippine-mine-may-stumble-at-church-s-door.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s fourth-
biggest copper producer, risks missing a 2016 target to begin
extracting about $60 billion of minerals from its project in the
 Philippines  because of opposition from the Catholic Church.  The central government in January rejected the company’s
request for an environmental compliance certificate for the $5.9
billion Tampakan copper and gold project, citing a ban by
regional lawmakers on open-pit mining. With local polls due next
year, South Cotabato legislators are reluctant to amend the law
because they risk the ire of the Church, said Arthur Pingoy, the
region’s governor.  “There are petitions and resolutions to amend the local
law pending,” Pingoy said in an interview. “No one dares touch
them because they fear a backlash from the Church, with priests
campaigning against their re-election next year.”  Xstrata is running short of time to bring the copper
project in Mindanao on line by its 2016 target, a feat that
would help ease global shortages of the metal used in power
transmission, plumbing and autos, as well as boost economic
growth. Opposition from the Church and other groups on
environmental grounds is compounded by threat of attack against
mines and workers by armed communist and Islamic rebels.  “The issues that this project face are illustrative of
intensifying political, social and environmental challenges that
miners are facing in growing production,”  Gayle Berry , a
London-based metals analyst at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , said in a May 8 e-
mailed response to questions. “There is now a long list of
projects that have been delayed or faced big increases in
 capital costs  as a result.”  Copper Tight  Copper futures traded on the London Metal Exchange have
gained 18 percent in the past two years to $7,650 a metric ton,
as global production failed to keep up with demand for a third
straight year. Worldwide copper stockpiles have fallen to
463,618 metric tons as of May 15, the lowest since Sept. 10,
2009, according to data from exchanges tracked by Bloomberg.  Shares in Xstrata fell for a fifth day, losing 3.5 percent
to 964.9 pence at 9:57 a.m. London time, set for the lowest
close since Dec. 28. Indophil Resources NL, a partner in the
Philippine venture, lost 5.1 percent to 37 Australian cents, the
biggest decline since March 1.  “We will surely vote against those who favor this
project,” said Dinualdo Gutierrez, a bishop who leads the
Catholic Church in South Cotabato and Saranggani, two of the
provinces that need to approve the mine. The local elections are
set for May 13.  Voter Base  There are about 400,000 Catholics in South Cotabato alone,
Gutierrez said by phone yesterday. That compares with 736,884
registered voters in the province, according to the Commission
on Elections. The Church has also gathered 106,000 signatures
calling on President  Benigno Aquino  not to allow Xstrata to
start mining in Tampakan, he said.  “What we’re concentrating on at the moment is the part of
the consultation process” that may help the company gain
national and local government approvals,  Mark Williams , general
manager for Xstrata-controlled Sagittarius Mines Inc., said in
an interview in the town of Kiblawan in Mindanao.  The permits are required before Xstrata can begin
construction of infrastructure that would support mining
operations, John Arnaldo, the company’s Philippine spokesman,
said in an interview in General Santos City in Mindanao. The
construction would take three years to complete, he said.  Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata estimates the mine may
 produce  an annual average of 375,000 tons of copper in
concentrate for at least 17 years from 2016. Global demand for
concentrate may exceed supply by 59,400 tons in 2016, widening
to 62,000 tons by 2017,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  predicted in a March 27
report.  ‘Takes Time’  One of the reasons that the copper price is so high, is
that “it takes time to develop new sources of supply, both from
permits and community issues,” Richard C. Adkerson, chief
executive officer of  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the
world’s biggest publicly traded copper miner, said on an April
19 earnings teleconference call.  The Philippines is set to introduce a mining policy that
would allow Xstrata’s project to proceed, while boosting the
government’s take from resources contracts and identifying
protected areas, Aquino said in a May 4 interview.  “We’ve very heartened by President Aquino’s statements
that he thinks the new mining policy will let the Tampakan
project proceed,” said Williams of Sagittarius, a venture with
 Australia ’s  Indophil Resources NL. (IRN)   GDP Boost  The project’s investment of $5.9 billion will make it the
biggest in the Philippines, adding about 1 percentage point to
the nation’s annual growth in gross domestic product over 20
years, Xstrata said. Total revenue from the mine’s output, which
includes gold, is estimated at $60 billion, based on current
metal prices, said Justin Hillier, finance manager at the local
venture.  Delaying the project would mean unrealized employment
potential for the people of Kiblawan, where Xstrata plans to
hire 2,000 workers to construct infrastructure to support the
Tampakan mine, Mayor Marivic Diamante said in an interview.  About 68 percent of the 50,000 people in Kiblawan live on
less than $1.25 a day, and 27 percent of households have no
toilets, Diamante said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  