-- Yes, There’s a Case for Staying in California: Steven Gre
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-05-16T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/yes-there-s-a-case-for-staying-in-california.html
California  is at the top of “most
hated” states, according to a recent national poll. It’s easy
to see why a lot of Californians themselves agree with this
assessment, after Governor  Jerry Brown ’s latest scary
description of the deepening hole the state is in.  The state’s budget deficit has grown to $15.7 billion from
$9.2 billion since January, proof that a governor who promised
to provide an honest budget ended up relying on the same overly
optimistic economic forecasts and kick-the-can-down-the-road
gimmicks used by his predecessors. Brown is back to his same-old
ways -- threatening  draconian cuts  unless the public votes for
massive tax increases next November.  California taxpayers rightly feel overtaxed by a government
that spends more than other states on services that are
increasingly shoddy. The unions run the state for their own
benefit, and the  Democratic Party , which controls every
constitutional office and has iron-clad control of the
Legislature, doesn’t feel the taxpayer’s pain. Their attitude
seems to be that if people want to leave, well, good riddance to
those stingy, greedy whiners who block tax increases.  Californians do leave. In the last two decades, nearly  4
million  more people have left than have come in from other
states. According to a new University of Southern California
 study , the state’s population growth is slowing significantly,
with increases driven by native-born children of immigrants, or
second-generation immigrants.  Government Can Change  But a case can be made for staying in California, even for
those of us who aren’t independently wealthy, not employed by or
retired from government, or not living on government assistance.  It’s not just for the obvious reasons: the beaches, the
mountains, the culture. There are more practical considerations
as well. For starters, the problems are the result of bad
government, and I’m convinced that acts of government can
change, especially now, as years of fiscal mismanagement hit the
wall. Plenty of policy tools exist for those who would rather
dig in than bug out.  Not that I blame those who leave. “No act of God could
wreak such devastation upon our state,” said Tom McClintock, a
conservative icon who represents a suburban Sacramento district
in Congress. “Only acts of government could do that.” There’s
no denying the hurdles, especially for business owners who must
deal with a government that is hostile to their efforts. The
state Chamber of Commerce sponsored a  business-closing event 
near downtown  Los Angeles , where companies explained why they
were headed to  Utah  and elsewhere. That was in 2003. Did anyone
listen?  A colleague who took a job in the Midwest a few months ago
said that he was on a waiting list for moving vans, given the
number of people fleeing eastward. Friends and neighbors talk
incessantly about where they are planning to move in pursuit of
a lower cost of living and better economic opportunities.  The chairman of San Diego Tax Fighters, Richard Rider,
 regularly updates  his  “breaking bad”  list of California
comparisons with other states. It details the many taxes that
are higher here than in other states and the many economic
indicators that are worse here than elsewhere. Whereas other
blue bastions --  New York , Rhode Island and even  Chicago  -- are
tackling pension reform and other problems, California’s leaders
resort to their first-reach answer: raising taxes. They refuse
to slow the ceaseless increase in regulations.  Capital Flight  It’s not just the taxes and red tape. The state’s
progressive Democrats seem to loathe the private sector, and
such attitudes also figure into business decisions. Chief
Executive magazine, in its  annual survey  of the best states to
do business, ranked  Texas  as No. 1 and California as No. 50.
That’s the eighth year in a row California took last place.  Democrats point to a booming Silicon Valley as evidence to
the contrary, though the enterprises there seem to work as hard
 avoiding taxes  in California as they do raising  venture capital .
Even Governor Brown seems to laugh off complaints from business.
“There’s a lot of money sloshing around California,” he said
in a  recent forum , “and there are a lot of people who are
getting their share of it.” He calls the state “yeasty and
creative.”  But his attitude is myopic. He should talk to some business
owners who deal with the constant efforts by tax agencies to
shake a few more dollars out of the productive class. Those who
say that not many major companies are leaving fail to note how
many of them expand their operations elsewhere, while
maintaining a headquarters in  San Jose  or another “yeasty”
hub. Chief executives like to live here, but they prefer to
expand their businesses elsewhere.  Rhode Island  Treasurer Gina Raimondo, in referring to her
state’s public pension liabilities, has said that the crisis is
about math, not politics. The good news: California’s leaders
face the same mathematical realities, although the budget
revision shows  California  to have deeper long-term revenue
problems than most other states, caused partly by the continuing
exodus of taxpayers and business owners.  “The capitalist system is not coincident with your
expectations of exactitude,” Brown said in his Monday talk
about the shortfall of  tax revenue . But the problem isn’t the
private sector. It is a government that punishes investment.
Someday soon Democratic leaders will emerge to tackle the
mathematical reality, and who realize that growth-friendly
policies are better than endless budget crises.  The Legislature is hopeless, but that doesn’t mean reform
is dead. San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed is urging his overwhelmingly
Democratic city to approve a June ballot initiative that would
rein in public pension costs. San Diego voters will decide on a
serious pension measure in June too. The reform movement -- and
not just on pensions -- is alive, but it’s a local effort and
driven by the initiative process.  Conservatives Must Stay  Because of the free-wheeling referendum and initiative
process - a Progressive-era innovation now disliked by modern
progressives and supported more by conservatives -- fed-up
Californians could at any time revive the spirit of 1978’s
property-tax-limiting Proposition 13. It’s only a matter of
time.  As the state’s more conservative-minded voters flee, reform
becomes tougher. Yet other states have the same problems, to
varying degrees, and the federal government is pushing wrong-
headed policies on everyone. Just as California progressives
view their first-in-the-nation ideas such as cap-and-trade as a
means to push the entire nation to the left, so too could
conservatives and centrists use California as a model for a
back-from-the-brink rescue.  Governor Brown said in his State of the State address:
“Contrary to those declinists, who sing of Texas and bemoan our
woes, California is still the land of dreams.” Those who point
to government failures are hardly declinists. California can
still be the land of dreams and opportunity, but we need to stay
and fight for our home. There are plenty of weapons at our
disposal.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in  Sacramento . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Eduardo Saverin’s
citizenship  and  stopping Somali pirates ;  Ezra Klein  on  U.S.
economic bright spots ;  Amity Shlaes  on  supply-siders and
austerity ;  Caroline Baum  on  digging out of debt ; Harry L. Davis
on  what makes a good leader ; Rachelle Bergstein on
 countercultural footwear .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 