-- YPF Seeks Waivers on Debt Repayment Rights After Seizure
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-05-16T21:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/ypf-seeks-waivers-on-debt-repayment-rights-after-seizure.html
YPF SA (YPF) , Argentina’s largest oil
producer, is asking creditors to issue waivers on part of its
$1.6 billion debt after the government’s takeover and said it
risks being delisted from the New York Stock Exchange.  Terms on a “significant portion” of the debt allow
creditors to seek early repayment after a nationalization, YPF
said in  a 20-F filing  to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission today. The company also said it risks the delisting
because it hasn’t had an  audit committee , as required by the
NYSE,  since the government took over on April 16.  Management is “actively pursuing formal waivers” from
creditors, YPF said. “In case those waivers are not obtained
and immediate repayment is required, the company could face
short-term liquidity problems.”  YPF’s American depositary receipts dropped 7.3 percent to
close at $13.18 in  New York , after earlier sliding as much as 17
percent. The shares have slumped 62 percent this year.  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  took
control of YPF on April 16, seizing 51 percent of the company’s
shares from Spain’s Repsol  YPF SA. (YPFD)  YPF has since been under
government oversight until a general shareholders meeting
scheduled for June 4 names new management.  YPF will appoint an audit committee at the shareholders
meeting and the company will seek to maintain its New York
listing, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  Legal Action  Fernandez named Planning Minister Julio De Vido and Deputy
Economy Minister Axel Kicillof to run the company for 30 days.
Their mandate was extended today for another 30 days. On May 4,
Fernandez named Miguel Galuccio, a former  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) 
executive, as general manager of YPF.  The Argentine government accused Repsol, which owned 57
percent of YPF until the nationalization, of underinvesting in
the company since it took it over in 1999. Repsol on May 15
started legal action against Argentina and notified officials of
the South American country that it intends to file a claim with
the  World Bank ’s International Center for the Settlement of
Investment Disputes in  Washington .  Repsol has said its 57 percent stake is worth $10.5
billion, according to the valuation criteria in Argentine
takeover law. Kicillof said April 18 the country will make its
own assessment of the value of YPF after analyzing the company’s
“secret information.”  Argentine oil output declined to 35.3 million cubic meters
in 2010, from 45.4 million in 2001, according to data published
by the  Argentina  Oil and Gas Institute. YPF produces about 34
percent of the country’s crude.  Fund Stake  Hedge fund Eton Park Capital Management LP raised its stake
in the company by 18 percent to 11.95 million ADRs in the first
quarter, according to a regulatory filing. The fund is the
fourth largest investor in YPF, behind the government,
Argentina’s Petersen Group and Lazard Asset Management LLC,
 according  to data compiled by Bloomberg .  YPF slumped 46 percent between Jan. 30, the day after
newspaper Pagina 12 reported the company could be nationalized,
and the day when the seizure was announced by Fernandez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  