-- ZhengTong Postpones Bond as Yields Soar by Most in 25 Weeks
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-05-16T05:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-16/zhengtong-auto-postpones-bond-as-yields-soar-by-most-in-25-weeks.html
China ZhengTong Auto Services
Holdings Ltd. (1728) , a Chinese luxury auto dealer, postponed a planned
sale of dollar-denominated bonds as yields on Chinese debt in
the U.S. currency surge.  ZhengTong Auto, which sells BMW and Jaguar cars in  China ,
delayed its sale because of “current market conditions,” it
said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today.
Average yields on Chinese dollar bonds jumped 24 basis points to
7.44 percent yesterday from 7.2 percent on May 11, already
headed for the biggest weekly increase since the period ending
Nov. 25, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s Asia Credit Index.
Yields have risen for five straight days, the longest stretch
since December.  No Asian companies have publicly sold dollar debt this week
and stocks in the region fell for a sixth day as talks to form a
new Greek government failed, deepening  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis. The  Markit iTraxx Asia index  of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan , which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, is poised to
close at the highest level since Jan. 19, according to prices
from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and data provider CMA.  “The confluence of  Greece ’s inability to form a coalition
government along with declining world equity markets and other
global economic concerns sent the credit market into a panic
earlier this week and spreads blew out,” said  Scott Bennett ,
Singapore-based head of Asian credit at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc, which manages $295 billion globally.  Loan Refinancing  ZhengTong Auto planned to sell as much as $300 million of
five-year notes, a person familiar with the matter said May 9,
asking not to be identified because the details are private. The
bonds were being marketed to investors to yield in the high 11
percent area, the person said.  The Hong Kong-listed company had earmarked some of the
proceeds from the sale to help refinance the equivalent of about
$315 million of loans maturing this year, according to an April
26 company statement.  ZhengTong Auto’s shares  fell  as much as 6.03 percent today,
the most since March 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company has a HK$1.218 billion ($157 million) loan from Bank
of Communications Co. that matures in August and 1 billion  yuan 
($158 million) of outstanding debt due in December this year,
according to the statement last month.  “The company will closely monitor the development of
market conditions and will reconsider the proposed notes issue
at a later date,” ZhengTong Auto said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  