-- Daley Scolds Airlines, Lawmakers for Failing to Tackle Future Needs
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-01-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-21/daley-scolds-airlines-lawmakers-for-failing-to-tackle-future-needs.html
Mayor  Richard M. Daley , Chicago’s
longest-serving mayor and the oldest brother of the new White
House Chief of staff, chastised U.S. airlines and government for
being short-sighted in a world of global competition.  He addressed everything from city finances to business
relationships to missing a 1960 Oval Office visit with the newly
inaugurated President  John F. Kennedy  in a wide-ranging
interview for Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations With  Judy Woodruff ” to be broadcast this weekend.  Daley, 68, defended his expansion of the city-owned O’Hare
International Airport in the face of a lawsuit filed this week
by United Air Lines Inc. and American Airlines Inc. that seeks
to block construction of new runways at the second-busiest U.S.
airport. Daley said the construction work needs to progress
because the project will take years to complete.  “They’re tenants,” he said. “You build for the future.
You don’t build for the present.”  The mayor predicted that financial strains will continue to
weigh on local governments following the worst recession since
the Great Depression.  “You’ll see a lot of local governments trying to
reorganize or file bankruptcy because their citizens can’t pour
any more money into the system,” he said.  Daley, who said Sept. 7 that he wouldn’t seek re-election to
a seventh term, will leave his replacement a city gleaming with
public-works projects like the lakefront  Millennium Park . Yet he
paid for such improvements and balanced his budgets by tapping
one-time revenue that won’t be available to his successor.  Budget Legacy  The City Council on Nov. 17 passed his 2011 budget of $6.15
billion, closing a $654 million deficit by spending most of what
was left of the $1.15 billion the city received from leasing
36,000 parking meters.  Standard & Poor’s on Nov. 5 lowered  Chicago ’s credit rating
to A+, the fifth-highest investment grade, partly reflecting
concern about the city’s “heavy reliance on nonrecurring
revenues to bridge its 2011 budget gap.”  The mayor defended his handling of city finances, saying he
needed to dip into reserves and payments from leasing
arrangements to avoid raising property taxes at a time when many
people were struggling to keep their homes.  Public workers will have to make larger contributions to
their retirement systems, Daley said: “Otherwise, no one can
afford these pension obligations.”  Aspiring Teacher  Daley, who leaves office in May, said he would like to
teach and may explore “business opportunities.” He said he’s
also thinking about writing a book, the  Chicago Sun-Times 
reported this week.  Though he was born into a family with deep Democratic
roots, his comments on the role of government echo Republicans,
who gained 63 seats in the U.S. House in November’s election.  Local governments can no longer look to  Washington  to solve
their budget woes, the mayor said.  “But you can look to Washington in different ways,” Daley
said. Those different ways include questioning lawmakers on
“all the laws you passed, all the rules and regulations. It has
an impact upon the cost of our government.”  Daley also criticized his state’s legislature and governor,
fellow Democrat Patrick Quinn, for approving a 67 percent
increase in personal income taxes. He suggested that  Illinois 
should look for more efficient ways to use taxpayer money.  “Our state has not been reorganized for 50 or 60 years,”
Daley said. “We should rethink it.”  Threat to Jobs  He said Illinois risks losing jobs because of the tax
increases, which also will raise corporate rates.  “The sad thing in this tax, it’s only to pay the bills,”
he said. “It’s not dealing with the deficit of the state. It
doesn’t deal with education.”  Daley exceeded the tenure of his father,  Richard J. Daley ,
on Dec. 26 when he became the city’s longest-serving mayor,
logging 7,917 days, or 21 years and eight months. The two men
governed the city for 43 of the last 55 years.  The current mayor said he thinks his father would be
proudest of what he has tried to do to improve  Chicago public
schools . He declined to name a specific disappointment during
his 21-year tenure.  Chicago is the only U.S. city outside Washington that
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  is visiting this week as part of a
trade mission. It’s an opportunity for Daley to highlight his
strong relationships with business leaders.  Business Asset  “America has to say the business community is an asset,”
Daley said. “That doesn’t mean you can’t have differences with
them. But if we don’t make them an asset, in the global
competition, America will suffer.”  The mayor said that his youngest brother, William M. Daley,
in his role as White House chief of staff will help President  Barack Obama  gain a better sense of what business needs.  “In selecting Bill, I think he selected a person that was
very disciplined and keeps his focus on jobs and the economy,
and realize that the world is competing against us and we have
to compete with the world,” he said.  Near the 50th anniversary of Kennedy’s inauguration, Daley
reflected on how he missed an Oval Office visit with his family
on that day.  “I had to take a test, and my parents knew that education
was more important than the inauguration,” he said. “All my
other brothers were the first visitors into the White House. Of
course, I’m M.I.A., missing there. And later on, my father did
bring me to the White House to meet John F. Kennedy.”  Kennedy Conversation  Daley also recalled a conversation his father had with
Robert F. Kennedy, who came to Chicago shortly before he was
assassinated.  “My father said, ‘If you win  California , we’re going to
endorse you out of Chicago, because we believe you’re the right
person,’” Daley recalled.  “He went to California and won the election. And in his
room, he called my parents and talked to my mother and talked to
my dad,” the mayor said. “And after he went down, and the end
of his speech, he said, ‘On to Chicago,’ walked off, and
unfortunately was killed.”  Daley dismissed a suggestion that he has unofficially
endorsed  Rahm Emanuel , the former White House chief of staff who
is running for mayor and who has had a long relationship with
the Daley family.  “I don’t think anyone can anoint anyone,” he said.
“People don’t like that. I mean, they respect me. They know I
love this city. But I have no right to say that that person will
be the mayor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  