-- Chairman Kaine Says Republicans `Overreaching' on Health-Care Law Repeal
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2011-01-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-21/dnc-chairman-kaine-says-republicans-overreaching-on-health-care-rollback.html
The chairman of the  Democratic
National Committee , former Virginia Governor  Tim Kaine , said
Republicans overreached in their opposition to the health-care
overhaul, giving President  Barack Obama  a chance to reframe the
debate in his State of the Union address with an emphasis on the
economy and deficit control.  “He’s going to talk about the path of the recovery, but
the need to accelerate it, especially with respect to hiring and
employment,” Kaine said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend. The president will also discuss “how to deal with the
deficit and how to deal with it responsibly, but without choking
off the nascent economic recovery.”  House Republicans, who gained 63 seats in the November
elections to win control of that chamber, were “overreaching”
in their Jan. 19 vote to repeal Obama’s health-care legislation
because doing so would increase the deficit and deny tax credits
to small businesses, Kaine said.  “They broke their deficit pledge,” he said. “They broke
their business pledge.”  Obama, who will deliver his State of the Union address to a
politically divided Congress on Jan. 25, will emphasize the
steps his administration has taken to bolster the economy and
put them in an “overall framework,” Kaine said.  “We’ve done a series of important things, but we haven’t
necessarily connected them all together and demonstrated that
these are all part of a necessary path to sustainable economic
growth in the aftermath of the collapse,” he said. “And I
think you’ll see the president both talk about policies and
programs, but connect them together.”  Early Endorsement  Kaine, who  endorsed  Obama only a week after he  announced 
his presidential candidacy in February 2007, also was on his
short list for vice-presidential nominees.  On the issue of U.S. relations with  China , Kaine said that
Chinese President Hu Jintao’s visits with Obama and with
business leaders this week emphasized the “pivotal relationship
between two nations in the world for the next generation,
perhaps longer.”  Relations between the two countries, with more than $400
billion in annual trade, are complicated by disagreements on
issues including human rights, China’s enforcement of
intellectual-property rights and what U.S. officials say is the
artificially low value of China’s currency.  Kaine said that progress is being made slowly on
intellectual-property concerns and that the currency issues
“remain very, very challenging.”  He said economic and security interests with China come
first over concerns about human-rights abuses.  No ‘Guarantor’ of Rights  “We can’t be the guarantor of human rights anywhere in the
world outside our own borders,” Kaine said. “Nevertheless, we
set a strong human-rights example, and it’s important that the
president continue to raise that in all settings. But economic
and security interests are primary.”  Kaine, who was Virginia’s governor in 2007 when a gunman
killed 32 people on the  Virginia  Tech campus in Blacksburg, said
he supports gun-control legislation to ban the type of
ammunition clip used in the Jan. 8 Arizona shooting rampage that
wounded 13 people, including Democratic Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , and killed six.  “I have long been a supporter of what I think are, you
know, reasonable regulations,” he said.  Kaine said Obama will follow his State of the Union address
with a budget plan in February. It may include ideas from a
 proposal  by the president’s debt-reduction panel that would have
cut the deficit from last year’s $1.3 trillion to about $420
billion in 2015, he said.  ‘Serious’ About Deficit  “I think he’ll say to Congress, ‘You say you’re serious
about the deficit? I am, too. I’ve put it in a budget, and now
let’s figure out how we’re going to get there,’” Kaine said.  Kaine said that as more Americans experience the benefits
of the health-care law, designed to extend insurance coverage to
32 million people who lack it, efforts to dismantle it will grow
increasingly unpopular.  “The Republicans did that vote, I guess, to appease some
aspect of their base, but they’re going to drop it and move on
to other issues,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Catherine Dodge  in  Washington  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  