-- T-Mobile Asks U.S. FCC to Approve Merger With MetroPCS
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-10-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/t-mobile-asks-u-s-fcc-to-approve-merger-with-metropcs.html
The merger of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s
T-Mobile USA Inc. with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  will
increase competition with larger rivals and benefit consumers,
the companies said in a regulatory filing.  The companies made the arguments in papers they submitted
Oct. 18 to the Federal Communications Commission. The companies
will file later with U.S. antitrust authorities, according to
the filing.  Bloomberg News  obtained a copy of the FCC filing.  Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom announced Oct. 3 it will pay
$1.5 billion to shareholders of MetroPCS, the fifth-largest U.S.
mobile provider, and merge the company with T-Mobile, the
fourth-largest carrier.  The new company would have 42.5 million subscribers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg -- or about 11.7 percent
of the U.S. wireless market -- compared with a 58.5 percent
combined share for No. 1  Verizon Wireless  and No. 2  AT&T Inc. (T) 
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest provider, has 15.2
percent  The acquisition probably will be approved because it
doesn’t pose threats to competition like those raised by AT&T’s
failed bid for T-Mobile last year,  David Kaut , a Washington-
based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said in an Oct. 3
interview.  T-Mobile’s airwaves and MetroPCS’s complement each other,
putting a combined company in a better position to compete than
either could achieve on its own, according to the filing.  The new company, which will take the T-Mobile name, will
keep MetroPCS as a separate brand and extend it to new cities,
according to the filing. Customers will have access to more
smartphones and tablet computers, the filing said.  Pricing Flexibility  By having more customers, the company will be able to
distribute the fixed costs of its network over a broader base,
giving it greater pricing flexibility, according to the filing.  The transaction doesn’t harm competition and strengthens
the smallest of what the FCC has described as nationwide
carriers, the filing said. It said the new company intends to be
the leading low-priced carrier in the U.S., with a focus on
offering plans attractive to customers seeking affordability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  