-- Adventist Health Emergency Rooms Overbilled Medicare, Suit Says
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-10-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/adventist-health-emergency-rooms-overbilled-medicare-suit-says.html
Adventist Health System/Sunbelt Inc.
was accused in a lawsuit filed by whistle-blowers of routinely
overbilling Medicare for emergency room services at eight
central  Florida  hospitals the company owns.  A complaint originally filed in 2010 in federal court in
Orlando, Florida, was expanded this month to include claims that
the emergency room overbilling of the government health
insurance program for the elderly and disabled was known to
upper management at the hospital chain and took place from at
least 2001 to 2008.  Adventist Health, a nonprofit based in Winter Park,
Florida, “has submitted improper claims for payment and has
intentionally failed to refund the payments received,”
according to the amended complaint.  The media office at the hospital chain didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed request yesterday for comment on the
lawsuit.  The original complaint includes allegations that the
Adventist Health hospitals overbilled Medicare, Medicaid and
Tricare for radiology services and a prescription medication.
The company lost a bid to dismiss those claims in July.  The complaint describes several practices, including
billing for computer-assisted detection services to help read
mammograms, even when the CAD system wasn’t working for three
months, and routinely billing for a $3,100 dose of a drug when a
$700 dose had actually been administered.  Internal Audit  Florida Hospital Orlando, one of the eight facilities named
in the lawsuit, found in a 2008 internal audit that in a single
year, the hospital had overbilled the government and insurance
companies $2 million for the drug, Octreotide.  The lawsuit was brought under the U.S. False Claims Act,
which permits whistle-blowers to sue on behalf of the government
and to share in any recovery.  The two whistle-blowers who filed the complaint are
 Charlotte  Elenberger, a radiologist who worked for a hospital
contractor and had staff privileges at one of the Adventist
Health facilities, and Amanda Dittmann, a medical coding
specialist who worked for one of the hospitals.  Adventist Health agreed to pay $3.9 million in February to
settle a claim filed by the Justice Department that four of its
hospitals in Florida overbilled Medicare for the cost of
kyphoplasty procedures, which treat spinal fractures due to
osteoporosis. The Justice Department said then that in total,
more than 40 hospitals had paid at least $39 million to settle
such overbilling claims.  The case is U.S. v. Adventist Health System/Sunbelt Inc.,
6:10-cv-01062, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida
( Orlando ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, at
 susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  