-- Anti-Syria Bloc Urges ‘Day of Rage’ in Lebanon Over Bombing
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-21T06:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/anti-syria-bloc-calls-for-day-of-rage-in-lebanon-over-bombing.html
Lebanon’s opposition March 14
coalition encouraged a massive turnout for today’s funeral of an
assassinated security official and for a “day of rage” against
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  The bloc also called on supporters to demand the
resignation of Prime Minister  Najib Mikati , whom it blames for
the Oct. 19 car bombing that killed Brigadier General Wissam al-
Hassan. Al-Hassan, who headed the information branch of the
Internal Security Forces, had investigated several bombings and
plots that the March 14 group blamed on the Syrian regime.  Lebanon’s official National News Agency, which had
initially reported eight people dead and more than 86 wounded,
said last night the final casualty count was three dead and 126
wounded. The fatalities included al-Hassan, his bodyguard and a
woman, it said.  “Let tomorrow be a national day of rage at the killers and
their protectors,” the coalition said, specifying Assad, in a
statement read yesterday by lawmaker Nouhad Mashnouq.  The rally will take place in Martyrs’ Square, scene of
demonstrations in downtown Beirut that followed the 2005
assassination of former Prime Minister  Rafiq Hariri , an act that
March 14 officials also have blamed on  Syria . Public anger over
Hariri’s killing forced pro-Syria Prime Minister Omar Karami to
step down 14 days later, and Syria to withdraw its troops from
Lebanon after a 29-year presence.  Some March 14 supporters held a candlelight vigil near the
scene of the bombing that targeted al-Hassan. Others pitched
tents near the Grand Serail, Mikati’s headquarters, in downtown
Beirut as protesters roamed nearby streets.  Syrian Conflict  The bombing has exacerbated tensions simmering in Lebanon
since an uprising against Assad began in neighboring Syria in
March 2011. Lebanon is divided into pro-and anti-Assad groups
that have fought intermittently in the northern city of Tripoli
and Beirut. A clash in Tripoli hours after al-Hassan’s death
left a Sunni Muslim cleric dead.  The unrest has prompted concern that Syria’s civil war may
spill over the border. March 14 politicians including former
Prime Minister  Saad Hariri , Rafiq’s son, were quick to accuse
Syria of carrying out the killing.  Hariri urged supporters yesterday to join the rally to
honor al-Hassan as a man “who protected Lebanon from dangers
and exposed himself to an explosion so that you won’t explode
and so Lebanon won’t explode.”  Twenty Bombs  Al-Hassan’s investigations included the 2005 Hariri
assassination. The security official also was instrumental in
the probe that led to the arrest in August of former Information
Minister Michel Samaha, an Assad ally who has been charged with
plotting to assassinate religious and political figures. More
than 20 bombs found with Samaha were prepared by Syrian security
agents, NNA said at the time.  Mikati said yesterday that al-Hassan’s assassination was
linked to his exposure of the Samaha plot. He said that he had
offered to resign so that a national unity government could be
formed in the aftermath of the bombing. President Michel
Suleiman urged him to stay on while Suleiman consults the
country’s top officials about the attack and so the country
won’t slip into a political vacuum, Mikati said.  Mikati’s cabinet is backed by the Shiite Muslim militant
Hezbollah group, an Assad ally and the main bloc in the pro-
Syria March 8 coalition. The March 14 protesters will also
demand the disarming of Hezbollah, the only group that has
refused to lay down its arms since Lebanon’s 1975-1990 civil
war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Beirut  at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  