-- Anti-Syria Coalition Demands Lebanese Cabinet Resign
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-20T10:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/anti-syria-coalition-demands-lebanese-cabinet-resign.html
Lebanon’s anti-Syrian March 14
coalition urged the government to step down as residents in
several Sunni Muslim areas closed roads with burning tires to
protest a car bombing that killed a top security chief and at
least seven other people.  A clash between supporters and opponents of Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad in the northern Lebanese city of
Tripoli, which has had intermittent violence for the past few
months, left one person dead, the official National News Agency
said today. The unrest between the pro- and anti-Assad camps has
provoked concern that neighboring  Syria ’s civil war may spill
over the border.  “I call on everyone to take to the streets and demand the
resignation of the Cabinet,” Wissam Shibli, youth coordinator
of the Future Movement, part of the March 14 bloc, said on
Future TV today. The movement plans sit-ins and other action to
force Lebanon’s government out, he said.  The tensions stem from yesterday’s bombing in Beirut’s
Ashrafiyyeh district, the deadliest blast in the country in at
least four years. Among the dead was Brigadier General Wissam
al-Hassan, head of the information branch of the Internal
Security Forces, who had investigated several bombings and plots
blamed on the Syrian regime by the March 14 coalition. The blast
also injured more than 86 people.  Cabinet Discussion  Prime Minister  Najib Mikati  was responsible for the Beirut
bombing and should resign, the coalition said in a statement
late yesterday. Mikati’s Cabinet is backed by the militant
Shiite Muslim group Hezbollah, which supports Assad. The Cabinet
met today to discuss the impact of the bombing.  Several ministers rejected March 14’s resignation call,
according to NNA. “I will not resign,” the agency cited
Telecommunications Minister Nicolas Sehnaoui as saying.  The bomb that killed al-Hassan weighed 60 to 70 kilograms
(130 to 150 pounds), General Ashraf Rifi, director general of
the Internal Security Forces, was cited as saying by the Assafir
newspaper. Rifi said al-Hassan was identified by his revolver
and his watch, the paper reported.  The attack will undermine an already weakened economy,
Kamel Wazne, an economist and director of the Center for
American Studies in  Beirut , said today in a phone interview.  “This will add to the recession facing Lebanon,” said
Wazne. “The economy will feel more pain now because security
tensions in the region have come home.”  Lebanon’s credit default swaps closed yesterday at 402
basis points, up from 397 a day earlier. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Hariri Killing  Al-Hassan had been investigating attacks that targeted
anti-Syrian officials and figures, starting with the 2005 death
of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a bombing. He was
instrumental in the probe that led to the August arrest of
former Information Minister Michel Samaha, an Assad ally who has
been charged with plotting to assassinate religious and
political figures. More than 20 bombs found with Samaha were
prepared by Syrian security agents, NNA said at the time.  Leading politicians including  Saad Hariri , son of the
murdered ex-premier, and Druze leader Walid Jumblatt were quick
to accuse Syria of carrying out the killing. Jumblatt told
Future TV that Assad’s government was taking revenge for the
failure of the Samaha plot. Hariri told the same channel that he
blamed Assad.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the attack
that targeted al-Hassan, “who was a strong defender of
Lebanon’s security and its people, is a dangerous sign that
there are those who continue to seek to undermine Lebanon’s
stability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  