-- Arizona Ban on Medicaid for Elective Abortions Blocked
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-10-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/arizona-ban-on-medicaid-for-elective-abortions-blocked.html
An  Arizona  law prohibiting Medicaid
funding for providers of elective abortions was temporarily
blocked by a federal judge until a lawsuit over the law’s
legality has been resolved.  U.S. District Judge Neil Wake in Phoenix yesterday granted
a request by Planned Parenthood Arizona for a preliminary
injunction. Planned Parenthood is likely to succeed on the
merits of their claim that the Arizona law violates the freedom-
of-choice provision of the federal law governing the Medicaid
program, the judge said.  “It is unlikely that Congress would have included a broad
guarantee of free choice among qualified providers, subject to
enumerated and well-defined exceptions, and then created in the
states authority to circumvent that guarantee for nearly any
reason,” Wake said.  The Arizona law prohibits Medicaid funding for health-care
providers who perform abortions other than where the pregnancy
is the result of rape or incest or threatens the health or life
of the mother, according to the judge’s order. While the law was
scheduled to take effect Aug. 2, the state agreed to wait for
the judge’s ruling before enforcing it.  Bryan Howard, president and chief executive officer of 
 Planned Parenthood  Arizona, called the decision a ``victory for 
poor women in this state.''  ``The court’s ruling protects the right of Arizona women to 
continue to receive important medical care from the medical 
providers of their own choice, without interference by the 
state,'' Howard said in an e-mailed statement.  Matthew Benson, a spokesman for Arizona Governor Jan
Brewer, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request after
regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Planned Parenthood Arizona v. Betlach, 12-1533,
U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 