-- Canada Rejects Petronas’s Bid for Progress Energy
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-20T19:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/canada-rejects-petronas-bid-for-progress-energy.html
Canada blocked Petroliam Nasional
Bhd.’s C$5.2 billion ($5.23 billion) takeover of  Progress Energy
Resources Corp. (PRQ) , saying the bid by the Malaysian state-owned
company wasn’t in Canada’s national interests.  In what investors say is a test case for the $15.1 billion
bid by  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  of  China  for Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , the
Canadian government said it “was not satisfied that the
proposed investment is likely to be of net benefit to Canada,”
according to an Oct. 19 statement from Industry Minister
Christian Paradis. The minister couldn’t comment further.  The rejection is Canada’s second in two years following the
2010 failure of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion bid for Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. In both decisions, government
officials gave little explanation for their reasoning.  “It could be the death knell of Nexen if the grounds are
around reciprocity and state-owned enterprises,” said  Jack
Mintz , director of the University of Calgary’s School of Public
Policy. Canada’s foreign-investment rules remain vague and “the
government needs to send a clear signal on what’s on and what’s
off in terms of foreign investment.”  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has touted Canada as an
energy superpower and is seeking deeper trade ties with China
and  India  to diversify exports away from the slower-growing U.S.
market, which consumes three-quarters of Canada’s exports.
Canada’s foreign-takeover law requires acquisitions offer a
“net benefit” to the country.  Petronas Appeal  “We’re very surprised by the decision,” Progress Energy
Chief Executive Officer Michael Culbert said by phone from
Calgary after the decision was released two minutes before a
midnight deadline for the review.  Petronas will appeal the ruling and  Progress Energy  will
“help where we can help,” Culbert said. “We believe that the
transaction is of net benefit to Canada. Progress will continue
to work with the federal government to prove that point.”  Azman Ibrahim, a spokesman for Petronas in  Kuala Lumpur ,
declined to comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News .  Canada’s gross domestic product of $1.74 trillion exceeds
Malaysia’s annual output of $279 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Progress Energy closed at C$21.65 on Oct. 19 in Toronto,
down 0.9 percent and below the C$22 a share offer from Petronas.
Nexen shares dropped 1.5 percent to $25.40 in  New York , 7.6
percent less than the $27.50 offered by Beijing-based Cnooc. It
was the biggest drop in three months for Nexen.  ‘Welcoming Investment’  Harper said Sept. 6 his government is preparing a “policy
framework” for foreign investment to clarify issues raised in
takeovers such as Cnooc’s offer for Nexen. A decision on that
friendly bid is expected next month. Two calls to the mobile
phone of a Cnooc spokeswoman went unanswered.  Under the Investment Canada Act, the government reviews all
foreign takeovers valued at more than C$330 million to determine
whether they are in the country’s interest.  In weighing whether
an acquisition provides a “net benefit,” the government
considers several factors, including the impact on economic
activity and employment; the degree of participation of
Canadians in the acquired business; the impact on productivity
and technology development and the effect on
competition.  Petronas has 30 days to appeal or provide additional
concessions, at which point the government will make a final
decision, according to the statement by Paradis. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch advised Petronas, while  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  worked
with Progress.  ‘Shocking’ Decision  “Canada has a long standing reputation for welcoming
foreign investment,” Paradis said in the statement. “The
government of Canada remains committed to maintaining an open
climate for investment.”  The Petronas decision is “shocking” said Gordon Currie,
an analyst at Salman Partners in Calgary. “I don’t yet know
what the government’s reasoning is, but this has implications
for the Nexen and Celtic deals, and may cause a ’chill’ on
future transactions with foreign investors.”  Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s largest energy company by
market value, said Oct. 17 it had agreed to buy  Celtic
Exploration Ltd. (CLT)  for C$2.86 billion in cash and stock, adding
oil and gas production in Canada’s Montney and Duvernay shale.  “The Industry Minister has created a real mess,” said
opposition  New Democratic Party  lawmaker Peter Julian. “I don’t
think that anyone can have any confidence in what they will come
up with for a decision on Cnooc and Nexen,” he said.  ‘Look Tough’  The government may have used Petronas to “look tough”
before accepting Cnooc’s bid, while in the past the government
has “rubber stamped” other investments, Julian said. Canada
has only blocked three foreign takeovers in 27 years.  The Petronas rejection comes a day after the country’s
telecommunications regulator blocked a C$3 billion takeover of
 Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  by  BCE Inc. (BCE) , both of  Montreal . The regulator
said the purchase would give BCE too much clout in the market
for specialty television and radio.  Progress Energy agreed in late June to the takeover by
Petronas, as Malaysia’s state-owned oil and natural-gas company
is known, after rejecting two acquisition proposals from a
“multi-national  oil company ,” according to a July 20
regulatory filing. The board of Progress, a Calgary-based
natural gas producer, was in talks with the unidentified company
until June 11, about two weeks before the Petronas deal was
announced.  Progress then received an unsolicited proposal from a third
party, according to a July 27 statement. That prompted Petronas
to sweeten its offer to C$22 a share, valuing Progress at C$5.16
billion.  Montney Shale  Petronas  closed  a deal with Progress in August 2011 to
develop Montney assets, paying C$267.5 million up front for a 50
percent interest and committing to spend another C$802.5 million
to fund development.  The two companies also worked together to potentially
develop a liquefied natural gas export project for the west
coast. The terminal that would be located in Prince Rupert,
British Columbia, is among more than a handful proposed by oil
and gas companies for  Canada ’s Pacific coast, and could export
two billion cubic feet of gas a day by 2018, according to
research analysts at Calgary investment bank Peters & Co. Ltd.  Canada should create clearer rules on foreign investment
such as whether bids from state-owned enterprises will be
treated differently, said Mintz of the University of Calgary.  “I wonder how much Nexen shares are going to drop on
Monday,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  