-- Chelsea Beats Tottenham to Stay Unbeaten in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-20T18:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/chelsea-defeats-tottenham-4-2-to-stay-unbeaten-in-premier-league.html
Juan Mata  scored twice as Chelsea
beat its former manager Andre Villas-Boas’s Tottenham 4-2 to
stay unbeaten in English soccer’s Premier League, as Norwich
defeated Arsenal 1-0 for its first win.  Gary Cahill  and  Daniel Sturridge  also scored as Chelsea
rallied in the second half at White Hart Lane in north London.
It was the Blues’ seventh win in eight games and maintains a
four-point lead at the top of the standings over Manchester
United and Manchester City.  “It was a test of character today coming here to play a
team in form,” Chelsea manager Roberto Di Matteo told  Sky
Sports . “We’re trying to progress, to develop and become a good
team. We have started well -- showed the qualities we have --and
can still improve on that.”  Grant Holt ’s goal gave Norwich the home win over Arsenal.
Manchester City, playing with 10 men, rallied to a 2-1 win at
West Brom, while Manchester United beat Stoke 4-2. Fulham won 1-
0 against Aston Villa, West Ham routed Southampton 4-1, Swansea
defeated Wigan 2-1 and Liverpool was a 1-0 winner over Reading.  At White Hart Lane, Villas-Boas faced his old club for the
first time since being fired last season after just nine months
in charge of Chelsea.  The Blues led 1-0 at halftime on Cahill’s 17th-minute
volley, before Spurs struck twice in seven minutes after the
break.  William Gallas  tied the game in the opening two minute
and Jermain Defoe gave the home side the lead seven minutes with
his 200th career goal.  Stoppage Time  Mata tied the game in the 66th minute when he took a poor
clearance from Gallas and beat  Brad Friedel , then put Chelsea in
front two minutes later by converting a pass from Eden Hazard.  Sturridge came on in the 83rd minute and clinched Chelsea’s
first win at White Hart Lane since 2005 in stoppage time by
tapping in a cross from Mata.  “We became very strong in the second half and turned
things around, but individual brilliance and the creativeness of
Chelsea unlocked the defense and settled the game,” Villas-
Boas, who was hired by Tottenham in July, told Sky.  Chelsea captain  John Terry  sat out after deciding two days
ago not to appeal a four-match suspension from the Football
Association for racially abusing QPR’s Anton Ferdinand in a game
last season. Club Chairman Bruce Buck told Talksport radio
earlier today that Terry will keep the captaincy after receiving
an undisclosed “record” fine from the club.  In Norwich, Holt took advantage of a mistake by reserve
Arsenal goalkeeper Vito Mannone in the 20th minute to give the
Canaries their first victory after three ties and four losses.  Alex Tettey sent a low shot from 25 yards and Mannone,
playing in place of injured Wojciech Szczesny, knocked the ball
toward the middle of the goal where Holt beat Per Mertesacker to
poke it into the net.  Late Rally  Manchester City rallied late to beat West Brom and maintain
an unbeaten record after  James Milner  was sent off in the 23rd
minute for a challenge on  Shane Long , who would give Reading the
lead with a goal midway through the second half.  City brought on Edin Dzeko in the 79th minute and the
striker tied the game with a header about a minute later. Dzeko
then won the game in stoppage time with a shot into the bottom
right corner of the goal.  Wayne Rooney  scored twice, after earlier giving up an own
goal, to lead Manchester United past Stoke.  Robin van Persie  and
 Danny Welbeck  also scored for United.  Chris Baird’s 84th-minute goal lifted Fulham past Aston
Villa, while Raheem Sterling scored as Liverpool picked up its
first home league win of the season.  Mark Noble had two goals as West Ham handed Southampton a
fourth straight away loss and goals from Pablo Hernandez and
Miguel Michu two minutes apart in the second half gave Swansea
the home win over Wigan.  Sunderland hosts Newcastle in tomorrow’s game and Everton
visits Queens Park Rangers in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 