-- Lebanon Premier Delays Resignation to Prevent Chaos
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-20T15:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/lebanon-premier-delays-resignation-to-prevent-chaos.html
Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati
said he agreed to a presidential request that he delay his
resignation in the aftermath of a car bombing in  Beirut  that
killed a general who had carried out inquiries into similar
attacks on anti-Syrian officials.  Mikati told reporters today he agreed to remain, rather
than prompting the formation of a new government, while
President Michel Suleiman conducts consultations into the
aftermath of Brigadier General Wissam al-Hassan’s assassination.
Mikati, who spoke in Beirut after the Cabinet discussed
yesterday’s attack, said Suleiman urged him to stay to prevent a
power vacuum that could tip the country into chaos.  At least eight people were killed and 86 injured in the
blast. Officials from the anti-Syrian March 14 coalition called
for Mikati to quit, saying he and neighboring Syria were
responsible for the bombing. The group has said  Syria  was behind
several explosions and plots that al-Hassan had investigated.
Mikati is backed by the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah militia, which
supports Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Residents in several Sunni Muslim areas closed roads with
burning tires to protest the bombing, Lebanon’s worst in at
least four years. An overnight clash between supporters and
opponents of Assad in the northern Lebanese city of Tripoli left
a Sunni cleric dead, the official National News Agency said. The
unrest between the pro- and anti-Assad camps has provoked
concern that neighboring Syria’s civil war may spill over the
border.  Protest Call  “I call on everyone to take to the streets and demand the
resignation of the Cabinet,” Wissam Shibli, youth coordinator
of the Future Movement, part of the March 14 coalition, said on
Future TV today. The movement plans open-ended sit-ins and other
action to force the government out, he said.  The U.S. and Saudi embassies urged their nationals in
Lebanon to exercise caution. U.S. citizens should take
“appropriate measures to ensure their safety and security,”
according to a  statement  on the U.S. Embassy website.  The bomb that killed al-Hassan weighed 60 to 70 kilograms
(130 to 150 pounds), General Ashraf Rifi, director general of
the Internal Security Forces, was cited as saying by the Assafir
newspaper. Rifi said al-Hassan was identified by his revolver
and his watch, the paper reported.  The attack will undermine an already weakened economy,
Kamel Wazne, an economist and director of the Center for
American Studies in Beirut, said today in a phone interview.  “This will add to the recession facing Lebanon,” said
Wazne. “The economy will feel more pain now because security
tensions in the region have come home.”  Lebanon’s credit default swaps closed yesterday at 402
basis points, up from 397 a day earlier. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Hariri Assassination  Al-Hassan had been investigating attacks that targeted
anti-Syrian officials and figures, starting with the 2005 death
of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a bombing. He was
instrumental in the probe that led to the August arrest of
former Information Minister Michel Samaha, an Assad ally who has
been charged with plotting to assassinate religious and
political figures. More than 20 bombs found with Samaha were
prepared by Syrian security agents, NNA said at the time.  Mikati said al-Hassan’s killing is linked to his exposure
of the Samaha plot.  Al-Hassan will be buried tomorrow next to Hariri, the March
14 bloc said today in a statement. It urged a massive turnout
for the ceremony in downtown Beirut.  Revenge Alleged  Leading politicians including March 14’s Saad Hariri, son
of the murdered ex-premier and himself a former prime minister,
and Druze leader Walid Jumblatt were quick to accuse Syria of
carrying out the killing. Jumblatt told Future TV that Assad’s
government was taking revenge for the failure of the Samaha
plot. Hariri told the same channel that he blamed Assad.  U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the attack
that targeted al-Hassan, “who was a strong defender of
Lebanon’s security and its people, is a dangerous sign that
there are those who continue to seek to undermine Lebanon’s
stability.”  Lebanon’s government won Parliament’s vote of confidence in
July 2011, replacing Saad Hariri’s Cabinet, which collapsed in
January 2011 amid a dispute with Hezbollah over an inquiry by a
United Nations tribunal into the killing of his father.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  