-- Terry Remains Chelsea Captain, Gets ‘Record’ Fine, Chairman Says
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-20T14:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/terry-remains-chelsea-captain-gets-record-fine-chairman-says.html
John Terry  has been handed a club
record fine by Chelsea but will remain the Premier League team’s
captain, Chairman Bruce Buck said.  The  soccer club  acted after Terry, 31, was suspended for
four matches and fined 220,000 pounds ($352,000) by  England ’s
Football Association for racially abusing Anton Ferdinand of
Queens Park Rangers during a game last October. The former
England captain this week decided not to appeal the sanctions
and the club followed up by taking action of its own.  “John will continue to be captain of the club,” Buck said
in comments to Talksport radio posted on Chelsea’s  website 
today. “We are not going to suspend him for any additional
matches to the four the FA have suspended him for, but we have
taken disciplinary action we think is firm and appropriate.”  Neither Buck nor Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay
disclosed the fine amount in their radio interview.  “We have come on John very heavily,” Gourlay said. “John
let himself down and the club down and the words were
inappropriate. We feel that we have dealt with this.”  Terry was acquitted by a  London  court in a criminal case
over the incident in July. The FA’s punishment came after a
four-day hearing last month.  Gourlay said Terry’s long service to Chelsea was taken into
account in the club’s penalty.  “John has played over 550 times for the football club and
he has captained the side over 400 times and led the club
tremendously well through these games, so we believe it was a
lapse in judgment and was out of character,” he said. “But he
did fall below the high standards we expect.”  Buck also apologized to Ferdinand’s family, something Terry
didn’t do in a statement two days ago in which he said he would
not appeal the FA’s ban and fine.  “We understand what they have gone through and Chelsea
Football Club would like to apologize to them,” Buck said. “It
has been a very difficult year for them. They haven’t done
anything wrong and they shouldn’t be suffering.”  Terry began his suspension today as Chelsea came from
behind to win 4-2 at Tottenham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 