-- Frankel Wins Champions Stakes to End Career With Perfect Record
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-21T04:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/frankel-wins-champions-stakes-for-14th-consecutive-race-victory.html
Frankel, the world’s top-ranked
horse, won the Champions Stakes at Ascot to end his racing
career with a perfect 14-0 record.  Ridden by Tom Queally and trained by Henry Cecil, Frankel
finished the 1 1/4-mile race in Berkshire, west of  London , in 2
minutes, 10.22 seconds. Cirrus des Aigles, last year’s race
winner, was 1 3/4 lengths back in second, with Nathaniel
finishing third.  “He traveled around well,” Queally said in an interview
yesterday with the  BBC . “His class really showed today.”  After the bay colt’s 14th straight victory, the BBC reported
that Frankel’s owner, Prince Khalid Abdullah, said the four-
year-old would be retired. Teddy Grimthorpe, the prince’s racing
manager, told the broadcaster on Oct. 1 the race may be
Frankel’s last.  “He’s the best I’ve ever seen,” Cecil told the BBC after
the race. “I’d be surprised if there was ever any better.”  Frankel was the overwhelming 2-11 favorite in the six-horse
field, meaning a successful $11 bet returned $2 plus the
original stake.  He came out of the gate slowly on the  soft track  and was
running fourth as Cirrus des Aigles went to the front. Bullet
Train, Frankel’s brother, then took the lead to set the race’s
pace before fading and giving way to Cirrus des Aigles.  The horse finally moved in front with about a furlong left
and pulled away from Cirrus des Aigles for the win.  “He was in great heart today,” Queally said. “What can I
say about him that hasn’t been said before?”  Frankel earned 737,230 pounds ($1.2 million) for the
victory. The race was part of British Champions Day at Ascot,
racing’s richest race day with prize money of more than 3
million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 