-- Giants Defeat Cardinals 5-0 to Force Game 6 in MLB Playoffs
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-20T04:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/giants-defeat-cardinals-5-0-to-avoid-elimination-in-mlb-playoffs.html
The  San Francisco Giants  are heading
home after extending the National League Championship Series to
a sixth game by defeating the  St. Louis  Cardinals 5-0.  Barry Zito allowed six hits in 7 2/3 scoreless innings as
the Giants avoided elimination last night. The Cardinals still
lead the best-of-seven Major League Baseball playoff series
three games to two. Game 6 is tomorrow night. If the Giants win,
a decisive Game 7 would be Oct. 22 in San Francisco.  The winner will play the  Detroit Tigers  in the World
Series. Detroit swept the AL Championship Series four games to
none against the  New York  Yankees.  “We have our work cut out for us, but getting it back in
San Francisco and having the fans as a factor for us is a big
thing,” Zito said in a televised interview.  The Tigers are 2-3 favorites this morning to win the World
Series, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The
Cardinals were at 2-1, followed by the Giants at 13-2.  Zito, 34, has had a roller-coaster career. He was the Cy
Young Award winner as the  American League ’s best pitcher while
with the  Oakland Athletics  in 2002, and signed a seven-year,
$126 million free-agent deal with the Giants in 2006 that was
the largest contract in MLB history for a pitcher at the time.  He has gone 58-69 with the Giants, and struggled so much in
2010 that he was left off the postseason roster as San Francisco
won the World Series. He rebounded to go 15-8 this season while
making 32 starts.  “He pitched at his finest -- in and out, up and down,”
Giants catcher  Buster Posey  said of Zito, who walked one and
struck out six. “His preparation is second to none.”  Unearned Runs  The Giants scored four runs in the fourth inning, and they
all were unearned. The first run scored on a throwing error by
St. Louis starting pitcher Lance Lynn. Brandon Crawford followed
with a two-run single and Zito added a run-scoring bunt single
for the fourth run.  Pablo Sandoval added a solo home run in the eighth inning,
his second homer in as many games.  “You have to play with your heart,” Sandoval said. “We
want to stay in the game. We’re going to play hard at home.”  Carlos Beltran , 35, returned to the Cardinals’ lineup after
missing a game with a strained left knee. Beltran went 1-for-4
and is hitting .382 (13-for-34) with three home runs, five
doubles and six runs batted in this postseason.  The Giants became the first team in NL history to rally
from a 2-0 deficit to win a five-game divisional series in the
previous playoff round against the  Cincinnati Reds .  “We were never thinking for a second that these guys were
going to go away,” Cardinals manager Mike Matheny said in a
news conference. “Today we had a guy come out there and pitch
us tough, and we didn’t get the execution when we needed it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  