-- Goldman Fails to Dismiss Basis Capital’s Timberwolf Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-10-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/goldman-fails-to-dismiss-basis-capital-s-timberwolf-suit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lost a bid
for dismissal of a lawsuit by Australian hedge fund Basis
Capital Funds Management Ltd. over the sale of securities known
as Timberwolf and Point Pleasant.  New York  Supreme Court Judge Shirley Werner Kornreich in an
order yesterday denied Goldman Sachs’s request to throw out
Basis Capital’s fraud, negligent misrepresentation, unjust
enrichment and recession claims. The judge agreed to dismiss the
breach of contract claim and a claim for breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  The suit, filed a year ago in  Manhattan  by Basis Capital’s
Basis Yield Alpha Fund, accuses New York-based Goldman Sachs of
“knowingly making materially false and misleading statements
and omissions” in connection with the securities.  The claims relate to Point Pleasant, a collateralized debt
obligation based on subprime residential home mortgages, and two
credit default swaps that referenced securities from a similar
CDO known as Timberwolf.  Basis Capital accuses Goldman Sachs of marketing new CDO
investments in early 2007, after the company had already
determined that the value of securities in that market “would
likely go into sharp decline in the near future,” and used the
new CDOs as a vehicle to short the market.  Basis Capital is seeking to recover the $67 million in
compensatory damages and $1 billion in punitive damages,
according to the lawsuit.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on the ruling.  The case is Basis Yield Alpha Fund (Master), 652996/2011,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  