-- India Suspends Kingfisher Airlines’ License Amid Strike
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-10-22T03:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/india-suspends-billionaire-mallya-s-airline-license-amid-strike.html
India  suspended  Kingfisher Airlines
Ltd. (KAIR) ’s operating license after the cash-strapped carrier failed
to resume flights because of a strike by engineers and pilots
demanding seven months of unpaid salaries.  The suspension will remain in effect until the airline
submits a “concrete and reliable” revival plan to the Director
General of Civil Aviation, the industry regulator, the Civil
Aviation Ministry said in an Oct. 20 statement. Bangalore-based
Kingfisher said in response that it’s halting all reservations
until it can restore flights.  The move adds further pressure on Kingfisher’s billionaire
Chairman  Vijay Mallya  as he seeks investments for an airline
struggling with 86 billion rupees ($1.6 billion) of debt after
five consecutive years of losses. The carrier hasn’t flown since
a staff walkout began Oct. 1.  “They brought this situation on themselves after they ran
out of cash,” said Harsh Vardhan, chairman of Starair
Consulting, a New Delhi-based company that advises airlines.
“Unless the promoter comes up with more equity, I don’t think
there will be any institutional or airline investor willing to
put their money” into Kingfisher, he said.  Kingfisher failed to address any of the issues raised by
the regulator in an Oct. 2 notice, the ministry said. The
carrier hasn’t indicated when it will submit a detailed
operational-preparedness plan, and the regulator couldn’t grant
a request for more time to file a reply, it said.  Shares of Kingfisher fell by the daily limit of about 5
percent to 10.85 rupees in Mumbai trading today. The stock has
dropped 48 percent this year, after plunging 68 percent in 2011.  Investment Talks  Kingfisher is in talks with foreign airlines for a stake
sale, Mallya said last month. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government last month allowed airlines from outside India to own
as much as 49 percent of carriers based in the country as part
of a push to attract investment and boost growth.  Mallya is also discussing a stake sale of his  United
Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  with  Diageo Plc. (DGE)   The license suspension “will allow Kingfisher time to
rethink about complete revival or assess damages due to possible
closure rather than restarting a five-aircraft operation,”
 Kapil Kaul , head of the CAPA Centre for Aviation consulting
company in India, said in an e-mail. A revival will be dependent
on the founders raising a minimum of $600 million, which is
highly unlikely, he said.  Loan Defaults  The airline defaulted on loans and interest payments on
several occasions in the year ended March 31, the carrier’s
auditor said in the company’s annual report. Mallya gave
personal guarantees totaling 59 billion rupees for Kingfisher
 loans , according to the report.  On Oct. 12, a court in Hyderabad, southern India issued
warrants against Mallya and four other Kingfisher officials for
failing to appear at a hearing about the carrier bouncing checks
issued to the city’s airport operator. The warrants and lawsuit
were subsequently withdrawn after the carrier settled the
payments.  Kingfisher has an operational fleet of seven Airbus SAS
A320 jetliners and three Avions de Transport Regional turboprop
aircraft. It has enough staff for 60 planes, according to Arun
Mishra, the aviation regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  