-- Israel Leads Aid Vessel Challenging Gaza Blockade to Ashdod
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-10-20T16:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/israel-leads-aid-vessel-challenging-gaza-blockade-to-ashdod-port.html
Israeli troops boarded a Finnish-
flagged vessel carrying aid to the Gaza Strip in contravention
of the country’s sanctions against the Hamas-controlled enclave.  The Estelle is being led to the nation’s port of Ashdod,
the Israeli army said today in an e-mailed statement. The ship
was carrying 30 passengers from  Scandinavia , the U.S., Canada,
Spain, Italy and Greece, and cargo including musical
instruments, children’s books and wheelchairs, Jane Hirschmann,
an organizer of the ‘U.S. Boat to Gaza’ flotilla and part of a
U.S. coordinating committee for the Estelle, said in a telephone
interview from New York.  “The people who were on the boat know there is no
humanitarian crisis in Gaza,” Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in a text message to journalists today that
praised the navy for its action. “If human rights were really
important to them, they would sail to  Syria .” Netanyahu said
 Israel  would continue to protect its borders “with
determination and power.”  Israel says the maritime blockade is necessary to prevent
arms smuggling by Hamas, considered a terrorist organization by
Israel, the U.S. and  Europe . Those wishing to send goods to Gaza
can do so via existing land crossings and the port of Ashdod,
the army said.  “The crew of Estelle told me that a number of Israeli
vessels surrounded the boat in the regional waters,” Mustafa
al-Barghouti, a member of the Palestinian National Initiative,
told reporters in Ramallah today. “The aim of the ship is to
challenge Israel’s naval blockade on the  Gaza Strip .”  A previous flotilla’s attempt to reach the Gaza Strip by
sea ended in violence on May 31, 2010, when Israeli naval
commandos dropped from helicopters onto the deck of the Mavi
Marmara, part of a six-boat convoy, after the ship refused to
stop. Nine Turks were killed. Israel says people on board shot
first and attacked with iron bars, a charge they deny.  Since then, attempts to breach the blockade, including an
attempt by two boats in November 2011, have ended peacefully.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  