-- New Zealand Rugby Win Streak Ended by Tie Against Australia
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-20T13:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/new-zealand-rugby-win-streak-ended-by-tie-against-australia.html
New Zealand and  Australia  tied 18-18
in their final Bledisloe Cup rugby match, ending the All Blacks’
16-match winning run.  Dan Carter missed a drop goal attempt with the final kick
at Brisbane’s Suncorp Stadium, the scene of world champion New
Zealand’s last defeat 14 months ago. The All Blacks were trying
to match the top-tier record of 17 straight Test wins they share
with South Africa.  There were no tries in the game as Carter kicked six
penalties, while Mike Harris booted five penalties and Kurtley Beale kicked one for the Wallabies.  New Zealand had already secured the Bledisloe Cup, which is
contested annually by the teams winning back-to-back matches in
the southern hemisphere’s Rugby Championship in August.  Harris’s four penalties gave Australia, which was missing
as many as eight regular starters, a 12-6 halftime lead. Beale
kicked his penalty early in the second half to extend the
Wallabies lead.  Two Carter penalties pulled New Zealand within 15-12. After
Beale squandered a chance to increase the Australia lead by
missing a penalty, Carter kicked two more to give the All Blacks
an 18-15 lead with nine minutes left.  Harris made his fifth penalty with five minutes remaining
to tie the score. Carter then had one last chance, but his drop
goal try from about 30 meters (33 yards) sailed just wide of the
right post.  The All Blacks’ winning streak began at last year’s Rugby
World Cup, where they won all seven matches to secure their
first world title in 24 years. They beat Ireland 3-0 in their
June Test series before completing a six-game sweep of the Rugby
Championship.  Australia, which last held the Bledisloe Cup in 2002, tours
 Europe  next month and will play four Tests, starting Nov. 10
against  France  in Paris. The All Blacks are also heading north
for matches against  Scotland ,  Italy ,  Wales  and  England .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  