-- News Corp. Denies Talks for Chicago Tribune or L.A. Times
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-10-21T15:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/news-corp-denies-talks-with-tribune-or-l-a-times-newspaper.html
Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  denied
it has held talks to acquire the Los Angeles Times or Chicago
Tribune once the newspapers’ owner, Tribune Co., emerges from
bankruptcy.  “Reports that News Corp. is in discussions with Tribune or
the L.A. Times are wholly inaccurate,” Julie Henderson, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based media company, said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. The denial encompasses reported talks
with Tribune’s creditors, News Corp. said.  The Los Angeles Times and Reuters reported last week that
News Corp. executives were in early negotiations with Tribune’s
debt holders, who include Los Angeles-based  Oaktree Capital
Management. (OAKESLI)  They will gain control of the Chicago-based company
after court supervision ends. Reuters  corrected  its story,
saying its source retracted the information.  Nancy Sullivan, a spokeswoman for the Times, didn’t
immediately respond to phone and e-mailed requests for comment
placed outside of business hours. Oaktree declined to comment.  News Corp. is preparing to separate its entertainment and
publishing businesses, in part to allow the 81-year-old Murdoch
to pursue publishing unencumbered. News Corp. was forced to
write down its $5.2 billion 2007 acquisition of Dow Jones & Co.,
owner of The Wall Street Journal, and investors have gone sour
on the newspaper business as the Internet eats into advertising
and profits.  Future Plans  Murdoch, whose roots in newspapers date back decades, has
expressed interest in the Los Angeles Times in the past. He may
go shopping for distressed newspapers once News Corp.’s split
becomes final next year, according to one person with knowledge
of the matter, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. No News
Corp. executives have reviewed any internal Tribune financial
information, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  In August, some Tribune Co. creditors lost their bid to
halt the newspaper chain’s plan to exit bankruptcy without first
posting a $1.5 billion bond. Tribune owes creditors about $13
billion. The company is valued at more than $7 billion, Tribune
said in court papers.  Company officials have said Tribune will be able to exit
bankruptcy this year if federal regulators approve the
reorganization plan and transfers of its radio and television
licenses to proposed new owners.  News Corp., founded by Murdoch, also owns Fox Broadcasting
and the Twentieth Century Fox film studio. It publishes about
146 newspapers in  Australia , including The Australian, The Daily
Telegraph and the Herald Sun, according to its annual report.  In the U.K., the company is embroiled in multiple police
investigations for hacking into mobile phones and computers by
some of its reporters, as well as the bribing of public
officials. U.K. authorities also are considering whether to
bring corporate charges against News Corp.’s board for the
alleged crimes, the Guardian reported on July 31.  News Corp. shares fell 2 percent to $24.91 in New York
trading on Oct. 19. The Class A shares have gained 40 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  