-- Hong Kong Defends Its Currency Peg for First Time Since 2009
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-10-20T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/hong-kong-buys-603-million-in-first-peg-intervention-since-2009.html
Hong Kong ’s de facto central bank
stepped in for the first time since 2009 to prevent the city’s
currency from rising against the U.S. dollar after it touched
the upper limit of a range that triggers an intervention.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said it bought $603
million at HK$7.75 per dollar, which is the so-called strong
side of the permitted convertibility range of HK$7.75 to HK$7.85
that obligates intervention. The move, announced in an e-mailed
statement yesterday, was confirmed by spokeswoman Rhonda Lam who
said the HKMA acted during  New York  trading hours.  “Funds continue to flow into Hong Kong given the monetary
easing in the U.S. and  Europe ,” said Kenix Lai, a currency
analyst at Bank of East Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “That’s evident
by the rising stock market and property prices. I expect HKMA
will still have to intervene in the near term as capital inflows
continue.”  Policy makers from around the world have bemoaned the
economic threat of stronger exchange rates from the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s monetary easing. At International Monetary Fund
meetings in  Tokyo  this month,  Brazil ’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  vowed to shield his country from the “selfish”
monetary policies of some developed nations, while Philippine
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said the Fed was causing
“challenges to monetary policy in  emerging markets .”  The Fed initiated a third phase of so-called quantitative
easing on Sept. 13, purchasing $40 billion of mortgage-backed
securities per month, and said this will continue until the
outlook for jobs improves “substantially.”  Currency Demand  The  European Central Bank  and  Bank of Japan  have also added
to stimulus. The ECB pledged last month to buy the bonds of
governments that agree to austerity conditions while the BOJ
boosted its asset-purchase fund by 10 trillion yen ($126
billion) and abandoned a minimum yield for the bonds it
purchases.  “The recent increase in demand for the local currency is
related to a less strained European market, weakness in the U.S.
dollar and declining U.S. interest rates, which have prompted
capital inflows into currency and equity markets in the
region,” the HKMA said. “Upward pressures have similarly been
observed in other Asian currencies,” it said. The HKMA last
intervened in December 2009.  Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  of stocks has risen
7.5 percent since the Fed’s announcement and gained about 19
percent from this year’s low on June 4.  Home prices  have
surpassed their October 1997 peak, according to Centaline
Property Agency Ltd.  Capital Inflows  Emerging-market equity funds tracked by EPFR Global
Research recorded their sixth straight week of inflows for the
week ending Oct. 17, bringing inflows to more than $21 billion
so far this year, according to a statement from the company.
Commitments to  China  equity funds reached a seven-week high,
with flows attributable to domestically-domiciled funds at the
highest level in more than four months, it said.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s most-active currencies, rose 0.1 percent in the week
ending Oct. 19 and touched 117.87 on Oct. 18, the highest level
since February. The won completed its best week of the month and
the  yuan  had an 11th week of gains, the longest winning streak
since March 2008. The  Hong Kong dollar  gained 0.02 percent in
the week to close at HK$7.7503 per U.S. dollar.  The rally in the Chinese currency, which touched a 19-year
high of 6.2446 per dollar on Oct. 18, has spurred demand for the
Hong Kong dollar as investors bet the city’s economy and stock
market will benefit from a growth rebound in China.  Investment Sentiment  The currency gains “reflect the shifting investment
sentiment toward the Chinese economy,” Andy Ji, a Singapore-
based foreign-exchange strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , said in e-mailed comments yesterday.  Data from the People’s Bank of China on Oct. 19 indicate
capital inflows into the nation resumed last month after
outflows in the previous two months. China’s financial
institutions bought a net 130.7 billion yuan ($21 billion) of
foreign currency in September, according to the central bank’s
report on yuan positions accumulated from foreign-exchange
purchases.  That was the second-biggest monthly net purchase this year,
 data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Given the proximity of Hong Kong to the mainland,” the
recent strength in the onshore spot yuan rate has supported the
Hong Kong dollar, Ji said. Pressure on the city’s currency will
probably remain, triggering more intervention, he said.  Growth Rebound  China’s  economy  expanded 7.4 percent from a year earlier in
the third quarter, the government said on Oct. 18. While that
was the weakest pace in more than three years, industrial
production, retail sales and fixed-asset investment all
accelerated in September, signaling growth may be rebounding
after a seven-quarter slowdown.  “As the Chinese economy is likely to have bottomed,
investors want to position for the rebound and Chinese stock
market valuations are cheap,” said  Chris Leung , a Hong Kong-
based senior economist at DBS Bank Ltd. “Funds from Europe and
the U.S. are flowing into Hong Kong as well as for buying China-
related stocks.”  China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks rose
1.1 percent in the week ending Oct. 19, the third week of gains
and the longest winning stretch since April.  The HKMA will “remain closely vigilant of the market
developments,” the authority said in its statement. The
intervention means the banking system’s aggregate balance will
expand to HK$153.3 billion ($19.8 billion) on Oct. 24, it said.  Capital Outflows  Hong Kong linked its exchange rate to the U.S. dollar in
1983 when negotiations between China and the U.K. over the
city’s return to Chinese rule spurred capital outflows. In 2005,
policy makers committed to limiting the currency’s decline to
HK$7.85 per dollar and capping gains at HK$7.75.  When the Hong Kong dollar reaches the so-called strong end
of the permitted trading range, the HKMA offers to buy U.S.
dollars to prevent further appreciation under its currency board
system.  Joseph Yam , the former Hong Kong monetary chief who helped
introduce the peg and defended it against speculators during the
Asian financial crisis, said in June the city should review its
currency policy.  Hong Kong officials have said there are no plans to adjust
the peg and HKMA Deputy Chief Executive Arthur Yuen told
reporters on Oct. 19 the authority sees no need to change the
arrangement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  