-- Romney’s September Campaign Fundraising Trailed Obama’s
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-10-22T17:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/romney-s-september-campaign-fundraising-trailed-obama-s.html
President  Barack Obama  entered the
final five weeks of the Nov. 6 election with more campaign funds
under his direct control than Republican nominee  Mitt Romney ,
who benefits more from the national party and outside groups
including super-political action committees.  Obama began October with $99.3 million left in his campaign
account compared to $63.1 million for Romney, according to
reports filed with the Federal Election Commission over the
weekend. The reports detailed receipts and expenditures for
September, before Romney rose in the polls following the first
presidential debate on Oct. 3.  Overall, the pro-Romney side had more money to spend. The
Republican National Committee began the month with $82.6 million
in the bank compared to $4.6 million for the Democratic National
Committee. The pro-Romney super-PACs Restore Our Future and
American Crossroads together had $32.3 million left to spend
compared to $7.3 million from the pro-Obama super-PAC,
Priorities USA Action.  Romney also is benefiting from spending by non-profit
groups such as Crossroads GPS that don’t disclose fundraising
totals or donors.  Obama Appeal  The Obama campaign appealed for more campaign funds in an
e-mail message last night that said the Republican money edge
was “a problem,” warning that the opposition could “snatch
this away from us” if the president’s backers “don’t get on
board before it’s too late.”  The FEC reports underscore how both sides have plenty of
money to fund television advertisements, campaign workers and
get-out-the-vote operations on a limited battlefield of about
nine competitive states.  Romney and his allies, even with the bigger combined
funding, ran fewer commercials than Obama’s side during the
first two weeks of October, according to New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG, which tracks campaign advertising. Between Oct. 2
and Oct. 15, pro-Obama groups ran 72,267 ads, compared with
51,794 run by Romney and his backers.  Obama has raised a total of more than $567 million for his
re-election, including $126.1 million last month -- a sum
enhanced by a boost in support from the financial sector, which
has resisted giving to his re-election after supporting him in
2008. Romney has brought in more than $361 million, including
$77.7 million in September.  The president also outspent Romney, $115.6 million to $65
million, last month. Obama spent $90 million and Romney spent
$37 million on broadcast advertising, according to the FEC
reports.  Romney Loan  Romney’s expenditures during the month included $10 million
to help pay down a $20 million loan, secured by general-election
donations, that the campaign took out to cover spending until he
officially became his party’s nominee in late August. The
campaign now owes $5 million on the loan.  The Romney campaign gave bonuses totaling at least $217,500
to at least 10 senior campaign aides to augment their regular
salaries, according to the FEC report. Political director  Rich Beeson  received $37,500 and campaign manager Matt Rhoades,
policy director Lanhee Chen and communications director  Gail Gitcho  were among six campaign staff members who received
$25,000 each. Three aides received $10,000.  The payments were made Sept. 12-13 from leftover funds
raised for Romney’s primary campaign. Similar payments were made
on Aug. 31, after the Republican National Convention in Tampa,
 Florida .  Financial Industry  Obama picked up support in September from the financial
industry, which has been the biggest source of campaign
contributions to Romney, a co-founder of the Boston-based
private equity fund Bain Capital LLC.  Employees of  Bank of America Corp ., based in  Charlotte ,
North Carolina, where the Democratic convention was held, gave
Obama more than $66,000, while employees of New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  donated more than $55,000.  Employees of the two banks gave Romney about $40,000 in
total last month.  Obama’s campaign released an updated list of his top
fundraisers, supporters who generate contributions from other
individuals. Actress Eva Longoria is among those who have now
raised more than $500,000 for the campaign, and former
Republican Governor Charlie Crist of Florida, who ran for the
Senate in 2010 as an independent, brought in between $100,000
and $200,000.  Romney has declined to release a list of his bundlers.  Anti-Clinton Film  Romney’s September donations included $10,000 from the
political action committee of Citizens United, the group whose
lawsuit regarding an anti-Hillary Clinton film led to a 2010
Supreme Court decision that removed restrictions on campaign
donations by companies and unions.  The PAC of Dallas-based  AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone
company, gave $5,000 to Romney last month. The Obama
administration opposed AT&T’s proposed $39 billion merger with
T-Mobile USA Inc., and the companies dropped their plans in
December.  Priorities USA Action raised $15.3 million last month,
surpassing the $14.8 million reported by Restore Our Future.  Hollywood Help  Movie director Steven Spielberg and Jeffrey Katzenberg, CEO
of Dreamworks Animation SKG Inc., each gave $1 million to
Priorities, as did lawyer David Boies, who represented then-Vice
President Al Gore in the U.S. Supreme Court case that awarded
the 2000 presidential election to Republican candidate George W. Bush. Katzenberg gave $2 million last year when the super-PAC
was getting started.  Media executive Fred Eychaner, a top donor to Democratic
candidates and causes, gave $2 million to the pro-Obama group in
September after earlier donating $1 million to it. James Simons,
chairman of Renaissance Technologies LLC, an East Setauket, New
York-based investment firm, contributed $1.5 million to
Priorities, bringing his total donations to it to $3.5 million.  American Crossroads, the super-PAC that Karl Rove, the
chief political adviser to President George W. Bush, helped
found, reported raising $11.7 million last month and spending
$27.9 million, including more than $14 million on anti-Obama
advertising.  Harold Simmons, chairman of Dallas-based Contran Corp.,
donated $2.5 million, bringing his total contributions to
American Crossroads to $13.5 million. Simmons last month also
contributed $500,000 to Restore Our Future, bringing his total
donations to that super-PAC to $1.3 million.  John Hess, chief executive officer of the New York-based
 Hess Corp. (HES) , gave $100,000. Hess’s late father, Leon Hess, owned
the  New York  Jets football team before it was purchased by Woody Johnson, Romney’s New York finance chairman.  Restore Our Future received $2 million last month from
Houston homebuilder Bob Perry, who’s given $10 million to the
pro-Romney group since the beginning of 2011 and millions more
to other Republican super-PACs. Robert McNair, the owner of the
Houston Texans football team, gave $1 million, as did Oxbow
Carbon LLC, a Florida energy company founded by billionaire
William Koch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Giroux in  Washington  at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 