-- Rosneft, BP Said to Still Be in Talks on $28 Billion TNK-BP Sale
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-10-20T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/rosneft-bp-said-to-remain-in-talks-on-28-billion-tnk-bp-sale.html
OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  and  BP (BP/)  Plc are still
working out the details of an agreement for  Russia ’s biggest
producer to buy half of TNK-BP for as much as $28 billion, a
person with knowledge of the talks said.  The final terms haven’t been set and the offer discussed by
BP’s board yesterday dealt in ranges for how much would be paid
in cash and in shares. An accord could see BP take 10 to 20
percent of Rosneft as part of deal worth $25 billion to $28
billion, according to the person, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are confidential. An announcement could come
as early tomorrow, though the negotiations may take longer, the
person said.  A deal may see Rosneft pay $11 billion to $13 billion in
cash as well as offering a 16 to 20 percent stake in the
company,  Sky News  reported. BP is also seeking a legal indemnity
to protect it from claims by its billionaire partners in the
venture, represented by AAR, Sky said. BP spokesman  Vladimir Buyanov  and a Rosneft official, who asked not to be identified
citing company policy, declined yesterday to comment.  Rosneft also has preliminary accord to acquire the other
half of the venture from AAR who are seeking $28 billion, people
with knowledge of the plans said Oct. 17. A stake in Rosneft
would allow BP to maintain a presence in Russia, while exiting
the 50-50 venture that brought billions in profits and years of
conflict with its fellow investors.  For Rosneft Chief Executive Officer Igor Sechin, who met
his BP counterpart Bob Dudley in London this week, absorbing
TNK-BP would raise oil and gas production to about 4.5 million
barrels a day, matching Exxon Mobil Corp.  Nine-Year Partnership  BP offered to sell its half of Russia’s third-largest oil
producer in June after relations broke down with AAR. The nine-
year partnership has paid BP $19 billion in dividends and
accounts for a quarter of its global production.  Dudley wants to maintain a position in Russia as he revamps
the global business after the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill that
threatened to ruin the company. He’s already sold $33 billion of
assets to help meet the cost of the disaster.  Russia’s sale of Rosneft shares will counter the producer’s
potential “multilayered” acquisition of BP’s Russian venture,
according to First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov .  The nation plans to reduce its 75 percent stake in Rosneft
selling shares in 2013 and 2014, Shuvalov told reporters
yesterday in Moscow. Russia will move “very cautiously, taking
care about the quality of the investor and of course seeking the
highest proceeds from the sale,” he said.  BP’s Dudley proposed using some proceeds, if the sale of
its TNK-BP stake to Rosneft is successful, to buy state-held
shares in the  oil company  and develop projects in Russia at a
September meeting with President  Vladimir Putin  and Rosneft’s
Sechin in Sochi, on the  Black Sea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  