-- San Miguel Bids to Acquire Unspecified $5 Billion Target
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-10-20T11:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/san-miguel-bids-to-acquire-unspecified-5-billion-target-1-.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the  Philippines ’
largest company, has bid to make a $5 billion acquisition,
President Ramon Ang said, amid efforts to expand in aviation and
power.  The brewer of the century-old San Miguel beer brand made an
initial offer for a deal that may be completed this year, Ang
told reporters in Manila today. San Miguel faces other regional
companies in the bidding and hopes to make it to the final list
of three potential buyers, he said. Ang declined to identify the
target company or say what industry it’s in.  “This is going to be a big transaction,” Ang said.
“We’re also conducting due diligence on several regional
airlines for a possible acquisition.”  San Miguel has expanded from food and drinks to industries
including oil, power and infrastructure to meet a target of
doubling sales. The company bought almost half of Philippine
Airlines Inc. and low-cost affiliate Air Philippines Corp. in
April to boost sales this year to almost $20 billion and to $30
billion by 2017, Ang said in an interview that month.  Philippine Airlines signed an agreement in  Manila  today to
buy 10 A330 jets from Airbus SAS, increasing its purchases from
the company to 64. The carrier, known as PAL, is in talks with
Airbus and  Boeing Co. (BA)  for 35 more wide-body aircraft to complete
a 100-plane fleet, Ang said.  The brewer owns the Southeast Asian nation’s largest oil
company, Petron Corp., and is the country’s biggest electricity
producer. It bought most of Esso Malaysia Bhd in March, a month
before it announced the investment in PAL.  A San Miguel unit plans to add 600 megawatts of coal-fired
generating capacity in Visayas and Mindanao, where investment is
estimated at $1.5 million per megawatt, Ang said today. That
would mean a $900 million expansion, based on Bloomberg
calculations.  $7 Billion of Deals  The company has announced 35 deals worth more than $7
billion in the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The brewer is expanding into heavy industries to
triple the return it previously earned from food and drinks.  In April, Ang talked about “several big” potential
acquisitions, including two businesses with combined revenue of
$6 billion that may be purchased this year.  San Miguel’s other  investments  include stakes in power
retailer  Manila Electric Co. (MER) , a toll-road venture, a company
that has the contract to build the Philippine capital’s metro
railway, an airport on the resort island of Boracay, and 10
percent of Indophil Resources NL, which has indirect holdings in
the Tampakan gold and copper mine in southern Philippines.  Safety Issues  Acquiring a regional carrier will help PAL pursue long-haul
expansion amid aviation safety issues in the Philippines, Ang
said in June. The country is blacklisted by the European Union
and has a Category 2 rating from the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration, meaning it doesn’t meet international
regulations.  “We’re hoping the prime minister can help us lift the EU
ban,” Ang said today during the signing of the deal with
Airbus. He was referring to French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, who’s on a three-day visit to Manila.  San Miguel shares closed unchanged at 110 pesos yesterday.
The stock has lost 5.8 percent this year, compared with a 24
percent gain for the benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  