-- Spain Votes in Regional Poll as Rajoy Seeks Backing for Cuts
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-10-21T08:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/spaniards-vote-in-regional-poll-as-rajoy-seeks-backing-for-cuts.html
Spaniards in Prime Minister Mariano
Rajoy’s home region vote today in an election the premier is
counting on to show he can implement the deepest budget cuts on
record and still win popular backing.  Voting began at 9 a.m.  Madrid  time with polls showing
Rajoy’s People’s Party is favorite to hold on to Galicia, the
northwestern region that has been a PP stronghold for most of
the past three decades and was home to the party’s late founder,
Manuel Fraga. The Basque Country, where surveys put local
nationalists ahead, also has an election. Voting ends at 8 p.m.  Rajoy, who faces the second general strike of his 10-month
administration in November amid mounting street protests, needs
to show he can still win votes even as he trims spending and
breaks pledges in an attempt to revive the economy. The end of
campaigning may also remove an obstacle to seeking the European
bailout that the government says it’s considering, and free its
hand to deepen  budget cuts .  The elections “represent the first significant test to
Rajoy’s austerity policies since he was elected last year,”
said  Antonio Barroso , an analyst at Eurasia and former state
pollster. If he wins, “he would probably argue that Galicia is
the proof that austerity can be successfully implemented and
supported by voters.”  Election Polls  The PP will hold on to its 38 seats in the 75-member
regional assembly, maintaining the majority it’s held since
2009, according to a poll by the state-run CIS on Oct. 5. A
separate poll published by Voz de Galicia newspaper showed it
may win 39 seats, while a survey for daily ABC put the figure at
40-41 seats. If the PP falls short, Socialists and Galician
nationalists would seek to govern in a coalition, as they did
from 2005 to 2009.  In the Basque Country, voters will probably elect the
Basque Nationalist Party, which governed the region from 1980 to
2005, when a one-off coalition of Socialists and the PP pushed
it from power. The PNV, which seeks greater autonomy, may win 27
of the 75 seats, allowing it to form an alliance with 22
lawmakers from separatist Bildu, the CIS poll showed.  That would leave Rajoy battling bids for greater
independence on two fronts, as Catalonia holds an early election
on Nov. 25 focused on whether Spain’s biggest regional economy
should have a referendum on independence.  Budget Cuts  Rajoy is implementing about 100 billion euros ($130
billion) of  budget cuts , while bailing out banks and raising
taxes in breach of promises he made during the national election
campaign last year. Galicia, run by Alberto Nunez Feijoo, has
one of the smallest deficits of Spain’s 17 regions and isn’t
tapping the central government’s bailout fund.  Even after cutting spending in areas including health,
Feijoo has the backing of 35 percent of Galicians for the
president’s job compared with 12 percent for Socialist leader
Pachi Vazquez, the CIS poll showed. He seen as a possible
successor to Rajoy.  The end of the campaign may also remove one obstacle to
Spain seeking a European bailout, said Alejandro Quiroga, a
political scientist at Newcastle University in the U.K. and
Alcala de Henares University in Madrid.  Rajoy has spent more than two months mulling a decision on
whether to request ECB bond buying to bring down borrowing
costs. He said on Oct. 19 he isn’t facing pressure from European
peers to seek help and the fact the rescue mechanism exists is
“very important.” Even with the yield on the country’s
 benchmark 10-year bond  at a six month-low, the country still
pays 378 basis points more to borrow than  Germany  for 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  