-- U.K. Company Profit Warnings Increase on Weak Economy, E&Y Says
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-10-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/u-k-company-profit-warnings-increase-on-weak-economy-e-y-says.html
U.K. company profit warnings rose in
the third quarter as a “washout summer” and weak domestic and
global demand undermined business, Ernst & Young LLP said in a
report published today.  U.K.-listed companies issued 68 profit warnings, up from 60
in the previous three months and the most for a third quarter
since 2008, the group said in a report published in  London 
today. Twelve companies cited worse-than-normal weather as the
principal reason for the warning, the most since a cold spell at
the end of 2010 and start of 2011.  Britain’s economy is set to shrink this year for the first
time since 2009 as budget cuts bite and the euro-region debt
crisis hurts demand in the U.K.’s biggest export market. While
the economy probably grew in the  third quarter , that will mask
underlying weakness, with the  Bank of England  saying last week
that the outlook has deteriorated in the past three months.  “Bad weather was, as ever, an exacerbating factor in most
profit warnings,” E&Y said. “Weak U.K. demand, a slowdown in
global markets and the growing risks to the outlook had a
greater impact on profit expectations.”  E&Y said the increase in profit warnings from manufacturers
stemmed from “sluggish” markets. It also said that the
increase in total warnings came even as price pressures eased.
“If price rises seen in recent industry surveys stick, this
could provide a further knock to profits and the U.K.’s
recovery,” it said.  “What is becoming clear is that both the U.K. and  Europe ’s
climb out of the down-cycle will be both lengthy and volatile,”
Keith McGregor, head of restructuring for Europe,  Middle East 
and  Africa  at E&Y, said in the report. “Companies are having to
adjust to the new reality and focus on strategy to protect and
improve earnings in an extended period of low growth.”  The support services sector issued 15 profit warnings in
the period, the highest of any industry, according to today’s
report. Industrial engineering companies issued six warnings and
electronic and electrical components companies five.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  