-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Hits 1-Month High on Europe Optimism, Economy
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/u-s-10-year-yield-hits-1-month-high-on-europe-optimism-economy.html
Treasuries fell, with 10-year note
yields rising to a one-month high, as better-than-forecast
economic data and optimism that the political will exists to
stave off a deeper crisis in  Europe  trimmed refuge demand.  Benchmark  10-year yields  had their biggest two-day gain in
seven months this week as Spain kept its investment-grade debt
rating from Moody’s Investors Service and U.S. new-home
construction rose to the highest level in four years. The U.S.
will auction $99 billion of notes next week. The Federal Reserve
is forecast to maintain its bond-buying stimulus plan at its
policy meeting Oct. 24.  “The data in the U.S. seems to be getting progressively
stronger and European risk seems to be waning some,”
Christopher Sullivan, who oversees $2 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York, said in a phone interview yesterday. “With auctions next
week, there may be more resistance to the lower yields we’ve
seen.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  climbed 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 1.76 percent in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield, which surpassed the
200-day moving average of 1.808 percent, touched the highest
level since Sept. 19.  The yield on the 30-year bond reached 3.02 percent, the
highest level since Sept. 19, as it gained 10 basis points. It
traded above its 2.93 percent 200-day moving average.  Term Premium  Treasuries are close to the least expensive in almost two
months. The 10-year term premium, a model created by economists
at the Fed that includes expectations for interest rates, growth
and inflation, was negative 0.81 percent yesterday, near the
least costly level since Aug. 21. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value. The average for the past 10 years is 0.44 percent.
The all-time low was negative 1.02 percent on July 24.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
widened to 2.50 percentage points. It touched 2.73 on Sept. 17,
the highest since 2006. The average over the past decade is 2.17
percentage points.  The U.S. sold $7 billion in 30-year TIPS on Oct. 18 at a
record low yield of 0.479 percent.  The Treasury will auction $35 billion of nominal two-year
notes on Oct. 23, the same amount of five-year debt the next day
and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Oct. 25.  Germany, Spain  Yields rose after Moody’s kept Spain’s rating at investment
grade on Oct. 16, citing a reduction in the risk of the country
losing market access because of the European Central Bank’s
willingness to buy its debt. Moody’s assigned a negative outlook
on Spain’s Baa3 sovereign debt, one step above junk, the New
York-based company said in a statement.  U.S. government debt fell amid a report  Germany  is open to
Spain seeking a precautionary credit line from Europe’s rescue
fund, two senior coalition lawmakers said, signaling a reversal
of Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble’s public position.  The comments by Michael Meister, a deputy caucus leader of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, and
Norbert Barthle, her party’s budget spokesman, indicate a
rolling back of German resistance to a full sovereign bailout
for Spain. Schaeuble cautioned Spain against seeking aid on top
of its bank bailout as recently as last month.  German Money  “It shows that Germany is more open to reaching into their
own pockets to help out the peripheral countries in Europe,”
Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors, said Oct. 16. “We have to see what the details are -
- it’s difficult for Europe to come out of this crisis without
Germany using some of their own money to correct it.”  Treasuries pared losses yesterday as Spanish Prime Minister
Mariano Rajoy said after a European Union meeting in Brussels
that his nation doesn’t feel under any pressure to ask for a
bailout.  U.S. housing starts jumped 15 percent to an 872,000 annual
rate last month, the most since July 2008 and exceeding all
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists, Commerce
Department figures showed in  Washington . The median estimate of
81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for 770,000. An
increase in building permits may mean the gains will be
sustained.  “If housing is recovering, it’s obviously positive for
risk in general, and you see the Treasury market cheapening
up,” said Scott Sherman, an interest-rate strategist in New
York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers that
trade directly with the Fed.  ‘More Optimism’  U.S. government securities also fell this week as reports
showed gains in retail sales and industrial production.  Retail sales in the U.S.  rose 1.1 percent  last month after
a revised 1.2 percent increase in August that was the biggest
since October 2010 and larger than previously reported, Commerce
Department figures showed Oct. 15 in Washington. The median
forecast of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.8
percent rise.  Another report showed output at factories, mines and
utilities increased 0.4 percent to top forecasts, after a 1.4
percent drop in August that was the biggest since March 2009.
Other reports showed there was little inflation outside of fuel
costs and homebuilder confidence climbed to a six-year high.  “There’s a little bit more optimism.” Larry Milstein,
managing director in New York of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors, said on Oct. 17. “There’s a settling
of risk in Europe at this point -- not that it’s behind us, but
it’s weighing on Treasuries. The meetings in Europe will
dominate our trading outlook.”  ‘Oversold’ Levels  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed to
a net-long position in 30-year bond futures in the week ending
Oct. 16 from a net-short position, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 3,219 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Last week, traders were net-short 828 contracts.  The 10-year yield is poised to fall to 1.75 percent, and
possibly as low as 1.60 percent, after it was unable to make a
strong break of its 200-day moving average of 1.81 percent, and
failed to break through 1.83 percent,  MacNeil Curry , chief rates
and currencies technical strategist in New York at the firm’s
Bank of America said. Ten-year notes’ intraday momentum
oscillators are signaling “oversold” levels, Curry added.  “We’ve come up against the highs of the trading range and
the momentum has reversed,” Curry, said in a telephone
interview. “We closed above the 200-day moving average at 1.81,
but we haven’t been able to extend through it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  