-- Yankees’ Jeter May Need 5 Months to Recover From Ankle Surgery
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/yankees-jeter-has-ankle-surgery-recovery-to-take-4-5-months.html
New York Yankees shortstop  Derek Jeter  may need as long as five months to recover from his
fractured left ankle, the Major League Baseball team said in a
statement.  Surgery was performed yesterday by foot and ankle
specialist  Robert Anderson  in Charlotte, North Carolina, and a
complete recovery is expected in the next four to five months,
the Yankees said. The team originally thought he would be out
three months.  “I believe that Dr. Anderson just put in a more
conservative timeframe on it, as explained to me,” General
Manager  Brian Cashman  said, according to MLB.com. “So there’s
no new information, nothing seen worse than what our team doctor
saw.”  Jeter, 38, was injured diving for a ground ball in the 12th
inning of New York’s 6-4 loss to Detroit in Game 1 of the
American League Championship Series on Oct. 13. The Tigers went
on to sweep the best-of-seven series four games to none to
advance to the  World Series .  The Yankees expected Jeter to be ready for spring training.
If he needs four months to return to action, he will join the
team in the midst of workouts in Tampa, Florida. Five months
after surgery would put him in the middle of the exhibition
schedule.  Cashman said he wouldn’t be looking for a replacement for
his shortstop, according to MLB.com. If Jeter isn’t ready for
the opening games of the 2013 season, backups  Eduardo Nunez  or
Jayson Nix could substitute, the general manager said.  Jeter, the Yankees’ captain, hit .316 with 15 home runs and
58 runs batted this season, leading the major leagues with 216
hits. He is baseball’s active career leader with 3,304 hits,
ranking 10th all-time and second to Honus Wagner among
shortstops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 