-- Yen Drops Most in 9 Weeks on BOJ Stimulus View, U.S. Economy
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-20T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-20/yen-drops-most-in-9-weeks-on-boj-stimulus-view-u-s-economy.html
The yen fell the most in nine weeks
versus the dollar as speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will boost
monetary stimulus sapped demand for the nation’s assets as a
haven.  The Japanese currency weakened versus all but one of its 16
most-traded counterparts as U.S. retail sales rose more than
forecast in September and housing starts jumped 15 percent. The
euro reached its highest level against the greenback in a month
after Spain kept its investment-grade credit rating from Moody’s
Investors Service, easing concern the region’s debt crisis is
worsening. The  Federal Reserve  is forecast to maintain its bond-
buying stimulus plan at its policy meeting Oct. 24.  “The risk-on move throughout markets for the better part
of the week was a negative for the yen,”  Omer Esiner , chief
market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange
Inc., a currency brokerage, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “We’ve also had increasing speculation that the BOJ
is going to ease monetary policy further as early as next month,
which is a key negative.”  The yen depreciated 1.1 percent to 79.32 dollar this week,
and reaching 79.47, its lowest level since the Aug. 21. The
Japanese currency decreased 1.6 percent to 103.28 per euro after
touching 104.14, its most depressed level since May 8. The euro
added 0.6 percent to $1.3024.  Net Shorts  Futures traders  decreased  their bets the yen will gain
against the dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of
wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on an advance
in the yen compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs
-- was 10,086 on Oct. 16, compared with net longs of 12,914 a
week earlier.  Wagers the euro will fall against the dollar were 53,495 on
Oct. 16, down from 72,570 a week earlier. Net shorts reached a
record 214,418 on June 8.  The Swedish krona was the biggest winner among its 16 most-
traded peers this week, climbing 1.8 percent to 6.5826 against
the dollar. The Canadian dollar was the worst performer,
declining 1.4 percent to 99.36 cents per dollar.  The yen has fallen 5.7 percent this year, the most out of
its major peers, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar
has been the second-worst performer, losing 2.4 percent. The
euro has declined 1.9 percent, while Norway’s krone has been the
best performer, rising 3.6 percent.  Yield Gap  Japan ’s currency weakened as Treasury two-year yields
 reached  the highest in two months relative to Japanese peers on
Oct. 17. U.S. two-year note yields exceeded similar maturity
Japanese securities by 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage
point, close to the most since August.  Moody’s said on Oct. 16 that it would keep Spain’s  credit
rating  at Baa3, one step above junk, as the risk that the nation
would lose  market access  had fallen because of the  European
Central Bank ’s willingness to purchase its bonds.  Spain’s  10-year bond yield  fell as much as 34 basis points
to 5.46 percent on Oct. 17, the lowest since April 4, while
Italian 10-year yields declined to the least since March 19.
Spanish borrowing costs have dropped more than 2 percentage
points from their record high of 7.75 percent on July 25.  “There has been talk about renewed appetite on behalf of
Spain to take advantage of the next financial-bailout package,”
 Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in  New York  at Bank
of New York Mellon Corp., said in an Oct. 17 telephone
interview.  Spain’s Debt  The euro declined against the dollar yesterday after
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said his nation doesn’t
feel under any pressure to ask for a bailout, fueling concern
the debt crisis will be prolonged.  U.S. retail sales  increased  1.1 percent in September, while
a Bloomberg survey  projected  a 0.8 percent rise. Housing starts
jumped last month to an 872,000 annual rate, the fastest since
July 2008 and exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of
economists,  “Good retail sales should be decent for risk-taking,”
Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an
Oct. 15 telephone interview. “The dollar is getting a little
boost. The data is helpful to the U.S. dollar versus yen.”  Gains in risk appetite were tempered as a gauge of
manufacturing in the New York region contracted for a third
straight month in October.  Fed Policy  The Fed is forecast to retain its policy to hold short-term
 interest rates  close to zero until mid-2015 and buy $40 billion
of mortgage-based securities a month until U.S. jobs growth
shows sustained improvement.  The  Dollar Index , which measures the currency against the
euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Swedish
krona, ended the week little changed at 79.626, after touching
the lowest level since Sept. 18.  The South African rand reached its strongest level in
almost two weeks on Oct. 18 on rising metal prices. Data showed
 China ’s industrial production accelerated in September, which
boosted prospects for exports.  The currency declined more than all 16 of its major peers
on Oct. 15 after  Standard & Poor’s  cut South Africa’s credit
rating the previous week by one level to BBB with a negative
outlook. The ratings company cited concern that a wave of
strikes in the nation’s mining industry is placing pressure on
 government spending .  The rand gained 0.8 percent to 8.6614 per dollar this week.
The currency will end the year at 8.34, according to the
consensus estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  