-- Wal-Mart Holiday Protest Set to Proceed Amid NLRB Review
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-11-21T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/labor-board-to-rule-on-wal-mart-ufcw-complaint-quickly.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s charge of
illegal picketing by workers at some of its stores probably
won’t be resolved by the  National Labor Relations Board  before
the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday tomorrow, the agency said.  Absent an NLRB move to bar the protests, groups including
the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union would
be free to proceed with demonstrations at hundreds of  Wal-Mart
stores  in the U.S. during at least part of the holiday weekend.  The complaint, filed Nov. 16 against the UFCW, is being
investigated by staff from several regions who are interviewing
witnesses and reviewing company documents,  Nancy Cleeland , a
labor board spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail. The
board’s Division of Advice will make a final determination.  “There are many distinct factual circumstances at stores
across the country to consider,” Cleeland said. “Under these
circumstances, the Office of General Counsel does not expect to
make a decision before Thursday on whether or not to seek an
injunction to stop the activity.”  The union, representing more than 1.3 million workers in
grocery and retail stores and the meatpacking industry, said
Wal-Mart workers began walking off the job Nov. 14 at stores and
warehouses in  California .  The strikes are the first of what the group said are 1,000
protests planned in Chicago,  Dallas , Miami,  Oklahoma , Louisiana,
 Milwaukee ,  Los Angeles ,  Minnesota  and Washington ahead of
“Black Friday” on Nov. 23, the day after the U.S. Thanksgiving
holiday and traditionally a major shopping day.  Wal-Mart Accusations  Wal-Mart has accused the UFCW of violating federal  labor
laws  by inappropriately picketing, demonstrating, trespassing on
company property and intimidating customers and employees -- or
making threats to do those things. The union has tried to force
Wal-Mart to the bargaining table even though it doesn’t
officially represent employees, according to Wal-Mart’s filing.
The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer asked the board for an
investigation and immediate injunction.  If the board rules in Wal-Mart’s favor, it would seek an
injunction in district court to stop the protests. The agency
and U.S. courts are closed tomorrow for Thanksgiving, meaning
action could be delayed until at least Nov. 23.  “By law, under the  National Labor Relations Act , this kind
of charge has to take priority over every other thing we have
going on,” Cleeland said in a Nov. 19 interview. “We are
putting extra resources into this and trying to come to a
decision as quickly as possible.”  Wal-Mart appreciates the “urgency demonstrated by the NLRB
in undertaking its review,” Dan Fogelman, a company spokesman,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Worker Objections  “We understand that the multi-state, multi-faceted nature
of the union’s conduct and the Board’s desire to perform a
thorough review of the facts means that a decision will take a
bit more time,” Fogelman said. “We have focused all of our
attention on making the kickoff to the  Christmas shopping season 
successful for our customers and associates.”  UFCW representatives didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking
comment yesterday. Jill Cashen, a union spokeswoman, said on
Nov. 19 that the group welcomes expedited consideration by the
labor board.  “We feel confident that the board will deny Wal-Mart’s
request to silence the UFCW and our allies,” she said in a
phone interview.  Workers are protesting what the union said was Wal-Mart’s
manipulation of hours and benefits, efforts to keep people from
working full time and discrimination against women and
minorities.  ‘Clear Message’  OUR Walmart , one of the groups organizing the protests,
said in an e-mailed statement it had filed its own charge with
the labor board yesterday. The group, which calls itself an
organization of Wal-Mart employees,  says the retailer’s
managers sought to use threats to deter workers from
participating in the demonstrations.  “I want to send a clear message to Walmart: we will not be
silenced,” Mary Pat Tifft, an OUR Walmart member and 24-year
Wal-Mart associate from Kenosha, Wisconsin, said in the
statement.  Labor board staff have taken affidavits from witnesses,
reviewed documents provided by Wal-Mart and obtained a response
and evidence from the union.  “The legal issues - including questions about what
constitutes picketing and whether the activity was aimed at
gaining recognition for the union - are complex,” Cleeland
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  