-- Abramovich’s Title Hunt Sees Eighth Chelsea Coach Leave
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-21T22:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/abramovich-s-hunt-for-success-sees-eighth-chelsea-coach-leave.html
Chelsea’s Russian billionaire owner
has a simple message for the coach who’ll replace Roberto Di Matteo, fired by the west  London  soccer club today: Win.  Roman Abramovich’s reaction to poor form is swift. Di
Matteo, who in May turned Chelsea into the U.K. capital’s first
European champion, lasted only 262 days, yet three other coaches
hired by Abramovich were fired earlier in their tenures.  “Our philosophy, and the club has made no secret about it,
is all about building on the success on the field,” Chelsea
Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay said in an interview this
month.  “At the end of the day, every manager who comes clearly
knows what the objectives of the football club are.”  Chelsea said in a statement tonight that former Liverpool
manager Rafael Benitez, who led the Reds to the Champions League
title in 2005, will take over as interim coach for the rest of
the season. The 52-year-old Spaniard will be Chelsea’s ninth
manager since Abramovich’s 2003 takeover.  Chelsea was leading the Premier League after winning seven
of the first eight matches this season, yet has slipped in
recent games. The club has won two of the last eight in all
competitions and last night’s 3-0 defeat at Juventus leaves it
close to becoming the first Champions League winner to be
eliminated in the group stages.  Di Matteo, a former Chelsea and Italy midfielder, was
promoted from assistant to manager when Abramovich fired Andre Villas-Boas within eight months of paying Porto 15 million euros
($19 million) for the Portuguese coach. Originally getting the
post as an interim manager in March, the 42-year-old was given a
permanent contract in June after the team secured a penalty
shootout win over Bayern Munich in the Champions League final
and a fourth F.A. Cup in six seasons.  ‘Knee-Jerk’  Di Matteo’s overnight exit demonstrates “not decisive
leadership, but knee-jerk authoritarianism,” said Chris Roebuck, a leadership expert at Cass Business School in London.  “Given the performance Di Matteo has delivered and the
chance a ‘bad patch’ was always on the cards, a more tolerant
approach would have made common sense,” he said.  While Abramovich has had as many managers as Chelsea did in
the first 70 years of its existence, he’s also been responsible
for the most successful period in the club’s history.  The 46-year-old rarely speaks publicly, but is a regular at
the team’s  Stamford  Bridge stadium and its Cobham training
ground on the outskirts of London. He’s spent more than $1
billion on building a team capable of competing for trophies and
talent. During his nine-year reign, Chelsea has won three
Premier League titles, four F.A. Cups, two League Cups and the
Champions League, a competition the owner craved since buying
into soccer.  ‘Owner Expects’  “Everybody says ‘Does the owner demand that we win every
competition?’” Gourlay said. “No, but the owner expects with
the investment that we put into the football club that we want
to be competing in every competition. We want to be in the
finals and we want to be playing the game in a nice way.”  Di Matteo’s firing resembles that of his predecessor.
Villas-Boas dropped two senior players, Frank Lampard and Ashley Cole, ahead of a 3-1 Champions League defeat to Napoli. Villas-
Boas was ousted following a loss to West Bromwich Albion 11 days
later.  Di Matteo, who helped Chelsea advance last season by
overturning the deficit to Napoli, yesterday dropped striker
Fernando Torres for the loss to Juventus. The player, who cost a
U.K.-record 50 million pounds ($80 million) in January 2011, was
on the bench for the first 70 minutes of the game. His last
league game ended in a 2-1 loss at West Brom.  Ferguson’s Reign  While Chelsea looks for another man to occupy its dugout,
critics say such a rapid turnover affects its long-term
planning. Manchester United has had the same manager since 1986.
Alex Ferguson took four years to win his first trophy before
going on to win 12 Premier League titles and two Champions
Leagues.  “The stability at our club is something our manager rarely
gets praise for...don’t under estimate that,” United defender
Rio Ferdinand said on Twitter, shortly after Chelsea announced
Di Matteo’s exit.  Media reports have said that former Barcelona manager Pep Guardiola is Chelsea’s preferred choice for the permanent job.  “Who would accept such a role with the chance of being
sacked in the middle of the night? This event just goes to
confirm the significant dangers of command and control
leadership,” Roebuck said.  The churn of managers has also hurt Chelsea’s bottom line.
The club this season announced its first profit in Abramovich’s
era. A year earlier it lost 67.7 million pounds, much of which
was from coaching changes.  Confidential  To limit its losses, Chelsea’s payoffs to Carlo Ancelotti
and Villas-Boas, the two previous departed coaches, have been
restricted to paying their salaries up until they found new
work. Luiz Felipe Scolari and his coaching team received a lump
sum of 12.6 million pounds in 2009. Spokesman Steve Atkins said
terms of Di Matteo’s contract were confidential.  “In the world of football, as in business, sometimes
things don’t go the way we want, but a short-term view of life
can end up being counterproductive to both long-term performance
and revenue generation,” Roebuck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  