-- Madoff Trustee Tries to Recoup $30 Billion After Defeats
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-21T17:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/madoff-trustee-tries-to-recoup-30-billion-after-defeats.html
The Bernard Madoff firm’s liquidator
will try to recoup $30 billion for the con man’s customers in
court by reviving damage claims against banks including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  appealed rulings barring him
from demanding damages from banks that allegedly ignored
Madoff’s fraud for the sake of fees. Federal district judges
 Colleen McMahon  and Jed Rakoff, both in Manhattan, said Picard
can’t accuse the banks of fraud because he’s the trustee for a
fraudulent enterprise. A panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
New York is hearing arguments today on what Picard’s powers are
as a bankrupt firm’s trustee.  If he loses the appeals, Ponzi customers will have a
smaller pot from which to recover their remaining losses, and
some investors who bought discounted claims on the con man’s
estate may lose the bets they made. Picard so far has
distributed $2.9 billion out of $9.2 billion he has raised to
plug estimated customer losses of about $17.5 billion.  Picard “is challenging a well-established doctrine that
has been applied in a number of cases,” said  Peter Henning , a
former Securities and Exchange Commission lawyer who teaches at
 Wayne State University  in Detroit.  Tough Time  “Courts have been consistent in using the in pari delicto
principle to prevent lawsuits between wrongdoers, even when
there is a trustee who had nothing to do with the fraud,”
Henning wrote in an e-mail. “The decisions by Judges McMahon
and Rakoff were fairly typical applications of the doctrine, so
I expect Mr. Picard will have a tough time asking for an
exception to it, despite the huge losses suffered by
investors.”  The banks fighting the appeal include Switzerland’s  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  The biggest  U.S. bank , JPMorgan, was
hit with the largest demand from Picard, for $19 billion. It has
said in court filings that it was “preposterous” to accuse an
institution of propping up a doomed  Ponzi scheme , and the fees
were small.  In court today, a lawyer for Picard told Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs that, contrary to the district judges’ rulings, the right
of a bankrupt brokerage’s trustee to sue to recover money for
customers is recognized in investor protection law and court
decisions.  “For 30 years, a trustee could bring these claims,” said
Oren Warshavsky of Baker & Hostetler.  “These laws were enacted
for the sole purpose of protecting customers.”  Unbroken Line  A lawyer for JPMorgan, John Savarese of Wachtell Lipton
Rosen & Katz, told Jacobs that the district judges’ rulings must
be upheld as part of a “long and unbroken line of decisions”
limiting a trustee’s power.  The appeals court in  New York  had ruled over two decades
that “a bankruptcy trustee has no standing to sue third parties
on behalf of customers,” Savarese said. “Every single time these
claims come up, this court has rejected the argument.”  Most of the money Picard has raised since Madoff’s 2008
arrest came from settling lawsuits against former Madoff
customers out of court. He took in $5 billion from Jeffry Picower’s estate, and might get something from the New York Mets
owners. The trustee’s more than 1,000 suits demanded about $100
billion initially.  Rakoff last year dismissed almost $9 billion in damages
that Picard sought from HSBC and feeder funds, saying the
trustee exceeded his powers. While Picard can try to recover
some money for victims, he can’t sue banks for damages on behalf
of customers, he said. Agreeing with Rakoff, McMahon dismissed
Picard’s suit against the con man’s banker, JPMorgan.  Liquidation Cost  The cost of liquidating the Madoff brokerage climbed to
almost $682 million by Sept. 30, the trustee said in a federal
court filing in  Manhattan . He and his firm, Baker & Hostetler
LLP, have made around $330 million, according to their last
bills filed in court.  The HSBC and JPMorgan rulings came after the Anna Nicole Smith case, when the U.S. Supreme Court last year limited
bankruptcy judges’ ability to rule on common-law claims. That
stopped the former Playboy model’s heirs from collecting
millions of dollars from Texas billionaire J. Howard Marshall’s
estate, and put district judges in control of more bankruptcy
issues.  Picard remains confident of his right to make the claims
against the banks, spokeswoman Amanda Remus has said. Madoff,
74, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in North
Carolina.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  The appeal is In re: Bernard L. Madoff, 11-05175,  U.S.
Court of Appeals , Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  