-- Adults With ADHD Commit Fewer Crimes When Medicated
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-11-21T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/adults-with-adhd-commit-fewer-crimes-when-medicated.html
Criminal behavior in people with
attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder is lower when they are
taking medication, according to a study that may lead to wider
acceptance of drug treatment for the condition.  Analyzing  Sweden ’s registries of patients, drug
prescriptions and crime, researchers found that among 25,656
patients over the age of 15 diagnosed with ADHD, crime rates
over a four-year period were 32 percent lower in men and 41
percent lower in women when they were on medication compared
with when they weren’t. The study, funded by the Swedish
Research Council, the U.S. National Institutes of Health and the
U.K.’s Wellcome Trust, was published today in the  New England
Journal of Medicine .  The findings may be extrapolated to the rest of western
 Europe  as rates of crime and medication are similar, while
prescription rates are higher in the U.S., said Seena Fazel, one
of the study’s authors and a senior research fellow at the
Wellcome Trust. The study may support the view that treatment
helps patients engage more positively in society, particularly
in school and in employment, he said, adding that drugs’ side
effects must be considered.  “This adds to the broader picture of how you weigh up the
costs and benefits of medication,” Fazel, who is also senior
lecturer at Oxford University’s department of psychiatry, told
reporters in London yesterday.  15 to 24  About half of the patients were between the ages of 15 and
24 at the start of the study period. About a fifth of adolescent
girls and 12 percent of boys in detention and correctional
facilities suffer from ADHD, according to a  review  of 25 surveys
published in the Journal of the  American Academy  of Child and
Adolescent Psychiatry in 2008.  The study compared patients’ behavior while on drug
treatment with their activity when they were off medication for
a period of at least six months, which could occur if they
missed appointments to refill prescriptions or if they just
chose to forgo drugs, Fazel said.  This may have resulted in a more accurate outcome than
comparing patients on medication against a separate population
that has never taken drugs because different underlying factors
such as genetics, environment and socio-demographics could
confound the results, he said.  “We have shown that ADHD medication very probably reduces
the risk of crime,” said Henrik Larsson, associate professor at
Sweden’s Karolinska Institute and another author of the study.
“However, we need to point out that most medical treatments can
have adverse side effects, so risks must be weighed up against
benefits.”  Blood Pressure  Pills used to treat ADHD can raise  blood pressure  and  heart
rate . Medicines include amphetamines like  Shire Plc (SHP) ’s Adderall
XR, as well as other drugs such as  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Ritalin,
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Concerta, Shire’s Vyvanse and Intuniv and
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Strattera. In Sweden, Concerta is widely
prescribed, said Philip Asherson, professor of molecular
psychiatry at  King’s College London .  ADHD, which causes inattentiveness, over-activity and
impulsiveness, is diagnosed in as many as 7 percent of children
and 4 percent of adults, according to the  American Academy of
Child and Adolescent Psychiatry website .  The condition doesn’t disappear as children grow older and
leads to less education, higher rates of divorce and substance
abuse and more time in jail, according to a study published in
the Archives of General Psychiatry last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  