-- Alcoa to Consider Buying BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto Aluminum Assets
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-11-21T07:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/alcoa-to-consider-buying-bhp-billiton-rio-tinto-aluminum-assets.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, may buy some assets used to make the metal
from  BHP (BHP)  Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group as it expects demand
to grow about 6.5 percent a year for the next decade.  “We’re having a look if they’ve got assets that they want
to divest,” Alcoa of  Australia  Ltd. Managing Director Alan
Cransberg told reporters today after a presentation in
Melbourne, without elaborating. Annual growth of 6.5 percent
“is a beautiful number and most in the industry would be happy
with that.”  BHP and Rio have either sold or halted development of
aluminum projects following a decline in the price of the
lightweight metal and a shift in focus toward more profitable
commodities. Melbourne-based BHP sold its 33.3 percent stake in
an alumina project in  Guinea  for $1 earlier this month and
scrapped plans to build a smelter in the Democratic Republic of
Congo.  Aluminum prices have fallen 3.3 percent this year after an
18 percent decline in 2011. Aluminum for three-month delivery
traded at $1,952.50 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange as
of 6:07 p.m. in Melbourne.  BHP in January halted bauxite exploration at its Boffa-
Santou-Houda site in Guinea, the world’s biggest exporter of the
ore that’s used to make aluminum.  Rio has put up for sale 13 aluminum assets, including its
Gove operations in Australia, since October last year to improve
the group’s financial performance. It has also transferred
smelters, mines and alumina plants to a unit called Pacific
Aluminum.  ‘Growth Opportunity’  Aluminum was Rio’s second-least profitable business unit
last year, earning $442 million on sales of $12.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If there’s an opportunity that we think we can grow that
business and has synergies with our business, we will look at
that,” said Cransberg.  Alcoa will stay in the aluminum business because demand
will remain strong in the long term, driven by Asia, Cransberg
said.  The company also intends to keep its Point Henry smelting
operations in Australia’s Victoria state after cutting jobs by
10 percent in June to lower costs, he said. Alcoa of Australia
has invested as much as A$200 million on three gas power plants
in Western Australia state to secure the company’s long-term
need for energy supply, said Cransberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  