-- Taleb Pegs Greenspan, Stiglitz as ‘Fragilistas’
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-11-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/taleb-pegs-greenspan-stiglitz-as-economy-hurting-fragilistas-.html
According to  Nassim Nicholas Taleb ,
predictions based on statistics would be reliable only if they
drew their data from the future as well as the past. Here’s how
he illustrates his point:  “A turkey is fed for a thousand days by a butcher; every
day confirms to its staff of analysts that butchers love turkeys
‘with increased statistical confidence.’  “The butcher will keep feeding the turkey until a few days
before Thanksgiving. Then comes that day when it is really not a
very good idea to be a turkey.”  As the author of “The  Black Swan ” warns in his
spellbinding (but also exasperating) new book, “ Antifragile:
Things That Gain From Disorder ,” “absence of evidence (of
harm)” should never be confused with “evidence of absence.”  But if prediction is beyond reach, predictability isn’t,
since fragility -- the likelihood that something is going to
break, whether it’s a crystal cup or the U.S. banking system
before 2007 -- is easier to spot.  “Not seeing a tsunami or an economic event coming is
excusable; building something fragile to them is not.”  Taleb is famous for having recognized the fragility of the
banking system early (“ The Black Swan ” was published in 2007)
and then making a bundle on it when it fell apart. He’s a
natural teacher with a gift for metaphor.  Robust Systems  In “Antifragile,” he focuses on systems that are not
merely resistant to stress (hence “resilient” or “robust”)
but in fact profit from it. The human body, for example, gets
stronger with the stress of exercise, weaker with indolence.  An antifragile system, he emphasizes, is not at all the
same as one from which volatility has been removed:  “Small forest fires periodically cleanse the system of the
most flammable material, so this does not have the opportunity
to accumulate. Systematically preventing forest fires from
taking place ‘to be safe’ makes the big one much worse.  “For similar reasons, stability is not good for the
economy: firms become very weak during long periods of steady
prosperity devoid of setbacks, and hidden vulnerabilities
accumulate silently under the surface.”  The problem with attempts to suppress volatility, he
explains, is not only that they backfire:  “Volatility is information. In fact, these systems tend to
be too calm and exhibit minimal variability as silent risks
accumulate beneath the surface ... Such environments eventually
experience massive blowups.”  Wise Decisions  Though Taleb comes from the world of finance, in explaining
how to invest antifragilely, he has produced a revelatory book
on a bigger, deeper subject: wise decision making.  He writes so gracefully, with recourse to such clear and
common-sensical illustrations, that his ideas (“You are
antifragile for a source of volatility if potential gains exceed
potential losses”) seem inevitable, almost (once he’s explained
them) obvious. He pulls the reader along with the logic of a
Socrates.  That is, when he isn’t shooting off his mouth with the
bluster of a  Donald Trump . Taleb admits that he’s often “angry,
dismissive and irascible.” He’s also preening.  He hates economists and he loathes academics. Although I
don’t belong to either of those groups, I often had the sense of
reading this book with a gob of his spittle on my face.  Naming Names  He names names:  Alan Greenspan ,  Paul Krugman ,  Joseph Stiglitz ,  Thomas Friedman ,  Robert Rubin  and  Alan Blinder , among
others, receive very harsh treatment, some for blindness, others
for ethical lapses. They all fit his definition of the
“fragilista”: “Someone who causes fragility because he thinks
he understands what’s going on.”  “I do not have a political affiliation,” Taleb asserts
after blasting both parties, complaining that it’s hard to fit
his ideas “within the current U.S. political discourse.” He
writes as a philosopher and a prophet, though he’s mainly a
prophet in the sense that Cassandra was.  While the 2007-08 banking crisis forms the background to
“Antifragile,” he barely addresses ideas for repairing the
system beyond a mention of his “governmental golden rule: no
borrowing allowed, forced fiscal balance” and a footnote in
which he declares that “ hedge funds  need to be unregulated and
banks nationalized.”  Mm-hm. No wonder he doesn’t have a political affiliation.  The notion of reaping advantage from fragility may be eye-
opening to individual investors, and I dearly hope I’ll have the
clarity of mind to draw on Taleb’s ideas when I have big
decisions to make, financial or otherwise, in the future.  But while in time they may be widely influential, as long
as he offers no practical way to put them into large-scale
practice in the financial system, they remain -- and I use the
term advisedly -- academic.  “Antifragile” is published by  Random House  in the U.S. and
 Allen Lane  in the U.K. (519 pages, $30, 25 pounds). To buy this
book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 