-- Half of Press Freedom Honorees in Jail Amid Record Imprisonment
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z
-- 2012-11-21T19:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/half-of-press-freedom-honorees-in-jail-amid-record-imprisonment.html
Dhondup Wangchen and Azimjon Askarov
couldn’t accept their awards last night at the  International
Press Freedom Awards  because both are imprisoned for their work.  Wangchen, a Tibetan filmmaker, was given a six-year
sentence in  China  in 2010 for his documentary “Leaving Fear
Behind,” which chronicled  Tibet  under Chinese rule. Askarov has
been imprisoned since 2010 in  Kyrgyzstan , where he serves a life
sentence on various charges after documenting ethnic clashes.  Mae Azango, a Liberian journalist whose life was threatened
for her articles about female genital mutilation, and Mauri
Konig from  Brazil , who was beaten and left for dead during his
investigation into human trafficking, were present to accept
their awards from the  Committee to Protect Journalists  at the
Waldorf-Astoria hotel in  New York . CPJ promotes press freedom
and supports imperiled journalists worldwide.  The CPJ, Amnesty International and other organizations
helped pressure Liberia to suspend female circumcision, which
has been used on as many as two out of three Liberian girls,
Azango said in an interview before the awards ceremony.  “When protests came from the Committee to Protect
Journalists and  Amnesty International  and others, the government
was pushed to speak up,” Azango said. “But it’s still going
on, it’s a long tradition, so I’ll continue to talk and write
about it.”  Female journalists are proving male journalists wrong that
they only go after soft news, Azango, who calls herself the
“voice of the voiceless,” said in her acceptance speech.  Functioning Democracies  CPJ, based in New York, has documented 55 journalists
killed in 2012, according to its  website . Today there are at
least 179 journalists imprisoned, a record in the CPJ’s history,
Gwen Ifill, a broadcaster for PBS, said last night. Press
outlets filled the tables at the awards ceremony and fundraising
dinner, the most successful on record with more than $1.6
million, according to the CPJ.  Fewer than 10 percent of journalists’ murderers are brought
to justice, said  David Boies , a lawyer and chairman of the
dinner. Some of the worst offending countries are functioning
democracies, he said.  “I’ve spent the past 12 years walking the Brazilian border
with Paraguay and  Argentina  to report on trafficking of
children,” Konig said in an interview before the awards
ceremony. “They continue to be the victims.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  