-- Alior Seeks $773 Million in Record IPO by Private Polish Company
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-11-21T13:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/alior-plans-1-1-billion-ipo-in-fight-for-polish-banking-market.html
Alior Bank SA , the fastest-growing
Polish lender, is seeking to sell as much as 2.5 billion zloty
($773 million) of shares in what is set to be the biggest
initial public offering by a private Polish company.  Alior plans to raise 700 million zloty from a new share
sale and Carlo Tassara SpA, its founding company owned by French
investor  Romain Zaleski , will offer 26 million shares, the
Warsaw-based bank said in a prospectus today. Alior, which is
offering as many as 51 million shares, will cut the sale by 15.1
million if the final price is set at the upper limit of 71 zloty
a share, it said in a separate statement today.  The bank, which has built the third-biggest branch network
in  Poland  since its creation in 2008, needs funds to boost
lending and fight competition as  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  of Spain and
Polish billionaire Leszek Czarnecki’s Getin Noble Bank SA step
up expansion. Carlo Tassara will sell a further stake of at
least 30 percent in Alior to a bank or an insurer by the end of
2013 to lower its own debt, according to the prospectus.  “The sale is pricey, particularly when we take into
account the risk that the economy will slow next year and may
cut demand for loans,” Jaroslaw Niedzielewski, who helps manage
the equivalent of $447 million at Investors TFI SA in Warsaw,
said by phone. “It’s also hard to say at the moment who could
buy the controlling stake” from Carlo Tassara.  Based on the maximum IPO price and after the planned
capital increase, the bank is valued twice its  shareholders’
equity , Marta Czajkowska-Baldyga, an analyst at KBC Groep NV
said by phone from Warsaw today. PKO Bank Polski SA and  Bank
Pekao SA (PEO) , Poland’s largest lenders, trade 1.8 times their book
value, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Record IPO  The IPO will be the biggest in Poland since state-owned
coal group  Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA (JSW) ’s 5.37 billion-zloty
sale in 2011 and the largest by a Polish company owned by
private investors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
previous biggest IPO by a private Polish company was the 1.1
billion-zloty sale of property developer LC Corp SA in 2007.  The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development agreed
to buy as much as 320 million zloty of Alior shares, according
to the prospectus. Individual investors will be offered no more
than 5 percent of the IPO and some of them will buy shares at a
discount.  The final price will be set on Dec. 4, when bookbuilding
for institutions ends. Investors will acquire a 67 percent stake
in the IPO if all shares are sold. The bank plans to start
trading in Warsaw by Dec. 14, it said. Barclays Plc, JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, Ipopema Securities SA, Erste Group
Bank AG and  Renaissance Capital  manage the offering.  Alior’s net income almost tripled to 222.9 million zloty in
the first nine months of 2012. With more than 680 branches, the
bank has the biggest network after state-controlled PKO and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Pekao. The bank plans to double its share in the
Polish banking market to about 4 percent in the medium term.  Warsaw’s  WIG Banking Index (WIGBANK)  has jumped 15 percent this year,
compared with an 11 percent gain of the benchmark WIG20 Index.
Polish banks’ combined profit rose 0.3 percent to a record 12
billion zloty in the first nine months as loans grew, according
to data from the Polish financial regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  