-- Talison Lithium to Talk With Chengdu Tianqi on Takeover Bid
-- B y   L y d i a   M u l v a n y
-- 2012-11-21T17:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/talison-lithium-to-talk-with-chengdu-tianqi-on-takeover-bid-1-.html
Talison Lithium Ltd. (TLH) , an Australian
producer of the metal, said it will begin talks with  Chengdu
Tianqi Industry Group Co.  to determine if the Chinese company’s
C$806 million ($807 million) takeover bid is superior to
 Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) ’s competing offer.  Talison will consider factors including the funding of
Chengdu Tianqi’s C$7.15-a-share bid and its timing, the Perth-
based company said in a statement today.  U.S. chemicals producer Rockwood agreed in August to
acquire Talison for C$6.50 a share. That’s Rockwood’s best and
final offer, the Princeton, New Jersey-based company said
yesterday in a statement.  Lithium is used in batteries for iPads,  laptop computers 
and electric cars. Global demand is seen doubling by 2020 as
markets for electric vehicles and energy storage expand,
according to analysts at Dahlman Rose & Co. Talison, Rockwood,
 FMC Corp. (FMC)  and Chile’s Soc. Quimica & Minera de Chile SA control
more than 90 percent of the metal’s production, analysts at
Longbow Research said in an August report.  Chengdu Tianqi is also awaiting regulatory approval to
purchase additional Talison shares at C$7.15 that will raise its
stake to 19.99 percent from 14.99 percent, the company said in a
statement today. The company will use all of its shares to vote
against Rockwood’s bid, according to the statement.  Talison dropped 3.6 percent to C$6.66 at 12:16 p.m. in
Toronto, the most intraday since Aug. 22. Its shareholders are
due to vote on Rockwood’s bid on Nov. 29.  Chengdu Tianqi, a closely held company based in Chengdu,
Sichuan Province, converts raw lithium into chemicals used in
batteries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lydia Mulvany in  New York  at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  