-- Alliance Plans to Shift $1 Billion of Bad Loans, CEO Says
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-11-21T11:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/alliance-plans-to-shift-1-billion-of-bad-loans-ceo-says.html
AO Alliance Bank, the first Kazakh
lender to default in 2009, plans to transfer as much as $1
billion of bad loans to a special-purpose vehicle to help cover
a capital shortfall as it looks to revive lending and cut costs.  “We expect positive capital under international financial
reporting standards, but not enough to comply with Basel
rules,” Chief Executive Officer Maksat Kabashev said in an
interview yesterday in Almaty, where the bank is based. The
“big task” is plugging a gap of about 26 billion tenge ($173
million), he said, adding that the lender has a capital surplus
under Kazakh accounting standards.  A collapse of property prices three years ago saddled
Kazakh banks with billions of dollars in delinquent loans,
triggering defaults and forcing the government to take over
Alliance, Temirbank and  BTA Bank. (BTA)  The nation’s 37 percent share
of non-performing assets is the highest of 50 emerging-market
banking systems tracked by Fitch Ratings.  The sovereign wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna is discussing a
merger of Alliance and Temirbank, both of which issued new bonds
and offered shares and cash to creditors in 2010 after writing
off and extending payments on some of their debt. The Kazakh
government will probably refrain from injecting more capital
into banks after deploying the equivalent of 8 percent to 9
percent of economic output since 2008 to shore up the industry,
Fitch said yesterday.  Loans overdue by more than 90 days at the country’s 38
banks reached 3.5 trillion tenge of Oct. 1, led by defaulted BTA
with 1.5 trillion tenge,  central bank  data show. In April, the
central bank created a “problem-loan” fund to remedy strains
in the financial industry and said it was planning a pilot
project to buy non-performing assets from commercial lenders.  Not Enough  Alliance probably “won’t be able to make a profit next
year that will allow it to cover the capital shortfall,”
Kabashev said. It plans to earn 2.3 billion tenge this year and
predicts  net income  will be “no worse” next year, he said.  The bank projects its “good” loan holdings of about 300
billion tenge will grow 10 percent next year, according to
Kabashev. The bank will continue to focus on lending to
individuals and small and medium-sized businesses, using online
services as a new means to cut costs, he said.  Offloading Debt  Alliance plans to transfer about half of its toxic loans to
a special-purpose vehicle, or SPV, a move that will allow the
lender to take non-performing assets off the books and release
50 percent of provisions, Kabashev said. The bank must set aside
cash equal to 10 percent of a bad loan moved to the SPV every
year until it’s fully covered if asset quality doesn’t improve,
he said.  The bank may also put up more cash against under-
provisioned bad loans and move them to the SPV, Kabashev said.  Alliance’s move to offload bad debt follows similar steps
taken by  Kazakhstan ’s two biggest lenders, Kazkommertsbank and
Halyk Bank. Halyk said in August it planned to move about 4
billion tenge of bad loans to an SPV, while Kazkommertsbank said
this month it will form two entities to manage industrial assets
and commercial and residential real estate.  Kazkommertsbank didn’t say how much it will transfer to the
SPVs, which were allowed by the financial regulator to help
banks manage toxic loans.  A merger with  Temirbank (TEBN) , which has a capital surplus of
about 30 billion tenge, will result in the “No. 1 retail bank”
with positive capital, Kabashev said.  He didn’t elaborate on
the details on a possible merger, adding that the issue “will
become clear” by the end of the year.  Samruk-Kazyna holds the government’s 67 percent of Alliance
and 79.9 percent of Temirbank after the banks were brought under
state control in 2009.  Alliance may try to sell debt only after accumulating
sufficient capital, Kabashev said.  “We have some expensive bonds, which must be bought
back,” he said. “The question is what will replace them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  