-- Anesthesia Antidote May Help Treat Extreme Sleep Disorder
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-11-21T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/anesthesia-antidote-may-help-treat-extreme-sleep-disorder.html
A disorder that causes extreme
sleepiness may be better treated with a drug commonly used to
counter the effects of a Valium overdose, researchers said.  Primary  hypersomnia  is linked to a substance that boosts
the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid, a neurotransmitter that
limits excess brain activity and leads to the drowsiness, said
David Rye, the lead author of a study published today in the
 journal  Science Translational Medicine. Patients are usually
prescribed stimulants, though they don’t work well, he said.  “We thought, maybe that’s not the way to think about it,”
Rye, a neurology professor at  Emory University School of
Medicine  in Atlanta, said in an interview. “Maybe the problem
isn’t the accelerator needs to be pushed, maybe the problem is
the parking brake needs to be disengaged.”  Instead of stimulants, researchers tried flumazenil, an
antidote used to counter sedatives such as benzodiazepine,
Valium and Ambien. Some of the study’s participants, who suffer
from excessive sleepiness even after a full night’s rest,
improved their reaction times after being given flumazenil to
levels approaching a non-sleepy control group, according to the
study. Attention lapses were reduced 85 percent.  “It’s a breakthrough,” said  Rochelle Zak , a sleep
medicine specialist at the University of California  San
Francisco  Medical Center, in an interview. “It gives a
mechanism for doing clinically relevant future studies, both in
terms of understanding the mechanism and in terms of developing
an effective therapy.”  Peptide Search  The patients, who slept 75 hours a week on average,
exhibited reaction times similar to someone who has been awake
for 24 hours, or a person with a blood alcohol level higher than
the legal limit in many U.S. states, Rye said.  People with the disorder are typically diagnosed with
narcolepsy, though they don’t have sleep attacks in the daytime
like those with that diagnosis are prone to do, Rye said. The
condition is so severe that four of the patients in the study
applied for disability and four others had to take leaves of
absence from work or school.  What the actual substance is that causes the effect on
gamma-aminobutyric acid, or GABA, is unknown, Rye said. It’s
likely a peptide, though more work needs to be done studying it.
Also unknown is the disorder’s  prevalence , according to the
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. Rye
estimated it affects at least one in every 300 people.  Another problem: flumazenil, an intravenous drug, is hard
to obtain in large doses and its effect on hypersomniacs seems
to wear off within two hours, Rye said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  