-- Apotex, Google, Lofgren, Uhlig: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-21T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/apotex-google-lofgren-uhlig-intellectual-property.html
Apotex Inc. asked a judge to rule
that its plan to market a generic version of the blood-pressure
medicine Benicar won’t infringe  patent rights  held by drugmaker
 Daiichi Sankyo  Co. or its American unit.  In a petition filed yesterday in federal court in Chicago,
closely held Apotex said a finding of non-infringement on one of
two relevant patents will let it compete sooner with Mylan Inc.,
the maker of generic drugs that also intends to sell a version
of the medication.  Mylan, which lost a challenge to the other patent in 2010,
has exclusive rights to sell its version of the drug for at
least 180 days after that patent expires because it was the
first to seek the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration ’s permission
to do so.  Absent a ruling in its favor on a patent it claims Daiichi
Sankyo let lapse in 2009, it will be deprived of sales while the
public is deprived of its competition with Mylan, Toronto-based
Apotex said.  Mylan is based in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania . Daiichi Sankyo
is based in Tokyo. Its U.S. unit and co-defendant, Daiichi
Sankyo Inc., is based in Parsippany,  New Jersey .  The case is Apotex Inc. v. Daiichi Sankyo, 12-cv-9295, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  U.S. Said to Waver on Antitrust Case Against Google on Search  Google Inc. (GOOG)  may skirt the most serious antitrust
allegations under investigation by the U.S. as regulators waver
on whether they can prove consumers are hurt by the way the
company ranks its search results, three people familiar with the
matter said.  Federal Trade Commission officials are unsure they have
enough evidence to sue Google successfully under antitrust laws
for giving its own services top billing and pushing down the
offerings of rivals, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the discussions aren’t public. Regulators are
also looking at whether the ranking system’s benefits to
consumers outweigh any harm suffered by rivals including NexTag
Inc. and  Kayak Software Corp. (KYAK) , the people said.  The agency is under pressure to extract concessions from
Google after winning a battle with the  Justice Department ’s
antitrust division over which regulator would probe the world’s
most popular search engine. The complaints about skewed search
results represent a far greater threat to Google’s business than
any of the FTC’s other concerns, said Keith Hylton, a Boston
University law professor who has written several books on
antitrust topics.  “The only part of the case that goes to the heart of what
Google does is the search-biasing claim,” Hylton said. “If
that drops out of the FTC’s case, then you have something that
doesn’t seem to be all that interesting in terms of antitrust
law.”  FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  told Google to propose a
resolution to a host of antitrust concerns in the coming days or
face a lawsuit, two people familiar with the matter said last
week.  The issues include Google’s exclusive agreements to provide
search services to online publishers and allegedly misusing
patents to try to block rivals’ smartphones from coming to
market. The FTC also is treating seriously complaints that
Google has used customer reviews from other websites without
permission, the people said.  “We continue to work cooperatively with the Federal Trade
Commission and are happy to answer any questions they may
have,” said Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Mountain View,
California-based Google. She declined to comment specifically on
the search allegations.  Peter Kaplan , an FTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
probe.  A final vote by the agency’s five commissioners on whether
to file a lawsuit, and what its scope should be, is expected
before the end of the month, the people said.  Ramsay Seeks U.K. Rights to Batali Restaurant Name Spotted Pig  Gordon Ramsay has applied for the U.K. trademark on The
Spotted Pig, the name of the New York gastropub whose celebrity
owners include the musicians Jay-Z and Bono and the chef  Mario
Batali .  The British television chef’s company, Gordon Ramsay
Holdings International Ltd., submitted the application on Oct. 2
and it was published for comment on Nov. 9, according to the
U.K. government’s  Intellectual Property  Office website.  Batali and the Spotted Pig’s chef-owner April Bloomfield
didn’t immediately respond to voice-mails seeking comments on
the application.  Gordon Ramsay  Holdings had no comment.  Anyone who opposes the U.K. application has two months in
which to enter an objection. This wouldn’t be the first time a
Batali restaurant has been flattered in this way. London has a
Babbo, which is the name of one of Batali’s venues in New York.  “We didn’t have a trademark for England,” Batali said in
an interview last year. “You need a specific one for England.
We had one for Italy, we have one for Spain, we have one in
Thailand. I don’t know why we didn’t have one in London.”  Ramsay’s application was earlier reported by the Sunday
Mail, in Scotland, which cited an unidentified spokesman for the
chef’s company as saying it regularly seeks trademarks and there
were no current plans beyond that.  Bloomfield and the Spotted Pig’s founder, Ken Friedman,
have expressed an interest in opening a restaurant in London.  “I would love to come back and open somewhere,”
Bloomfield said in an interview in October. “Ken and I talk
about it all the time. I don’t know if it would be like the
Pig.”  Batali was cited in the Observer in January 2009 as saying
he wouldn’t accept bookings from Ramsay’s office. That was after
the U.K. chef called Batali “Fanta Pants.” The New Yorker said
Ramsay would need to call him personally for a table.  “I’ve never met him face to face,” Batali said in the
Bloomberg interview. “We’ve traded insults in the papers a
couple of times, not because we know each other or even not like
each other. Our medias just pushed us apart. I’m sure I would
like him in person.”  Batali has other detractors. He apologized in November 2011
after comparing bankers to Hitler and Stalin. Ramsay’s last
known brush with a pig was when he compared the Australian TV
reporter Tracy Grimshaw to one. Ramsay also apologized.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Lofgren Seeks Help from ‘Free Speech Warriors’ on Copyright Bill  U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren has turned to Reddit, a
social-network website, for assistance in formulating
intellectual-property legislation.  Lofgren, a Democrat whose district comprises much of
California’s Silicon Valley, specifically asked Reddit users to
look at the issue of Internet domain-name seizure in connection
with copyright-infringement cases.  She said  she was giving “Internet policy experts and free
speech warriors” an opportunity to weigh in on an issue that
has raised the ire of many website owners.  More than 700 websites have been seized over allegations of
copyright infringement by the U.S. Justice Department and U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement since 2010, according to a
 background statement  Lofgren released Nov. 19.  Lofgren said she is concerned that some of the domain-name
seizures caused the removal -- without notice or a hearing for
their owners -- of websites containing lawful content.  Such seizures amount to “prior restraint of free
expression” and “impair legitimate businesses that are
unfairly targeted and discourage online entrepreneurship,” she
said. Lofgren said she is seeking a way to require the
government to provide notice and an opportunity for website
owners to defend themselves in advance of domain-name seizure.  Tolkien Estate Sues Warner Bross Over ‘Lord of the Rings’ Games  The estate of J.R.R. Tolkien sued Time Warner Inc.’s  Warner
Bros . Entertainment unit, alleging it doesn’t have the right to
license gambling games with “Lord of the Rings” characters and
story elements.  “Not only does the production of gambling games patently
exceed the scope of defendants’ rights, but this infringing
conduct has outraged Tolkien’s devoted fan base, causing
irreparable harm to Tolkien’s legacy and reputation and the
valuable goodwill generated by his works,” the estate said in a
complaint filed Nov. 19 in federal court in Los Angeles.  Under the merchandising agreement between the estate and
Warner Bros., the movie studio and its subsidiaries have only
the right to sell and license tangible objects, according to the
complaint. These rights don’t give Warner Bros. permission to
license online slot machine games and casino slot machines based
on the late author’s books, the estate said.  The estate, which also says it retains the rights to any
downloadable-only video games based on the books, accuses Warner
Bros. of copyright infringement and breach of contract and asks
for at least $80 million in damages.  Warner Bros. spokesman  Paul McGuire  had no immediate
comment on the lawsuit.  Warner Bros.’ New Line Cinema and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.
will release “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey” on Dec. 14.
It is the first of three planned movies based on Tolkien’s
“Hobbit.” The movie trilogy based on “Lord of the Rings”
generated $6 billion in global revenue, according to the
estate’s complaint.  The case is Fourth Age Ltd. v. Warner Bros., 12-9912, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles.)  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Uhlig Wins $4.6 Million Trade-Secret Misappropriation Award  Uhlig LLC, a Kansas-based publishing house, was awarded
$4.6 million in a trade-secrets case.  A federal court in Greenville, South Carolina, said
yesterday that Uhlig was entitled to recover the damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs from John Adam Shirley and
 Prism Content Solutions LLC .  Uhlig sued in 2008 after acquiring Cox Custom Media, where
Shirley was the highest-paid employee. Uhlig and Shirley held
talks over hiring him as a consultant and independent
contractor, according to court papers.  Instead, Shirley left the company and took intellectual
property, including a customer database, Uhlig said. He then
began calling on clients and passed the content off as his own,
Uhlig said.  In December, a jury said that Uhlig proved its trade-secret
theft claims against both Shirley and Prism, and that he
breached an employment agreement, violated his duty of loyalty
and interfered with Uhlig’s customer relationships.  In addition to making the damages awards, the court ordered
Shirley and Prism to quit using Uhlig trade secrets, which were
related to custom publishing services for apartments and senior-
living facilities.  The case is Uhlig LLC v. Shirley, 08-cv-01208, U.S.
District Court, District of South Carolina (Greenville).  IP Moves  USPTO Hires Google’s Michelle Lee to Head Silicon Valley Office  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office hired Michelle Lee to
head its new California satellite office in Silicon Valley.  Lee is the former deputy general counsel and head of
patents and patent strategy at Google Inc. She previously was a
partner at Mountain View, California’s Fenwick & West LLP.  Before she went to law school, Lee worked as a computer
science researcher at  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology ’s Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.  She served as a judicial clerk for U.S. District Judge
Vaughn Walker and Judge Paul Michel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit, the Washington-based court that hears
appeals of patent cases.  Lee’s hiring is part of the patent office’s push to improve
the quality of software patents, David Kappos, the office’s
director, said yesterday in a  speech  at a conference sponsored
by the Center for American Progress.  Lee has a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering and a
master’s degree in computer science from MIT, and a law degree
from  Stanford University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  