-- Arcadia-Owner Philip Green May Spend $8 Billion on Acquisition
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-11-21T12:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/arcadia-owner-philip-green-may-spend-8-billion-on-acquisition.html
Philip Green , the billionaire owner
of the TopShop fashion chain, said he may spend 5 billion pounds
($8 billion) on an acquisition should the opportunity arise.  “If something turns up that we like, we might do it,”
Green, 60, said in a telephone interview today. “We’re in a
position where we could look at anything. The fact is that
everybody comes to see us at some point, so I think we’ve got a
seat at the table to see things.”  The Monaco-based businessman, who failed to land  Marks &
Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  in 2004 with a 9.1 billion-pound offer, said
he’s not interested in buying more U.K. fashion chains.  “Running more stuff in the same space, not attractive,”
said Green, who hasn’t made a major acquisition since 2005, when
he purchased the Etam chain in the U.K.  The billionaire said he plans to pursue expansion
internationally and online for his Arcadia empire, which he
acquired in 2002 for 850 million pounds. The U.K. retailer,
which includes the Dorothy Perkins and Burton chains and has 615
international franchised outlets, today reported a 25 percent
profit gain as fewer markdowns offset stagnant sales.  Arcadia will open its fourth U.S. store in  Los Angeles  next
year and is adding language-specific websites and flagship
stores such as a recently opened Sydney outlet.  Arcadia, which has a presence in 112 countries, said it
focused on managing inventory and product originality last year
to drive earnings as sales were hurt by weak  consumer spending .  Higher Profit  Pretax profit rose to 166.9 million pounds before one-time
items in the year ended Aug. 25, the London-based company said
today in a statement. Revenue was almost unchanged at 2.68
billion pounds, while sales at stores open at least a year fell
0.7 percent, led by a 3.2 percent drop in the U.K.  “Trading conditions remain challenging, therefore exciting
and engaging our customer across multi-channels is at the top of
our agenda” Green said in the statement.  Green said he’s closed about 60 outlets this year, having
said last year he had 260 store leases up for renewal.  “The closure of shops, the shake-up, you talk to every
retailer that has a lot of shops, all of them will tell you
they’d like to get rid of some stores,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  