-- Martoma Fund Used Dark Pool to Keep Insider Trading Quiet
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-11-21T17:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/martoma-fund-used-dark-pool-to-keep-inside-trade-quiet-sec-says.html
When Mathew Martoma needed to get
rid of more than 10 million  Elan (ELN)  Corp. shares in July 2008
without drawing attention, his trader turned to dark pools, the
government says.  Martoma, a former  fund manager  for  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC
Capital Advisors LP who prosecutors said ran the biggest-ever
 insider trading  scheme, wanted to sell in a way “so as not to
alert anyone else,” according to a complaint filed in federal
court in  Manhattan  yesterday. SAC used algorithms and dark pools
to keep the trades quiet, the government alleged.  While the tools may have prevented his sales from moving
the stock, they didn’t keep Martoma from landing in the sights
of prosecutors, who said he was part of a scheme that netted as
much as $276 million for the hedge fund. Dark pools, which don’t
identify the brokers and institutions that buy and sell on their
systems, and algorithms, which break up orders to disguise their
size, have drawn scrutiny in the past from regulators for
potentially reducing transparency in American  capital markets .  “Doing it piecemeal through algorithms and in dark pools
may make it much harder to detect,” Tony Cherin, a professor of
finance at  San Diego State University , said in a phone
interview. But “it’s the use of insider trading that makes it
illegal, not the way the trades are done,” he said.  Quietly, Effectively  More than 40 dark pools operate in the U.S. The venues are
mostly designed to give institutional investors a way to buy and
sell large amounts of stock without being exploited by faster
competitors. One key feature is that they don’t name the brokers
and institutions that buy and sell on their systems. Dark pools
account for about 30 percent of U.S. equity trading per month,
according to data compiled by Tabb Group, a New York-based
consulting firm.  The platforms cloak trading requests by keeping them out of
public view until the moment a transaction is completed. SAC’s
senior trader helped unload Elan shares representing more than
20 percent of the stock’s volume in the week before it announced
bad news, the complaint said.  “This was executed quietly and effectively over a 4-day
period through algos and dark pools and booked into two firm
accounts that have very limited viewing access,” the trader
wrote to Cohen on July 27, 2008. “The process clearly stopped
leakage of info from either in or outside the firm and in my
viewpoint clearly saved us some slippage.”  Exceptional Manager  Martoma was an exceptional  money manager  who succeeded
because of hard work, his lawyer,  Charles Stillman , said in an
e-mailed statement. He will be fully exonerated of the
government’s allegations, Stillman said. Neither Cohen nor SAC
were charged in the complaint. They were referred to instead as
“the hedge fund owner” and “the hedge fund.”  Dark pools and algorithmic trading are byproducts of the
computerization of U.S. equity trading that swept markets over
the last 15 years following reforms intended to loosen the
dominance of the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock
Market. While they rose to prominence during the same decade as
practices such as high-frequency trading, they have become
routine tools of brokers seeking the best prices for clients.  “What they’re detailing in the complaint is very typical
of how any institution would go about trying to execute a
sizable order,”  Adam Sussman , head of research at Tabb Group,
said in a phone interview. “There’s nothing in that description
that strikes me as interesting. It’s standard operating
procedure to try to execute a large trade.”  Inside Tips  Martoma, 38, traded on inside tips about clinical trials of
bapineuzumab, a drug intended to treat  Alzheimer’s disease ,
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a criminal complaint.  Relying on the data, he allegedly bought shares of Elan and
Wyeth for his portfolio. Cohen also bought Elan and Wyeth, based
on Martoma’s recommendation, prosecutors said. By the end of
June 2008, SAC held about $700 million in the two stocks.  In mid-July 2008, Martoma received secret data showing that
bapineuzumab failed to halt progression of Alzheimer’s in
patients in the clinical test, the U.S. said. He instructed the
fund’s senior trader to begin selling Elan, “and do so in a way
so as not to alert anyone else,” according to the complaint.  Martoma was arrested at his home in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , at
6:30 a.m. yesterday, said  Peter Donald , a spokesman for the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation in New York. He appeared before
U.S. Magistrate David Brannon in  West Palm Beach  and was
released on $5 million bond secured by two family members, said
Mary Delsener, a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office. Martoma is
scheduled to be in federal court in Manhattan on Nov. 26,
Bharara said.  “Executing shares in a dark pool doesn’t help facilitate
any illicit activity,” Sussman said in a phone interview. “The
same reporting mechanisms are in place whether you execute in a
dark pool or on an exchange. At the end of the day, regulators
know who the broker dealer was and the broker dealer knows who
the client was.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  