-- Asian Stocks Rise on U.S. Housing, China Stimulus Hopes
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-11-21T10:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/asia-stocks-advance-as-u-s-housing-boosts-export-outlook.html
Asian  stocks  gained, with the
regional benchmark index heading for the highest close in two
weeks, after U.S. new-home construction rose to a four-year high
and Chinese shares rallied on speculation policy makers will add
stimulus measures.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , the supplier of building
materials that counts the U.S. as its key market, rose 2 percent
in Sydney. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the
world’s largest lender by market value, added 1.8 percent.
 Angang Steel  Co. jumped 7.4 percent after Hong Kong’s largest
publicly traded steelmaker said it will swap assets with its
China parent to help reduce losses.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  added 0.2 percent to 121.08 as
of 7:45 p.m. in  Tokyo , heading for its highest close since Nov.
9. About five shares rose for every four that fell on the gauge.
The measure gained 11 percent through yesterday from this year’s
low on June 4 as central banks added economic and showed a
slowdown in  China  may be ending as Xi Jinping was named last
week to replace Hu Jintao as head of the Communist Party and the
nation’s military.  “China’s new leaders are expected to introduce more
concrete measures to help the economy,” said Michiya Tomita, a
Hong Kong-based fund manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management
Co., which oversees $70 billion. “We’ve seen fundamental
improvement in the Chinese economy. Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis remains the biggest concern among investors.”  The Asian benchmark index erased gains of as much as 0.5
percent today as European finance ministers failed to agree on
an aid package for  Greece  after battling with the International
Monetary Fund over how to nurse the recession-wracked country
back to fiscal health.  Shares on the gauge  traded  at 13.6 times estimated earnings
compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500 Index and 12.2 times
for the Stoxx  Europe  600, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  ‘Nothing Changed’  “We’ve seen lots of back and forth but nothing’s really
changed,” said Masahiko Ejiri, a Tokyo-based fund manager for
Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees about $45 billion.
“We’re getting accustomed to this and do not expect that things
will be improving dramatically. Most investors are still
concerned about the euro zone.”  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.9 percent. The
nation’s exports fell for a fifth month, increasing pressure on
the central bank to add stimulus measures as the world’s third-
largest economy moves closer to recession. Elections next month
are expected to hand power to opposition leader Shinzo Abe, who
advocates more aggressive monetary easing.  China’s Shanghai Composite climbed 1.1 percent, the biggest
advance since Nov. 1, reversing losses amid speculation that the
new government will introduce measures to boost the economy and
support the slumping equities market.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rallied 1.4 percent, the most
since Sept. 14. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  declined 0.3 percent,
while  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.4 percent.  Housing Starts  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The S&P 500 gained 0.1 percent yesterday as the gain in
housing starts countered a tumble in Hewlett-Packard Co. shares.
Stocks declined earlier as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank doesn’t have the tools to offset
the potential harm to the economy from the so-called fiscal
cliff.  “A plan for resolving the nation’s longer-term budgetary
issues without harming the recovery could help make the new year
a very good one for the American economy,” Bernanke said
yesterday at the Economic Club of New York.  Housing starts rose 3.6 percent to a 894,000, the fastest
annual rate since July 2008 and exceeding all estimates in a
Bloomberg survey, Commerce Department figures showed in
 Washington . The median forecast of 82 economists called for an
840,000 pace. Permits for the construction of single-family
homes also advanced to the highest in four years.  Weaker Yen  Exporters to the U.S. advanced. James Hardie gained 2
percent to A$8.81 in Sydney.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the
world’s biggest maker of smartphones, rose 1.5 percent to 1.384
million won in  Seoul .  Japanese exporters gained as the yen slid to a seven-month
low after the Finance Ministry said overseas shipments fell 6.5
percent in October from a year earlier, leaving a trade deficit
of 549 billion yen ($6.7 billion). A weaker currency boosts the
value of overseas income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker, climbed
2.2 percent to 3,435 yen in Tokyo. Honda Motor Co. advanced 3.2
percent to 2,657 yen. Canon Inc., the world’s largest camera
added 1 percent to 2,820 yen.  Chinese Lenders  Chinese lenders and developers rose after the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange said the government will
waive some requirements for foreign investors to make it easier
to bring money into and out of the country. Foreign investors
will be exempt from needing regulatory pre-approval for opening
bank accounts, remitting profits abroad and transferring money
between different domestic accounts starting Dec. 17, it said.  ICBC, as China’s biggest bank is known, gained 1.8 percent
to HK$5.15 in Hong Kong.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the
second-largest, climbed 3.4 percent to HK$5.84. China Overseas
Land & Investment Ltd., a Chinese developer traded in Hong Kong,
gained 2.7 percent to HK$21.25.  Angang Steel jumped 7.4 percent to HK$4.92. The company
said it agreed to sell its 45 percent stake in Tianjin Tiantie,
a cold-rolled steel venture, for 1.18 billion  yuan  ($189
million) to parent Anshan Iron & Steel Group. It also agreed to
sell its 80 percent stake in Angang Putian, another cold-rolled
steel plant, to the parent’s trading company in exchange for
domestic steel trading assets, Angang said.  WestSide Corp. (WCL)  jumped 3.9 percent to 40 Australian cents in
Sydney. The company said it received a takeover proposal of 52
Australian cents a share and its board agreed not to solicit
competing bids until the unidentified investor completes due
diligence within three weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  