-- Stocks Rise, Treasuries Fall as Israel, Hamas Reach Truce
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-11-21T21:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/asian-stocks-rise-on-u-s-data-as-yen-slides-to-seven-month-low.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
extended its longest rally in seven weeks, while Treasuries fell
for a third day and oil trimmed earlier gains as  Israel  and
Hamas agreed to a cease-fire after a weeklong conflict.  The  S&P 500  increased 0.2 percent to 1,391.03 at 4 p.m. in
New York for a fourth straight gain. Ten-year Treasury note
yields climbed one basis point to 1.68 percent, the  highest
since  Nov. 8. Oil added 0.7 percent while cattle reached a
record. The euro reversed losses triggered earlier when finance
ministers failed to agree on a Greek debt plan. The rand traded
above 9 per dollar for the first time in three years.  Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas agreed to
bring to an end more than a week of air strikes and missile
attacks, after talks brokered by Egypt’s Islamist leaders and
the U.S. Economic reports earlier today showed fewer people
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  in the U.S., while
more Americans said the economy will improve than at any time in
the past decade.  “The announcement of the cease-fire is by no means a fix
to the issue, but it does suggest that the negotiations are
going on,”  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management in Richmond,  Virginia , which oversees about $47
billion, said in a phone interview. “In the U.S., the economic
releases were mixed, but generally positive.”  U.S. markets will be closed tomorrow for the Thanksgiving
holiday. About 4.8 billion shares changed hands today in the
U.S., 22 percent below the three-month daily average.  The S&P 500 has gained an average 0.6 percent during the
week of Thanksgiving, according to data since World War II
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 0.15 percent in all
calendar  weeks  in the same time frame.  Market Movers  Among U.S. stocks moving today,  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  jumped
8.8 percent after its forecasts for fiscal fourth-quarter sales
and profit that were in line with analysts’ estimates.  Deere &
Co. (DE) , the world’s largest agricultural equipment maker, fell 3.7
percent as earnings missed analysts’ estimates.  Technology, energy, telephone and consumer-discretionary
stocks led and advance in nine of the 10 main industries in the
S&P 500, while  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , Bank of America Corp. and
Microsoft Corp. climbed at least 0.9 percent for the biggest
gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  U.S. jobless claims fell by 41,000 to 410,000 last week,
Labor Department data showed. The Conference Board’s October
gauge of leading economic indicators increased 0.2 percent after
a revised 0.5 percent gain in September that was lower than
initially reported. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final index of consumer sentiment for November was little
changed at 82.7, a five-year high, from the prior month’s 82.6.
The gauge was projected to rise to 84.5, according to the median
forecast economists.  ‘Substantial Threat’  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday an
agreement on ways to reduce long-term  federal budget  deficits
would remove an impediment to growth, while failure to avoid the
so-called fiscal cliff would pose a “substantial threat” to
the recovery. The S&P 500 has fallen as much as 5.3 percent
since the Nov. 6 election set up a budget showdown between
President  Barack Obama  and the Republican-controlled House.  Natural gas, silver, gasoline and heating oil rose more
than 1 percent to lead gains in 14 of 24 commodities tracked by
the S&P GSCI.  Cattle futures surged to a record on signs of rising demand
for beef as supplies tighten after the worst drought since 1956
prompted U.S. ranchers to cull herds. Cattle futures for
February delivery rose as much as 1 percent $1.318 a pound on
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  Two-year and 30-year debt U.S. securities also retreated,
sending yields on each up at least one basis point. U.S.
government securities due in 10 years and longer returned 2.2
percent in the past month, including currency moves, the most of
144 sovereign indexes tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  European Markets  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index erased an earlier drop of as
much as 0.3 percent and gained 0.2 percent. Daimler AG and
Renault SA paced gains in auto companies. Johnson Matthey Plc
slid 5.8 percent as the maker of a third of all autocatalysts
reported a 2.2 percent drop in first-half profit.  The yen weakened against 15 of 16 major peers. Japan’s
exports fell 6.5 percent in October from a year earlier, leaving
a trade deficit of 549 billion yen ($6.7 billion), the  Finance
Ministry  said today. Economists estimated a 4.9 percent decline
in exports. Imports dropped 1.6 percent.  Yen Weakens  The Japanese currency weakened 2.5 percent in the past
week, the worst performer tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency indexes, amid speculation national elections
next month will hand power to an opposition party in favor of
more stimulus.  The rand weakened against all 16 major counterparts after
South Africa inflation unexpectedly quickened. The currency
retreated as much as 1.9 percent to 9.0092 per dollar, the
weakest since April 2009. Yields on 13.5 percent bonds due
September 2015 climbed five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 5.46 percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.2 percent, gaining
for a third day, as stocks in China,  Argentina  and  Mexico  led
gains. The Shanghai index jumped 1.1 percent, the most since
Nov. 1, on speculation the central bank will lower reserve-ratio
requirements to boost investor confidence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  