-- Tax Threat Seen as Grinch Poised to Steal Holiday Sales: Retail
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-11-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/tax-threat-seen-as-grinch-poised-to-steal-holiday-sales-retail.html
Has the Grinch moved to  Washington ?  Retailers will find out this weekend if concerns over the
so-called fiscal cliff and possible tax increases subdues
shoppers as they flood malls across the U.S. on Black Friday,
the unofficial start to the  holiday shopping season .  The  National Retail Federation  says holiday sales will rise
4.1 percent to an estimated $586.1 billion this year, compared
with a 5.6 percent gain in 2011. Even though thousands of stores
are opening earlier, 147 million consumers, or 5 million fewer
than last year, plan to hit the malls this weekend, according to
an NRF survey conducted by BIGresearch.  “We hear these guys on  cable television  with eerie music,
talking about doom and gloom,” Mortimer Singer, chief executive
officer of  New York  consulting firm Marvin Traub Associates,
said in a telephone interview. “Consumers get nervous when this
kind of stuff happens.”  To put them in a spending mood, retailers are opening
earlier than ever and dangling discounts such as $7 board games
at  Target Corp. (TGT)  and $19 sweaters at  Gap Inc. (GPS)  Mindful that many
shoppers plan to buy gifts online, Target and Best Buy Co. are
matching prices offered by online competitors such as  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) , while some merchants are adding kiosks and mobile
checkouts to integrate online and in-store shopping. Others have
giveaways such as free family portraits in November at J.C.
Penney Co. stores.  Child-Care Service  In an effort to lure shoppers into stores, malls have added
such features as lounges, gift-wrapping services, even child-
care, Joel Bines, a Dallas-based managing director in the retail
practice at AlixPartners, said in a telephone interview.  The moves are “almost entirely related to the amount of
business that has moved to the Web,” he said.  U.S. consumers, whose spending makes up about 70 percent of
the  U.S. economy , have coped this year with political
uncertainty, higher fuel prices and, in the Northeast, the
fallout from  Hurricane Sandy .  There are signs of improvement, including rising  home
prices  and a jobless rate that’s ducked under 8 percent in the
past two months, the lowest since January 2009. Household
confidence in the week ended Nov. 11 climbed to -33.1, the
highest level in seven months, according to the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, and has increased in 10 of the past 12
weeks. Still, that figure indicates that one-third of those
surveyed hold a negative view of the economy.  Marketing Tool  Black Friday has become a powerful marketing tool and one
of the busiest days on the U.S. shopping calendar. More than 
half of American consumers plan to shop during the holiday 
weekend, with about one-third hitting the stores on Black 
Friday alone, according to a survey conducted by the 
 International Council of Shopping Centers , an industry group 
based in New York.  Many chains are opening early this year, after a few 
tested the water last year.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, will
start its in-store specials at 8 p.m. on Thanksgiving, two hours
earlier than last year. Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel
retailer, is opening more stores, about a third of its total,
mostly at 9 a.m. on Thanksgiving this year. Macy’s is opening
stores at midnight after Thanksgiving having done so for the
first time last year.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) , Staples Inc. and The Disney
Store Ltd. are among those offering “pre-Black Friday”
specials.  Teen Party  Merchants that sell to teens can particularly benefit from
earlier hours, according to John D. Morris, an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets in New York. Most American Eagle Outfitters Inc.
and  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  stores will open at midnight.  “It is literally a party, it is a teen party mob scene,”
Morris said. “These teens are going nuts over this stuff.”  More than 180 of  Mall of America ’s 520 stores will open at
midnight on Thanksgiving, an increase from 65 a year ago.  Stores that didn’t open early in 2011 “were bummed,”
Julie Hansen, a spokesman for the Bloomington, Minnesota mall,
said in a telephone interview. Several stores that opened at
midnight last year had surpassed their sales figures from the
previous Black Friday by 4 a.m., she said.  Customers have long complained about seeing Christmas decor
in stores before kids had even finished devouring their
Halloween candy, and retailers had traditionally saved their
best come-hither deals for after Thanksgiving. More recently,
though, some retailers began offering Black Friday deals online
beginning on Thanksgiving and then opening stores on the
holiday, and consumers followed.  No Thanksgiving  “It’s unfortunate, but it’s just that constant creep
forward -- soon, there will be no Thanksgiving holiday,” Bines
said. “The holdouts this year are next year’s participants.
It’s just a question of who wants to push the envelope.”  Not everyone is a fan of the extended hours. While the
holiday openings, with their doorbusters and giveaways, create
buzz, the downside is that  adding hours  on Thanksgiving can
damage employee morale and performance in the long run, said
 Paul Swinand , a retail analyst at Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago .  More than 130 petitions asking large retailers to forgo
holiday hours have been introduced this year, according to
Change.org, a website that allows activists to post petitions.
That includes one from a Target worker calling for the
Minneapolis-based discounter to revert to a 5 a.m. Black Friday
opening that has garnered more than 350,000 signatures this
year, according to the organization.  Wal-Mart Protests  Wal-Mart workers demanding better pay and benefits have
vowed to stage more than 1,000 protests online and outside U.S.
stores this week. To gain leverage, protest leaders will have to
turn out significant numbers of strikers and persuade bargain-
hunters to go elsewhere. Similar protests in recent weeks have
had little perceptible impact.  Some merchants, including J.C. Penney and Staples, say
they’ll remain closed on Thanksgiving because they don’t want to
infringe on their workers’ time with family.  Even without opening early, retailers will benefit from the
maximum number of days possible -- 32 -- between Thanksgiving
and Christmas this year, said Roseanne McCauley, vice president
of the Americas for Experian FootFall, which tracks traffic and
other data for  retailers .  “People have two more paychecks coming in before the end
of the month,” she said in a Nov. 16 telephone interview.  Adding a sales day from Thanksgiving “is going to
absolutely increase volume” for retailers, enabling them to
stick to their planned schedule of markdowns, McCauley said.
“At the end of the day, the hours are driven by the
consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  