-- Baidu Falls Most in 3 Days on Mobile Acquisition Concern
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-11-21T23:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/baidu-falls-to-two-year-low-on-mobile-acquisition-concern.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of  China ’s most
popular search engine, dropped the most in three days on
speculation the company will acquire mobile businesses that may
not be immediately profitable.  Shares of Baidu fell 0.9 percent to $93.24 in  New York 
after plunging earlier today to $90.55, the lowest intraday
level since September 2010. The stock has lost 43 percent since
reaching a record high of $164.36 on July 26, 2011, as  slowing 
economic growth in China damps demand for advertising.  Baidu, which accounts for more than three-quarters of
China’s search-engine market by sales, said it raised $1.5
billion in its debut bond issue yesterday, in part to fund
possible acquisitions. Baidu may be targeting companies in
mobile businesses for expansion as users migrate from personal
computers to portable devices such as smartphones, according to
Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc..  “The risk is everyone wants to move to the mobile business
but none of them has made money out of it yet,” Papp, who
doesn’t own Baidu shares, said by phone from Lisle,  Illinois .
“The dilemma for Baidu is that they want to further cement
their position in mobile business, but they may not have a huge
return on assets right away.”  Baidu sold $750 million each of 2.25 percent, five-year
debentures and 3.5 percent, 10-year securities, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Baidu is rated at A3 at Moody’s
Investors Service and A at Fitch.  ‘War Chest’  “Our bond offer is really about having a ready war chest
that gives us flexibility for a range of future strategic
uses,” Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman for Beijing-based Baidu, said in
an e-mailed response to questions today. “While we have no
specific M&A deals pending currently, we will as always be
attuned to opportunities and will make prudent acquisitions.”  Chief Executive Officer Robin Li told a conference at
 Stanford University  in September that China’s biggest Internet
companies haven’t yet figured out the best way to make money
from mobile, and that he was patiently experimenting with
business models.  About 25 percent of Baidu’s research and development
spending is on mobile, even as smartphones make up less than 10
percent of the company’s total sales, Li said at the September
conference. Mobile sales at least tripled this year as Baidu
rolled out products, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  