-- Bank of America Sued by CIFG Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-11-21T20:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/bank-of-america-sued-by-cifg-over-mortgage-securities.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, was sued by CIFG Assurance North
America Inc. for fraud and breach of contract over insurance
policies tied to residential mortgage-backed securities.  The suit was filed yesterday in  New York  state  Supreme
Court  in  Manhattan  in connection with five financial guaranty
insurance policies issued by CIFG. The policies relate to two
structured transactions arranged by Bank of America and backed
by 22 mortgage-backed securities, according to court filings.  “Bank of America had these securities in its inventory
because it had been unable to sell them when it served as
underwriter on the original RMBS offerings,” CIFG said in the
lawsuit. “Bank of America knew of the poor quality of the
 mortgage loans , and knew the original unsold RMBS were a ticking
time bomb on the bank’s books.”  The bank, unable to sell the securities in pieces, then
“hatched a new plan of financial engineering,” repackaged the
bonds, and induced New York-based CIFG to provide more than $150
million in insurance to make them marketable to investors, the
insurer said in the suit.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to immediately comment
on the lawsuit in an e-mail.  ‘Garbage Data’  The insurer said Bank of America gave it “garbage data”
that made the loans and the certificates they backed appear less
risky than they actually were, including the percentage of the
mortgages where the property would be occupied by the borrowers.  “Had CIFG known the truth, it never would have issued the
policies,” the insurer said in the complaint. “And as a direct
result of this fraudulent scheme, CIFG has paid or will have to
pay in the future over $170 million in claims on policies that
it would never have issued had it known the truth concerning the
underwriting, characteristics and servicing of the mortgage
loans and original RMBS backing the certificates.”  CIFG, based in New York, has taken similar actions in the
same court over the past three years, including a $277 million
suit against GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Inc. filed last month
and a $275 million complaint against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
filed last year.  Fraudulent Inducement  Justice O. Peter Sherwood in May granted Goldman Sachs’s
motion to dismiss three counts in the suit, including one for
fraudulent inducement. He refused to dismiss three other claims
for breach of contract.  CIFG and Goldman Sachs have both appealed the decision.
Sherwood in July ordered the two sides to engage in mediation,
which was scheduled for Oct. 26, according to a Sept. 13 court
filing. A status conference in the case scheduled for earlier
this month was postponed until December.  CIFG originally sued GreenPoint in New York state Supreme
Court in Manhattan in 2009, accusing the company of violating
its mortgage-underwriting guidelines. Justice Bernard Fried
threw out that lawsuit in 2010.  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  shut
Novato, California-based GreenPoint in August 2007, less than a
year after acquiring its parent company,  Long Island ’s North
Fork Bancorp.  In February, Fried denied a motion by CIFG and fellow bond
insurer Syncora Guarantee Inc. to bring new claims against
GreenPoint in a lawsuit over the quality of $1.8 billion of home
loans they guaranteed. CIFG in April also asked a judge to let
it add GreenPoint to the Goldman Sachs lawsuit.  Awaiting Approval  CIFG is also one of a group of intervenors seeking more
information on Bank of America’s proposed $8.5 billion
settlement with investors in mortgage bonds issued by
Countrywide, which the lender bought in 2008. The settlement is
awaiting approval in New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
53, has spent more than $40 billion to clean up defective
mortgages and improper foreclosures.  The lender said in a regulatory filing in September that it
could have as much as $2.8 billion in legal costs as of Sept. 30
beyond what it has already set aside. That’s a decline from the
$4.1 billion estimated three months earlier because of a
settlement of a class-action suit tied to the 2009 takeover of
Merrill Lynch & Co., said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America
spokesman.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  The case is CIFG Assurance North America Inc., 654028/2012,
New York state Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  