-- Dubai Group, Banks Said Close to $6 Billion Debt Agreement
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i ,   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-11-21T12:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/banks-said-close-to-deal-on-6-billion-dubai-group-restructuring.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  and Noor Islamic
Bank are among creditors close to an agreement with Dubai Group
LLC on restructuring $6 billion of debt after more than two
years of talks, four bankers familiar with the matter said.  Law firm Linklaters LLP, which represents the so-called co-
ordinating committee of creditors, is drafting the accord and a
final agreement may be reached as soon as mid-December, the
people said, asking not to be identified as talks aren’t public.
The deal envisages interest of 1 percent to 2.5 percent and was
proposed by Dubai Group earlier this year, the people said.  The creditor group, comprised of about 35 banks, is seeking
to win approval from  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Standard
Bank Group Ltd. and Commerzbank AG for the deal, three of the
people said. The three banks walked away from the lender 
group in July because of a lack of progress on the restructuring.  Dubai Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is one of
several companies in the state seeking to restructure loans that
were arranged before property prices slumped and credit markets
froze with the onset of the 2008 global credit crisis.  Katie Taylor, a spokeswoman for Linklaters, declined to
comment. A spokeswoman for RBS in Dubai, who can’t be identified
under corporate policy, declined to comment. An Emirates NBD
spokesman said the bank won’t comment on client issues. Martin Halusa, a spokesman for Commerzbank, declined to comment. A
spokesman for Noor Islamic bank also declined to comment. A
Dubai Group spokeswoman also declined to comment.  Sheikh Mohammed  Dubai Group, whose parent company is owned by Dubai ruler
Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, used cheap loans to
invest in financial services companies and property in the U.S.
The company, which also owes another $4 billion to shareholders,
holds stakes in companies including Dubai-based investment bank
 Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , Cairo-based investment bank  EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE (HRHO) , and  BankMuscat SAOG (BKMB) , Oman’s biggest bank by assets.  Dubai Group is also among several companies that have
restructured debt in the emirate since the financial crisis.
Dubai World, one of the sheikhdom’s three main state-controlled
holding companies, reached a deal in March 2011 with about 80
banks to delay payments on about $15 billion of loans.  Restructuring Deal  The restructuring deal proposed four different interest
rate classes depending on the currency and the type of
creditors, two people familiar with the proposals said in April.
Secured creditors, whose loans are backed by assets, will be
repaid principal in three years, according to the people. Banks
that offered partially secured and unsecured loans will be
returned principal in 12 years and receive additional interest
at the end of the loan term, they said.  In 2011, Dubai Group appointed eight banks to two
committees representing creditors. Paris-based Natixis SA’s
Nexgen unit and  Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  of Dubai make up the committee
of secured lenders. RBS and Emirates NBD PJSC were leading the
group of partially secured and unsecured lenders.  The debt restructuring has also led to loan losses at
banks. Emirates NBD, the  United Arab Emirates ’ biggest bank by
assets, said in July it had set aside 32 percent of the value of
Dubai Group’s loans, or 1.47 billion dirhams ($400 million), to
cover for losses as a result of the debt restructuring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net  or
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  