-- Bank of Spain Says Rajoy Risks Missing Budget Deficit Targets
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-11-21T10:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/bank-of-spain-says-rajoy-risks-missing-budget-deficit-targets.html
Bank of Spain Governor Luis Maria Linde said the government risks missing its budget targets this
year and next, adding to doubts on Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s ability to cut the deficit amid a five-year slump.  The data “doesn’t allow us to rule out the possibility of
some slippage,” because the target depends on tax measures
kicking in at the end of this year, Linde said in the Senate in
Madrid today. “Meeting the 2013 objectives could be put in
danger if tax collection was affected by lower economic
activity.”  Rajoy is trying to reduce the deficit by two thirds in
three years even as he forecasts the economy will continue to
contract next year amid a 26 percent unemployment rate. While
the European Commission told Spain last week its budget measures
were sufficient, Moody’s Investors Service said the EU’s stance
was “credit negative” for  Spain , which it rates one step above
junk. Linde said the deficit targets should not be eased.  “It is crucial to dissipate doubts over the capacity to
control the upward trend of public debt,” Linde said.  Spain increased the value-added tax from Sept. 1 as part of
a package of measures announced in July to correct a three-
month-old budget. As part of the same package, it scrapped a
Christmas bonus for public workers equivalent to a month’s
salary.  “Meeting the target will depend on numerous tax measures,
with an impact in the last quarter ending up yielding the
expected results, and that compensates for the expansion in
spending on interest, jobless benefits and pensions,” Linde
said. “It should be expected that possible slippage in some
areas can be offset with possible adjustments in others.”  The 2013 budget, which seeks to cut the deficit to 4.5
percent of gross domestic product, is making its way through the
lower and upper houses of Parliament for final approval by the
end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  