-- BASF to Pay $654 Million for Pronova to Be Leader in Omega-3
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-11-21T10:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/basf-to-pay-654-million-for-pronova-to-be-leader-in-omega-3-2-.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest
chemicals company, agreed to buy  Pronova BioPharma ASA (PRON)  for 3.76
billion kroner ($654 million) to gain a leading position in
Omega-3 fatty acids used in drugs and health foods.  BASF is offering 12.50 kroner in cash for each share of
Lysaker, Norway-based Pronova, the German company said today.
The bid is 4.2 percent higher than yesterday’s close. Pronova
rose 4.6 percent to 12.55 kroner at 10:56 a.m. in Oslo.
Including debt, the Ludwigshafen-based chemical maker’s deal
values Pronova at 4.85 billion kroner.  The purchase would add higher-grade Omega-3, used in
medicines for cardiovascular diseases, to ingredients for
dietary supplements that BASF gained with the purchase of
 Scotland ’s Equateq in May and the acquisition of Cognis in 2010.
Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock is boosting the company’s
share in nutrition and health, a market estimated to grow to 81
billion euros by 2015 that is sought after by rivals such as
 Royal DSM NV (DSM)  and  Croda International Plc. (CRDA)   “It looks like a very nice growth market,” said Ulle Woerner, a chemical analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg.
“The business is very profitable, and if you look at the growth
it’s not a bad price.”  Blockbuster  The purchase price gives Pronova an enterprise value of
4.85 billion kroner, which is 5.7 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization over the last 12
months, BASF said.  Pronova, which posted sales of 214 million euros ($274
million) and ebitda of about 90 million euros last year, has one
blockbuster product sold as Omacor by Abbott Laboratories and as
Lovaza by GlaxoSmithKline Plc, BASF said. The Norwegian company
also has a production site in  Denmark .  DSM earlier this month agreed to buy Fortitech of the U.S.,
a maker of ingredients for infant nutrition and dietary
supplements, for $634 million. The purchase follows about 1.8
billion euros in takeovers by DSM to expand in nutrition. Croda
said in April it was talking to potential takeover targets and
has cited expansion in nutrition and drug ingredients as a goal.  BASF’s purchase, to be completed in the first quarter of
2013, has been approved by Pronova’s board of directors and will
be financed with cash on hand, the German company said. Herkules
Private Equity, Kistefos AS and Kistefos Investment AS,
investors which own about 60 percent of Pronova’s stock total,
have said they will accept the offer, BASF said, adding the
commitments are “irrevocable.”  Strengthening Profitability  Bock, who has held the top job for about 18 months, is
shifting BASF toward additives for health foods and other
higher-margin specialty chemicals to help shield the company
from economic swings. The market for omega-3 concentrates is
expected to grow 8 percent a year on average between 2011 and
2020, BASF said.  “The intended acquisition will significantly strengthen
our position in the fast-growing and highly profitable market
for omega-3 fatty acids,” BASF board member Michael Heinz said
in the statement. The market is “driven by an increasing
consumer awareness of omega-3 fatty acids health benefits,”
BASF said.  BASF declined as much as 0.8 percent to 65.29 euros in
Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained 22 percent this year for
a market value of 60.3 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  