-- Baupost’s Highland Scraps Plan for Canada Rock Quarry
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-11-21T21:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/baupost-s-highland-scraps-plan-for-canada-rock-quarry.html
An investor group that includes Seth
Klarman’s Baupost Group LLC withdrew a proposal to build a rock
quarry in Ontario after local residents opposed the plan.  The application for the quarry in Melancthon Township
“does not have sufficient support from the community and
government to justify proceeding with the approval process,”
the Highland Cos. said in a  statement  on its website today.
Highland’s backers for the aggregate quarry northwest of Toronto
include Baupost, the Boston-based hedge fund, said Lindsay
Broadhead, a spokeswoman for the company at Hill & Knowlton
Strategies.  The decision is the latest setback for Klarman, a bargain
hunter who along with other prominent value investors such as
Ralph Whitworth of Relational Investors LLC and  Jeremy Grantham 
of Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co. has been hurt by the  selloff 
in shares of Hewlett-Packard Co. The failure of the quarry
project highlights the difficulties of investing in real assets,
which have seen a surge in interest as central banks around the
world print money to revive the economy.  Baupost, founded in 1983, manages about $25 billion. As of
July, the hedge fund had returned 18 percent a year since
inception.  Elaine Mann, a Baupost spokeswoman, said the firm declined
to comment on the project.  Klarman, 55, wrote the preface to the sixth edition of
“ Security Analysis ,” the 1934 book by  Benjamin Graham  and
 David Dodd  considered by many the bible of value investing. He
was among a number of prominent managers who last year bought
shares in  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) , the Palo Alto, California-based
technology firm that has slumped 53 percent in 2012.  H-P Selloff  Hewlett-Packard plunged 12 percent yesterday after the
company took an $8.8 billion writedown, citing a “willful
effort to mislead investors and potential buyers,” at Autonomy
Corp., the British software maker it bought last year for $10.3
billion. Hewlett-Packard is the third-worst performer in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as only education company  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL)  and
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  have fallen more.  Klarman purchased 20.8 million Hewlett-Packard  shares  in
the third quarter of 2011 when the stock sold for an average of
$29.48 a share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He
added to his holdings in this year’s second quarter before
dumping almost half his stake in the third quarter, when shares
sold for an average of $18.40.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  