-- Beckham Says He Has ‘Exciting Options’ for Last Soccer Challenge
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-21T05:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/beckham-says-he-has-exciting-options-for-last-soccer-challenge.html
David Beckham  said he’ll weigh some
“exciting options” for the final challenge of his soccer
playing career once his six-year U.S. stint ends next month.  Beckham, 37, announced two days ago that the Dec. 1 Major
League Soccer championship game will be his last competitive
match for the  Los Angeles Galaxy , sparking a global race to sign
the former  England  captain.  Beckham said his immediate focus is on helping the Galaxy
beat the Houston Dynamo in the MLS Cup and that he hasn’t
decided on his next move with clubs in Australia,  Brazil , China,
France and  Russia  all said to be interested in acquiring him.  “There are options and I am very lucky at my age to have
options,” Beckham said in televised comments in  Los Angeles 
yesterday. “My decision will be made around December or in the
New Year, but right now I can’t even comment on it.”  Beckham’s management last week denied he had any plans to
play in Australia after the country’s soccer federation said it
had been approached about the possibility.  Perth Glory and Melbourne Heart said yesterday they are
still interested in bringing him to the A-League, where ex-Italy
forward Alessandro Del Piero and Beckham’s former England
teammate Emile Heskey are playing this season.  A posting on Perth’s Twitter account said that “the race
is on” following Beckham’s announcement that he will leave the
Galaxy, while Heart Chief Executive Officer Scott Munn said his
team would put forward a “compelling offer” to Beckham.  Paris Saint-Germain is among the clubs ready to make him an
offer, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported. He’s also
received approaches from Russia, China and Brazil, the  BBC 
added, although he’d only go to a club where he’s assured a
regular starting berth.  ‘Interesting Options’  “I haven’t had any talks right now with anybody, but I do
have exciting and some interesting options on the table,”
Beckham said yesterday. “Over my career, I’ve had many rumors
said about where I’m going to be playing, what teams I’m going
to be joining, and even at 37 years old that’s not changed, so
I’m sure that will continue to happen until I’ve made my
decision.”  Beckham joined the Galaxy in January 2007 and helped the
team win its third MLS championship last season. Although he
signed a new two-year contract in January, it included an option
on the second year.  His presence coincided with a period of unprecedented
growth for the 17-year-old league, which has added seven clubs
in the past six years while 15 of the 19 MLS teams now play in
soccer-specific stadiums, up from five before 2007.  Beckham, who won league titles with  Manchester United  in
England and Real  Madrid  in  Spain  before switching to the U.S.,
said he decided to leave the Galaxy because he had achieved
everything he wanted with the club.  “I still feel like I have one more challenge in me as a
player, even at 37 years old,” Beckham said. “Where that will
be yet, I haven’t decided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  