-- Billionaire Green’s Arcadia Says Profit Rose on Fewer Markdowns
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-11-21T08:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/billionaire-green-s-arcadia-says-profit-rose-on-fewer-markdowns.html
Arcadia Group Ltd. , the U.K. fashion
retailer owned by billionaire  Philip Green , reported a 25
percent profit gain as fewer markdowns offset stagnant sales.  Pretax profit rose to 166.9 million pounds ($265 million)
before one-time items in the year ended Aug. 25, the London-
based company said today in an e-mailed statement. Revenue was
almost unchanged at 2.68 billion pounds, while sales at stores
open at least a year fell 0.7 percent, led by a 3.2 percent drop
in the U.K., where the retailer runs store chains including BHS,
Dorothy Perkins, TopShop, Miss Selfridge and Burton.  Arcadia, which has a presence in 112 countries, said it
focused on managing inventory and product originality to drive
earnings as sales were hurt by weak  consumer spending .  “Trading conditions remain challenging, therefore exciting
and engaging our customer across multi-channels is at the top of
our agenda” Green, 60, said in the statement.  Business improved in the first 10 weeks of the new
financial year, the company reported, with same-store sales
rising 0.7 percent and profit margins strengthening further. Its
comments echoed those of competitor New Look Group Ltd., which
yesterday reported a 25 percent gain in first-half earnings and
said sales started to grow after falling most of the year.  Green said he plans to pursue further expansion in the U.S.
and online. Arcadia has 615 international franchised outlets and
will open its first store in  South Africa  tomorrow. Its fourth
U.S. store opens in  Los Angeles  in the spring. It also has 14
concession spaces inside  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  department stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  