-- BNEF Lowers California Carbon Price Forecasts After First Sale
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-11-21T00:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/bnef-lowers-california-carbon-price-forecasts-after-first-sale.html
California carbon allowances will
sell for $14.06 each next year, down 2.7 percent from previous
forecasts, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said after permits
cleared in an auction near the lowest allowable price.  The  California Air Resources Board  sold all 23.1 million
carbon permits offered at a Nov. 14 auction for the first
compliance period of the state’s emissions program starting Jan.
1, the agency said on its website yesterday. The allowances
cleared at $10.09, 9 cents above the $10 “floor price,” or the
lowest price allowed.  Power, oil and gas companies “were bidding for large
volumes near the auction floor price,” Thomas Marcello, an
analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  New York , said in an
e-mailed research note. “We suspect that the clearing price was
set by these relatively low-priced, large-volume bids.”  Carbon futures dropped to a record low of $11.65 a ton
yesterday after state regulators released the results of the
auction, which created the world’s second-biggest carbon market,
after the European Union program. California’s system will
eventually cover 85 percent of emissions in an economy valued at
$1.74 trillion last year.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance lowered its price forecasts
for contracts expiring this December, as well as December 2013,
2014 and 2015. Those expiring this December will sell at $11.90,
down from the $12.67 that it projected on Nov. 8.  Lawsuit Filed  The California Chamber of Commerce filed a lawsuit Nov. 13
challenging the state’s authority to sell permits, calling the
allowance auction an unconstitutional fee.  “Compliance entities may have considered the possibility
that the courts may eventually rule in favor of the plaintiff”
when deciding to buy permits in last week’s auction, Marcello
said. Companies would have to seek compensation for the
allowances they bought in auction through the court system
should the sale be invalidated, he said.  Futures contracts based on carbon permits for December 2013
expiry climbed 5 cents to $11.70 a metric ton today, according
to data compiled by  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s Green Exchange in New York.
Prices are down 26 percent for the year.  The state also sold 5.58 million out of the 39.5 million
allowances it put up for auction to be used in the second phase
of the program, beginning in 2015. The advance permits cleared
at the $10 floor price.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s previous forecasts assumed
that 25 percent of the advance allowances would go unsold as
fuel distributors waited to begin stockpiling credits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  