-- BOE Voted 8-1 to Halt Bond Purchases as QE Impact Questioned
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-11-21T09:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/boe-voted-8-1-to-halt-bond-purchases-as-qe-impact-questioned-1-.html
The Bank of England voted 8-1 to
stop expanding its bond-purchase program this month as the
majority said uncertainty among consumers and companies may be
affecting the impact of  quantitative easing  on the economy.  David Miles  dissented from the majority on the Monetary
Policy Committee, calling for a 25 billion-pound ($40 billion)
increase in the target to 400 billion pounds. The MPC voted
unanimously to keep its  benchmark interest rate  at a record-low
0.5 percent and said it was “unlikely to wish to reduce” it in
the “foreseeable future.”  “There was a question over the magnitude of the impact of
lower yields and higher asset prices on the broader economy at
the current juncture,” the central bank said in the minutes of
the MPC’s Nov. 7-8 meeting, published today in  London . “It was
possible that elevated uncertainty and a desire to reduce
leverage meant that real activity was less responsive to lower
borrowing costs than normal.”  The MPC’s decision was also influenced by the U.K.
Treasury’s announcement that it will take coupon income from the
BOE’s gilt holdings in a move that would equate to a “small
easing in monetary conditions.” While the MPC said it was
“confident” the move wouldn’t impact its ability to set
policy, it will take account of the arrangement in its
decisions.  The pound pared a decline against the dollar after the
report was released and was trading at $1.5930 as of 9:32 a.m.
in London.  Inflation Outlook  Inflationary concerns remained an issue for some MPC
members, according to the minutes. After accelerating to 2.7
percent in October, the MPC said increases in energy costs and
university tuition fees meant the chance of  inflation  slowing to
below the 2 percent goal “were likely to be less.”  “And even if such price increases did not persist, the
prospect of continued above target inflation in the near term
increased the chance that any pickup in productivity would
result in higher wage demands,” the  Bank of England  said.
“This had added to the other potential costs of injecting
further monetary stimulus at the current time.”  On interest rates, the MPC said it reexamined the potential
effectiveness of a reduction. While it noted it could be
beneficial for some existing borrowers, there were concerns it
“might prove counter productive for aggregate demand as a
whole” and lower profitability for some lenders. The rate has
been at its current level since March 2009.  Rate Cut  In the minutes, the MPC noted that a case could be made for
a further easing in monetary conditions, including
“discouraging any further appreciation of sterling.” For
Miles, the case for more QE was “strong” due to the degree of
slack in the economy, according to the minutes.  Pressure on the economy remains from the government’s
fiscal squeeze and the ongoing crisis in the euro area. Finance
ministers in the currency zone failed earlier today to agree on
a debt-reduction package for  Greece  after battling with the
 International Monetary Fund  over how to nurse the recession-
wracked country back to fiscal health.  A separate U.K. report today showed Britain’s  budget
deficit  unexpectedly widened in October as  government spending 
surged and the economic slump hit  tax revenue  from company
profits. The shortfall excluding government support for banks
was 8.6 billion pounds compared with 5.9 billion pounds a year
earlier. The median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a deficit of 6 billion pounds.  Sluggish  The MPC said today that the U.K. economy may shrink in the
current quarter and that underlying output growth “would remain
sluggish in the near term.” At a press conference last week,
Governor  Mervyn King  left open the option for more stimulus if
needed.  “We face the rather unappealing combination of a subdued
recovery with inflation remaining above target for a while,”
King said on Nov. 14. “There are limits to the ability of
domestic policy to stimulate private-sector demand as the
economy adjusts to a new equilibrium. But the committee has not
lost faith in asset purchases as a policy instrument, nor has it
concluded that there will be no more purchases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  