-- Real Tumbles to Three-Year Low on Rousseff Currency View
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-11-21T20:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/brazil-real-tumbles-to-three-year-low-on-rousseff-currency-view.html
Brazil’s real fell to a three-year
low after President  Dilma Rousseff  told  Valor Economico  that the
currency is “overvalued,” spurring speculation that the
government will allow it to depreciate further.  The currency slid 0.9 percent to 2.0985 per dollar at the
close in  Sao Paulo , the weakest level since May 2009. Swap rates
on the contract due in January 2017 rose eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 8.81 percent.  Rousseff’s comments fueled speculation that the central
bank will let the currency depreciate beyond 2.1 per dollar as
European debt turmoil and U.S. budget wrangling spur demand for
a refuge, said Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at Liquidez DTVM
Ltda. in Sao Paulo.  “There is a desire in the government to weaken the real,”
Barbutti said in a phone interview.  Brazil is seeking a currency that is not “overvalued” as
the real is now, Rousseff said in an interview published
yesterday in Valor Economico, a Sao Paulo-based newspaper.
Rousseff’s press office confirmed the interview in an e-mailed
response to questions from  Bloomberg News .  Swap rates rose today as investors bet a weaker real will
fuel inflation by making foreign products more expensive for
Brazilian consumers, Barbutti said.  Rousseff wasn’t signaling further  currency depreciation 
because she was referring to past levels of the  exchange rate ,
Barclays Plc economists Guilherme Loureiro and Marcelo Salomon
said today in an e-mailed research note to clients.  ‘Stronger Hand’  She was “defending a stronger hand in the markets to
guarantee that the currency will continue trading at current
levels but not jawboning the market to force a change in
range,” the economists wrote. “How the Brazilian central bank
acts in the days heading to the end of November will be critical
to determine if our view is right.”  The central bank has sold reverse currency swaps since
August to keep the real weaker than 2 per dollar to support
exporters. It sold $1.4 billion of contracts Oct. 25,
$1.6 billion Oct. 23, $1.3 billion Oct. 5, $5.7 billion Sept. 12
through Sept. 17 and $350 million Aug. 21.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  levied a 6 percent tax on
local debt to curb the real’s appreciation in 2010, when he used
the term “currency war” to describe the use of monetary policy
by industrialized countries to boost exports.  ‘Selfish’ Policies  Brazil will keep doing whatever is necessary to stop
“selfish” monetary policies of some developed nations from
hurting its economy by driving up the real, Mantega said at an
International Monetary Fund meeting in  Tokyo  last month.  The real fell today along with most emerging-market
currencies after European finance ministers failed to agree on a
debt reduction package for  Greece , bolstering demand for a
refuge in the dollar.  The central bank stepped in to curb the real’s losses by
auctioning currency swaps in May and June as European sovereign-
debt turmoil drove it to what was then a three-year low. A
strong U.S. currency hurts Brazilian companies whose expenses
are mostly in dollars.  “The market conditions today would justify the central
bank doing a  currency swap ,” Barbutti said.  Brazil’s policy makers have reduced the target lending rate
by 5.25 percentage points to a record low 7.25 percent since
August 2011 as the government reduced taxes and stepped up
public spending to revive an economy that is projected to expand
1.5 percent this year, less than the U.S.,  India  and  China .  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini reaffirmed on Nov.
7 plans to keep rates low for a “prolonged time” to balance
faster growth with slower inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  