-- Bovespa Index Falls as Eletrobras Tumbles to Lowest Since 1995
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-11-21T19:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/brazilian-exporters-surge-on-weaker-real-as-eletrobras-tumbles.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index fell as  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  plunged to a 17-year low on concern
that the government’s plan to lower electricity costs will hurt
the company’s profits.  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes sank to a
three-year low after Moody’s Investors Service placed the
homebuilder’s rating under review for a possible cut. MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the iron-ore producer controlled by
billionaire  Eike Batista , fell as metals declined.  The Bovespa lost 0.4 percent to 56,242.12 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. Eletrobras, as Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras is also known, tumbled the most on the gauge while
35 stocks retreated and 32 gained. The real fell 0.8 percent to
2.0962 per  U.S. dollar  at 5:40 p.m. local time, the weakest on a
closing basis since May 2009.  “Some utilities will have the option of not following the
government’s guidelines, but Eletrobras will be the company used
by the government to reach whatever goals they have,” Marc Sauerman, who helps oversee 650 million reais at J Malucelli
Investimentos in Curitiba, Brazil, said in a phone interview.
“Some stocks in the electrical sector may be attractive now
after recent losses, but for Eletrobras, it’s hard to say how
much further down shares can go.”  Brazil is pushing utilities with generation and
transmission licenses expiring in 2015 and 2017 to cut rates in
exchange for automatic renewals, an attempt to curb inflation
and help companies become more competitive. The company may
sacrifice profits to help achieve those goals, Sauerman said.
Eletrobras is controlled by the federal government, and its
chairman is Deputy Energy Minister  Marcio Zimmermann .  Eletrobas Plunge  Voting shares of Eletrobras dropped 16 percent to 6.75
reais, the lowest level since March 1995. The stock has fallen
42 percent since Nov. 1, when the government published its
contract renewals proposal. The preferred shares fell a record
20 percent to a 10-year low today and are down 53 percent since
the beginning of this month.  The plan will almost erase earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, next year, the
utility’s Chief Financial Officer Armando Casado de Araujo said
on a conference call Nov. 19.  PDG Realty slid 4.8 percent to 2.81 reais, the lowest
closing price since March 2009. Moody’s said in a statement late
yesterday that there is “a significant deterioration in the
company’s credit metrics due to weaker than expected
profitability.”  The homebuilder reported on Nov. 15 that third-quarter
 earnings  sank to 3 centavos per share from 23 centavos a year
earlier, below the average estimate of 5 centavos of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Exporters Gain  Brazil ’s benchmark equity measure advanced earlier today as
much as 0.6 percent as the real’s decline boosted the outlook
for exporters.  BRF Brasil Foods SA, the world’s biggest poultry exporter,
gained 2.3 percent to 38.88 reais, the highest on record.
Planemaker Embraer SA climbed 2.6 percent to 14.17 reais.  “If the currency holds near current levels for longer, it
would surely be positive for exporters,” Hamilton Moreira, an
equity strategist at  Banco do Brasil SA , said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “In the short term, a weaker real also makes stocks
cheaper in dollar terms, which could attract foreign
investors.”  The Bovespa has climbed 7.2 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as stimulus from central banks around the world eased
economic concern and borrowing costs at a record low in Brazil
boosted demand for equities.  Trading volume was 7.21 billion reais in stocks in  Sao
Paulo  today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a daily average of 7.2 billion reais this year through Nov. 19,
according to data compiled by BM&FBovespa. The exchange was
closed yesterday for a holiday in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  