-- Burgan Bank of Kuwait to Sell Bonds This Year Amid Expansion
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-11-21T10:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/burgan-bank-of-kuwait-to-sell-bonds-this-year-amid-expansion.html
Burgan Bank SAK (BURG) , the third-biggest
Kuwaiti lender by assets, plans to raise 100 million dinars
($354 million) from a bond sale this year to boost capital as it
expands, the chief executive officer said.  The seven- or 10-year notes will probably be denominated in
the local currency, Eduardo Eguren said in an interview
yesterday at the bank’s headquarters in  Kuwait City . The lender
expects to get central bank approval for the sale in the next
few days and has appointed  Kipco Asset Management Co. (KAMCO)  as an
adviser, he said. NBK Capital Ltd., the investment banking unit
of  National Bank of Kuwait SAK , is also working on the bond.  “When you grow your balance sheet, your need for capital
goes up,” Eguren said. “We are coming with two options, fixed
rate and floating and we will define it based on demand.
Hopefully it will be issued before year-end, we are moving
quickly. I have no doubt that we will have oversubscription.”  Burgan Bank will tap the  debt market  as borrowing costs for
lenders in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council tumble to
near record lows, giving them an opportunity to raise funds as
credit growth accelerates. The yield on Burgan Bank’s 7.875
percent notes maturing in September 2020 dropped 96 basis
points, or 0.96 percentage point, this year to an all-time low
of 5.72 percent on Nov. 8, before trading at 5.79 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Secondary Market  “I would like to have a secondary market for our bonds
because that obviously lowers our costs and allows many
investors to exit when they need,” Eguren said. The bank wants
to “develop the local market and help create a yield curve in
Kuwait” of dinars, he said.  The Kuwaiti bank, which posted a 15 percent increase in
income from lending in the third quarter, acquired Istanbul-
based Eurobank Tekfen AS in April. The acquisition will lower
Burgan Bank’s capital adequacy ratio to 14.9 percent from 18
percent once it is completed next month, Eguren said. “By
issuing this bond, we expect to reach a capital adequacy ratio
of around 17 percent. We plan to continue growing in 2013,
2014.”  Acquisitions and Growth  Burgan Bank, a unit of  Kuwait Projects Co. (KPROJ) , has finalized
the due diligence needed to acquire 25 percent of Malta-based
 FIMBank Plc. (FIM) , Eguren said. Bahrain-based United Gulf Bank, also
a unit of Kuwait Projects, is making a joint offer for 12.56
percent of FIMBank, potentially giving the Kipco Group, as
Kuwait Projects is known, a 37.56 percent holding.  “Most likely we will even volunteer to go to a higher
percentage than this,” Eguren said. “FIMBank is not that big,
but they are profitable. We are buying this below book value.”
The Maltese bank, which specializes in trade financing, has a
presence in 13 countries and is planning to open in  China .  Burgan, which has  four subsidiaries  in Algeria, Iraq,
Jordan and  Tunisia , saw growth of 26 percent in customer loans
in the year to September while those of its local peers grew 3.6
percent, Eguren said, citing central bank data.  “The market is having a consistent behavior with the
economy and we have found a way, without changing our risk
appetite, to grow much faster,” he said. “This is really how
we are building the future.”  Burgan shares rose 2 percent to 520 fils at the close in
Kuwait today. The stock has gained 15 percent this year compared
with a 0.9 percent rise in the benchmark Kuwait Stock Exchange
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in  Kuwait  at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  