-- California Sees $750 Million in Refunds at Risk in Court:
-- B y   L a u r a   M a h o n e y
-- 2012-11-21T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/california-sees-750-million-in-refunds-at-risk-in-court-taxes.html
California  says the fate of 80,000
annual  corporate tax returns  and $750 million in potential
refunds are in the hands of the state’s supreme court.  California’s Franchise Tax Board, in written arguments to
persuade the high court to take up an appeals court case
involving Gillette Co., is fighting over rules around how
companies apportion tax revenue across state borders.  A multistate agreement for taxing business may be coming
undone after an appeals court ruling last month, which said that
California must let companies apportion their multistate income
based on a formula called the Multistate Tax Compact. The
compact is an agreement among participating states designed to
promote uniformity in tax procedures among the states.  California repealed its participation. If that defection
stands, other states may leave as well, which could end the
effort to create uniformity for businesses that operate across
state lines.  The state tax agency is asking the high court to overturn
the  appeals court ruling , Bloomberg BNA reported.  Although the amount of tax and interest at stake for the
plaintiffs in the case is $34.6 million, the price tag for the
state could reach at least $750 million if the lower court
ruling stands and the state must give refunds to other taxpayers
with similar claims, the tax agency said.  The cost may go even higher because other provisions of the
state tax code that are also part of the compact have been
amended in similar ways, the agency said.  Additional Litigation  “California will potentially face additional litigation
from taxpayers seeking to raise claims for tax refunds based on
Compact provisions that conflict with subsequent legislative
changes,” the Franchise Tax Board said in its petition.  The agency pointed out that the case is important to tens
of thousands of multistate enterprises that do business inside
and outside of California and file 80,000 apportioning tax
returns each year, as well as to businesses that operate in the
other states that remain as members of the compact.  Cases raising similar issues are pending in Michigan,
Oregon and  Texas , and the decision in the Gillette case “will
no doubt encourage the filing of similar suits in other  member
states ,” the California agency said.  The compact members are: Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas,
Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri,
Montana,  New Mexico ,  North Dakota , Oregon,  South Dakota , Texas,
Utah and Washington, as well as Washington, D.C.  Notwithstanding Clause  In addition to highlighting the scope of the potential
issue, California also argued that the appellate court failed to
perform an “impairment of contracts” analysis and therefore
concluded inaccurately that the corporate taxpayers who filed
the lawsuit had standing as parties to the compact. The agency
argued the taxpayers weren’t parties to the compact.  In addition, the tax board argued that the appellate court
erred when it ruled that California’s enactment of an
alternative income apportionment formula “notwithstanding” the
existence of the compact in state law violated the state
Constitution’s prohibition on repealing a statute by reference  “If the decision below stands, hundreds of California
statutes which contain the ‘notwithstanding’ phrase are
vulnerable to constitutional challenge,” the agency said.  The state also submitted minutes of a 1972 meeting of the
Multistate Tax Commission, which the agency said shows that
states belonging to the compact understood that a state wasn’t
required to withdraw from the compact if it changed or modified
the contract.  California repealed the Multistate Tax Compact in June as a
hedge against a loss in the Gillette case by enacting S.B. 1015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Mahoney in Arlington at 
 lmahoney4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  