-- Catalan Banks Owing ECB $77 Billion May Stall Independenc
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-11-22T13:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/catalan-banks-owing-ecb-77-billion-may-stall-independence-drive.html
Catalan bank borrowings of about 60
billion euros ($77 billion) from the European Central Bank may
prove an obstacle on the region’s path to possible independence.  CaixaBank SA, Spain’s third-biggest bank, took about 20
billion euros in central bank funding, according to the
Barcelona-based  company ’s accounts. Banco Sabadell SA, a Catalan
lender that became Spain’s  fifth-biggest  after a string of
acquisitions, has borrowed about 27 billion euros.  The region’s President Artur Mas called early elections for
Nov. 25 in a gambit that may trigger a drive for independence
and risks stranding a new Catalan state outside the European
Union as well as severing ties to Spain. The region’s banks,
like other Spanish lenders, tapped the ECB’s low-cost  funding 
when Spain’s economic crisis shut them out of debt markets.  “The Catalan financial system is still on life support
from the ECB,” said Edward Hugh, an economist and board member
of Catalunya Banc, a Barcelona-based lender  nationalized  last
year that has used about 19 billion euros of central bank
funding. “People need to start facing up to the fact that
Catalonia has to be in the euro.”  European officials, including Competition Commissioner
Joaquin Almunia, a Spaniard, and European Commission President
Jose Manuel Barroso have said that a new Catalan state would
have to reapply for EU membership.  Bank Assets  Mas has said the question of Catalan independence would
“still be posed,” even if the new country was excluded from
the EU. Mas wants Catalonia to separate from Spain while
remaining part of the EU and keeping the euro.  The combined  assets  of  CaixaBank (CABK) , Sabadell and Catalunya
Banc amount to 590 billion euros, or almost three times the size
of a Catalan economy that’s similar in size to  Greece . In
Ireland, the assets of domestic banks amounted to 3.3 times the
size of the country’s economy in 2008 when the state guaranteed
most of their liabilities to prevent a collapse of the financial
system, according to Bloomberg News calculations based on
lenders’ annual reports and Irish Central Statistics Office GDP
data for that year.  The process that could lead to independence is still in its
early stages. Mas pledged to hold a referendum on the issue
within four years of the elections. He may choose to hold the
consultation in 2014 to coordinate it with a similar process due
in  Scotland ,  Antonio Barroso , an analyst at Eurasia Group in
 London , said in a Nov. 20 research note.  “Many things still have to happen before someone starts
asking the tough questions about what happens with the banks,”
said Cesar Molinas, a consultant and former head of European
fixed income at Merrill Lynch & Co.  Legal Guarantees  CaixaBank and Sabadell, based in the town of the same name
near Barcelona, declined to comment on the impact of eventual
Catalan independence. In a seminar in Barcelona last month,
Sabadell Chairman Josep Oliu called on politicians to create
conditions to allow business to continue with sufficient legal
guarantees.  The aim is to meet international parameters in all that has
to do with the separation of states, a spokesman for the Catalan
government in  Barcelona  said in an emailed statement, adding
that the issue of the impact of independence on the banking
system was still being examined.  CaixaBank Chairman Isidro Faine and “the rest of the
representatives of big business in Catalonia are going to be
very worried by all this,” said Barcelona-born Molinas in a
phone interview. CaixaBank, the biggest lender in Catalonia,
with 344 billion euros of assets, had available funds of 42
billion euros in June, according to its accounts.  Customer Backlash  The issue of ECB funding is only one of several issues
facing banks, said Jose Garcia Montalvo, an economics professor
at Pompeu Fabra University in Barcelona. An independent
Catalonia outside the euro would have to set up its own body to
oversee its banks at a time when Spain and other EU nations are
pushing for a banking union with centralized regulation of its
financial system, he said.  Another problem facing Catalan lenders is the threat of a
backlash from customers in Spain who may withdraw  deposits  if
the region won independence, he said. Jose Manuel Lara, chairman
of Grupo Planeta, told ABC Punto Radio in September that the
publishing group would shift its headquarters to Madrid or
Zaragoza from Barcelona if the region became independent.  CaixaBank is the biggest bank by branch network in regions
including Andalusia and Canary Islands as well as Catalonia,
where its share is as high as 26 percent, and is the second-
biggest in Madrid and  Valencia . The lender had about two-thirds
of its branches outside Catalonia, according to data for the end
of 2011.  “If you’re a customer in Badajoz, are you still going to
keep your deposits in CaixaBank if Catalonia is independent?”
said Montalvo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  