-- Chelsea Hires Benitez as Interim Manager After Firing Di Matteo
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/chelsea-fires-coach-di-matteo-after-3-0-loss-at-juventus.html
Chelsea hired former Liverpool coach
 Rafael Benitez  as interim soccer manager until the end of the
season after firing Roberto Di Matteo, an appointment that may
pave the way for an approach to Pep Guardiola.  Di Matteo, 42, was fired yesterday after a 3-0 loss at
Juventus that left the Blues on the brink of elimination from
the Champions League, a competition they won in May. Benitez was
last night appointed as Chelsea’s ninth coach since Russian
billionaire  Roman Abramovich  bought the London team in 2003.  “The owner and the board believe that in Benitez we have a
manager with significant experience at the highest level of
football, who can come in and immediately help deliver our
objectives,” Chelsea said in a  statement  on its website.  Benitez, 52, twice led Liverpool to the Champions League
final, winning  Europe ’s elite club competition in 2005, a year
after guiding Valencia to victory in the second-tier UEFA Cup.  The Spaniard last coached at  Inter Milan , where he was
fired in 2010 after just six months. He told The National
newspaper in  Abu Dhabi , where he was speaking at a coaching
seminar yesterday, that he was waiting for the right challenge
to return to management.  “I am looking for a club that can challenge for trophies,
so Chelsea is one of those clubs,” Benitez was cited as saying.  Di Matteo  won the Champions League and F.A. Cup titles last
season. The Blues’ recent performances “have not been good
enough” and the board felt a change was necessary, Chelsea said
in a  statement on its website  earlier yesterday.  Third Place  Chelsea is third in Champions League Group E behind
Juventus with one game remaining. It must beat Nordsjaelland and
have Shakhtar Donetsk defeat Juventus to avoid becoming the
first titleholder to exit at the group stage. The Blues, who are
in third place in the Premier League, have won two of their last
eight matches in all competitions.  Chelsea beat  Bayern Munich  on penalty kicks on May 19 to
become the first London club to win the European Cup. Di Matteo,
a former Chelsea and Italy midfielder, oversaw the victory as
interim manager after replacing Andre Villas-Boas in March.  The Blues then took their fourth F.A. Cup title in six
seasons with a 2-1 win against Liverpool in the final and Di
Matteo’s appointment was made permanent in June.  “We will never forget the huge contribution he has made to
this club’s history and he will always be welcome” at  Stamford 
Bridge stadium, said the statement from Chelsea.  Di Matteo’s tenure lasted longer than those of Villas-Boas,
 Avram Grant  and Luiz Felipe Scolari. In the team’s first 70
years, it had eight coaches. Di Matteo was the seventh coach
hired by Abramovich since 2004, when Claudio Ranieri was fired.  Liverpool Stint  Benitez spent six seasons at Liverpool and also won the
F.A. Cup in 2006. However, he failed to capture the English
league championship for the Reds, who haven’t secured the title
since 1990, and left in June 2010.  He was hired a week later at Inter Milan to replace  Jose Mourinho , who left for Real Madrid after winning the Champions
League, Serie A and Italian Cup titles. Though he guided Inter
to victory at the FIFA Club World Cup, Benitez won just six of
15 league matches and was fired with the club in seventh place.  In appointing Benitez on an interim basis until the end of
the season, Chelsea is keeping its options open amid U.K. media
reports that former Barcelona manager Guardiola, 41, is
Abramovich’s preferred choice to take the job permanently.  Guardiola is midway through a sabbatical, having left
Barcelona in April. He guided the Catalan club to 14 trophies in
four years, including two  Champions League  titles and three
Spanish championships.  Although he has given Chelsea hints that he wants the job,
Guardiola has made it clear he doesn’t want to take a new
position before the start of next season, the  Daily Mail 
reported two days ago.  Chelsea was leading the Premier League after winning seven
of the first eight matches this season, yet has slipped four
points off first place after recent games. The Blues host leader
and defending champion  Manchester City  in three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  