-- Chelsea Galleries Reopen With Chernobyl, Tiny People
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-11-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/chelsea-galleries-repen-with-chernobyl-tiny-people.html
One of the first post-Sandy openings
in flood-ravaged Chelsea took place with remarkable speed, just
11 days after the storm, at  David Zwirner .  Zwirner showed Diana Thater’s video installation
“Chernobyl” with a reception that provided a much-needed
morale boost for dealers, artists and collectors who gulped beer
and traded flood tales at the first-night reception.  The work alludes to the 1986 nuclear disaster when more
than 100,000 people were evacuated after the explosion at the
Chernobyl nuclear power plant in  Ukraine . The surrounding 30-
mile area, known as the “zone of alienation,” has been largely
closed off ever since.  Thater visited the area, shooting footage of abandoned
houses, a dilapidated movie theater, decaying machinery, Lenin’s
statue and, incongruously, horses grazing in wild fields.  Projected onto four soaring walls, the six-channel video
envelops the viewer with its layered imagery. It conveys
fragility, monumentality and a sense of loss, altogether fitting
in the wake of Sandy.  The work comes in an edition of three. Only one is
available, for $300,000. “Chernobyl” is at 519 W. 19th St.
through Dec. 22 but closed for Thanksgiving. Information: +1-
212-517-8677;  http://www.davidzwirner.com .  Giant Letter  Andrew Kreps  and Marc Jancou have also reopened quickly.
Kreps’s exhibition of new work by Goshka Macuga, a Polish-born,
London-based artist, was the sole event on West 22nd Street on
Nov. 10 -- a contrast to the lively human traffic flowing from
gallery to gallery on a typical opening night.  Inside, the main space was dominated by a 37-foot-wide
black-and-white tapestry, depicting seven life-size postmen
carrying a giant letter.  White sheets of paper written in Polish also appeared on
armchairs and stools, looking as if someone had forgotten them
there (in fact they were printed on the upholstery). On the
walls, color photographs showed blacked-out figures in
unspecific interior settings.  “At the core of the show lies the theme of censorship in
Polish art after 1989 and the related attacks against artists,
curators, directors and cultural institutions,” according to
the press release.  The works were recently shown at Zacheta National Gallery
of Art in Warsaw, and Macuga delved into the institution’s
archive to find documents and images illustrating or alluding to
the instances of censorship. She used the materials in
completely different media and unexpected ways -- turning
letters into furniture surfaces and staging performances based
on old photographs.  Prices range from $17,000 to $150,000. “Untitled” runs
through Dec. 22 at 525 W. 22nd St. Information: +1-212-741-8849;
 http://www.andrewkreps.com .  Tiny People  Marc Jancou Contemporary , which workers were bailing out
with buckets less than two weeks earlier, had pristine new white
walls and a handwritten sign announcing the Tomoaki Suzuki
exhibition.  About 23 inches tall, these obsessively carved and painted
limewood portraits of real people stopped visitors in their
tracks.  Suzuki, who was born in  Japan  and lives in  London , combines
traditional Japanese woodcarving techniques with Western
portraiture. His subjects are friends and acquaintances, who sit
for the artist for as long as 30 hours. The drawings become the
basis for the carvings which later are painted with acrylic.  The figures are charming and meticulous. One depicts a
heavily tattooed man in a white tank top and Adidas sneakers.
Another is buxom brunette, propped on tiny stilettos in a mini
skirt and clunky Moschino belt.  On the opening night, visitors crouched to examine and gasp
at the artworks -- just as thousands of tourists have done on
the High Line ever since Suzuki’s bronze sculpture of a  tiny man 
with platinum hair and black attire appeared on the railway by
West 14th Street in April.  The wood sculptures are $38,000 each. The exhibition runs
through Dec. 22 at 524 W. 24th St. Information: +1-212-473-2100;
 http://www.marcjancou.com   Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining, Craig
Seligman on  books .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 