-- Chevron Says Spain Courts Can’t Rule on Deal With Argentine YPF
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-11-21T15:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/chevron-says-spain-courts-can-t-rule-on-deal-with-argentine-ypf.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said the Spanish court
where Repsol SA filed a lawsuit against it for entering into an
agreement with  YPF SA (YPF)  to develop shale gas reserves in Argentina
doesn’t have authority to rule on the deal.  “There is no basis for this lawsuit and any such suit, if
brought forward, would be unproductive,” James Craig, a
spokesman for Chevron’s African and Latin American operations,
said in an e-mailed statement sent to Bloomberg. “Courts in
 Spain  do not have jurisdiction in this matter and Chevron stands
by the legitimacy of its memorandum of understanding with YPF.”  Two months after  San Ramon , California-based Chevron signed
a memorandum of understanding with Buenos Aires-based YPF to
study tapping aging wells in the Vaca Muerta shale formation,
Repsol sued Chevron in Mercantile Court in  Madrid  for allegedly
“commercial unloyalty,” a spokesman from the Madrid-based
company said on Nov. 19. The filing of the suit couldn’t be
verified because phonecalls to the court weren’t answered.  Chevron hasn’t been served with any legal action, Craig
said. “Chevron remains hopeful that a needless judicial
proceeding can be averted,” Craig said. Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a
YPF spokesman, declined to comment on the suit.  Vaca Muerta, a Connecticut-sized area located in the
western Argentine province of Neuqeun, contains the equivalent
of more than 23 billion barrels of oil.  YPF is seeking a partner to invest $4.5 billion as part of
a $37.2 billion five-year expansion, according to the document.  Repsol is also seeking $10.5 billion in compensation from
the Argentine government for the expropriation of a majority
stake of YPF, which the Spanish company says was illegal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  