-- China Car Market to Expand 8% on SUV, Small-City Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-21T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/china-car-market-to-expand-8-on-suv-small-city-demand.html
China ’s  passenger-vehicle  sales will
expand by an average 8 percent a year to reach 22 million in
2020, driven by demand for sport-utility vehicles and rising
incomes in smaller cities, according to McKinsey & Co.  SUV sales will triple in the 10 years from 2011 for the
fastest growth among the vehicle segments, as Chinese consumers
become wealthier and buy bigger vehicles, according to a report
released today by McKinsey. China’s smaller cities will account
for almost 60 percent of new car deliveries by the end of the
decade, up from 40 percent in the preceding period, it said.  “Chinese consumers are growing more sophisticated about
cars and their tastes are evolving,” Arthur Wang, a Hong Kong-
based partner at the consulting firm, Wenkan Liao and Arnt-
Philipp Hein wrote in the report. “Many have already purchased
a first, entry-level car and will be ready to upgrade to newer
and better models.”  General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co. and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  are
adding capacity and introducing a wider range of models in China
to cater to the world’s biggest pool of first-time buyers. The
top 10 automakers have announced at least $38.4 billion of
investments in the past two years to tap growth in a market
where McKinsey estimates car ownership will remain at half the
U.S. rate in 2020.  Passenger-car deliveries rose 5.2 percent to 14.5 million
last year, slowing from the 33 percent growth in 2010, according
to data from China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  ‘Bigger Car’  China could  contribute  35 percent of the world’s car market
growth in the decade to 2020, driven by increasing car purchases
from consumers in so-called third- and fourth-tier Chinese
cities, Wang and his co-authors wrote in the report.  Sedans will account for 70 percent of the total car market
in 2020, with SUVs making up 20 percent of sales, according to
the report. The share of small cars will shrink to 19 percent
from 23 percent of sedan sales, while larger models will
increase to 8 percent from 5 percent.  “The Chinese consumer will choose a bigger car, as long as
he or she can afford it,” the authors wrote. “Even in the
budget segment, we expect consumers increasingly to choose
larger cars.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  