-- China Iron-Ore Tax Cut Seen by Macquarie Leading to Lower Prices
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-11-21T19:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/china-iron-ore-tax-cut-seen-by-macquarie-leading-to-lower-prices.html
Potential changes to tax on  iron-ore 
mining in China, the biggest user of the material, will result
in lower prices without benefiting the local  steel industry ,
according to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)   China’s Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology 
submitted a plan to ease the tax bill on iron-ore mining
companies, China Securities Journal reported on Nov. 20, citing
an unidentified person. The potential for tax changes may have a
negative impact on investor sentiment toward the iron-ore
industry until there is more clarity, Macquarie said in an e-
mailed report yesterday.  “The Chinese steel industry would not benefit from reduced
tax rates in iron ore,” Macquarie analysts including Colin Hamilton in  London  said. “Certainly iron-ore prices would come
down, but given the over-capacity issues in the steel sector,
margins are unlikely to improve and steel prices would just fall
to reflect the lower raw material costs.”  Iron ore with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin was unchanged at $120.60 a dry metric ton
yesterday, following a drop of 1.8 percent Nov. 20, the biggest
decline since Sept. 24, according to data  compiled  by The Steel
Index Ltd. The tax reduction may reduce marginal output cost
supply by as much as $14 a ton, according to Macquarie. The
larger, more efficient Chinese iron-ore producers would benefit
from a preferential tax system that reduced their costs and kept
rates high at the marginal mines, the bank said.  “The decision-making process will not be fast, especially
with the distractions of a leadership change still ongoing,”
Hamilton said. “If any changes to the tax system are made, we
think it is unlikely that they would be applied universally to
the whole industry.”  China raised the resources tax on six minerals in February,
including iron ore, tin and molybdenum, to help conserve
reserves in the world’s second-biggest economy. The tax on iron-
ore production was raised to 80 percent of a  base rate , from 60
percent, effective from Feb. 1, the official China Taxation News
said. A reduction in tax would require a u-turn on this policy,
Macquarie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  