-- China Finds Excessive Plasticizer Levels in JiuGuiJiu Liquor
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-22T02:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/china-finds-excessive-levels-of-plasticizer-in-jiuguijiu-liquor.html
Samples of liquor made by China’s
 JiuGuiJiu Co. (000799)  contained excessive levels of plasticizer, Xinhua
 News Agency  said, citing the nation’s quality watchdog. China
distillers slumped in Shanghai and Shenzhen trading today.  Wuliangye Yibin Co. (000858) , the country’s biggest liquor maker,
and  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519) , the world’s second-largest by  market 
value , both dropped as much as 5.4 percent. Shenzhen-listed 
JiuGuiJiu remained halted.  Inspections showed as much as 1.04 milligrams per kilogram
of dibutyl phthalate, or DBP, Xinhua said, citing the General
Administration of Quality Supervision,Inspection and Quarantine.
The health ministry had set a limit of 0.3 milligram per
kilogram, the official news agency said.  Concerns over food and beverage quality have spurred the
government to pledge greater consumer protection. Milk tainted
with melamine, a toxic chemical used to make plastic and tan
leather, was blamed for the deaths of at least six babies in 
2008, with tens of thousands of children hospitalized. The
government last year cracked down on the use of cooking oil
reprocessed from restaurant waste.  DBP is used to flavor drinks and in plastic tubes and
containers, Xinhua said separately yesterday. Tests show that
almost all Chinese liquor products contain plasticizers, at an
average 0.537 milligrams per kilogram, Xinhua said, citing the
 China  Alcoholic Drinks Association. The alcohol industry is
discussing limits for plasticizers in liquor, Xinhua said.  News Reports  Jishou, Hunan-based JiuGuiJiu halted trading in Shenzhen on
Nov. 19, pending a response to news reports that its drinks
contain excessive amounts of plasticizer, according to a company
filing on that day. The company used DBP at levels 260 percent
higher than allowed, the 21st Century Business Herald  said  this
week.  The Administration of Quality and Technology Supervision of
Hunan Province said on its website yesterday that it asked the
company to investigate.  “Ingestion of dibutyl phthalate may cause gastrointestinal
irritation, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea,” according to the
 website  of the Scottish Environment Protection Agency.  Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery Joint-Stock Company Ltd. (002304) , China’s
third-biggest distiller, plunged as much as 8 percent to 91.46
yuan in Shenzhen trading, before trading at 96.66 yuan as of
10:48 a.m. local time.  Sichuan Swellfun Co. (600779) , part-owned by
 Diageo Plc (DGE) , fell as much as 5.4 percent before trading at 19.09
yuan, down by 4 percent, in Shanghai trading.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  