-- China Resources Sees Business Under Pressure on Weak Economy
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-11-21T10:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/china-resources-third-quarter-profit-rises-27-.html
China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) , the
government-backed partner of  SABMiller Plc. (SAB) , said its consumer
goods business will be under pressure on weak global economy
after reporting a decline in profit before one-time gains.  Profit excluding one-time gains dropped 2.1 percent to
HK$668 million ($86 million) in the third quarter ended Sept.
30, the company said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange today. Sales climbed 11 percent to HK$34.2 billion.  Poor global economic environment, slower economic growth in
the world’s most populous country and rising labor costs because
of an increase in minimum wages across China have impacted the
company, China Resources said in the statement. Consumer goods
business in the near term will remain under pressure, it said.
 China ’s gross domestic product slowed to 7.4 percent in the
third quarter, the seventh straight deceleration.  China Resources faces “tough” challenges ahead as it is
under cost pressure and there is uncertainty in the global
economy, which will continue to impact the company’s profit for
the rest of the year, said Jacqueline Ko, an analyst at Kim Eng
Securities (HK) Ltd. She has a hold rating on the stock.  China Resources, whose other businesses include beverages
and food processing and distribution, fell 2 percent to HK$25.7
in Hong Kong trading, the biggest decline since Nov. 8. The
stock has lost 3.6 percent this year, compared with the 16.8
percent gain in the city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  One-Time Gains  China Resources’s retail operations had $1.5 billion net
gains on disposal of non-core investments and on valuation
surplus on investment properties in the nine months ended Sept.
30, compared with gains of HK$633 million a year earlier.  Same-store sales at the retail operations rose 4.6 percent
in the first nine months of the year, compared with a 5.7
percent increase in the first six months of this year.  Revenue at the beer business fell 1.3 percent to HK$9.15
billion during the quarter as rainy weather across the regions
where the company has dominated market share limited sales
volume growth in the first nine months of the year, China
Resources said. Its venture with SABMiller sells the No. 1 Snow
beer brand in China with a 22 percent market share last year,
according to Euromonitor International, a London-based
researcher.  Retail accounted for 64 percent of total sales during the
nine-month period, while beer contributed 24 percent.  Net income rose 27 percent to HK$1.14 billion boosted by
new store openings and contribution from the newly acquired
Jiangxi Hongkelong Department Store Investment Co., the company
said.  “China Resources will focus on growing scale in its retail
business in the next few years,” said Vivian Liu, a Shanghai-
based analyst at Sinopac Securities Asia Ltd. Even so, the money
it spends on adding new stores and marketing may eat up profits,
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  