-- Christie Surges to 67% Favorable in Post-Sandy Voter Poll
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-11-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/christie-surges-to-67-favorable-in-post-sandy-voter-poll.html
 New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
a Republican who hasn’t said whether he’ll seek re-election next
year, surged to a record-high favorability rating following his
response to superstorm Sandy, according to a poll.  The first-term governor was rated favorably by 67 percent
of registered voters, up from 48 percent barely a month earlier,
the Rutgers-Eagleton Poll released today shows. More than 9-in-
10 said he handled Sandy “very well” or “somewhat well.”  Christie’s embrace of President  Barack Obama , a Democrat
seeking re-election with less than a week before the Nov. 6
voting, showed “needed cooperation and bipartisanship” between
the two leaders, according to 81 percent of those surveyed. They
toured damaged areas together and held daily telephone calls to
discuss the response. Christie drew criticism from some national
Republican figures for praising Obama’s aid.  “Governor Christie has emerged as a clear leader in this
crisis, with  New Jerseyans  applauding his efforts,”  David Redlawsk , the poll director who teaches politics at Rutgers,
said in a statement. “In a time of crisis, people expect their
elected leaders to put politics aside, and when that happens,
they respond very positively.”  Sandy, which struck with hurricane-force winds and surging
floodwaters Oct. 29, left 37 dead in New Jersey, blacked out as
many as 2.7 million and devastated coastal areas. Christie
traveled the state and appeared on television daily, giving
briefings on storm-recovery efforts and the status of power
restoration.  Bipartisan Support  Christie’s approval rating is “by far” his highest yet in
the poll and previously hadn’t cracked the 50 percent mark,
Redlawsk said by e-mail. He received favorable marks from 49
percent of Democrats, 70 percent of independents and 89 percent
of Republicans, according to the survey from the New Brunswick-
based polling center.  The governor has said he hasn’t decided whether to seek re-
election in November 2013.  Researchers polled 1,108 registered voters in  New Jersey  by
telephone Nov. 14-17. The survey has a margin of error of plus
or minus 2.9 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  