-- Citigroup to Shut Almost Half of Greek Branches Amid Crisis
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-11-21T21:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/citigroup-to-shut-almost-half-of-greek-branches-amid-crisis-2-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, said it will shutter almost half of its
branches in  Greece  as European lawmakers continue a three-year
struggle to fix the country’s economy.  The lender will reduce its branches to 21 from 37,
according to an e-mailed statement today from  Shannon Bell , a
spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup. About 170 employees
will lose their jobs as a result of the closures, said a person
familiar with the situation, who requested anonymity because the
numbers aren’t public.  Wall Street firms are grappling with the European
sovereign-debt crisis as policy makers across the continent
attempt to find a solution to Greece’s fiscal woes. Citigroup,
led by Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat , has been in
Greece since 1964 and is the biggest foreign lender in the
country, according to its website.  “Given the current business and economic environment,
which requires adaptability, flexibility and decisive
management, Citi Greece is proceeding to a rationalization of
its branch network,” Bell said in the statement. “Citi Greece
is supportive to the employees whose position is abolished as a
result of this decision.”  Citigroup had about $1.2 billion of locally funded loans to
Greek retail customers and small businesses at the end of
September, according to a  quarterly filing . The loans are in
Citi Holdings, the division that contains about $171 billion of
the bank’s unwanted assets. The lender also had a separate “net
current funded exposure” of $1.3 billion to Greece, the filing
shows.  Massachusetts Closures  The lender also plans to shut nine of its 31 branches in
 Massachusetts  on March 15, according to Catherine Pulley, a
Citigroup spokeswoman. The bank will keep a “significant branch
network presence” in  Boston , Pulley said in an e-mailed
statement. She declined to say how many jobs will be affected.  “Like any business with a retail footprint, we are
continually acting on opportunities to optimize our branch
network, which includes opening, renovating, and in some
instances closing or relocating branches,” Pulley said.
“Boston remains a U.S. key market for Citibank.”  The Greece closures were reported earlier today by Reuters.
Those in Massachusetts were reported by the Boston Globe.  Citigroup  fell  0.6 percent to close at $35.77 in New York.
The shares have risen 36 percent this year, compared with a 23
percent gain for the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  