-- CME Group Wins Swap-Data Repository Registration From CFTC
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-11-21T21:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/cme-group-wins-swap-data-repository-registration-from-cftc-1-.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , operator of the
world’s largest futures exchange, has been approved by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission to operate a database for
information on  interest rate , credit and other swaps.  Chicago-based CME, which is seeking an injunction against
CFTC rules for reporting private trade information, was granted
provisional registration for its own swap-data repository, the
agency said today in  a statement .  CME’s repository is the third approved by the CFTC to give
regulators a better view of prices and volume in a $639 trillion
global swaps market dominated by banks including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The agency previously gave
provisional registration to Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.’s
DTCC Data Repository LLC and ICE Trade Vault LLC, a repository
operated by Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  “CME Repository Service is a natural extension of the
clearing and processing services we offer to both sell- and buy-
side clients, providing a compliant, efficient and low-cost way
for market participants to access an SDR,”  Kim Taylor ,
president of CME Clearing and the CME Repository Service, said
in a statement.  “As market participants look for alternatives in the SDR
space, our service offers them the ability to optimize their
existing connections to CME Clearing for automatic SDR
reporting, which delivers a lower-cost option for firms
transitioning to the clearing mandate,” Taylor said.  Michael Shore , a CME spokesman, said the suit seeking an
injunction against the CFTC reporting rules hasn’t been
withdrawn, and he declined to comment further on the matter.  Contradicted Rules  After the data-repository rulemaking, the CFTC’s staff on
Oct. 11 published a document addressing frequently asked
questions about reporting. CME said the document contradicted
the rules by saying buyers and sellers of a swap would be
allowed to decide which database would get trade information.  “To the extent the FAQ requires CME to report nonpublic
regulatory data on cleared swaps to SDRs chosen by the original
swap counterparties, CME will suffer harm,” Mark D. Young, a
Washington-based partner representing CME at Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, said in the lawsuit.  Fragmented information about the market across multiple
data repositories risks undermining goals of the Dodd-Frank Act
by threatening regulators’ ability to view consolidated
positions and patterns of manipulative or abusive trading,
according to New York-based DTCC.  ‘Strong Advocate’  “DTCC is a strong advocate for a fair and competitive
marketplace that allows for user choice and welcomes new
entrants,” Judy Inosanto, a DTCC spokeswoman, said in a
statement. “The best way to increase market transparency is to
have, as the Dodd-Frank act provides, all cleared and uncleared
trades reported to a swap-data repository as selected by the
counterparty to the transaction and to ensure these SDRs and
derivatives clearing organizations provide fair and open access
to all market participants.”  The case is Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. v. U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 12-cv-01820, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  