-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Jobless Claims Decrease
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-21T21:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-jobless-claims-decrease.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk dropped as first-time jobless claims fell and confidence
among consumers remained at the highest since 2007.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.9
basis point to a mid-price of 100.5 basis points at 4:17 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Improving economic data may allay investor concern that the
recovery will weaken, hindering companies’ ability to repay debt
obligations. Applications for  unemployment benefits  in the U.S.
declined by 41,000 to 410,000 in the week ended Nov. 17 as
damage to the jobs market caused by  Hurricane Sandy  began to
subside, the Labor Department said today in  Washington . The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer
sentiment was little changed at a five-year high in November.  Investors are paying attention to the domestic economy and
“the big focus is on the fiscal cliff,” Robert Grimm, head of
high-yield trading at Odeon Capital Group LLC in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. While lawmakers
“may come up with something that’s a short term fix,” he said,
they need to clarify “what the long-term outlook is, what the
taxes are going to be.”  Greece Deadlock  The swaps index fell the most in a year earlier this week
after President  Barack Obama  expressed confidence he will reach
a budget agreement with Congress to avoid $607 billion in
spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect in 2013.  In  Europe , ministers failed to agree on a debt-reduction
package for  Greece . With creditors led by  Germany  refusing to
put up fresh money or offer debt relief, finance chiefs were
unable to scrape together enough funds from other sources to
help alleviate Greece’s debt burden, set to reach 190 percent of
gross domestic product in 2014.  The credit-swaps measure typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  MBIA Swaps  Contracts tied to MBIA Insurance Corp. were the most
actively traded U.S. company swaps by gross notional value for
the period ended Nov. 16, according to the  Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. , which runs a central credit-swaps repository.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded MBIA Insurance Corp.
two levels to Caa2 on Nov. 19. Bank of America Corp. is seeking
to buy the majority of a $329.1 million issue of parent company
 MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s bonds to block the company’s efforts to distance
itself from the cash-strapped insurance unit.  The total gross notional value of all single-name contracts
rose 2.4 percent to $123.6 billion last week, according to the
New York-based DTCC.  Credit-default swaps tied to MBIA Inc. dropped 5.1
percentage points to 19.7 percent upfront at 3:30 p.m. in New
York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year,
meaning it would cost $1.97 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of the company’s debt.  High Yield  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North America High Yield
Index dropped 3.3 basis points to 519.5 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show. The measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate
debt risk reached a 15-week high on Nov. 15.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt declined 2
basis points to 5.91 percentage points, led by spreads on the
bonds of industrial companies, which narrowed 6 basis points to
6.11 percentage points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The number of companies with the most potential for a
ratings promotion to investment-grade stands at 23 issuers,
accounting for $185.6 billion in rated debt, according to a
report today from  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  