-- Graft Verdict May Help Croatia Change INA Contract With Mol
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-11-21T15:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/corruption-verdict-may-help-croatia-change-ina-contract-with-mol.html
A corruption verdict against
 Croatia ’s former prime minister Ivo Sanader may help the nation
change a shareholding agreement with Mol Nyrt. related to INA
Industrija Nafte d.d., Finance Minister Slavko Linic said.  A district court in Zagreb yesterday found Sanader guilty
of bribery and abuse of power involving Hungarian refiner  Mol
Nyrt. (MOL)  and  Austria ’s Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG.
Sanader, who was sentenced to 10 years in jail, said through his
lawyer he will appeal the verdict.  Mol, which owns 49.1 percent of INA, won control of the
company in a 2009 shareholding agreement that Judge Ivan Turudic
yesterday described as the product of corruption. Croatia, which
holds 44.84 percent of the Zagreb-based refiner, has tried in
the past two years to increase its influence in the company.  “I believe this verdict will really help Mol realize that
the government is firm in insisting on changes in the
shareholding agreement and that there is no need to lose time
waiting for the binding verdict,” Linic told state radio today.  The ruling in Sanader’s case contained “factual
misconceptions” related to Mol and there was no “substantive
evidence” supporting the bribery charges, Mol said in a
statement today.  “We would query whether the procedures followed with
regard to the claims made against Mol would be considered
compatible with established legal procedures elsewhere in
 Europe ,” the company said, adding that it may take
international legal action.  Linic also said negotiations between the government and
Budapest-based Mol are under way, adding they are “not easy.”  Mol said in a statement on its website after the verdict
that it “categorically rejects” the accusations, which were
formed as part of a “political case” and were lacking
evidence, crime or motive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  