-- Debt Linked to Index ETFs Selling Faster Than the ETFs
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-11-21T18:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/debt-linked-to-index-etfs-selling-faster-than-the-etfs.html
Investors increasingly prefer that
structured notes link to exchange-traded index funds rather than
the benchmarks themselves, as total assets in exchange-traded
products topped $1.8 trillion for the year through October.  One-third of the $2.4 billion of notes tied to the Russell
2000 Index and the Morgan Stanley Capital International EAFE and
 Emerging Markets  indexes links to the iShares ETFs of those
benchmarks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last year,
those ETFs made up less than 30 percent.  Securities that link to ETFs benefit from brand recognition
of names such as iShares, said Serge Troyanovsky, head of North
American structured product sales at BNP Paribas SA in  New York .
The familiarity with the ETFs, as well as opportunities for
leveraged returns and loss protection, make the notes more
popular with investors than the indexes.  “That’s the main reason why people like the ETF as the
underlying” more than the index itself, Troyanovsky said.  IShares funds, which are created by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and are
the largest of any ETF brand, made up 39.1 percent of the market
for exchange-traded products as of October, down 0.6 percent for
the year, according to a  report  by the company. Assets in ETPs,
which include exchange-traded notes, rose 21 percent from last
year.  Leverage, Buffer  The biggest offerings for the notes this year all include
protection for investors against incurring some losses,
according to prospectuses filed with the SEC. Among the note
features are limited leveraged gains and yields greater than 10
percent.  “With structured notes, you can fine-tune your investment
outlook,” Troyanovsky said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. issued the largest offering tied
to an equity ETF this year, $45.2 million of 2.5-year notes
linked to the  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund. (EEM)  The
notes, sold May 4, yield 1.37 times the gains of the index, with
returns capped at 42.2 percent, as long as the fund’s value
doesn’t fall more than 20 percent, according to a  prospectus 
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors can lose all of their investment if the ETF plummets.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund has $38.5
billion of assets, the MSCI EAFE Index Fund has $36.6 billion
and the Russell 2000 Index Fund has $14.1 billion as of Nov. 19,
according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The three ETFs are among the top
10 most traded in October. The MSCI EAFE Index has 921 members
based in  Europe ,  Australia ,  Asia  and  Israel .  Highest Selling  The securities linked to the iShares funds are the highest
selling among notes tied to ETFs of stocks, Bloomberg data show.
Banks sold $157.8 million of notes tied to the MSCI EAFE Index
ETF, $185.7 million of notes linked to the Russell 2000 Index
ETF, and $451.8 million of notes tied to the MSCI Emerging
Markets ETF. The next highest-selling was $94 million of notes
linked to the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, a fund issued by  Standard
& Poor’s  that replicates the  S&P 500 Index .  Investors who buy structured notes linked to ETFs probably
aren’t comfortable with the underlying indexes and are unable to
replicate the strategies using the options market, said Timothy Strauts, ETF analyst for Morningstar Inc.  ETFs are backed by assets in an underlying basket of
securities, typically an index, and ETNs are unsecured bank debt
supported by their issuer’s credit and tied to the value of an
index or an asset. Providers of ETFs and ETNs create and redeem
a set number of shares based on investor demand, and their
prices usually track the indexes to which they’re linked.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  