-- Deere Profit Disappoints After Sales Slow Outside U.S., Canada
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-11-21T21:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/deere-profit-misses-estimates-after-sales-slow-in-europe-asia.html
Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest
agricultural equipment maker, posted earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates for a second consecutive quarter after sales
declined 2 percent outside the U.S. and  Canada .  Profit rose to $1.75 a share in the fiscal fourth quarter
ended Oct. 31 from $1.62 a year earlier, the Moline, Illinois-
based manufacturer said in a statement today. The average of 18
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for $1.88. Net income will
be about $3.2 billion in the year through October 2013, Deere
said. The average of 15 estimates was for $3.26 billion. The
shares fell the most in three months.  Deere said the farm-equipment industry will see sales in
 Europe  unchanged or 5 percent lower in fiscal 2013 while  Asia 
will be little changed due to “softer” economic conditions in
India and  China . That may undermine the company’s effort to
expand the share of revenue it gets from outside the U.S. and
Canada to 50 percent by 2018. Today’s numbers will disappoint
investors after the U.S. farming economy improved in the past
three months, said Larry  De Maria , a William Blair & Co. analyst
in  New York .  “Expectations were relatively elevated,” De Maria, who
has a hold rating on the stock, said in an interview.  Deere fell 3.7 percent to $82.83 in New York. The shares
have gained 7.1 percent this year.  Income Guidance  “Deere stock is down due to lower-than-expected net income
guidance,” Bryan Z. Agbabian, sector head for agricultural
equities and a portfolio manager for Allianz Global Investors in
 San Francisco , said in an e-mail today. “Commentary on combine
early order program was positive as company is booked out
through early 2013. Lead times for tractors also appear to
stretched to April or May 2013.”  The company probably “is conservative on its full-year
guidance, and second half of its fiscal year leaves room for
upside,” Agbabian said.  Net income climbed 2.7 percent to $687.6 million from
$669.6 million a year earlier. Sales of equipment increased 14
percent to $9.05 billion from $7.9 billion, topping the $8.85
billion average estimate of a dozen analysts.  In August, Deere cut its fiscal 2012 profit forecast after
Asian and Latin American sales slowed and posted lower-than-
expected profit for the first time in 11 quarters.  “Deere remains well-positioned to carry out its growth
plans and capitalize on positive long-term trends, even though
present global economic and fiscal concerns warrant continued
caution,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sam Allen said
today in the statement.  Drought Impact  The company said its worldwide sales of agriculture and
turf equipment will increase by about 4 percent in fiscal 2013
because of relatively high commodity prices and stronger farm
incomes.  Industrywide farm-machinery demand may rise as much as 10
percent in  South America , spurred by commodity prices and more
planting. It will remain little changed in the U.S. and Canada
as the livestock and dairy industries, hurt by the worst drought
in five decades, offset continued strength in demand for large
equipment such as high-horsepower tractors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  