-- Deloitte Found No Errors in Autonomy Books Before HP Deal
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-11-21T14:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/deloitte-found-no-errors-in-autonomy-books-before-hp-deal.html
Deloitte LLC said that it didn’t
find any evidence of improper accounting methods or
misrepresentations when it last looked at Autonomy Corp.’s
finances before  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  bought the software company.  The denial comes after Hewlett-Packard Chief Executive
Officer Meg Whitman yesterday said the company had relied on
financial statements audited by Deloitte to make the decision to
buy Autonomy for $10.3 billion last year. Whitman accused
Autonomy’s former management team of inflating the company’s
financial value ahead of the acquisition, contributing to an
$8.8 billion writedown.  Deloitte, which said it wasn’t employed to do due diligence
on the deal, last audited Autonomy’s finances for the year ended
Dec. 31, 2010, the firm said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Deloitte categorically denies that it had any knowledge
of any accounting improprieties or misrepresentations in
Autonomy’s financial statements,” the company said. “We
conducted our audit work in full compliance with regulation and
professional standards.”  Deloitte said that it couldn’t comment further on the audit
work because of client confidentiality and that it intends to
cooperate with any investigations. Hewlett-Packard’s due
diligence was overseen by KPMG, Barclays and  Perella Weinberg ,
former Autonomy CEO Mike Lynch said in a statement yesterday.
Lynch said he was “shocked” and “flatly rejects” the
allegations of impropriety.  Hewlett-Packard began investigating Autonomy’s finances
after a senior executive at Autonomy came forward following the
May departure of founder Lynch, the company said. Hewlett-
Packard has referred the matter to U.S. and U.K. securities
regulators and will also pursue civil litigation.  “The board relied on audited financials -- audited by
Deloitte -- not Brand X accounting firm but Deloitte,” Whitman
said yesterday on a conference call with investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  