-- Deutsche Bank’s Jain Declines Bundestag Libor Hearing
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-11-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/deutsche-bank-s-jain-declines-german-parliament-libor-invitation.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s co-Chief
Executive Officer Anshu Jain has turned down a request by the
German parliament to testify at a hearing about allegations of
manipulation in the London interbank offered rate.  Stephan Leithner, Deutsche Bank’s most senior executive for
legal affairs and compliance, will attend, company spokesman
Christian Streckert said by telephone yesterday. The Bundestag’s
finance committee, which listed Jain as a witness in a Nov. 12
 statement  on its website, will hear representatives of banks and
regulators on Nov. 28.  “We explicitly invited Jain to come to speak to us because
he was and still is the person overseeing investment banking,
the unit where all of this happened,”  Gerhard Schick , a Green
Party opposition member of the committee, said in a telephone
interview. “If he’s not coming now, that’s quite vexing.”  Deutsche Bank is one of at least a dozen banks being probed
over allegations of interest-rate rigging. Regulators from
 Canada  to Switzerland are investigating whether banks lied to
hide their true cost of borrowing and traders colluded to rig
the Libor. The rate is the benchmark for more than $300 trillion
of securities and is the basis for interest rates on securities
from mortgages to derivatives.  Streckert said Deutsche Bank has “a tradition of assisting
the Bundestag in its requests for information and will do so as
a matter of course in this instance.”  Hugo Banziger, the Frankfurt-based lender’s former chief
risk officer, is also scheduled to testify, as well as officials
from the Bundesbank and Bafin, the financial regulator.  Bob Diamond  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Bob Diamond, who also ran his
firm’s investment bank before becoming CEO, and chairman Marcus
Agius resigned in July after a record 290 million-pound ($462
million) fine for rate manipulation by U.S. and U.K. regulators.
Diamond testified before the U.K. parliament.  “Deutsche Bank is looking to keep Jain as far from the
Libor scandal as possible but politically it would have been
good for him to have attended,”  Christian Muschick , an analyst
with broker Silvia Quandt Research GmbH in  Frankfurt , said by
telephone yesterday. “I don’t see a danger that the situation
becomes as severe for Jain as it did for Diamond but it could
hurt him.”  Jain ran Deutsche Bank’s combined debt and equity sales and
trading department from 2004 and was appointed sole head of the
investment bank in 2010. He became co-CEO this year.  The bank has said it’s co-operating with regulators in
their probes and an internal investigation cleared current and
former management board members of any wrongdoing. A limited
number of employees had “engaged in conduct that falls short of
the bank’s standards,” it said in July.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are among
lenders awaiting information about their fate. The U.S. Justice
Department is handling a criminal probe, running in parallel
with civil investigations being conducted by its fraud division,
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the U.K.
Financial Services Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  