-- The EU Doesn’t Deserve More Money
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-21T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/the-eu-doesn-t-deserve-more-money.html
European Union leaders meet in
Brussels tomorrow for what promises to be an acrimonious fight
over the bloc’s central budget with potential consequences far
out of proportion to the sums involved.  In the context of the EU’s 10.7 trillion euro economy, the
disputed budget increase is trivial, but deciding who gets what
is always difficult. This year’s budget fight is and should be
different.  The bloc’s 27 nations will meet in the shadow of a deep
financial crisis, which is forcing governments and their
electorates into painful change and sacrifice. By asking for a
budget increase, the EU’s institutions, which employ more than
40,000 people, have failed to show that they recognize this. As
a result, they don’t deserve the extra cash they’re requesting.  Let’s start, as briefly as possible, with the numbers. The
European Commission is asking for a combined  2014-2020 budget  of
 1.033 trillion  euros ($1.32 trillion), somewhere between a 4
percent and 6 percent increase,  depending  on whether friends or
foes of the EU have their fingers on the calculator.  Lobbying for any increase in the current austerity climate
strikes us as tone-deaf, given that the commission and the
European Parliament have made only half-hearted efforts to cut
staff, marginal agencies and perks. What’s more, they have not
done enough to refocus spending on growth.  Some Threats  Yet things are not so easy. Net recipient countries, such
as Poland and  Spain , want a bigger EU budget no matter what. Net
contributors, such as  Germany  and the U.K., don’t. The U.K. is
threatening to veto any increase in the budget that’s above
inflation -- a threat that isn’t winning the British any friends
coming so soon after the veto they wielded against the euro
area’s new  fiscal treaty  in March.  It would be nice if peace came to pass with a deal this
week, ending what is a distraction from far more important
issues. European Council President  Herman Van Rompuy  has
proposed a compromise budget, reduced to 973 billion euros, and
it’s a good place to start. If no deal can be reached, the EU
has a year to get one. Rather than just continue to bicker over
the numbers, Europe’s leaders should find a way to use the
pressure of the economic crisis to restructure EU spending so
that it maximizes value and growth. The budget remains too
skewed toward agriculture; too much money amounts to cross-
subsidization between wealthy countries, resulting in complex
rebates (primarily for the U.K.); the targeting of development
funds remains too hit or miss.  Although agriculture’s share of the budget has been falling
gradually -- from 70 percent of the total in 1988, to 44 percent
last year, according to European Commission figures -- it’s
still too high. The commission’s proposal for 2014-2020 would
reduce spending to 37 percent -- but that strikes us as still
out of proportion to the less than 2 percent that the sector
contributes to  Europe ’s economy. Rebates should disappear and
the budget should be redesigned so that wealthy countries no
longer subsidize one another. France can take care of its own
farmers, yet it currently gets 17 percent of EU agricultural
funds. The U.K. can fund development in its own poorer regions.  Other changes are needed, too. A  study  this year by the
EU’s Court of Auditors on port infrastructure projects funded by
the EU concluded that 11 of the 27 studied were ineffective. EU
auditors have also found that about 5 percent of money spent on
all cohesion projects was lost to fraud, incompetence or other
problems. The commission has  proposed  changes, including a shift
of focus from building traditional infrastructure, such as roads
and ports, to green projects, including flood defenses. Those
changes need to be put in place.  Inexcusable Anomalies  The EU is no more wasteful than most of its member
governments. Union administration soaks up only 6 percent of the
EU budget. However, if governments are being asked to reform,
the EU should, too. Anomalies remain that are inexcusable at a
time when Greek health-care services are being cut to the bone
in the name of austerity. For example, the European Parliament
still spends roughly 180 million euros a year maintaining a
second, purposeless home in Strasbourg,  France , to which the 754
members of Parliament, their aides and documents have to decamp
for one week in every month.  The commission argues, not unreasonably, that at a time of
sagging growth in specific countries, a common, redistributive
budget should kick in. But until the budget is thoroughly
revamped, with anomalies ended, agriculture spending slimmed and
development funds made more effective, the EU is unlikely to get
the public support needed for an increase. For that to happen,
the EU needs to make voters think that it uses money better and
more cleanly than their own governments do.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 