-- EDF’s Fessenheim Shutdown Will Push Region to Import Power
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-21T13:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/edf-s-fessenheim-shutdown-will-push-region-to-import-power.html
President  Francois Hollande ’s
decision to shut Electricite de France SA’s oldest reactor at
Fessenheim in 2016 may force the power-exporting eastern region
to rely on imports and require extra spending on the local grid.  “The power supply situation of Alsace will become more
fragile,” Dominique Maillard, president of grid operator Reseau
de Transport d’Electricite, said at a press conference today.  Work needed to modify local grid infrastructure ahead of
the planned shutdown will cost about 50 million euros ($64
million) while another 150 million euros will have to be spent
earlier than scheduled to reinforce and possibly add high-
tension cables in the region, Maillard said.  Hollande’s decision to shut the 1,800-megawatt Fessenheim
plant is part of his campaign promise to reduce  France ’s
dependence on nuclear generation. Questions about Fessenheim’s
ability to withstand earthquakes were raised following the
Fukushima disaster in  Japan  last year. The country’s safety
authority has ordered EDF to thicken the concrete base of one of
the reactors by the middle of next year even though it’s slated
for closing.  Alsace, the eastern region near the German border, could
become like Brittany and Provence-Alpes-Cotes d’Azur if work on
the grid isn’t carried out, Maillard said. A lack of power-
generation capacity in those western and southern regions has
meant they face higher risks of supply shortages during peak
demand periods like cold spells.  The planned shutdown of Fessenheim won’t “fundamentally
change” France’s power supply and demand balance because of the
economic slowdown, which has lowered electricity use, and the
scheduled start up on 2016 of EDF’s 1,650-megawatt EPR reactor
at Flamanville, according to Maillard.  “We won’t have to add production,” because of the
Fessenheim shutdown, he said. “What we will have to do is
rethink the local grid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  