-- Eletrobras in Record Slump as Rate Cuts Imperil Earnings
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-11-21T18:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/eletrobras-in-record-slump-as-rate-cuts-imperil-earnings.html
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) ,
South America’s largest power generator, headed for its biggest
decline on record on concerns rate cuts ordered by the
government will erode earnings.  Eletrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based utility is also
known, slumped 18 percent to 8.01 reais at 4:15 p.m. in Sao
Paulo and slid as much as 20 percent, the biggest drop on a
closing basis since at least 1994 when Bloomberg records begin.
The preferred shares are down 41 percent in the past four
trading days. Brazilian markets were closed Nov. 15 and
yesterday for holidays.  “Under the worst-case scenario Eletrobras will start
losing book value,” Dany Rappaport, who helps manage about 250
million reais at Investport in Sao Paulo, said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “Politics has always been a problem for Eletrobras, and
this has been magnified” by pressure to lower rates.  The government’s plan to reduce electricity costs by as
much as 28 percent will almost erase earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization next year, Chief Financial
Officer Armando Casado de Araujo said Nov. 19. The government is
offering Eletrobras 14 billion reais ($6.7 billion) in cash as
compensation, less than half the 30 billion reais the company
had said it expected to receive.  Brazil  is ordering power rate cuts to help companies become
more competitive. Manufacturers pay more for electricity than
their peers in the U.S., most of the European Union and the
largest  emerging markets  -- China, Russia and  India  -- according
to a report published in July by the industrial federation of
Rio de Janeiro, known as Firjan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  