-- Emerging ETF Slips at Eletrobras Drives Rout in Utilities
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-11-21T22:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/emerging-market-stocks-snap-two-day-gain-on-europe-deadlock.html
The exchange-traded fund tracking
emerging-market stocks dropped for a second day as declining
utility and resource stocks offset advances in consumer and
financial shares.  South Africa ’s rand sank to the weakest level
since 2009.  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  ETF lost 0.2
percent in  New York . Voting shares of  Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , South America’s largest power generator, tumbled
to a 17-year low, leading a 0.4 percent drop in  Brazil ’s Bovespa
Index. Angang Steel Co. surged the most since September after
the steelmaker said it will swap assets with its Chinese parent
to cut losses. AFK Sistema, the parent company of  Russia ’s
largest mobile operator, climbed the most in a month in Moscow.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of developing-nation shares
was little changed at 980.84 as 404 stocks rose while 357
declined. Fewer Americans filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, and an index of U.S. leading economic
indicators rose at a slower pace in October, data today showed.
President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers have started negotiations
to avoid tax increases and government cutbacks known as the
fiscal cliff scheduled to take effect next year.  “The market is falling back on the big focal points of
this week,”  Alec Young , a global equity strategist at S&P
Capital IQ, said by phone in New York today. “To make upside
progress we need to see news on a deal on the fiscal cliff, but
the parties are saying all the right things, and that has put a
floor under risk assets.”  Rand Weakens  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 26 percent of their exports to the European Union and 17
percent to the U.S. on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show. U.S. markets will be closed tomorrow for the
Thanksgiving holiday.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, slipped 2 percent.  The rand weakened, trading above 9 per dollar for the first
time in three years, as South Africa inflation unexpectedly
quickened. The currency retreated 1.2 percent, the worst
performance among major and emerging-market currencies monitored
by Bloomberg.  The index of U.S. leading economic indicators gained 0.2
percent after a revised 0.5 percent advance in September that
was lower than initially reported, the Conference Board said
today. Jobless claims decreased by 41,000 to 410,000 in the week
ended Nov. 17, the Labor Department reported.  European finance chiefs are scheduled to meet on Nov. 26
after talks failed to produce an agreement on a debt-reduction
package for  Greece .  Bovespa Declines  “Everyone realizes that Greece will be fixed anyway,”
Aurelija Augulyte, emerging-markets strategist at Nordea Bank AB
in Copenhagen, said by e-mail. “There are no other drivers for
risk off as U.S. heads for Thanksgiving. The markets are
complacent with risk.”  The Bovespa slid, dragged by utility and energy shares as
it reopened after yesterday’s holiday. Russia’s Micex climbed
0.7 percent and the ruble reached its strongest level versus the
dollar since Oct. 22.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index added 1.1 percent, the most
since Nov. 1, on bets the central bank will lower reserve-ratio
requirements. Trading volumes for the Shanghai Composite and for
South Korea’s Kospi  index  were 17 percent below the 30-day
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. About 31 percent fewer
shares of Russia’s Micex index changed hands versus the 30-day
average, the data show.  Bond Yields  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose for the fourth day
to a record. Taiwan’s Taiex Index slid 0.8 percent to the lowest
close since July 26.  The EGX 30 Index in  Egypt  gained 1.3 percent after the
nation reached a preliminary pact for an International Monetary
Fund loan of as much as $4.8 billion.  The yield on Egypt’s dollar bonds due in April 2020 dropped
13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 5.12 percent, the
lowest since December 2010. Egypt’s bonds were raised to
overweight at Bank of America Merrill Lynch after the IMF
accord.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 293 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The emerging-markets measure has risen 7 percent this year,
trailing an 8.6 percent gain by the MSCI World Index of
developed countries. The gauge of developing-nation stocks
trades at 11.3 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s multiple of 13.2, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Reserve Ratio  Sinolink Securities Co. jumped 4 percent in Shanghai and
led a rally for brokerages after the  China  Securities Journal
said a new rule that lowers the benchmark for calculating risk
capital reserves may free up 50 billion  yuan  ($8 billion) for
the industry.  There is speculation “China’s central bank will cut the
reserve-ratio requirement from Nov. 25,”  Li Jun , a strategist
at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai, said in a phone
interview today. “There’s no basis for the speculation so we
don’t know if it’s true. It could be a technical rebound as
well.”  Sistema Gains  Russian billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s AFK Sistema
jumped 2.7 percent in Moscow. Sistema’s management will
recommend paying a higher dividend to attract investors, CEO
Mikhail Shamolin said today, without giving details. The company
may also decide on an additional share buyback in several weeks
if the market price is low, he said.  Sistema spent $150 million purchasing stock through Oct. 15
and may cancel the shares it bought as part of that program,
Shamolin said.  Voting shares of Eletrobras, as Centrais Eletricas is
known, tumbled 16 percent. Shares have plunged 40 percent this
month on concern that the government’s plan to lower electricity
costs will hurt profits.  The  MSCI EMerging Markets/Utilities Index (MXEF0UT)  was the worst
performer among 10 industry groups in the developing-nations
gauge, falling 0.8 percent to the lowest level since June.  Magyar Telekom Nyrt., the Hungarian unit of Deutsche
Telekom AG, dropped 2.2 percent, the most in three months, after
the government increased a tax on cables, wires and pipes.  Angang Steel Co. (347) ,  Hong Kong ’s largest publicly-traded
steelmaker, surged 7.4 percent, the most since Sept. 14. The
company agreed to sell its 45 percent stake in Tianjin Tiantie,
a cold-rolled steel venture, for 1.18 billion yuan ($189
million) to parent Anshan Iron & Steel Group, it said in an
exchange filing. It also agreed to sell its 80 percent stake in
Angang Putian, another cold-rolled steel plant, to the parent’s
trading company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  