-- Ending the Curse of Child Brides, One $25 Goat at a Time
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-21T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/ending-the-curse-of-child-brides-one-25-goat-at-a-time.html
After an unforgivably long time, the
revolutionary idea that girls should get the same education as
boys seems to be gaining acceptance. What’s surprising, then, is
that one of the great impediments to keeping girls in school --
particularly girls in the developing world -- remains largely
unremarked upon and unaddressed. By this we mean the stubborn
persistence of child marriage.  Child brides remain alarmingly common. An estimated  10
million marriages  occur worldwide each year in which at least
one spouse, usually the female, is younger than 18.  In 16
countries , half of girls marry by that age. West Africa has the
highest incidence of child marriage,  South Asia  the largest
numbers. In many places, brides are preposterously young. In
Niger, 36 percent of girls are wed before turning 15.  These unions produce a host of  social ills . Younger brides
become pregnant at younger ages, often before their bodies fully
mature, putting mother and child at risk. In the developing
world, a baby born to a mother under 20 is  50 percent more
likely  to be stillborn or die in the first month than one born
to a mother 20 to 29. Pregnant girls younger than 15 are five
times more likely to die giving birth than women over 20 are.  A particular danger for teen mothers is  obstetric fistula ,
a condition that can develop during untended, obstructed labor
and lead to constant leakage of urine or feces; such girls are
often cast out of society.  Girls who marry young also typically leave school. Their
children are more likely than those of older brides to be
undereducated and malnourished.  Harmful Imbalance  Generally, the younger the bride, the greater the age gap
between her and her husband, which translates to a power
imbalance that often leads to  spousal abuse .  In recent decades, several countries have increased the
legal marital age to 18 to comply with international conventions
defining marriage as an agreement between consenting adults. Yet
legal change alone has made little difference. The prevalence of
child marriage is decreasing -- but very slowly, and in many
places not at all. Some members of  Egypt ’s Parliament actually
want to  rescind the country’s law  that sets the marriage age at
18.  In societies where this tradition is entrenched,
particularly among the poorest of the poor, parents often regard
early marriage as a way to eliminate an economic burden. They
may see educating a daughter as a waste of resources and seek to
hasten the day when she moves to her husband’s home.  Programs that target this economic dynamic  have reduced 
child marriages. In  Ethiopia ’s rural Amhara region, for example,
 parents of girls 10 to 14 were given $6  to pay for their
daughter’s school supplies plus a goat worth $25 if she remained
enrolled for two years. After that period, girls in the program
were one-tenth as likely to be married and three times as likely
to be in school as their peers. Similar programs in Malawi and
 Bangladesh  have also reduced child-marriage rates.  In addition to helping pay the costs of keeping a daughter
at home, these programs encourage a view of girls as children
rather than brides. Parents can imagine a return on investment
in educated daughters equipped for jobs. And schooling gives
girls the skills, social networks and confidence to better
negotiate their futures.  The challenge is to expand these interventions. Governments
will need to make them part of national education policy, and
donors will need to help with funding. The Ethiopian program was
a partnership of local authorities and the  Population Council , a
nongovernmental organization focused on health and development
issues, with funding from the  Nike Foundation , the  United
Nations  and the  U.S. Agency for International Development .  High child-marriage rates are associated with weak national
indicators not only in maternal health and education but also
poverty,  food security  and HIV incidence, since badly informed
and weakly connected mothers make poor decisions for themselves
and their families. If girls are educated, they won’t be the
only ones who benefit.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the value of Thanksgiving
mythmaking ;  Jonathan Alter  on why  John Kerry is the right choice 
for secretary of state; Pawel Swieboda on  the prospect of many
European Unions .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 