-- ER Concierge Services at Hospitals Boost Bottom Lines
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-11-26T18:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/er-concierge-services-at-hospitals-boost-bottom-lines.html
(Corrects name of hospital in 21st paragraph of story
published Nov. 21.)  Just before her wedding this year,
Ashleigh Kondracki came down with bronchitis and went to the
emergency room. Instead of an onerous wait, the 22-year-old
receptionist from Imperial, Missouri, simply walked through the
doors at  SMM St. Clare Health Center  and was seen right away.  Kondracki was able to breeze through the crowded waiting
room because she went online and made a reservation from home,
where she waited until her appointment.  Hospital emergency departments eager to woo patients are
borrowing an idea from the restaurant industry. ER online
reservations are available at more than 100 hospitals, including
facilities run by  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the third-largest U.S.
hospital company. Reservations and other concierge services,
including mobile apps that provide wait times, are intended to
make emergency room experiences more palatable.  “We value it as a service,” Rick Black, a Tenet
spokesman, said in an interview. The  Dallas , Texas-based company
provides the online ER check-ins at 42 hospitals. It’s free for
patients at all but a few of those facilities.  Reservations, already available in some doctors’ offices,
are part of an increasing effort by hospitals to shore up
revenue by enhancing patient satisfaction. On that score, the
emergency room is an especially sore spot: From 2003 through
2009, the mean wait time in emergency departments increased to
about 58 minutes from about 47 minutes, according to a  report  by
the National Center for Health Statistics.  Patient Satisfaction  Hospitals need to improve or the bottom line could suffer.
The Affordable Care Act is shifting how hospitals are paid for
patients on Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the elderly and
disabled. Patient satisfaction scores will be taken into account
in reimbursements, with higher-scoring hospitals landing
bonuses.  In fiscal 2013, an estimated $850 million -- funded by
reducing hospital-based Medicare payments by 1 percent -- will
be allocated according to performance measures that include
scores from patients such as those admitted through the ER.  Hospitals also want to benefit by attracting insured
patients. About 60 percent of the patients at The Medical Center
of Central Georgia in Macon, part of Central Georgia Health
Systems Inc., come through the emergency department, Cyndey
Costello Busbee, a spokeswoman, said in an interview. They began
offering ER reservations about a year ago, and the service has
boosted patient satisfaction scores and improved efficiency.  ‘Revolutionized’ Experience  “Because we make money on inpatient admissions, we want as
many to move through our portal as possible as opposed to
competitors,” she said, adding that the reservations are free
for patients.“We were trying to clean up the way people just
flood in. It’s revolutionized the experience.”  To use the reservation service, patients must describe
their ailments when making a reservation. The online booking
system won’t accept requests that involve serious symptoms, such
as chest pains. Instead, those users are directed to go to the
hospital or call 911.  InQuicker LLC , a Nashville, Tennessee-based company with $4
million in sales, offers the concierge service to about 140
hospital emergency departments.  “Doctors and nurses have embraced InQuicker because they
can focus on the business of healing rather than apologizing for
lengthy waits or a lack of communication,” Tyler Kiley,
InQuicker’s 27-year-old co-founder and chief technology officer,
said in an e-mail.  Different Treatment  Still, ER reservations may run afoul of a U.S. law that
bans hospitals from giving different treatment to patients for
non-medical reasons, said  Robert Bitterman , president and CEO of
Harbor Springs, Michigan-based Health Law Consulting Group Inc.,
which specializes in emergency medicine risk management. That’s
because customers who hold their place online may be seen ahead
of others with similar complaints that have been sitting in the
waiting room, he said in an interview.  “It’s a wonderful system for urgent care or primary care,
but it should be kept out of the emergency department,”
Bitterman said, adding that it discriminates against lower-
income patients. “Poor people don’t have access to smart phones
or computers.”  Some critics say the service encourages overuse of already
crowded emergency rooms.  “I’m just floored,” Sara Rosenbaum, a health law and
policy professor at George  Washington  University in Washington,
said in an interview. “It’s concierge emergency departments,
and by definition, if you’re making an appointment, it’s not an
emergency. These are the same hospitals that go crying that
they’re awash in patients and don’t know what to do.”  Legal Review  The check-in service has undergone legal review and doesn’t
violate the U.S. statute, Chris Song, a spokesman for InQuicker.
He said hospitals who had charged a fee of about $4 to $20 are
now dropping patient charges.  “A hospital’s triage and throughput process remains the
same for patients whether or not they use InQuicker, and care is
always given based on the most urgent medical need,” he said.  Other novel efforts by hospitals to appeal to emergency
room patients include roadside bulletin boards that advertise
wait times and mobile apps that provide real-time wait data.  “There’s more of an interest and focus on patient
experience,” Andrew Sama, president of the American College of
Emergency Physicians, said in an interview.  Richard Easterline, nursing director for emergency services
at Seton Northwest Hospital in Austin,  Texas , is also a fan.  Unnecessary use of the emergency room hasn’t risen since
Seton Northwest Hospital rolled out reservations last year, he
said in an interview. Instead, it helps patients who would
otherwise have to delay treatment until they can see their own
doctor, he said.  “If a mother gets a call that her child is sick and can’t
get an appointment with a doctor for a week, yet she can get an
appointment in the ER, why should that mother wait?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  