-- Erdogan Anti-Israel Talk Negates Mediator Role in Gaza Conflict
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-11-21T12:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/erdogan-anti-israel-talk-negates-mediator-role-in-gaza-conflict.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s anti-Israeli rhetoric fuels his popularity in the Arab
world as he seeks to become a leader in the region. He’s
increasingly antagonizing the West as he takes on that role.  Erdogan rejects  Israel ’s statements that its strikes on
Hamas positions in the  Gaza Strip  were in self-defense. He
accused the Jewish state of carrying out “ethnic cleansing” in
a speech to parliament yesterday. His remarks came a day after
U.S. State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland , responding to
the premier’s comment that Israel is a “terrorist state,” said
 Turkey ’s verbal attacks were “not helpful.”  Speaking at the airport today before a flight to Pakistan,
Erdogan said Turkey and Qatar are involved in Egyptian-led
efforts for a cease-fire. He added that Turkey, NATO’s biggest
Muslim member, wouldn’t speak with Israeli counterparts unless
there was an “extraordinary situation.”  “He aspires to be more of a regional leader than he is,”
said  Jon Alterman , director of the Middle East program at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington
policy group. Erdogan “feels that he’s earned the right to tell
people what he feels,” Alterman said. “That doesn’t mean that
Turkish foreign policy is served by leading an effort to
delegitimize Israel in the international community.”  Erdogan, 58, also is operating in an increasingly polarized
Muslim world.  Iran  opposes his calls for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to step down and  Iraq  is displeased with Erdogan’s
sheltering of fugitive Iraqi Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi.  Ship Raid  Erdogan’s government has cultivated diplomatic relations
with Hamas, whose exiled leader,  Khaled Mashaal , attended a
convention for the Turkish ruling party on Sept. 30 in Ankara.
Mashaal received a standing ovation after being introduced by
Erdogan as the audience chanted “damn Israel!”  The U.S., the European Union and Israel classify Hamas as a
terrorist organization.  Turkey’s ties with Israel, once a close military ally, have
been severely strained since nine Turks were killed in an
Israeli commando raid on a Gaza-bound aid ship in 2010. Turkey
and Israel mutually downgraded diplomatic ties to the level of
charge d’affaires in September 2011 after Turkey asked top
Israeli diplomats to leave and withdrew its ambassador over
Israel’s refusal to apologize for the killings on the ship.  Earlier this month, Turkey put four former Israeli
officers, including ex-chief of staff Gabi Ashkenazi, on trial
in absentia for the killings.  Turkish Trade  The two countries have kept business channels open during
their dispute, allowing trade to flourish. It reached a record
$4.4 billion last year, up from $2.6 billion in 2009, and was
about $3 billion in the first nine months of 2012, according to
official Turkish data.  Tourism has slumped as Israelis shun Turkey, once a
favorite destination. The number of visitors dropped to 80,000
last year from about 500,000 a year before 2009, according to
the Israeli Embassy in Ankara.  Erdogan’s Turkey leads the world in jailing reporters and
is engaged in “one of the biggest crackdowns on press freedom
in recent history,” the Committee to  Protect Journalists  said
in an Oct. 22 report. There were 76 journalists imprisoned in
Turkey as of Aug. 1, at least 61 of whom were being held because
of their work, CPJ said in the 53-page report. That’s the
highest figure globally in the past 10 years, it said.  In criticizing Israel, Erdogan is “telling the truth,”
Nusret Bayraktar, a lawmaker from Erdogan’s party, said by
telephone today.  ‘Important Country’  “Everyone knows that Turkey is an important country with a
say in this region,” Bayraktar said. It is “saying the
unspeakable” and “standing up against the legitimization of
injustice,” he said.  Erdogan’s anti-Israel rhetoric hasn’t hurt Turkish stock
prices, with the  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rising 45 percent this 
year in dollar terms. The index reached an all-time high on Nov.
5, the same day its  credit rating  was upgraded by  Fitch Ratings ,
giving the $800 billion economy its first investment grade 
credentials since 1994. Yields on the  benchmark  two-year bonds
dropped yesterday to a record low of 6.23 percent, extending 
this year’s decline to 478 basis points, the biggest drop in the
 emerging markets .  The cost to insure Turkish debt against default is at 145
basis points, compared with 149 for Russian credit-default swaps
and 156 for Israel. Russia is rated three levels above Turkey at
Moody’s Investors Service and Israel is rated six levels above.  Obama Contact  Erdogan said last week that U.S. President  Barack Obama  had
asked him to use his contacts with  Egypt  and Hamas to help
achieve a cease-fire.  “Erdogan seems to be trying to give Hamas a political
umbrella with his strong criticism of Israel,” said Alon Liel,
professor of international relations at the  Hebrew University of
Jerusalem  and former Israeli charge d’affaires in Turkey.  At home, Erdogan is hailed as a hero who dares to stand up
against Israel. Thousands of his supporters, waving Palestinian
flags, took to the streets after Friday prayers last week to
denounce Israel’s offensives on Gaza across Turkey, a
predominantly Muslim country.  Erdogan called Israel a “pirate state” that is “waging
terrorism in the  Middle East .” He also accused the  United
Nations  of being absent from conflicts in which Muslims were
victims. Erdogan regularly calls for a rotating membership for
UN Security Council to ensure interests of Muslim states are
always represented.  Gaza Invasion  “Palestinian lands are being invaded step-by-step,”
Erdogan said yesterday in Ankara. “Sooner or later, Israel will
pay the price for all of the oppressed people it has martyred.”  Ties deteriorated after Israel’s invasion of Gaza in
December 2008. Erdogan, whose party has Islamist roots, accused
the Jewish state of using excessive force. Turkey canceled
military ties in 2009 as it stepped up calls for Palestinian
statehood.  The Arab Spring uprisings that brought elected governments
with Islamist leanings to power in Egypt and Tunisia may help
explain Erdogan’s move away from Israel as they unite to
counterbalance Iranian influence in the region, said  Mustafa Alani , a regional security analyst with the Gulf Research Center
in Dubai.  “For many years Turkey aligned itself with Israel,” he
said in a phone interview. “Now we have a complete shift,
competing with Iran on the question of who is going to counter
the Israeli influence in the region.”  In the eyes of Arab public opinion, Erdogan “is liberating
himself from the American pressure to support Israel while a lot
of Arab governments are still unable to stand in the face of
Israel because they are linked to the Americans,” Alani said.
“This is a strategic investment for the long term for the
Turkish leadership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  