-- Merrill Lynch Buys European Stocks Before 2013
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-11-21T16:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/merrill-lynch-buys-european-stocks-before-2013.html
Merrill Lynch Wealth Management is
buying European equities driven by a positive outlook for the
asset class in 2013 and the most attractive valuations relative
to investment-grade credit in 25 years.  The  money manager , which oversees about $1.8 trillion
globally, turned overweight on the region’s stock markets last
month for the first time in two years, meaning they now own more
of the assets than are represented in benchmark indexes. The
wealth-management unit will add to its holdings of European and
emerging-market stocks over the next six months.  “Our conviction is to add to our equity exposure,” said
 Bill O’Neill , chief investment officer for the firm’s  Europe ,
Middle East and Africa business at a press briefing in London.
“We think it will be a good year for equities in 2013. We
should see the areas of relatively cheap market risk like Europe
and the  emerging markets  being the key performers.”  O’Neill predicted equities will beat fixed-income
investments next year, marking the start of a “great rotation”
out of bonds, as investors refocus on the outlook for economic
growth rather than U.S. and euro-area politics.  “This leads us to favor equities over bonds,” said
O’Neill. “Assuming no big shock from the fixed-income markets -
- in other words if U.S. Treasuries remain at around 2 percent -
- you should be in a position to see a total return for equities
in the high-single digits.”  Global Equities  Even so, the firm will remain neutral on global equities
until U.S. politicians reach a deal to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff and evidence mounts that the recovery in the
world’s largest economy will continue into the first quarter.  “All we need is momentum,” said O’Neill from Merrill
Lynch’s  London  offices. “We are moving from red to amber. It
will go green. The key thing is a sense of sustained economic
momentum which brings with it profit growth.”  The so-called earnings yield for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, or the percentage of share prices investors get back in
profit, stands at 7.1 percent. That is almost 5 percentage
points more than the yield from global corporate bonds of all
ratings, the highest spread in more than a decade, according to
data from Bloomberg and Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  