-- EU Asks Hungary for Change in ‘Discriminatory’ Special Taxes
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-11-21T19:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/eu-asks-hungary-for-change-in-discriminatory-special-taxes-1-.html
The European Commission urged
 Hungary  to amend taxes on the retail and telecommunication
industries, saying that the levies target foreign companies.  The commission, which today “formally requested” the
changes, “considers them to be discriminatory, as they fall
disproportionately on non-Hungarian operators,” it said in a
 statement  on its website. Hungary’s government said it disagrees
with that evaluation and is phasing out the special taxes to
replace them with ones that make the budget sustainable.  Hungary risks losing European Union development funds
unless it narrows its budget  deficit  below the bloc’s limit. The
Cabinet imposed extraordinary taxes on banks, retailers, energy
companies and telecommunication-service providers in 2010 to
shore up its finances. The government last month backtracked on
a pledge to cut the bank tax by half in 2013 and decided to make
the levy permanent at its current level.  The country has two months to amend the taxes or the EU may
refer the case to the Court of Justice, according to the
statement.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has deployed what he called
“unorthodox” fiscal measures since he came into power in 2010
to rein in the budget and cut the country’s debt level, the
highest among the EU’s eastern members. Some of the measures,
such as the nationalization of private pension fund assets and
the special taxes, have been questioned during financial-aid
talks with the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU.  New Taxes  The taxes don’t breach EU regulations and aren’t
discriminatory because of foreign-owned companies’ weight in the
economy, the  Economy Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement
today. The government decided to cancel special levies on
industries including telecommunications and retail from next
year even before the EU demanded the changes, the ministry said
in a separate e-mail.  “As part of an overhaul of the tax system, the government
decided to introduce taxes that will make public finances
predictable in the long term and also fit into the concept of
shifting the weight of the tax burden from incomes increasingly
toward taxes on consumption, trade and the harmful effects of
business,” the ministry said.  World’s Best  The forint is the world’s best-performing currency this
year after gaining 12.2 percent against the euro as liquidity-
boosting measures in developed economies spurred demand for
emerging-market assets and investors bet Hungary was nearing a
deal with the IMF. The currency was little changed against at
280.61 per euro at 7:48 p.m. in Budapest.  Hungary’s talks with the IMF, which started a year ago, may
advance next month after the approval of Hungary’s 2013 budget,
Mihaly Varga, the government’s chief aid negotiator said
yesterday. The outcome will depend on the euro region’s debt
crisis and the country’s economic policy, Varga said.  The government approved a set of measures last week to
close the gap between the government’s 2013 deficit forecast of
2.7 percent of economic output and the EU’s projection of 2.9
percent. The plan includes new corporate tax rates and an
infrastructure levy on cables. The Cabinet is seeking to
convince the EU to lift next year the excessive deficit
procedure against Hungary, which has been in place since the
country joined the bloc in 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  