-- EU Splits Leave Single Insurance Rules Plan on Sidelines
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-11-21T12:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/eu-splits-leave-single-insurance-rules-plan-on-sidelines.html
The European Union’s 12-year push to
introduce a common set of rules for the region’s  insurance
industry  is close to being sidelined as some of the biggest
 member states  prepare to introduce the regulations piecemeal.  Lobbying by German, British and French  insurers  over the
impact of the rules on long-term savings products has already
delayed the introduction of Solvency II beyond its original
start date of this year. The regulations, designed to make firms
across the region allocate the same capital reserves against the
risks they take, may not come into force before 2016, according
to executives as they reported third-quarter earnings.  European insurers are meeting in  Frankfurt  today as
regulators in  Germany  and the Netherlands weigh whether to
introduce parts of the rules themselves, jeopardizing European
attempts to create a level playing field. Policy makers are also
questioning Solvency II’s use of insurers’ own risk models, a
method used by banks that helped trigger the financial crisis.  “The biggest risk we see at the moment is balkanization,
with each country introducing their own changes to the rules,”
Oliver Baete, chief financial officer of  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s
biggest insurer, said in a conference call earlier this month.
“This can’t be in the interest of Europe and it’s certainly not
in the interest of Allianz.”  National Interests  European policy makers intended Solvency II to be for
insurers what the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s
capital rules are for banks: a common set of rules across the
EU. They will replace regulations developed in the 1970s that
had been superseded by a patchwork of national laws.  “With the financial and debt crisis, national interests
gained more and more importance,” Burkhard Balz, a German
lawmaker in the European Parliament and member of the Economic
and Monetary Affairs Committee, said by e-mail two days ago.
“We need a credible and realistic timetable.”  Solvency II is made up of three key parts, or pillars:
 capital requirements  for individual companies, a regulatory
assessment of a particular firm’s risk, as well as the
regulator’s broader supervision of the marketplace.  After the European Commission already postponed introducing
Solvency II until  next year , delays in getting approval from the
European Parliament have led to talks about further delays. EU
lawmakers  rescheduled  a plenary vote needed to agree on capital
requirements to March 11 from Nov. 20.  Concept Debate  “Solvency II is all over the place,” Ference Lamp, chief
financial officer of  SNS Reaal NV (SR) , the third-biggest Dutch life
insurer, told investors on Nov. 15. “Not only are we debating
around the concept itself and all its calibrations, there is
also significant debate around the implementation date.”  Nikolaus von Bomhard, chief executive officer of  Munich Re ,
the world’s biggest reinsurer, and Sergio Balbinot, chief
insurance officer at  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Italy ’s biggest
insurer, are among executives meeting at today’s conference to
discuss future regulation.  “The  insurance industry  has always been supportive of
Solvency II, we’re not against it,” said Balbinot, who is also
 president  of the Insurance Europe industry trade association.
“When Solvency II was developed, nobody thought of the
volatility that the financial crisis would bring” to market
 interest rates  and that’s why policy makers should make sure
they don’t focus too much on it.  Germany, France  German, British and French insurers have criticized the
proposals, saying they will make it costlier to sell savings
products with guaranteed long-term returns.  European life 
insurers made about 540 billion euros ($691 billion) in revenue
from selling guaranteed products in 2010, the latest available
annual figures show, according to Insurance Europe.  Lobbying efforts by insurers are pushing back
implementation of Solvency II, Thomas Buess, CFO of  Swiss Life
Holding AG (SLHN) , said in a conference call on Nov. 13.  “There is one country that is delaying it very heavily
because its whole business model is endangered by Solvency II,
and that country is Germany,” he said.  German life insurers typically sell policies that have
lifetimes of a decade or more and guarantee customers a minimum
return, about 1.75 percent. That’s more than the 1.42 percent
yield of 10-year German  government bonds . Under the Solvency II
rules, such long-term guarantees would carry higher capital
charges, which German insurers say are too high and prevent
those policies being sold.  Capital Requirements  That concern is also shared by U.K. and French insurers.
London-based  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  said in 2009 the price of
an annuity, a product that provides a fixed annual payment until
death, would rise 20 percent as a result of Solvency II.  “We may have something in the U.K. which is called
Solvency II eventually,” Nigel Wilson, Legal & General’s CEO,
said in a conference call with reporters on Nov. 1 from  London .
“But I suspect it will look more like the ICA regime that we
currently have than Solvency II necessarily.”  ICA is the British regulators’ existing Individual Capital
Assessment used to measure insurers’ capital.  Prudential Plc (PRU) , Britain’s biggest insurer, has threatened
to move to  Hong Kong (330)  because Solvency II will introduce extra
capital requirements on its U.S. business. The proposal means
European insurers need to hold extra capital reserves against
their American units.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  Jackson National Life, Prudential Plc’s U.S. business,
generates 37 percent of the company’s premiums. Prudential
hasn’t disclosed how much extra capital the division will
require because the rules are not yet finalized.  The Frankfurt-based European Insurance and Occupational
Pensions Authority, or Eiopa, the EU agency tasked with drafting
Solvency II before it is approved by the European Parliament,
recognizes that there is a risk countries will regulate
unilaterally due to the delay.  “To prevent the  unintended consequences  of national
solutions, namely lack of convergence and harmonization, we need
joint work,”  Carlos Montalvo , Eiopa’s executive director, said
by e-mail. “We are approaching the delay as an opportunity for
better preparation and not as an excuse not to do anything.”  To test the impact of the proposed new rules on insurers’
long-term guarantees to customers, Eiopa has been asked to
conduct a long-term guarantee impact study. A timeline for it
hasn’t yet been decided.  ‘Closely Watched’  That assessment “will be closely watched as a test case
for the future of the whole project,” said Markus Enk, Solvency
II service head at BearingPoint in Dusseldorf. “If this test
runs smoothly, then it’s a good sign, especially as long-term
guarantees are a key issue for German life insurers.”  Solvency II may not be introduced until 2016 or even 2017,
Elke Koenig, president of Germany’s financial markets
supervisor, BaFin, said in Frankfurt on Nov. 19.  Some countries are weighing whether to enact it in parts.
The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority will allow insurers to
use their own internal models to calculate capital reserves,
Julian Adams, the FSA’s director of insurance, said in a speech
in London last month.  Like  Basel II , the levels of capital reserves required
under Solvency II can either be determined by the regulator’s
so-called standard model or a firm’s internal model, which must
be approved by the regulator. Nearly all of the biggest EU-based
insurers have opted for internal models.  “It’s a game of cat and mouse that no one can win,”
 Andrew Haldane , the Bank of England’s executive director for
financial stability, told U.K. lawmakers at a committee on
banking standards in London on Nov. 7. “It’s certainly a game
that the regulator can’t win because they’ll always be one step
off the pace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich  at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  