-- Euro Climbs to Two-Week High on China Manufacturing Data
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-11-22T16:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/euro-rises-versus-most-peers-before-eu-budget-summit.html
The euro rose to a two-week high
against the dollar after an industry report signaled China’s
manufacturing expanded this month, adding to evidence the
world’s second-largest economy is gathering pace.  The shared currency climbed versus most of its 16 major
peers as data showed euro-area services and manufacturing
industries contracted less than forecast in November. The yen
snapped a six-day drop against the dollar. South  Africa ’s rand
gained for the first time in three days versus the greenback as
the  Reserve Bank  left its key rate unchanged. U.S. markets are
closed today for the Thanksgiving holiday.  “The China index was good and the euro-region data were a
little bit above expectations, even though they showed
contraction, so that is positive for the euro,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “There is a holiday in the U.S. so it’s going
to be a quiet day.”  The euro climbed 0.4 percent to $1.2880 at 4:28 p.m.  London 
time after reaching $1.2899, the highest since Nov. 2. It gained
0.4 percent to 106.26 yen, after touching 106.58, the strongest
since April 30.  Japan ’s currency was little changed at 85.51 per
dollar. It earlier depreciated to 82.84, the weakest since April
4.  A preliminary reading of China’s manufacturing industry was
at 50.4 in November, compared with a final level of 49.5 in
October, according to an HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
purchasing managers’ index, where 50 divides expansion from
contraction.  Industries Gauge  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in euro-area services and manufacturing industries was 45.8 this
month, from 45.7 in October. It was forecast to be 45.7,
according to the median estimate of 23 analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  The yen headed for a weekly decline of at least 0.8 percent
versus all of its major counterparts on speculation Japanese
elections next month will hand power to an opposition party that
advocates more aggressive monetary easing.  Polls show Liberal Democratic Party leader Shinzo Abe is
favored to become Japan’s next prime minister in a Dec. 16
election. The LDP pledged yesterday to achieve nominal economic
growth of 3 percent and set an inflation target with the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  should it win next month’s vote.  “I’m worried that if the new government were to follow
through the policy the LDP is proposing, the yen will tumble to
around 100 per dollar,” said Noriaki Murao, managing director
of the marketing group at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
 New York . “The risk of a sudden drop in the yen is
increasing.”  Volatility  The yen fell 5.8 percent in the past three months, the
worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The greenback lost 0.6
percent, while the euro gained 2.5 percent.  One-month implied volatility for dollar-yen options, which
indicates the expected price changes in the  exchange rate ,
climbed to 9.13 percent today, the highest level since June 13.  The one-month, 25-delta risk-reversal rate for the currency
rose to a record 1.0925 percent, signaling greater demand for
the right to buy the dollar against the yen than to sell the
greenback. It was the highest level for data compiled by
Bloomberg back to October 2003.  Overseas investors are “seeing this as the trade of the
decade, feeling something is different this time around from the
past, when they usually lost a bet by selling the yen,” said
Masao Okada, head of foreign-exchange sales at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “While traders are cutting risk on other
currencies, I hear talks that they are leaning toward increasing
positions related to the yen.”  Interest Rate  The rand rose against the dollar, reversing a decline,
after Governor Gill Marcus told reporters today in  Pretoria  that
the central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee left the repurchase
rate at 5 percent. That matches the forecasts of all 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  South Africa ’s currency climbed 0.2 percent to 8.9307
against the greenback, after weakening past 9 for the first time
in three years yesterday.  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-biggest brewer, said
today the weakening of the rand and currencies in central Europe
cut its sales growth by six percentage points in the six months
to Sept. 30. The company, which gets about a fifth of its sales
from South Africa, said first-half earnings rose 17 percent as
gains in Latin America and Africa offset European declines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 