-- Europe Is Breaking. How Many EUs Will There Be?
-- B y   P a w e l   S w i e b o d a
-- 2012-11-21T23:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/europe-is-breaking-how-many-eus-will-there-be-.html
Prospects for the survival of the
euro area are looking up, raising a new question to dominate
debate about the continent’s future: Will there be one European
Union, or several?  To save itself from oblivion, the euro area is embarking
on an unprecedented degree of integration that was left undone
when  Europe  started a common currency just over a decade ago. If
all goes according to the plans of a handful of leaders,
including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , there will eventually
emerge a banking union, a new  federal budget  and a joint
commissioner who must reconcile national budgets.  Given the resistance to many of these ideas at the moment,
this may sound farfetched. But the project is likely to
progress, because so long as the euro exists, logic points to
countries that share the same currency pooling their fiscal as
well as monetary sovereignty. That means separating from the
rest of the EU crowd, and in some ways it’s only surprising that
this hasn’t happened already.  Countries exposed to the risks associated with sharing the
euro are justified in demanding special terms relative to fellow
EU members who have their own currencies and therefore face
fewer constraints and can count on flexible exchange rates. That
logic, however, has consequences.  Gradual Departure  While the 17 euro-area countries are integrating, the U.K.
has started a process of gradually disassociating itself from
the rest of the EU. Across the  English Channel , this is often
met with a sigh of relief -- the U.K. has long been a difficult
partner. However, those who quietly smile as Prime Minister
 David Cameron  and his  Conservative Party  tie themselves in knots
over Europe disregard the fact that the EU would be a different
animal without the U.K., which was the driving force behind the
creation of the EU’s single market. The euro area can’t simply
detach itself from the larger EU without sacrificing
competitiveness. Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  used to say
clearly that those who want a stronger single market are outside
of the euro.  This includes EU states that are trapped between the euro
area and the U.K. and worry they might not be able to stitch the
two parts of Europe together. Of these,  Poland is  the most
nervous at the prospect of Europe’s center of gravity drifting
beyond the country’s comfort zone. Denmark and  Sweden  are in
similar positions but would probably feel more secure about
operating at the euro area’s margins.  A lot rides on how the changing European geometry will be
worked out. It can be done divisively, leading to acrimony, or
in an accommodating way that creates synergies. The former route
has the potential to bring about an end to the EU as we know it,
including its great achievement of overcoming the deep divisions
that defined Europe for centuries.  For example, it would make  eminent sense  for the euro area
to create a functioning labor market among its members, complete
with a euro-area-wide social-insurance plan. Yet such
innovations could also limit the free movement of citizens
across the wider EU, a treasured benefit of the union, unless
special arrangements were first negotiated to ensure that non-
euro-area countries had the possibility of opting into these
arrangements. Doing so would require a lot of goodwill and
understanding.  Unfortunately, the odds of an orderly redesign of Europe
are not good, because a more-integrated euro area is being born
of necessity.  Wolfgang Schaeuble , the German finance minister,
accepted this last year when he said, “We can only achieve a
political union if we have a crisis.” The midwives for this
rebirth of Europe aren’t politicians -- they are financial
markets pushing for the federal structure needed to make the
euro sustainable. Crisis and force-majeure don’t make an ideal
setting for careful compromise.  Antagonizing Merger  Still, a new grand bargain in Europe is possible and worth
fighting for. What would it take? It would need to be based on
an acceptance that there are different types of economies in
Europe, different political systems and different societies. The
attempt to merge them into a giant fusion-Europe has not worked,
creating antagonism instead. If post-crisis Europe is to be
based on a revived idea of this idealized uniformity, it will
backfire.  In truth, a two-speed Europe already exists, and it divides
northern Europe from southern Europe -- not euro from non-euro
countries. It was born in 2002, the year that what the  World
Bank  calls Europe’s convergence machine broke. After that,
labor productivity in southern European countries began to fall,
while in the north it  continued  to grow at 1.7 percent from 1995
to 2009, a little bit more than the rates of increase in the
U.S. (1.6 percent) and  Japan  (1.2 percent). Inflows of capital
replaced domestic saving in the south, but they increasingly
didn’t fund productive investment. The result has been a
mismatch that is only getting bigger.  A new plan is needed to come to terms with this reality
rather than pretend it doesn’t exist. It would require accepting
that there will be three types of countries in the EU: those
that use the euro, those that don’t but intend to once the
crisis is over, and those that have no intention of joining in
the foreseeable future. Being in or out of the euro area would
not make you a more- or less-virtuous European. Euro and non-
euro countries would need to create a nonaggression pact, under
which they would avoid discriminatory policies and practices and
create an agenda for a revamped, state-of-the-art  single market .  Contrary to what some believe, there is no reason for the
single market to falter if the euro area integrates further. The
euro-area labor market may become more closely knit, but it need
not discriminate against non-euro nationals. There are also ways
of making the banking union an inclusive one, so that the
national regulatory authorities of countries that don’t use the
euro retain the ability to tailor rules to the specific needs of
their own banking sectors.  Barring Barriers  Moreover, there will be more support for the single market
after the crisis than there was before, as the European welfare
state undergoes its most fundamental reconstruction since World
War II and governments search for sources of growth.  Recognition is growing that the single market needs to be
extended to new areas, such as digital technologies, where the
EU has lost out to the U.S. over the past decade. For this to
happen, enforcement to prevent governments from throwing up
barriers would need to be stronger at the center, with the
European Commission exercising similar powers to the ones it
enjoys in competition policy.  If this were a common goal of the three Europes that emerge
from the crisis, then there would be no need to worry about
differences in macroeconomic governance. That’s all the more
reason that the U.K., a long-term champion of the single market,
would be foolish to leave the EU now.  For years, many Europeans -- Britons in particular -- have
suspected others of conducting a federalist plot aimed at
creating a European core with dependent satellites. Today it is
not a plot but a blueprint. The euro area is forging ahead. The
trick is to construct these European unions based on pragmatism,
rather than resentment and ideology, so that the EU as a whole
can continue with its fundamental purpose of holding the
continent together.  (Pawel Swieboda is president of the Demos Europa Center for
European Strategy and a former adviser on Europe to former
Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  stopping child marriages 
will improve developing economies and on  the value of
Thanksgiving mythmaking ;  Jonathan Alter  on why  John Kerry is the
right choice  for secretary of state.  To contact the writer of this article:
Pawel Swieboda at  pawelswieboda@demoseuropa.eu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 