-- Euro Drops Versus Dollar as Greek Aid Talks Falter; Yen Weakens
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-11-21T08:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/euro-drops-versus-dollar-as-greek-aid-talks-falter-yen-weakens.html
The euro fell against the dollar,
snapping a two-day gain, after European finance ministers failed
to agree on a debt-reduction package for  Greece  during more than
11 hours of talks in Brussels.  The shared currency declined versus 13 of its 16 major
counterparts after Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden
said euro-area finance ministers will resume discussions next
week. The yen weakened beyond 82 per dollar for the first time
since April after  Japan ’s exports dropped for a fifth month.  New
Zealand ’s dollar depreciated after whole-milk powder prices
slid, cutting revenue from a key export.  “European policy makers raised expectations that something
would happen on Greece and then they didn’t deliver,” said  Ned Rumpeltin , head of Group-of-10 currency strategy at Standard
Chartered Group Plc in  London . “What we are seeing is European
risk coming back on to the agenda. It does put downward pressure
on the euro.”  The euro dropped 0.4 percent to $1.2765 at 8:33 a.m. in
London after strengthening 0.6 percent during the previous two
days. The shared currency was little changed at 104.71 yen. The
yen fell 0.4 percent to 82.03 per dollar after depreciating to
82.11, the weakest since April 6.  “We have a series of options on the table on how to close
the financing gap,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
told reporters in Brussels. “We discussed the issue very
intensively, but since the questions are so complicated we
didn’t come to a final agreement.”  A further meeting has been arranged for Nov. 26, and an aid
payment for Greece held up since June remains frozen.  Euro’s Decline  The euro has declined 6.5 percent during the past 12
months, the second worst performer of the 10 currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted indexes. The yen dropped the
most, sliding 7.5 percent, and the dollar fell 0.6 percent.  The yen weakened for a sixth day versus the dollar after
Japan’s Ministry of Finance said  exports  fell 6.5 percent in
October from a year earlier, leaving a trade deficit of 549
billion yen. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  was for a shortfall of 360 billion yen.  “The trade numbers have added to the case for yen
weakness,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney “The struggles of the Japanese
exporters are becoming increasingly clear.”  The 14-day relative strength index for the dollar against
the yen was above 70 for a fourth day today, the level that some
traders see as a sign an asset is about to change direction.  ‘Look Overbought’  “Dollar-yen and cross-yen look overbought,” said
Yoshitsugu Fujita, assistant vice president of global markets at
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. in  New York . “The weak yen
trend will reverse in the not-so-distant future.”  The New Zealand currency dropped against most of its major
peers after Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s biggest dairy producer, said milk powder for January
delivery fell 2.5 percent.  The near-term contract for the New Zealand product declined
to $3,255 a metric ton, the lowest since Oct. 2. Sales of dairy
product make up about a quarter of New Zealand exports.  New Zealand’s dollar dropped 0.4 percent to 81.42 U.S.
cents after sliding 0.4 percent yesterday.  Markets in the U.S. will be shut tomorrow for a holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  