-- Europe Fails to Seal Greek Debt-Cut Deal in IMF Clash
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-11-21T15:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/europe-fails-to-seal-greek-debt-cut-deal-in-imf-clash.html
European policy makers head into
their second confrontation this week saying they’re likely to
fall short of agreement on a seven-year budget plan just as they
failed to strike a deal on Greek debt.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told lawmakers in the
national parliament in Berlin today that budget talks slated for
a summit tomorrow may slide into next year. France rejects cuts
to  farm subsidies , and the U.K. demands a spending cut.  “There are deep divisions between the  member states ,”
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said in the Dublin parliament
today. “There are fears that it will not be possible to get a
deal.”  The 27 European Union leaders are preparing to square off
over the budget in Brussels tomorrow after euro-region finance
ministers’ efforts to agree on a debt-reduction plan for Greece
foundered. More than 11 hours of talks ended without a deal
early this morning as a bloc of top-rated creditors led by
 Germany  refused to write off a portion of their aid loans.  That stance meant the finance chiefs were unable to scrape
together enough funds from other sources to help alleviate
Greece’s debt burden, set to hit 190 percent of gross domestic
product in 2014.  Greece’s fiscal woes have defied three years of rescue
efforts, rekindling doubts about  Europe ’s crisis-containment
strategy and maintaining a cloud over the euro, postwar Europe’s
signature economic accomplishment.  Greece Options  “We have a series of options on the table on how to close
the financing gap,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
told reporters. “We discussed the issue very intensively, but
since the questions are so complicated we didn’t come to a final
agreement.”  Schaeuble told German lawmakers that the issue of the Greek
funding gap was solvable and possible solutions include reducing
interest payments on its bailout loans, suspending payouts
through 2020 on its second rescue package, or having the
 European Central Bank  buy 9 billion euros ($11.5 billion) of the
country’s Treasury bills, according to four people who attended
the briefing. Another option is for the EU’s bailout fund to
finance Greek government purchases of 10 billion euros of its
own debt.  Greek bonds rose for a ninth day, the longest run of gains
since the nation’s debt was restructured in March, with
investors betting an agreement to unlock rescue funds would be
reached at an another emergency finance ministers’ gathering
Nov. 26. The yield on Greek 10-year notes fell 37 basis points
to 16.73 percent at 3:30 p.m. in Brussels.  Debt Sustainability  Finance ministers failed to tackle the dual task of
steering an extra 32.6 billion euros to Greece through 2016
while finding a way to tame the resulting increase in Greek
debt, already the highest in Europe and deemed “unsustainable”
by the  International Monetary Fund .  “Further technical work on some elements of this package”
is needed, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said in
a statement. He stopped short of predicting a deal at the next
meeting, which will come after the budget summit that risks
further inflaming tensions between the richer north and poorer
south.  The sovereign debt crisis, which has seen creditor
countries in the north demand austerity from the south as a
condition for aid, is aggravating the negotiations over the EU
budget which has to be agreed upon every seven years.  U.K. Skepticism  The U.K., where Prime Minister  David Cameron  is facing a
surge of anti-European sentiment both in his party and in the
electorate, is leading the push for European austerity including
salary cuts for EU officials while  Spain  is seeking to protect
its subsidies as it battles a five-year slump. France, which
this week was stripped of its top  credit rating  by Moody’s
Investors Service, is resisting cuts to farm aid, which account
for about 60 percent of EU spending.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  will present a revised
proposal at the start of a meeting, which is slated to begin at
8 p.m., an EU official said today. He told European leaders in a
letter sent yesterday he has arranged for the summit to be
extended if necessary in order to push through a deal.  “Let there be no mistake,”  Van Rompuy  said in the letter.
“The absence of an agreement would be harmful for all of us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net 
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  