-- European Central Bank May Get Merger Veto in Banking Union Plan
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-11-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/european-central-bank-may-get-merger-veto-in-banking-union-plan.html
The European Central Bank would have
veto powers over any bank mergers in nations that sign up to
ECB-led supervision, under draft banking union rules designed to
tame the euro-area’s debt crisis.  National supervisors would notify the ECB of a proposed
banking acquisition at least 10 days before the deadline for a
deal to be completed, according to a compromise plan obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The ECB “shall decide whether to oppose the acquisition,”
according to the draft measures drawn up by Cyprus, which holds
the European Union’s rotating presidency. The proposals would
also create a panel in the ECB to review its supervisory
decisions.  EU leaders agreed in June and October to move forward with
common ECB-led bank supervision to separate financial-sector
risks from sovereign debt troubles, with the goal of agreeing on
a political framework by Jan. 1. If a common supervisor is set
up next year, it would open the door for the euro area’s
firewall-fund to offer direct aid to banks.  “The panel of review shall have sufficient legal expertise
to provide expert legal advice on the legality of the ECB
exercise of its powers,” according to the document, dated
Nov. 16.  The proposals would also give the ECB powers to require
individual banks to raise capital, reduce the riskiness of their
activities and disclose information on how liquid their assets
are.  Stefaan de Rynck, spokesman for the European Commission
declined to comment on the document. Nikos Christodoulides, a
spokesman for the Cypriot presidency, didn’t respond to a call
seeking comment.  German Concerns  European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said
on Nov. 14 that a common bank supervisor under its control would
need power over all euro-area institutions, countering German
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble’s push to limit central
oversight to systemically important firms.  The ECB must be able to assert control over all banks in
participating countries, even if the system is set up “in a
very decentralized way,” Constancio told EU finance chiefs.  Luxembourg,  Finland  and the Netherlands have also sought
changes to the EU’s initial plan to grant the ECB broad powers.  “You should come up with a division of tasks that lets
national supervisors do a big part of the work, yet always under
ultimate responsibility” of the ECB, Dutch Finance Minister
Jeroen Dijsselbloem said in Brussels last week.  “A group of small banks can cause risks for the financial
sector or for the real economy. If those risks occur, the ECB
should be able to intervene,” Dijsselbloem said.  The plan has also drawn skepticism from countries outside
the 17-nation euro area. Sweden’s Anders Borg said there might
be a need for “technical treaty change” if the new supervisor
is housed at the ECB with the potential to supervise banks
outside the currency bloc, as proposed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  