-- Euro Finance Chiefs Seek Near-Term Greek Fix, Fight on Debt Path
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-11-21T00:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/euro-finance-chiefs-seek-near-term-greek-fix-fight-on-debt-path.html
European governments are trying to
plug an immediate hole in  Greece ’s finances and prevent new ones
from opening in the latest installment of the debt-crisis
brinkmanship rattling the euro economy.  Finance ministers are battling among themselves and with
the  International Monetary Fund  to find 15 billion euros ($19.2
billion) through 2014 for Greece and seek an elusive formula for
putting its debt on a sustainable path.  A crisis meeting in Brussels that began at 5 p.m. yesterday
is shadowed by concerns that a two-year fix will leave Greece
needing more money and possibly more debt relief to emerge from
the spiral of deficits and  recession .  “It’s essential now that we take a decision on a set of
credible measures to introduce debt sustainability,” European
Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters as
he entered the meeting. “At the same time, we have to be ready
to take further decisions in the light of future developments
and of course conditional and dependent of full implementation
of reforms of the program by Greece over the coming years.”  Officials said the negotiations won’t make a final decision
to release the next 44 billion-euro tranche of aid to Greece,
partly because parliaments in  Germany , the Netherlands and
 Finland  have yet to weigh in.  ‘Red Lines’  “We’ve set out to reach a result, but I can’t promise
you,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.
“There’s still some work to do.”  Schaeuble’s French counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici , said
ministers must be ready to compromise. “Everyone has to be
ready to cross his red lines,” he said. “If everyone puts a
little water in his wine, we’ll get there.”  The so-called troika representing creditors also has to
certify that Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s coalition
government has delivered economy-boosting steps ranging from
improvements in tax collection to the deregulation of closed
professions.  Recycling European Central Bank profits on Greek bonds,
charging Greece lower interest rates and extending repayment
deadlines are among the options under consideration for filling
the financing gap that opened last week when the ministers
pushed back Greece’s deficit-reduction deadlines.  ‘Hardest Part’  The Nov. 12 decision to grant Greece two extra years, to
2016, to cut its  deficit  to 2 percent of gross domestic product
without offering debt relief stirred tensions with the IMF,
provider of about a third of 148.6 billion euros in loans
funneled to Greece since 2010.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , gearing up for a campaign
for a third term next year, has ruled out writing off a portion
of Greece’s debt. Dutch and Finnish leaders have told their
bailout-weary voters the same thing.  “The hardest part is Greek debt sustainability; this will
be definitely be the longest discussion today,” Finnish Finance
Minister Jutta Urpilainen said. “Only giving additional time
won’t suffice. We need other measures. Differences between
member countries are rather big.”  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , who began the
crisis as French finance minister, found fault last week with
the European inability or refusal to bring down Greece’s debt
burden.  The trigger was a decision by the ministers to extend by
two years, until 2022, a deadline for paring Greece’s debt to
120 percent of GDP. The debt load is set to peak at 190 percent
of GDP in 2014, according to the troika, made up of the IMF, ECB
and European Commission.  ‘Big Economies’  “It’s important to keep the IMF on board,” Luxembourg
Finance Minister Luc Frieden said in an interview. “It’s
important that besides the know-how, we also have the solidarity
and common responsibility of the other big economies in the
world.”  Lagarde, who cut short a trip to southeast  Asia  to return
to Brussels, declined to say whether the IMF would budge on the
debt target. She pledged “to work very constructively to see if
we can find a solution for Greece.”  Plugging the financing gap through 2014 is easier than
demonstrating to the IMF that Greek debt is on a glidepath to
sustainability, officials said. Greece’s loan rates have been
lowered and repayment schedules lengthened twice before, an
option that is again on the table.  ‘No Fresh Money’  “I have preferences and that means no fresh money because
it is difficult to explain to our taxpayers,” Austrian Finance
Minister Maria Fekter said. She predicted a “mixed package”
that could include lower rates, though countries with higher
borrowing costs like Spain and  Italy  would want compensation for
any losses on lending to Greece.  Finance ministers are also considering how to tap profits
made by the ECB and national central banks on Greek bonds,
drawing on a February commitment to recycle that money back to
Greece. The question of how to treat future ECB profits also has
to be addressed.  The central bank is sitting on 208.5 billion euros of bonds
of debt-hit governments that it started buying in May 2010 in a
controversial program that contributed to the resignation of two
Germans from its policy council. While the purchases were halted
in March, ECB President  Mario Draghi  has sketched out a new
bond-buying program that would only benefit countries that meet
strict conditions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  