-- Facebook Rises as Ad Growth Eases Lockup Expiration Fears
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-11-21T21:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/facebook-rises-as-ad-growth-eases-lockup-expiration-fears.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  rose to the highest
price in almost four months, buoyed as investors’ confidence in
revenue-growth prospects overcame a surge in the number of
tradable shares.  The stock climbed 5.3 percent to $24.32 at the close in New
York, the highest since July 26. The  stock  has gained 22 percent
since Nov. 13, the last trading day before the most recent
lockup expiration.  Restrictions lifted Nov. 14 on 804 million shares held by
former employees and those who sold at the IPO, almost doubling
the total publicly available. Since that lockup expiration,
investors have stuck with Facebook because the world’s largest
social network showed an ability to boost advertising in its
most recent earnings report, said Michael Pachter, an analyst at
Wedbush Securities Inc.  “It took us getting through these lockups without seeing a
giant crush of shares show up with no demand,” Pachter said.
“It’s pretty clear that the people who were eligible to sell
last week are doing so in a disciplined manner. Each day that
passes post-lockup there’s a new investor showing up who says,
‘OK I’m no longer scared by that.’”  The bans on sales are put in place to prevent shares from
flooding the market immediately after an initial public
offering. Restrictions lifted on smaller numbers of shares in
August and October.  Future Expirations  Two more rounds of lockup expirations remain through May.
Facebook, based in Menlo Park,  California , will free up about
156 million shares in December for stockholders, except Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg , who sold in the IPO. The
company will free up another 47.3 million shares May 18. This
lot includes stock held by Russia’s DST Global Ltd.  Shares held by Zuckerberg aren’t part of the tally because
he has said he won’t sell before September of next year.  Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to
comment on the stock movement.  Facebook, which makes most of its money from advertising,
reported sales rose 32 percent to $1.26 billion in the third
quarter, matching the growth in prior three month. Revenue
topped estimates of $1.23 billion as Facebook benefited from
efforts to sell advertising on mobile devices.  The company, which didn’t start its mobile-ad service until
March of this year, said ads delivered to people on mobile
devices generated about $150 million during the quarter, or 14
percent of all advertising  revenue .  Governance Changes  Separately today, Facebook said the company is proposing
changes on how users can address updates with the site’s
governance policies. Until now, Facebook has enabled members to
vote on changes where users show enough interest. Now, it’s
looking to end potential votes while introducing new ways to
inform members on changes while continuing to seek their
feedback.  “We found that the voting mechanism, which is triggered by
a specific number of comments, actually resulted in a system
that incentivized the quantity of comments over their quality,”
Elliot Schrage, vice president, communications, public policy
and marketing, wrote in a blog post today. “Therefore, we’re
proposing to end the voting component of the process in favor of
a system that leads to more meaningful feedback and
engagement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  