-- Foreign Truck Bombers in Syria Highlight Risk Al-Qaeda
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-11-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/foreign-truck-bombers-in-syria-highlight-risk-of-new-al-qaeda.html
Two Jordanian men, a wealthy
businessman and a salesman got into explosives-rigged trucks
last month and blew themselves up at a base occupied by troops
loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in the southern
province of Daraa.  Nasser al-Dalqamouni, 32, and Mahmoud Abdel-Aal, 30,
belonged to  Jordan ’s banned, ultra-religious Salafist movement,
according to Mousa Abdallat, a lawyer representing radical
Islamists in Jordan. “They were driven to go to Syria by the
images they saw on TV of the massacres that Assad’s gangs were
committing,” Abdallat said in a telephone interview from Amman.  The two men are part of “increasing numbers” of foreign
fighters joining the Syrian insurgency, said Salman Shaikh, the
director of the  Brookings Institution’s Doha Center  in Qatar, in
an interview. This has raised fears among Western nations that
the conflict is becoming a magnet for radicals, and that it may
spawn a new strain of al-Qaeda, as in Iraq and Somalia.  “We have seen extremist elements insinuate themselves into
the opposition,” President  Barack Obama  said on Nov. 14. The
U.S. must ensure “we’re not indirectly putting arms in the
hands of folks who would do Americans harm, or do Israelis
harm.” Britain’s Prime Minister David Cameron said in a Nov. 6
television interview that the longer the Syrian conflict, “the
more that it can promote and drive extremism.”  While the militants are not yet a decisive force in the
uprising and their numbers are low, their involvement should be
examined for what it foretells, Shaikh said.  ‘Sectarianized Conflict’  It means “a more sectarianized conflict, both inside the
country and also in terms of the region,” he said. “And some
of those fighters will have an agenda which is beyond a Syrian
nationalist agenda,” one that is anti-Western, he said.  Foreign fighters began trickling into  Syria  a few months
after the uprising against Assad began in March 2011, according
to Ammar Abdulhamid, a Syrian dissident who is a fellow at the
Washington-based  Foundation for Defense of Democracies . Most of
the opposition is made up of Sunni Muslims while Assad belongs
to the minority Alawite sect, an off-shoot of Shiite Islam. Not
all the foreign fighters are extremist or al-Qaeda affiliates.
Some are moderate Muslims or liberals, driven by romantic
notions and a sense of Arab solidarity, Abdulhamid said.  Assad’s government has played up the issue of Islamic
radicals, portraying its crackdown as a fight against armed
extremists. State media regularly report the death or arrest of
dozens of jihadists, usually referred to as “mercenaries.”  Envoy Resigns  Syria’s civil conflict has left more than 35,000 people
dead, according to the opposition Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights. Attempts to pressure the Assad government at the United
Nations Security Council have foundered on Chinese and Russian
objections, cease-fires have collapsed within hours or days and
the UN’s peace envoy Kofi Annan resigned in August in
frustration at international disunity.  Accounts from foreign jihadists fighting in Syria suggest
they are able to enter and operate with relative ease compared
with other theaters of war such as Yemen, Afghanistan and  Iraq ,
according to a September report by Torbjorn Soltvedt, Senior
Analyst at  Maplecroft , a U.S.-based risk consultant. Most
fighters reportedly cross by foot via Turkey, although Iraqi and
Jordanian fighters enter Syria along the long and porous borders
in the east and south, it said.  Doctor Arrested  Abdallat said the Jordanian government has arrested some
Jordanians trying to sneak across the border into Syria. He said
there are about 200 Jordanians, not all of them Salafists,
fighting in Syria. British police this month charged two U.K.
citizens, one of them a doctor, following their arrest for
suspected terror-related activities in Syria, the  British
Broadcasting Corp.  reported. The men are accused of  kidnapping 
two news photographers in the country in June, the  BBC  said.  The jihadists have taken advantage of Syria’s chaos to
enter the country, Abdelbaset Sieda, a member of the newly
formed National Coalition of Syrian Revolution and Opposition
Forces, said in an interview from Istanbul. Their presence
“doesn’t reflect the real picture of the Syrian revolution”
and their influence will dissipate once the fighting groups
unite under a military council now being formed, he said.  Radical foreign fighters number in the low thousands and
come from  Senegal ,  Pakistan , Chechnya, Yemen and elsewhere,
according to Omar Lamrani, military analyst at geopolitical
consulting firm Stratfor in Austin,  Texas . With a Syrian rebel
force of almost 100,000 members, the extreme jihadists,
including Syrians, are a “distinct minority,” he said.  ‘Dead Weight’  The overwhelming majority are considered “dead weight,”
said Abdulhamid. Tensions between rebels and foreign fighters
mean that “oftentimes, foreign fighters stay in separate camps
with a few like-minded Syrian recruits who help them secure
their basic needs from nearby villages.”  Even so, the fighters bring much-needed combat experience,
including the manufacturing of road-side bombs. Some groups are
funded by individual donors, most likely from the Gulf, said
Lamrani. They are also more willing to stage suicide operations,
giving the rebels a tactical advantage, he added.  There’s also worry over a rise in sectarianism as the
jihadists bring the idea that the Alawites “may be heretical or
they deserve no mercy,” Lamradi said.  Then there’s the concerns of outside powers.  “When a country like the United States,  Turkey  and others
look at these foreign fighters coming in they’re much more
hesitant to support the rebels if they think weapons might fall
into the wrong hands,” Lamrani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  