-- French Power Grid Spending Could Rise to $19 Billion by 2020
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-21T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/french-power-grid-spending-could-rise-to-19-billion-by-2020.html
France ’s  power grid  will have to
invest about 15 billion euros ($19 billion) by the end of the
decade to add and refurbish electricity transmission lines as
the country plans to lower its reliance on nuclear energy.  Spending could rise to 35 billion to 50 billion euros by
2030, Reseau de Transport d’Electricite said in a report
published today. The range depends on the proportion of nuclear
and renewable energies produced in France in the coming years.  RTE, based outside Paris, is wholly-owned by Electricite de
France SA, the world’s biggest nuclear operator. EDF’s 58
reactors provide more than three-quarters of France’s
electricity. French President  Francois Hollande  has pledged to
lower this reliance on atomic energy to about 50 percent by
2025. The policy change was triggered by the nuclear accident
last year at Fukushima in  Japan  and would require grid
infrastructure upgrades, in part to handle intermittent wind and
solar electricity production.  The RTE report was published ahead of the government-led
national debate on energy that Environment Minister Delphine
Batho has said will preclude a new law on the country’s future
energy mix. Hollande has already announced the permanent closure
of EDF’s oldest plant at Fessenheim in eastern France.  Of the investment needed by 2030, 5 billion euros would be
for reinforcing connections with neighboring countries and 5
billion to 10 billion euros to accompany the “energy
transition,” according to RTE’s report.  Over the next three years, the utility is planning to
develop about 70 new  power lines , of which 63 will be buried.  Brittany in western France and Provence-Alpes-Cote d’Azur
in the south lack power-generation capacity and face risks of
shortages in the event of a plant or network failure, the grid
has said. Brittany produces 10 percent of its power needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  