-- Gagfah Raises FFO Forecast After Vacancies, Debt Costs Fall
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-11-21T13:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/gagfah-raises-ffo-forecast-after-vacancy-rate-debt-costs-fall.html
Gagfah SA (GFJ) , the second-biggest owner
of German homes, raised its full-year forecast for funds from
operations after its vacancy rate and interest expenses fell.  FFO, a measure of a property company’s ability to generate
cash, will be 49 cents per share, the Luxembourg-based company
said in a statement today. The previous forecast was 47 cents.  Gagfah, controlled by  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , is in
talks to sell its 38,000 apartments in Dresden to help pay 3.1
billion euros ($4 billion) of debt due next year. New York-based
Fortress is among the private-equity firms facing debt deadlines
after buying German properties with the cheap credit available
in the years before the global financial crisis.  “We are on track towards resolving our 2013 debt
maturities,” Gagfah Chief Executive Officer Stephen Charlton
said in the statement.  Gagfah fell about 1.7 percent to 8.12 euros at 2:10 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading. The shares have more than doubled this year,
the  second-best performance  on the German DAX Mid-Cap Index for
medium-sized companies, which has gained 26 percent.  Gagfah today said FFO rose 50 percent to 15 cents a share
in the third quarter. The company’s FFO for the whole of last
year was 52 cents a share.  The vacancy rate for Gagfah’s 146,000 units dropped to 5.1
percent at the end of September from 5.5 percent a year earlier.
The company paid off loans to pare its interest expenses in the
first nine months to 190 million euros, from 229 million euros a
year earlier.  Debt Focus  “The company’s statement regarding the refinancing can be
seen as supportive, but some players might have expected more
details and progress,” said Kai Klose, an analyst at Berenberg
Bank in  London . “The main focus right now is on the debt.”  Gagfah has to pay back about 1 billion euros it borrowed to
buy the Dresden apartments by May. The company has a further 2.1
billion euros to repay in August, according to its website.  The Dresden loan maturity will be met either with a sale of
the apartments or a refinancing of the debt, Charlton said on a
call with analysts today. The company is in talks with potential
buyers and lenders, and plans to close a refinancing or sale in
the first quarter of 2013.  “The option to refinance is a real option,” said
Charlton.  In a conference call on Aug. 16, Charlton said Gagfah aims
to sell the Dresden Woba apartments by the end of this year.  Gagfah is negotiating with banks and investors to refinance
the German Residential Funding debt maturing in August, and
expects to sign outline agreements in the first and second
quarters of 2013, Gagfah Chief Financial Officer Gerald Klinck
said during the call.  Germany ’s biggest residential landlord is Deutsche
Annington, which is owned by London-based Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. and has 186,000 apartments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 