-- Gas-Oil Price Link in Focus as Exporters Meet in Malabo
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-11-21T16:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/gas-oil-price-link-in-focus-as-exporters-meet-in-malabo-2-.html
Representatives of the world’s
biggest gas-exporting countries defended a 40-year-old system
that links the price of the fuel to oil amid mounting calls by
users to scrap the practice at a meeting in  Equatorial Guinea .  Delegates from the 12-member Gas Exporting Countries Forum
gathered in Malabo, the African nation’s capital, for the
group’s 14th ministerial meeting today. Oil-price indexation was
discussed during the meeting, Leonid Bokhanovsky, secretary-
general of the Doha-based organization, said today.  Exporters have been under pressure from consumers to revise
contracts that link gas and oil as the gap between the two fuels
widens. U.S. exchange-traded gas has dropped to less than half
that in Europe and a quarter of Japanese prices amid booming
production from shale deposits. Trade in the fuel between
“major regions” is forecast by the  International Energy Agency 
to rise 80 percent by 2035, outpacing a 50 percent gain in
output.  “Spot prices and spot contracts do not encourage long-term
investment,” Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak told
reporters after the meeting. “I can’t exclude that both types
of pricing would be on the market: both spot contracts and long-
term contracts linked to the oil price. But I believe that long-
term contracts are the right choice.”  Spot Pricing  Suppliers to Europe including OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural
gas export monopoly, and  Statoil ASA (STL)  of  Norway  have increased
the amount of spot pricing in their contracts after customers
renegotiated contracts.  “Oil-indexation is facing some challenging times,”
Thierry Bros, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in Paris, said
in a Nov. 12 e-mail. “Nobody in Europe or in  Asia  wants to sign
such a contract any longer. So GECF members, like all other gas
sellers, will have to adapt.”  Gazprom took a 78.5 billion-ruble ($2.5 billion) charge in
the first quarter on retroactive gas-price adjustments after
talks with European Union customers, according to financial
statements published Sept. 6.  Further changes to long-term contracts are needed, Klaus
Schaefer, chief executive officer of EON SE’s Ruhrgas unit, said
yesterday in Moscow.  Europe ’s gas usage will drop 1.6 percent by 2017, according
to the Paris-based IEA. Increasing coal-fired power generation
in Europe has cut gas demand by 3 billion cubic feet a day,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., about 7 percent of
consumption.  ‘Bigger Growth’  Bokhanovsky offered a different assessment after the
meeting.  “Demand is relatively stable in Europe, and this market
will demonstrate a little growth in the near future, of 1.8
percent a year,” he said. “We expect a much bigger growth in
the market in the Asian region. We’ve already seen considerable
growth in the last few years of around 50 percent, and we expect
by 2020 it will grow much more speedily, up to 60 percent.”  “So we are not feeling a considerable threat to the gas
exporting countries,” Bokhanovsky said.  Statoil agreed with  BASF SE (BAS) ’s Wintershall to supply an
amount equal to about 6 percent of Germany’s annual natural gas
demand over the next 10 years in the Norwegian producer’s
biggest contract based on spot prices, the companies said
yesterday.  Record Prices  Users in  South Korea  and  Japan , the biggest importers of
liquefied natural gas, have sought to sign contracts linked to
U.S. benchmarks. Average liquefied natural gas prices in Japan,
mostly linked to  oil prices , rose to a record $18.07 a million
British thermal units in July as gas in the U.S. sold for less
than $3 a million Btu. Japan and India will begin a joint study
on how they can lower costs for imports of LNG, Japan’s Ministry
for Economy, Trade and Industry said last month.  Kansai Electric Power Co., Japan’s second-largest utility,
said on Nov. 19 it will buy LNG from a unit of  BP Plc (BP/) , using
U.S. Henry Hub futures as a benchmark for pricing under a
contract as long as 15 years for the first time.  The GECF’s 12 members hold almost 60 percent of the world’s
gas reserves. Unlike the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, the GECF doesn’t profess to coordinate production to
influence prices.  Oil Parity  While some members have asserted at past meetings that the
price of their commodity should be at parity with oil, they
disagree on how that can be achieved. Qatar’s Emir Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani said at a summit last year that the group
shouldn’t try to limit output while Iran’s Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi called for the group to develop a “market management
plan.” Qasemi canceled his attendance at the Malabo meeting,
state-run news agency Mehr said yesterday.  “We still consider this oil indexation the fundamental
basis for our policy, as well as long-term contracts,”
Bokhanovsky said after the meeting. “We consider this linkage
could represent some kind of guarantee for the sustainability of
the world economy.”  Iraq , which attended the meeting as an observer, plans to
join the GECF, Iraqi Vice Minister of Energy Motasan Akram
Hassan said after the meeting. The country plans to start
exporting natural gas as early as 2018.  GECF’s members are  Algeria ,  Bolivia , Egypt, Equatorial
Guinea, Iran, Libya, Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, Russia,  Trinidad &
Tobago  and  Venezuela . Kazakhstan, the Netherlands and Norway
have observer status.  The forum plans to hold a summit in Russia for heads of
state some time next year, as well as a ministerial meeting in
Iran in Nov. 2013, according to a press release from the group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Colin McClelland in Equatorial Guinea at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  