-- Gasoline and Heating Oil Gain on Report Supply Dropped Last Week
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-11-21T15:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/gasoline-and-heating-oil-gain-on-report-supply-dropped-last-week.html
Gasoline and heating oil rose after
the industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  reported U.S.
product inventories fell last week and as crude gained after the
conflict between Israel and Hamas militants continued.  Futures climbed for the fifth time in six days after the
API reported  gasoline stockpiles  fell 4.81 million barrels last
week and  heating oil supplies  declined 4.4 million barrels. U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  tried to broker a cease fire
between Israeli and Palestinian leaders as a blast hit a bus in
Tel Aviv and air strikes on Gaza continued.  “The API stats showed a large draw across the board on
inventories,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston. “We haven’t seen any progress on a
cease fire and, with the Tel Aviv bus bombing this morning, it
looks further away.”  Gasoline for December delivery rose 3.37 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $2.7462 a gallon at 9:56 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Futures fell the most since Nov. 7 yesterday, following
crude oil lower after the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
reported that Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi said a cease-fire
was imminent.  “The market broke yesterday on hopes for a cease fire and
now it looks like the bloodshed may continue,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago.  Energy Department  The Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories at 10:30 a.m. today in Washington. The report will
probably say that gasoline supplies rose 1 million barrels and
supplies of distillates, including heating oil and diesel,
declined 1 million barrels, according to the median estimate of
11 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg.  “The API stats were a bullish surprise,” said Flynn,
whose estimate for the survey was an increase of 1 million
barrels of gasoline and a 1 million-barrel distillate drop.  December-delivery heating oil advanced 3.3 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $3.0722 a gallon on the exchange, after declining
1.2 percent yesterday.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  rose 1.4
cents to $3.426 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. The
pump price reached a 2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  