-- Glasenberg Wins Xstrata as Bond Exits Over Blocked Bonuses
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-11-21T13:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/glasenberg-wins-xstrata-prize-as-bond-exits-over-blocked-bonuses.html
Glencore International Plc’s Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg navigated a nine-month
takeover of  Xstrata (XTA)  Plc to emerge with his $31 billion prize,
the top job and a chance of selecting the group’s new chairman.  Xstrata investors yesterday also prevented the payment of
144 million pounds ($229 million) by the new company, Glencore
Xstrata Plc, as incentives for about 70 managers to remain at
what will be the fourth-largest mining group. Chairman  John Bond , set for same role post-combination, said he’ll quit after
shareholders rejected his board’s call to back the bonuses.  Glasenberg “got exactly what he wanted,” Paul Gait, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  London , said by phone.
“He’s got control, he’s still in charge, running the show and
he’s acquired probably the best set of assets on the market.”  Xstrata shareholders voted to approve this year’s biggest
takeover, combining the Zug, Switzerland-based company’s coal,
copper, nickel and zinc mining assets with Glencore’s cotton-to-
crude oil commodities trading empire. The group will represent
about 2.12 percent of the U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 100 Index,
ranking 13th in the gauge behind  BG Group Plc (BG/) , according to
Liberum Capital Ltd.  While approvals from regulators in  Europe , South Africa and
 China  are yet to be obtained, these are unlikely to disrupt the
deal, according to Jefferies Group Inc.  EU Approval  The takover is set to win the European Union’s approval
after Glencore offered to end a zinc-purchase agreement with
 Nyrstar (NYR)  NV, according to people familiar with the matter.
Glencore’s proposal has satisfied EU antitrust regulators and
removed the need to sell assets, two people said, asking not to
be named because the information isn’t public.  “While investors have been most focused on the EU
Commission approval process, regulatory approval from China also
remains a relative unknown and a risk,”  Jeff Largey , Alon Olsha
and Daniel Lurch, analysts at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a
report yesterday. “Conventional wisdom says that both the
Chinese and  South Africans  will likely not block the deal full-
stop, but perhaps seek additional concessions.”  Glencore advanced 1 percent to 334.95 pence at 12:40 p.m.
in London. Xstrata rose 1.1 percent to 997.5 pence. The ratio of
Xstrata shares to those of Glencore rose to a record 2.98 times,
indicating confidence among investors that the transaction will
be completed.  Coal Trader  “Kudos to Ivan Glasenberg and Glencore for navigating this
entire merger process so well,”  Christopher LaFemina , an
analyst at Jefferies, said yesterday. “We would be very
surprised at this point if this merger is not a done deal.”  Glasenberg, a former accountant and coal trader, had to
raise his all-share offer by 9 percent in September to win
support from Qatar Holding LLC, the nation’s sovereign wealth
fund. That allowed him to depose long-time rival  Mick Davis , CEO
of Xstrata, and supplant himself into the top job. Glasenberg
owns about 15.5 percent of Glencore and is its biggest
shareholder.  “With significant extra volumes through his trading
business, he’s catapulted himself into an enviable position as
CEO of the fourth-largest mining company in the world,” Sanford
Bernstein’s Gait said. “He’s played a blinder.”  Glasenberg took on the position of CEO in 2002 and has
built Glencore through a series of acquisitions. The commodities
trader sold $10 billion of stock last year in an initial public
offering, ending three decades of operating as a closely held
partnership.  Anglo American  Gait said he expects the 55-year-old South African to have
further merger and acquisition targets, and to consider bidding
for  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)   “If you wanted to cement your place in mining and
corporate history there is one deal that’s still there on the
table and that’s Anglo,” Gait said. “I hardly think the quiet
life is on the cards” for Glasenberg, he said.  The company could make its first major acquisition in the
first or second quarter of next year and “will have the
firepower to do big, value-accretive M&A transactions,”
Jefferies wrote in a note to clients yesterday. Anglo American,
a $38 billion London-based mining company, is vulnerable to a
takeover after CEO  Cynthia Carroll  resigned last month,
Jefferies said.  Officials for Glencore, Xstrata and Anglo American declined
to comment.  Xstrata Votes  Glencore Xstrata may also seek to buy Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp., which has a market value of about $5.6 billion,
Jefferies said.  Xstrata shareholders yesterday voted 67.85 percent in favor
of a first resolution that included the incentives, falling
short of the 75 percent threshold. A second poll in favor of the
deal without the bonuses was agreed to by 78.88 percent of
shareholder votes. Shareholders voted 78.43 percent to reject
the retention bonuses, Xstrata said.  Bond said he will ask the board of the new company to start
looking for a new independent chairman of  Glencore (GLEN)  Xstrata once
the takeover is completed.  The combined group will have interests in about 35 coal
mines in Colombia, Africa and  Australia , and account for about
10 percent of global seaborne exports of the fuel.  It will be the world’s third-biggest producer of mined
copper, the largest zinc miner, and the biggest exporter of coal
burned by power stations. The combined group will have about 11
percent of the 13 million-ton global zinc market and about 40
percent of the 1.9 million tons of the metal produced in Europe.  ‘Modest Bump’  “In exchange for a very modest bump to 3.05, which we
would still argue is a very good ratio for Glencore, Ivan
Glasenberg will assume control of the company within six
months,” Jefferies’ LaFemina said by phone. “It’s an
impressive result so far.”  The two companies have said they expect the transaction to
be closed by the end of the year.  Glencore is working with Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley
as financial advisers. Xstrata has hired Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank
International Plc. Qatar Holding is advised by Lazard & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  