-- Glencore Said to Win EU Approval for Xstrata Purchase
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-11-21T17:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/glencore-said-to-win-eu-approval-for-xstrata-purchase.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  is set to
win the European Union’s approval for its $32 billion takeover
of  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  after offering to end a zinc-purchase agreement
with Nyrstar NV, according to people familiar with the matter.  Glencore’s offer to scrap an accord to sell Nyrstar’s zinc
output has satisfied EU antitrust regulators and removed the
need to sell assets, two people said, asking not to be named
because the information isn’t public. Glencore also offered to
sell its stake of about 7.8 percent in the zinc company, valued
at about 55 million euros ($70 million), one of the people said.  The European Commission on Oct. 31 reported Glencore’s
proposal to make unspecified concessions and extended until
tomorrow a deadline to make a public ruling on the deal.  Glencore, which yesterday got shareholder backing for its
Xstrata offer, has an agreement to sell all of Balen, Belgium-
based  Nyrstar (NYR) ’s so-called commodity-grade zinc. Nyrstar, the
largest zinc smelter, produced about 1.1 million metric tons of
the metal last year. A Nyrstar spokeswoman declined to comment.  “We understand that the companies proactively offered
remedies that are likely to be in the ballpark of those required
by the authorities,” Paul Gait, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  London , said today in a report.  Chinese Approval  Officials from Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore and Xstrata
declined to comment. The European Commission also declined to
comment, beyond saying a decision to approve the deal or extend
it would be taken by tomorrow’s deadline. The approval was
reported earlier by the Financial Times.  Glencore and Xstrata shareholders approved the takeover in
meetings yesterday, leaving approval by regulators in  Europe  and
 China  as the last hurdles for the year’s biggest deal.  “The timeframe for response by the Chinese authority is
uncertain,” Gait said.  After the combination, due to be completed by the end of
the year, Glencore-Xstrata would have about 11 percent of global
zinc output of some 13 million tons, and about 40 percent of the
1.9 million tons produced in Europe.  Zinc accounted for 18 percent of Glencore’s 2011 operating
profit, and 10 percent at Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata.  Glencore will gain through the takeover the right to sell
all of Xstrata’s production of zinc, used to harden steel for
construction and automobiles, compared with a third now.  Glencore, Xstrata, Nyrstar and  Boliden AB (BOL)  are the only four
companies producing zinc metal in Europe. Boliden’s output of
460,000 tons would be the only European production not marketed
by Glencore after the takeover without the Nyrstar concession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  