-- Gold Advances for Second Time in Three Days as Central Banks Buy
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-11-21T19:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/gold-little-changed-after-one-week-high-as-etps-climb-to-record.html
Gold gained for the second time in
three days as central banks increased holdings and rising
tension in the  Middle East  boosted demand for the precious metal
as an investment haven.  Bullion holdings linked to exchange-traded products rose to
a record.  Brazil , Kazakhstan and  Russia  added to gold reserves
last month, data on the International Monetary Fund’s website
show. The week-long conflict in the Middle East continued with
air strikes in Gaza and a blast that hit a bus in Tel Aviv. A
cease-fire accord was agreed to late in the day. Markets in the
U.S. are closed tomorrow for the Thanksgiving holiday.  “Physical demand is showing some strength,”  Frank Lesh , a
trader at FuturePath Trading in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview. “Middle East tension is also pushing some people
toward gold.”  Gold futures for December delivery rose 0.3 percent to
settle at $1,728.20 an ounce at 1:39 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . The precious metal has gained 10 percent this year.  Holdings in gold-backed  exchange-traded products  added 0.73
metric ton to a record 2,604.9 tons yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Assets and prices gained this year as central
banks from the U.S. to Asia took steps to bolster economies.  Brazil added 17.2 tons to bullion reserves last month,
Kazakhstan expanded them by 7.5 tons and Russia bought 0.4 ton,
IMF data show.  Silver futures for December delivery climbed 1.3 percent to
$33.35 an ounce in New York.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
January delivery rose 0.7 percent to $1,583.90 an ounce.
Palladium futures for December delivery advanced 2 percent to
$651.30 an ounce, the second increase in three days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  