-- Gulf Group’s Takeover of Leeds United Agreed, Soccer Club Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-21T14:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/gulf-group-s-takeover-of-leeds-united-agreed-soccer-club-says.html
Three-time English soccer champion
Leeds United today signed a takeover agreement with a Dubai-
based unit of Bahraini bank  Gulf Finance House EC. (GFH)   GFH Capital Ltd. has been in negotiations with the team’s
chairman Ken Bates since May. The group will take full control
following a month’s transition, pending Football League
authorization, Leeds said in a statement on its website.
Financial details were not disclosed.  Leeds attempted to challenge Manchester United and Arsenal
for  England ’s Premier League title in the early 2000s with a
spending spree for top talent. The team’s failure to match its
expenditure with success led it to fall into financial
difficulties and in 2004 it was demoted from the top flight.
After a spell in the third division and entering  bankruptcy
protection , Leeds now plays in the Championship, one level below
the Premier League.  “We have completed all negotiations with GFH Capital,”
Bates said in a statement, in which the club confirmed the new
owners had been financially supporting the team since entering
into an exclusivity period.  “One thing I can say that has benefited from the
negotiations is that this six-month courtship has given GFH
Capital the opportunity to see the strengths and weaknesses and
what needs to be supported,” added Bates.  Leeds in 18th place in the 24-team Championship following a
1-0 defeat to Millwall on Nov. 18.  “We have today injected further funds into the club and
now we look to the future and start the exciting journey to take
Leeds United FC back into prime position in English football,”
said David Haigh, GFH Capital’s deputy chief executive officer.  GFH has also suffered from financial difficulties in recent
times. In May the investment bank, which specializes in  Islamic
finance , obtained permission from creditors to restructure a
$110 million debt.  Editors: Christopher Elser  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  