-- Li Keqiang Urges More Urbanization to Support China’s Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-21T06:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/li-keqiang-urges-deeper-urbanization-to-support-china-s-growth.html
Li Keqiang , set to become China’s
premier in March, said the nation must deepen its rural-urban
population shift to support  growth  while avoiding the economic
stagnation associated with middle-income countries.  Urbanization is a “huge engine” of China’s future
economic growth, Li, currently vice premier, said today in a
full-page article on economic development on page three of
People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s mouthpiece.  The article represents the first policy markers laid down
by Li, 57, since he was appointed last week to the No. 2
position on the Politburo Standing Committee behind Xi Jinping
as part of a once-a-decade power handover. China’s urban
population of just above 50 percent is “much lower” than the
80 percent in developed nations, said Li, whose championing of
urbanization has been a central theme of his career.  “Urbanization is not about simply increasing the number of
urban residents or expanding the area of cities,” Li said in
People’s Daily. “More importantly, it’s about a complete change
from rural to urban style in terms of industry structure,
employment, living environment and social security.”  Li also reiterated points made this month by officials
including President  Hu Jintao , saying China will “steadily”
push forward with making interest and exchange rates more
market-based.  Longer Term  Li didn’t discuss the near-term outlook for the economy or
provide specific forecasts, instead focusing on longer-term
issues. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday at the East Asia
Summit in  Phnom Penh ,  Cambodia , that the Chinese economy is
becoming more stable, will maintain “relatively fast growth”
and “develop at a higher level,” according to the official
Xinhua News Agency.  China’s gross domestic product is poised to expand 7.7
percent this year, the weakest pace since 1999, based on the
median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News this
month. Growth may pick up to 8.1 percent in 2013, according to
the median of 46 forecasts.  Li said  China  is facing the risk of falling into the so-
called “middle-income trap” now that its per-capita GDP has
reached such a level. “There are many countries in the world
that when they reached the middle-income stage, they witnessed
serious structural problems such as growth stagnation, a
widening wealth gap and increasing social unrest,” Li said.  Rural Migrants  The incoming premier will have a smaller pool of potential
rural migrants to maintain urban growth. The proportion of
China’s population in cities swelled to 51 percent by the end of
2011 from about 39 percent over the past decade. More than 100
million people left farms during Hu’s presidency, many for jobs
in the factories that pushed China past  Japan  as the world’s
second-biggest economy.  The pace of growth in China’s cities is at risk of slowing,
according to Nicholas Eberstadt, a demographer at the  American
Enterprise Institute  in Washington. China’s workforce may shrink,
with the number of 15- to 24-year-olds forecast by the  United
Nations  to decline by almost 62 million people in the 15 years
through 2025.  Li also said in the People’s Daily article that  yuan 
capital-account convertibility will be achieved “gradually”
and China will keep pushing changes to resource pricing. The
nation must boost  consumer spending  to sustain growth and cope
with a slowdown in the global economy, Li said.  The yuan was little changed today at 6.2328 against the
dollar. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.2 percent as of 1:46
p.m. local time.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  