-- Indian Stocks Gain Most in Two Weeks Before Parliament Co
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-11-21T11:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/indian-stocks-gain-most-in-two-weeks-before-parliament-co.html
Indian stocks climbed the most in
about three weeks amid speculation the government may secure
lawmakers’ support for its economic policies in the winter
session of the nation’s parliament starting tomorrow.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.7 percent
to 18,460.38 at the close, the steepest gain since Nov. 2. The
gauge lost 2 percent last week.  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , Asia’s second-biggest
tobacco company, advanced to near a two-week high, contributing
the most to gains.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the third-biggest lender by
value, increased for a second day.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration will try to
push through India’s biggest opening to foreign investment in a
decade in the parliament session from tomorrow through Dec. 20.
Singh in September opened retailing and airlines to foreigners,
pared fuel subsidies and cut a tax on companies’ overseas debt
in a wave of policy making after two years of gridlock.  “The market will trudge along for a while until it gets a
clear signal that policy action is moving forward,” Sangeeta Purushottam, an independent market analyst, told Bloomberg TV
India today. “The parliament session will be watched carefully
to see if the government is going to walk the talk.”  Singh introduced more reforms in October, including plans
to boost foreign investment in insurance and pension sectors,
which require support from his party’s coalition partners to win
parliamentary approval. Opposition parties are threatening a no-
confidence vote. The government is reaching out to parties to
secure backing, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told
reporters on Nov. 16.  Parliament Vote  ICICI Bank gained 2 percent to 1,044.45 rupees, the most
since Nov. 2. ITC added 2 percent to 286.1 rupees, the highest
close since Nov. 9.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , the nation’s
biggest software exporter, rose 0.7 percent to 1,282.2 rupees.
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the largest cell-phone operator, dropped 0.5
percent to 307.4 rupees.  “The government has the numbers to pass some of these
reform measures,” Andrew Holland, chief executive officer of
investment advisory at Ambit Capital in Mumbai, told Bloomberg
TV India today. “The market will vote with its feet” if the
proposals fail to get parliamentary approval, he said.  The Sensex has increased 19.5 percent this year, driven by
foreign inflows and government policy reforms. The gauge is the
best performer this year among global benchmark gauges with at
least $1 trillion in market value, data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overseas funds bought a net $125 million of shares on Nov.
19, taking net purchases this year to $19 billion, the most
among the 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding
 China , data from the regulator show.  The Sensex trades at 15.1 times  estimated earnings ,
compared with the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ’s 11.3 times.  The S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. increased 0.8 percent to 5,614.80. India VIX, which
measures the cost of protection against declines in the Nifty
index, fell 2.2 percent to 15.46, the lowest level since Nov.
20. Trading volume of Nifty-listed shares was 6 percent less
than the 30-day average on Nov. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  