-- India Rupee Drops to 10-Week Low as Europe Concern Boosts Dollar
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-11-21T11:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/india-rupee-drops-to-10-week-low-as-europe-concern-boosts-dollar.html
India ’s rupee fell to a 10-week low
after European leaders failed to agree on a debt-reduction
package for  Greece , boosting demand for the relative safety of
the dollar.  Euro-area finance ministers will meet again on Nov. 26,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said after
chairing the meeting, following more than 11 hours of talks
yesterday. Asian currencies will trade in a narrow range ahead
of a U.S. holiday tomorrow, according to  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
which said “it remains to be seen” if foreign funds will buy
Indian debt after purchasing quotas yesterday.  There is “much focus remaining on the European debt
situation,” analysts at  Credit Agricole , including Paris-based
Sebastien Barbe, wrote in a report today. “The rupee remains
under pressure.”  The rupee declined 0.1 percent to 55.1250 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
55.3750 earlier, the weakest level since Sept. 13, when the
government began announcing measures to improve public finances
and attract investment. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at
9.75 percent.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against six
major trading partners, rose 0.1 percent. Global funds purchased
the right to buy 106 billion rupees ($1.9 billion) of local-
currency Indian debt yesterday. The “reluctance” of the
 Reserve Bank  of India to lower its key policy rate “does not
provide a favorable environment for bond investment,” according
to the Credit Agricole note. The RBI has kept the repurchase
rate at 8 percent since April, citing inflation pressure.  Unhedged Forex Exposure  Indian banks are still not “rigorously” evaluating risks
from companies’ unhedged foreign-currency exposure, the central
bank said in a statement today, adding that such risks can
threaten the nation’s financial system.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were at 55.99 per
dollar, compared with 55.95 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.98 versus 55.93. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  