-- Insider Crackdown Uses SAC Manager to Pivot to Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/insider-crackdown-uses-sac-manager-to-pivot-to-fraud.html
Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP is at the center of the biggest insider case ever
brought in a nationwide crackdown on illicit hedge fund trading
-- one focusing on the exploitation of secret information on
volatile health care stocks often obtained through expert
consultants.  In doing so, the new case has brought the five year probe
beyond the realm of technology stocks and into the burgeoning
underworld of health care industry securities fraud. The charges
against former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma also bring
U.S. prosecutors closer than ever to Cohen, the hedge fund’s
billionaire owner and founder, in the biggest probe of insider
trading in a generation.  Martoma, 38, was accused by prosecutors in  Manhattan  with
playing a lead role in what they called the most lucrative
insider-trading scheme in history given the $276 million profit
he allegedly helped the hedge fund achieve.  Prosecutors said Martoma participated in trading on insider
tips about clinical trials of bapineuzumab, a drug to treat
 Alzheimer’s disease . He advised Cohen to sell shares of  Wyeth
LLC (PFE)  and  Elan Corp. (ELN)  before bad news about the drug’s prospects
was announced, according to a criminal complaint.  Cohen’s firm made huge profits or avoided losses after
receiving the advice, prosecutors said in the complaint.  Illegal Tips  Martoma is charged with conspiracy and securities fraud, a
crime that carries a maximum 20-year prison term. Prosecutors
don’t say in the complaint whether Cohen knew Martoma’s advice
was based on illegal insider tips. Neither Cohen nor SAC Capital
was charged or sued over the matter.  The U.S. may be seeking to persuade Martoma to assist in a
probe of others at SAC, said Andrew Frisch, a defense attorney
in  New York  and former federal prosecutor.  “That they’re proceeding by a complaint, as opposed to an
indictment, often means the government wants to convince the
defendant of the wisdom of cooperation,” Frisch, who isn’t
involved in the case, said in an interview. “Cooperation is
always a possibility for a defendant, but it’s a question of
whether he has information.”  More than 80 people have been sued by regulators or charged
by prosecutors since 2008 for passing or getting inside tips
about pharmaceutical, biotechnology or other health-care stocks.  Health-care businesses offer illegal traders more
opportunities to profit than the finance and technology sectors
that have traditionally been prime victims of insiders who
leaked confidential data about earnings or deals.  Health companies can live or die on the results of drug
trials, which stretch for years before regulators make decisions
that can trigger hundreds of millions of dollars in profits or
losses. And the industry has undergone significant
consolidation, leading to several multibillion-dollar mergers.  Lineup of Accused  The lineup of accused health-industry insider traders
includes: chief executive officers, hedge fund traders, bankers,
lawyers, doctors, accountants, a retired Delta Air Lines Inc.
pilot, a film producer and a member of  Major League Baseball ’s
Hall of Fame have been charged or sued by regulators. It has
touched the  Food and Drug Administration  and large health-care
companies such as Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Abbott
Laboratories.  Martoma is the latest current or former SAC employee
implicated in alleged  insider trading  by U.S. prosecutors,
including former portfolio managers Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil and analyst Jon Horvath.  Billionaire Cohen  Billionaire Cohen, 56, started SAC Capital in 1992. His
hedge fund manages $14 billion. He has been deposed by SEC
investigators about trades made close to news such as mergers
and earnings that generated profit for his fund, a person
familiar with the matter said in June. The person asked not to
be identified because the investigation wasn’t public.  “Mr. Cohen and SAC are confident that they have acted
appropriately and will continue to cooperate with the
government’s inquiry,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a company
spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Martoma worked as a portfolio manager for CR Intrinsic
Investors in Stamford, Connecticut, a unit of SAC Capital, the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit it
filed against him in New York yesterday. In addition to Martoma,
the SEC named as defendants CR Intrinsic and Sid Gilman, a
 University of Michigan  neurologist who was the chairman of a
safety-monitoring committee that oversaw a clinical trial of
bapineuzumab, or bapi. Gilman wasn’t charged criminally.  $700 Million Position  Martoma, according to prosecutors, urged Cohen to buy Wyeth
and  Elan (ELN)  shares based on good news about the trial, then advised
him to liquidate SAC’s $700 million position after getting a
secret tip that the trial had gone badly.  “It appears that the government is sending the message
that they believe the owner of the hedge fund is acting
alongside Mr. Martoma,” Brad Simon, a former federal prosecutor
now in private practice in New York, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “This would indicate to me that the government’s
investigation is moving up the chain at a very rapid pace.”  Martoma was arrested at his home in  Boca Raton , Florida, at
6:30 a.m. yesterday, said  Peter Donald , a spokesman for the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation in New York. He appeared before
U.S. Magistrate David Brannon in  West Palm Beach  and was
released on $5 million bond secured by two family members, said
Mary Delsener, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara. Martoma is scheduled to be in federal court in
Manhattan on Nov. 26, Bharara said at a press conference
yesterday.  ‘Exceptional’ Manager  “Mathew Martoma was an exceptional portfolio manager who
succeeded through hard work and the dogged pursuit of
information in the public domain,” his lawyer,  Charles Stillman , said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “What
happened today is only the beginning of a process that we are
confident will lead to Mr. Martoma’s full exoneration.”  The SEC claimed Martoma, who specialized in health-care
stocks, used Gilman’s illegal tips to trade for CR Intrinsic as
well as for “hedge fund portfolios managed by an affiliated
 investment adviser ” and controlled by an unidentified
“Portfolio Manager A.” That manager was Cohen, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  “In this instance, what we see is an unholy alliance
between an insider willing to divulge valuable, nonpublic
information and a  money manager  who knew that information is as
good as gold,” April Brooks, an FBI agent in charge of the New
York office’s criminal division, said at the news conference
yesterday.  ‘Favorable Announcement’  “Martoma and the owner of the hedge fund that employed him
traded heavily and aggressively on the expert’s information
based on inside information in advance of the favorable
announcement,” Brooks said  Gilman, 80, is a professor of neurology at the University
of Michigan Medical School. He has entered into a non-
prosecution agreement with prosecutors in which he agreed to
testify before a federal grand jury and to forfeit $186,761,
money which he was paid by Elan for his consulting work.  “He is cooperating with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s
Office,”  Marc Mukasey , Gilman’s lawyer, said. “We expect to
settle with the SEC in short order.”  The doctor met Martoma as a consultant for an expert-
networking firm based in Manhattan and had sessions with Martoma
from mid-2006 to July 2008, according to the government.  Gerson Lehrman  Gilman worked for Gerson Lehrman Group’s Scientific
Advisory Board starting in 2002, according to a 2011 curriculum
 vitae  posted online by the University of Michigan.  Loren Riegelhaupt, a spokesman for the New York-based
expert-networking firm, declined to comment on the case.
Bloomberg LP, the owner of  Bloomberg News , has an agreement to
offer its clients access to Gerson Lehrman consultants.  Over the course of about 42 consultations, Martoma
persuaded the doctor to talk about his work on the drug trial,
Bharara said.  The doctor passed along the generally positive safety data
about the trial, according to the criminal complaint, which
doesn’t identify the neurologist by name. The SEC’s complaint
names Gilman as Martoma’s source.  Relying on the safety data, Martoma allegedly bought shares
of Elan and Wyeth for his portfolio. Cohen also bought Elan and
Wyeth, based on Martoma’s recommendation, prosecutors said. By
the end of June 2008, SAC held about $700 million in the two
companies’ stocks.  ‘Massive Position’  “The hedge fund built up over time a massive position in
Elan and Wyeth stock. The hedge fund built up this position,
even though it was vocally opposed by several others at the
hedge fund who were worried about the risk of that investment,”
Bharara said. “Martoma was the only person at the hedge fund
who was recommending establishing such a large position in Elan
and Wyeth based on that drug.”  In mid-July 2008, Gilman received secret data showing that
bapineuzumab failed to halt progression of Alzheimer’s in
patients in the clinical test, the U.S. said. The doctor e-
mailed Martoma a 24-page PowerPoint presentation detailing the
results, which he was scheduled to present at a medical
conference on July 29, according to the U.S.  “That is when Martoma, according to the complaint, had to
do a spectacular about-face, because he understood that with
these negative results looming, the hedge fund’s massive $700
million stake had become a terrible bet,” Bharara said.
“Overnight, Martoma went from bull to bear as he tried to dig
his hedge fund out of a massive hole.”  Selling, Shorting  Prosecutors said that on July 20 Martoma e-mailed Cohen to
ask, “Is there a good time to catch up with you this morning?
It’s important.” The two later talked for about 20 minutes,
according to the complaint.  After that conversation, SAC allegedly sold all its Elan
shares and shorted the stock in a little more than a week. SAC
also liquidated most of its Wyeth stock and took short
positions, the U.S. said.  During that time, SAC’s Elan trades accounted for more than
one-fifth of its trading volume, Bharara said.  On July 27, an unidentified “Senior Trader” at Martoma’s
company e-mailed Cohen about the week’s trading activity,
according to prosecutors.  The e-mail said that the fund “executed a sale of over
10.5 million ELN” for four internal hedge fund accounts. The
sales were carried out “quietly and effectively” over four
days through dark pools and other means, and booked into
accounts that had “very limited access,” according to the e-
mail cited in the criminal complaint.  Shares Fall  After the results became public, Wyeth and Elan shares
plummeted. Wyeth, which is now owned by Pfizer Inc., fell the
most in almost six years on the news. Elan dropped the most in
three years.  Prosecutors said Martoma was paid a bonus of $9.38 million
in January 2009, based largely on the hedge fund’s profit from
the Wyeth and Elan trades.  Martoma lost money in the next two years and was fired
after another unidentified employee said in a May 2010 e-mail
that he was a “one-trick pony with Elan,” according to the
government.  In addition to the former SAC employees who have been
charged criminally, Michael Steinberg, a portfolio manager at
SAC’s Sigma Capital Management unit, has been described by
federal prosecutors as an “unindicted co-conspirator” of
Horvath, a former analyst he supervised who pleaded guilty to
receiving and passing inside information. Longueuil, who worked
for CR Intrinsic in New York from July 2008 to July 2010, was
accused of giving information to Freeman, his friend.  In April 2011, former SAC analyst Jonathan Hollander agreed
to settle SEC allegations that he traded on inside information
about a pending takeover of the Albertson’s LLC grocery chain.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-MAG-2985; and the
civil case is SEC v. CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-8466, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  