-- Lippmann Reduces Subprime Wagers While Seeing Housing Recovering
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-11-21T21:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/lippmann-reduces-subprime-wagers-while-seeing-housing-recovering.html
Greg Lippmann, the former Deutsche
Bank AG trader who gained fame by betting against  subprime-
mortgage  bonds before housing collapsed, reduced his more recent
bullish wagers even as he sees a durable real-estate recovery.  Lippmann’s $2.3 billion hedge fund, New York-based LibreMax
Capital LLC, shifted more toward commercial-mortgage bonds,
collateralized loan obligations and consumer-tied securities
last quarter, he wrote in a Nov. 19 letter to investors. Still,
subprime notes represented 35 percent of its “long” positions
as of Sept. 30, down from 40 percent on March 31, and other
residential debt accounted for 16 percent.  Lippmann’s shift comes after some U.S. home-loan securities
gained as much 60 percent this year, according to Barclays Plc,
and as he sees risks to markets and property-price indexes
falling 1 percent through April. After that, home values will be
pushed higher by the limited supply of real estate for sale and
rising demand from new households and investors, he wrote.  “The outperformance of housing, compared to other economic
data in 2012, heralds the beginning of a multi-year relative
trend regardless of the strength of the U.S. economy,” Lippmann
said in the third-quarter investor letter, which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. He declined to comment on its contents.  Home prices in 20 large metropolitan areas  gained  8.8
percent from February through August amid rising demand from
property investors and record-low loan rates, after a 35 percent
drop from a 2006 peak, according to an S&P/Case-Shiller index.  April ‘Nadir’  After such indexes reach a “nadir” in April, they’ll gain
3.8 percent in the next 12 months, 4.7 percent in the subsequent
year and 4.6 percent in the following period, Lippmann said. The
typically higher share of sales tied to  foreclosures  during the
fall and winter tends to depress aggregate prices, according to
analysts at firms including Barclays and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  A gain of 8.2 percent at Lippmann’s fund last quarter was
driven mainly by subprime debt and brought returns to 16 percent
in the first nine months of 2012, according to the letter.  He wrote that he was positioning “more conservatively”
because of concerns related to the U.S. presidential election,
the so-called fiscal cliff,  Europe ’s debt crisis and  Hurricane
Sandy . Lippmann remains bullish on the “relative prospects” of
securitized debt in general and still sees “tremendous value”
in residential mortgage securities, he said.  Lippmann was featured in books on the financial crisis that
began with soaring subprime defaults in 2007 including Michael
Lewis’s “The Big Short” and Greg Zuckerman’s “The Greatest
Trade Ever.” He left Deutsche Bank in 2010 to start LibreMax
with Fred Brettschneider, the German bank’s former head of
global markets in the Americas.  Singer, Bass  Other investors that switched to buying home-loan
securities after selling subprime bonds before their collapse
include Elliott Management Corp., the $21 billion New York-based
hedge fund founded by billionaire Paul Singer, and Kyle Bass of
Dallas-based Hayman Capital Management LP.  Elliott said in an Oct. 26 letter to investors that it sold
the securities last quarter even as it expects a “continuation
of good news in housing” because their yields had fallen too
much. Bass is staking half his firm’s money on subprime because
the debt’s prices are still low enough to make the bonds
“bullet-proof” against principal losses if housing reverses,
he said in an Nov. 16 interview with Bloomberg Television.  The share of commercial-mortgage securities among bullish
bets at LibreMax rose to 15 percent on Sept. 30, from 9 percent
at the end of the first quarter, the period in which it started
trading those bonds, according to the letter.  The notes are being made more valuable by the Federal
Reserve’s purchases of government-backed home-loan securities,
Lippmann wrote. That so-called quantitative easing is driving
investors to “seek yield,” which both bolsters demand and
creates easier lending that helps borrowers refinance maturing
debt, he said.  At the same time, “while loose underwriting could help the
performance of existing securitizations, it will also add a
degree of risk to the new issue market,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net 
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  