-- Thirty Acres Brings Momofuku-Style Fare to Jersey: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-11-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/thirty-acres-brings-momofuku-style-fare-to-jersey-review.html
Is Jersey City the new  Brooklyn , a
place to savor creative food for a few dollars less?  That’s the question one might ask when gazing out the giant
windows of Thirty Acres, a restaurant that requires patrons to
cross not the East River but the Hudson, to a place whose tree-
lined and townhouse-studded streets evoke Carroll Gardens.  If only the F-train to Brooklyn were as quick as the PATH.  At Thirty Acres sweet, raw scallops are dressed in jalapeno
puree. The sting on the tongue is followed by soothing cilantro.
Trout roe pop, releasing their oily salts. Crunchy pumpkin seeds
add a hint of sweetness. This dish wouldn’t be out of place at
Per Se. Cost: $12.  Or try corned beef slicked with maple syrup, an occasional
special that wouldn’t be out of place at your favorite diner.  This highbrow-lowbrow tightrope act is the brilliant work
of ex-Momofuku Noodle Bar chef Kevin Pemoulie and his wife,
Alex. They opened Thirty Acres nearly a year ago with the help
of  Kickstarter  funds. They hoped to raise $10,000; they ended up
with over $18,000.  The bad news is that Thirty Acres lost $15,000 to $20,000
in ingredients and income to Sandy-related power outages.  Hickory Quail  So just as we frequent the beleaguered restaurants of lower
 Manhattan  in the wake of the hurricane, we can do the same for
Jersey. Thirty Acres is hardly hardship duty. Order the $16
quail. Pemoulie smokes the bird over hickory, imparting a gentle
sweetness. Then he ups the ante with a swath of tart cranberry
sauce and a small mound of walnut bread pudding.  It’s one of just 17 items on the menu; such are the
constraints of a small, 40-seat restaurant. There are no
reservations for small parties, no sound absorbing linens, no
formal bread service. The upside is that the menu isn’t littered
with fancy pizzas, fish tacos or large-format items coyly priced
“for two.”  No steaks, either. Pemoulie sears gargantuan, beef-like
blocks of duck breast ($27), as filling as beef with a hint of
game and a roundhouse kick of cumin.  Instead of risotto, we get spelt ($17), a quinoa-like grain
that acts as a springboard for pancetta and sea urchin.  Brown Bag  Pemoulie loves intense flavors. He jolts the palate with
the gentle pain of heat throughout your meal. Oysters (never too
cold, never messily shucked), are paired with a dollop of beet
cocktail sauce. Your nose begins to run. Cod collar ($12) is a
fatty, sticky slice of fish that soaks up salty soy and more
jalepeno.  Braised chuck flap, meltingly tender, is finished with a
generous shaving of sinus-clearing fresh horseradish ($27).  And cavatelli ($14) are jazzed with so many chilies you
might think you’re in a Sichuan restaurant. You’re reaching for
a tissue but the fire never overwhelms the dish’s bitter
broccoli and fragrant mint.  The chef also knows how to use neutral ingredients to
heighten flavors. Cod steamed in cabbage is a subtle vehicle for
Polish sausage. Arctic char ($26) is pretty much just that, a
slab of medium rare fish with no bells or whistles. Balance is
respected.  Well, most of the time. Baked clams are just a pile of dry
breadcrumbs atop the bivalves ($13). And neither brioche nor
cranberries can balance the off-putting tang of chicken liver
pate.  A liquor license can run as much as $150,000 in this town
(Pemoulie hopes to acquire one in the new year), so for now,
bring your own.  Finish with a cup of strong coffee, dig into tart apple
crisp and stare at the quiet streets. Welcome to the sixth
borough.  Rating: **1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: All dishes $27 or less.  Sound Level: Shouty, sometimes over 80 when full.  Date Place: Canoodling happens at the bar.  Special Feature: Check Thirty Acres’s  tumblr  for specials.  Inside Tip: Avoid too-sweet sweet potato tortellini.  Back on My Own Dime: You bet.  Thirty Acres is at 500  Jersey  Ave., Jersey City.
Information: +1-201-435-3100 or  http://thirtyacres.tumblr.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and New
York  weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 