-- Israel Chemicals Profit Drops 9% on Meager Sales to China
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-21T14:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/israel-chemicals-profit-drops-9-on-meager-sales-to-china-2-.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  reported a 9
percent drop in third-quarter profit as  Potash Corp. (POT)  of
Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s biggest fertilizer maker, pursues
a $13.5 billion takeover bid.  Net income fell to $395 million from $436 million in the
year-earlier period, the company that extracts minerals from the
 Dead Sea  to make fertilizer said in a statement to the Tel Aviv
bourse today. That beat the $385 million median estimate of
three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales fell 3.7 percent to
$1.82 billion, compared with the $1.86 billion  median estimate 
of four analysts.  “While demand for potash in Brazil was strong during the
quarter, the company suffered from a lack of sales to  China  due
to the expiration of the previous contract,” Richard Gussow, a
senior analyst at Tel Aviv-based DS Securities & Investments
Ltd. said today in an e-mailed note. “Investors are looking
toward the potash contracts with China and India, which we
believe will not be signed until early 2013. As a result the
fourth quarter will be very weak.”  Potash Corp. recently announced mine closures and  Mosaic
Co. (MOS) , the largest U.S. fertilizer producer, said this month it
may reduce potash output amid lower-than-expected global demand
for the crop nutrient. Delays in signing contracts in China and
India have spurred other buyers to postpone their purchases
because they expect prices for agricultural nutrients to
decline, Mosaic said on Nov. 14.  Israel Corp. (ILCO) , which owns 52.3
percent of Israel Chemicals, said Oct. 31 that Potash Corp. was
in merger talks.  Product Variety  The variety of products Israel Chemicals produces
“moderated the negative effects of the global economy,” Stefan Borgas, the company’s president and chief executive officer,
said in an e-mailed statement today. Israel Chemicals declared a
dividend of $276 million for the quarter, to be paid on Dec. 19.  Israel Chemicals’ shares fell 1.7 percent to 44.96 shekels
at the market close in Tel Aviv, the third-worst performer in
the benchmark TA-25 index which advanced 0.3 percent.  Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp. has a 14 percent
stake in Israel Chemicals. The acquisition would make it the
world’s biggest producer of the mineral compound used to make
fertilizer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  