-- Ivory Coast’s Ouattara Appoints Duncan as Prime Minister
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 2012-11-21T18:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-appoints-duncan-as-prime-minister-1-.html
Ivory Coast’s former foreign affairs
minister, Daniel Kablan Duncan, was named prime minister of the
world’s biggest cocoa producer a week after the country’s
government was dissolved.  Duncan, a 69-year-old economist, was appointed in a decree
from President Alassane Ouattara, Amadou Gon Coulibaly, general
secretary of the presidency, told reporters today in Abidjan,
the commercial capital. He replaces Jeannot Kouadio Ahoussou,
who held the top government job since March. Duncan said he will
announce ministerial appointments soon, without giving details.  Ouattara dissolved the administration on Nov. 14 after
members of the ruling coalition opposed a bill proposing that
women have the same rights as men to head a family. The Parti
Democratique de Cote d’Ivoire, or PDCI, which backed Ouattara in
a November 2010 election, keeps one of its top officials as the
head of the nation’s government in Duncan.  Ivory Coast, which produces about a third of the world’s
cocoa, is recovering from violence that left at least 3,000 dead
following ex-leader Laurent Gbagbo’s refusal to cede power to
Ouattara after the election. Ouattara, a member of the Rally of
Republicans party, was inaugurated in May 2011.  Duncan pledged to make private industry and poverty
reduction his government’s priorities and said Ouattara wants to
boost economic growth to above 10 percent in 2014 and create
jobs for youth.  Cocoa Gains  “There is hope,” he told reporters. “As a result of the
work that has been done, growth is back with 8.6 percent this
year and 9 percent next year.”  The Ivorian presidency said last week that the lack of
support for the marriage-reform bill from some members of the
PDCI and from another smaller coalition party, the UDPCI, raised
concern about their backing of the government. The bill was
passed by lawmakers today, said Guillaume Soro, head of the
National Assembly.  Cocoa traded on the ICE Futures market in  New York  gained
for a third day, adding 0.3 percent to $2,464 a metric ton by
1:19 p.m.  Duncan, who was finance minister from 1990 to 1993 and
prime minister from 1993 to 1999, has worked at the
International Monetary Fund and the Dakar-based Central Bank of
West African States, according to a biography on a government
website.  The leader is “a good choice,” Souleymane Ouattara, an
Abidjan-based economist who is not related to the president,
said by phone. “Duncan is a technocrat, a hard worker. He’s
more a technician than a politician.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan at 
 bmieu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  