-- JDA Software Sued by Investor Over $1.9 Billion Buyout
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-11-21T16:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/jda-software-sued-by-investor-over-1-9-billion-buyout.html
JDA Software Group Inc. (JDAS)  was sued by
an investor who claimed that RedPrairie Corp.’s proposed
$1.9 billion takeover offer shortchanges shareholders.  The transaction is the product of an “abbreviated sales
process” and comes at an unfair price, investor Tammy Neuman
said in a complaint made public today in Delaware Chancery
Court. “The structure of the proposed acquisition does not
provide for adequate value for the company.” Neuman is seeking
to represent all JDA shareholders in her bid to bar the deal.  RedPrairie, backed by New York-based private-equity firm
New Mountain Capital LLC, agreed to pay $45 a share for
Scottsdale, Arizona-based JDA in a deal that merges two
providers of software for managing corporate supply chains. The
deal would create a supply-chain software company with more than
$1 billion in revenue.  The announced price fails to account for $412 million in
cash JDA has on its  books , according to the complaint. The deal
also doesn’t adequately account for exclusive contracts, patents
and other valuable intangible assets JDA brings to the buyout
group, Neuman said in the complaint.  Neuman accused JDA’s  directors  of using the acquisition to
shield themselves from the consequences of a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission investigation into accounting matters.  The directors “were motivated to enter into the merger
agreement out of a sense of self-preservation and are not
seeking to maximize shareholder value,” Neuman said.  Stephen Phillips, a spokesman for JDA, didn’t immediately
return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is Neuman v. JDA Software Group Inc., CA8049,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  