-- JPMorgan Turned CIO Into Prop-Trading Desk, Pensions Say
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-11-21T21:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/jpmorgan-turned-cio-into-prop-trading-desk-pensions-say.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  turned its
chief investment office into a “secret hedge fund” that caused
more than $6.2 billion in losses, pension funds said in a
revised complaint in their lawsuit against the bank.  JPMorgan represented that the office’s primary role was
 managing risk  when in fact it was engaging in trades to generate
profit for the New York-based bank, the funds said in an amended
complaint filed yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  “secretly
transformed the CIO from a risk management unit into a
proprietary trading desk whose principal purpose was to engage
in speculative, high-risk bets designed to generate profits,”
the plaintiffs said.  U.S. District Judge George Daniels ruled in August that
lawsuits against JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,
should be consolidated into a class action. The pension funds
allege that they incurred losses in their holdings because of
trades by the chief investment office and Bruno Iksil, known as
“the London Whale.”  The lead plaintiffs include the Arkansas Teacher Retirement
System, the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System, and the
state of Oregon. They claim JPMorgan’s statements about the CIO
and the bank’s risk-management practices misled investors.  Bank Shareholders  The complaint was filed on behalf of JPMorgan shareholders
who bought stock between Feb. 24, 2010, when the company filed
its 2009 earnings report with regulators, and May 21, 2012, when
the bank announced it was halting a $15 billion share buyback
program until it could control the losses.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
on the complaint.  The plaintiffs claim that bank executives decided against
establishing a so-called liquidity reserve for Iksil’s portfolio
in 2010 -- despite an internal report that said the bank needed
$2 billion to $4 billion in reserves in case markets became
illiquid and the company was forced to sell his positions.  “Because the company never took the liquidity reserve it
was required to have taken, the company’s net income was
overstated by at least $2 billion each quarter during the class
period, rendering JPMorgan’s financial statements materially
false,” according to the complaint.  In addition to Dimon, 56, the investors are suing  Michael Cavanagh , co-CEO of the corporate and investment bank; Chief
Financial Officer Douglas Braunstein; and Ina Drew, who was the
bank’s chief investment officer.  “JPMorgan senior management made a conscious, strategic
decision to use the CIO for proprietary trading in pursuit of
short-term profits,” the plaintiffs said.  The case is In re JPMorgan Chase & Co. Securities
Litigation, 12-cv-3852, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  