-- Kerry Is the Right Choice to Lead U.S. Diplomacy
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-11-21T23:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/kerry-is-the-right-choice-to-lead-u-s-diplomacy.html
For all the talk of tax increases
and debt-cutting, President  Barack Obama ’s biggest and most-
revealing decision this year may be which candidate he chooses
to be his new secretary of state. It will tell us whether the
president allows comfort to trump qualification.  The two candidates are Susan Rice, the U.S. envoy to the
United Nations, and Senator John Kerry, chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee. Both would be impressive, though
they bring different strengths.  Rice’s advantage is that she has a closer personal
relationship with the president, making her better integrated in
the administration’s policy-making apparatus. Kerry’s edge is
that he’s a heavyweight who would be more effective representing
the U.S. around the world.  Rice has the inside track for now, and she got an
unintentional boost last week from Senator John McCain, who was
shooting from the hip, as usual. McCain, who is Kerry’s old
friend and fellow Vietnam veteran, hounded Rice mercilessly over
the tragedy in Benghazi, Libya. Her only sin was that on the
Sunday shows in September she conveyed exactly what she was told
by the Central Intelligence Agency about the attack on the U.S.
consulate.  Just before his first post-election news conference, the
president heard that McCain and his Sancho Panza, Senator
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, were threatening to block
Rice’s nomination with a filibuster. This made the president
angrier than he has been in months, according to a senior White
House official I spoke with. “For them to go after” Rice and
“besmirch her reputation, is outrageous,” Obama said at the
news conference.  Appearances’ Sake  Obama says he hasn’t made a decision. But rejecting Rice in
favor of Kerry would make the president look like he’s buckling
to pressure from McCain, the Republican opponent he defeated in
the 2008 election. And yet, if how something looks is the issue
-- and appearances are critical in diplomacy -- then Obama
should choose Kerry.  Kerry, a prominent senator for 28 years, would sail through
his Senate confirmation hearings. Rice would be pinned down not
just by Benghazi but by some of her past statements, in
particular these two: In 1994, when she served on President Bill Clinton’s National Security Council, she reportedly asked about
the possibility of intervening in  Rwanda : “If we use the word
’genocide’ and are seen as doing nothing, what will be the
effect on the November election?”  In 2011, as European countries were pushing for a UN
Security Council resolution creating a no-fly zone over Libya,
she reportedly told the  France ’s UN ambassador,  Gerard Araud ,
that the U.S. wouldn’t be pulled into France’s war and she
disparaged the conflict with an obscenity. Dredging up the
latter incident is especially unfair, considering that Rice
joined Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and the National
Security Council official Samantha Power to push the men in the
administration to intervene in Libya. Still, Kerry’s colleagues
wouldn’t hesitate to use any ammunition on hand against Rice.  Kerry would be much-better received than Rice not just in
the Senate but in the rest of the world -- which should be more
than a little relevant in this decision. After 27 years on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he knows every player of
consequence. His on-the-job training would be minimal.  Lest we forget, Obama probably wouldn’t be president
without Kerry, who asked him to deliver the keynote speech at
the 2004 Democratic Convention that started his career.  Loyal Soldier  In 2008, Kerry gave then-Senator Obama critical early
support in his primary campaign against Hillary Clinton. When
Obama picked Clinton over him as secretary of state, Kerry was a
loyal soldier. He helped persuade Afghan President Hamid Karzai
to hold elections, smoothed over tense relations with  Pakistan 
and shepherded the Start treaty through the Senate. He even
played  Mitt Romney  in the mock debates this year.  Gratitude, loyalty and experience shouldn’t be the only
factors in the president’s decision, but don’t they count for
something?  If Kerry giving up his Senate seat jeopardized Democratic
control of the Senate, the appointment would be too risky. But
Democrats in the new Congress will have a five-vote margin in
the upper chamber, and it’s unlikely a Republican could win a
special election next year in  Massachusetts .  This decision isn’t as much about Rice and Kerry and the
political angles as it is about Obama and how he views
governing.  We know that the president is often leery of having other
big fish in his administration, less because of ego or
insecurity than his insistence on harmonious policy making, free
of turf fights. But comfort is overrated; Obama needs more
“principals” (officials with their own power bases) to
challenge him.  Before the UN, Rice’s experience consisted of being
assistant secretary of state for  Africa , which is important but
not central to U.S. foreign policy. More recently, she won
credit for helping to convince Russia and  China  to back
sanctions against Iran and not oppose the bombing campaign
against Libya. Yet when Russia and China vetoed a resolution
aimed at  Syria , Rice called the action “disgusting” and
“shameful,” which was stronger than the White House’s
“regrettable.” Diplomacy is all about word choice.  Having accompanied Hillary Clinton on international trips,
I can testify to how helpful it is to have a woman in charge of
public diplomacy. Most of the positive things going on among
nongovernmental organizations are spearheaded by women, who
would like seeing the third woman in a row (and second African-
American by the name of Rice) in the top job.  Still, the next secretary of state may be called on to
broker Mideast peace talks between  Israel  and Hamas or conduct
high-stakes talks with  Iran  on its nuclear program. Wouldn’t it
be better to have someone at the table with wide experience and
the political clout to make things happen?  In 2008, Obama’s staff was dead set against Clinton getting
secretary of state. Finally, Obama broke in sharply and said,
“You guys are missing the fundamental point -- she’s the most-
qualified candidate.”  This time, he is.  (Jonathan Alter is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  stopping child marriages 
will improve developing economies and on  the value of
Thanksgiving mythmaking ; Pawel Swieboda on  the prospect of many
European Unions .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article: Max Berley
at   mberley@bloomberg.net  