-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Drop on Greece Woes, Japan Imports
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-11-21T06:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/kiwi-dollar-holds-decline-on-milk-prices-aussie-remains-lower.html
The  Australia  and  New Zealand 
currencies dropped after European finance ministers failed to
agree on a debt-reduction plan for  Greece , damping demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie and kiwi dollars slid after a decline
in Japanese imports dimmed the outlook for the South Pacific
nations’ shipments. New Zealand’s currency dropped versus most
major peers after Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.
said whole-milk powder prices fell to a seven-week low.  “Greece is still a part of the equation, so if anything
happens to Greece, it will still have a ripple effect on other
euro-zone members,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at
Forecast Pte in Singapore. “There is a possibility that the
Aussie may actually go back down again toward parity” by the
end of January, he said.  Australia’s currency dropped 0.4 percent to $1.0351 at 4:44
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, and slid 0.2 percent to 84.71
yen. The New Zealand dollar fell 0.4 percent to 81.37 U.S.
cents. It weakened 0.2 percent to 66.60 yen.  Euro-area finance chiefs will meet again on Nov. 26,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said in a
statement after chairing a meeting of the ministers. They are
battling among themselves and with the  International Monetary
Fund  to find 15 billion euros ($19 billion) through 2014 for
Greece and provide the nation with a sustainable plan to cope
with its debt.  Japan Trade  Japan ’s imports slid 1.6 percent in October from a year
earlier, the nation’s Ministry of Finance said in  Tokyo  today.
 Shipments  from Australia fell 0.9 percent, while those from New
Zealand declined 5 percent. Japan is the  second-biggest  overseas
market for Australia and  fourth-biggest  destination for New
Zealand’s exports.  “The slowdown in Japan’s economy is a negative for the
Australian and New Zealand dollars,” said Kengo Suzuki, a
currency strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of
Japan’s third-largest bank by market value. “A drop in dairy
prices is a selling catalyst for the New Zealand dollar.”  Milk powder for January delivery fell 2.5 percent,
according to a trade-weighted index posted on the website of
Fonterra, the world’s biggest dairy exporter. The near-term
contract for New Zealand product dropped to $3,255 a metric ton,
the lowest since Oct. 2.  The New Zealand dollar strengthened 9.5 percent in the past
year, the biggest gainer among the 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The Aussie followed with a 5.3 percent jump.  RBA Comment  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens yesterday
reiterated his surprise that the nation’s currency hasn’t
weakened much.  “While it’s not surprising that the Australian dollar has
been very strong given the terms of trade event we have had, it
is surprising that it has not declined much, at least so far,
given that the terms of trade peaked more than a year ago,”
Stevens  said .  The nation’s  terms of trade index , which measures the price
of exports relative to imports, climbed to a record 130.2 in
September last year and has fallen 9.2 percent since then,
according to the Bureau of Statistics.  Australia’s bonds fell, with the benchmark 10-year yield
adding four basis points to 3.19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomber.net . 