-- KKR Leads Firms Into Junk Sales as Buyouts Slide: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-11-21T16:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/kkr-leads-firms-into-junk-sales-as-buyouts-slide-credit-markets.html
Private-equity firms responsible for
issuing $366 billion of debt during the leveraged-buyout boom
are trying their hand at managing sales of  junk bonds  and loans
as waning takeover volumes prod them to seek new revenue.  KKR & Co. has underwritten $2.7 billion of high-yield bond
and loan sales this year, up 54 percent from last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Leon Black ’s  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  has helped syndicate two leveraged-loan
offerings in 2012, the first year it’s ranked selling the debt.  The firms are jumping into a market ignited by Federal
Reserve stimulus, including plans to hold benchmark interest
rates at about zero percent until mid-2015. While sales of high-
yield  bonds  have already reached an annual record of $315.9
billion, borrowers are refinancing existing debt rather than
paying for acquisitions, which are down 22 percent from last
year as economic growth slows.  “The larger private-equity shops, particularly the ones
that are public, are looking for other revenue streams,” said
 Steven Kaplan , a finance professor at the University of
Chicago’s Booth School of Business. “Leveraged loans and high
yield is where they have the expertise and the connections.”  More Predictable  Private-equity firms, which seek to buy companies and
increase their value before selling them for a profit, are
trying to make their income more predictable as the total value
of U.S. corporate takeovers drops to $574.5 billion this year,
less than half the amount in the corresponding period of 2007,
Bloomberg data show.  About 16 percent of sales of junk bonds, rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s , were intended to pay for acquisitions this year,
compared with 52 percent five years ago, according to data
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  KKR underwrote $2.4 billion of loans this year, including
one issued by Things Remembered Inc., the retailer purchased by
private-equity firm Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, Bloomberg
data show. New York-based Apollo has syndicated bank debt this
year from Sprouts Farmers Market LLC and Noranda Aluminum
Acquisition Corp.  “ Capital markets  is a highly cash-generative business,”
 Scott Nuttall , KKR’s global head of capital and asset
management, said at the Barclays Global Financial Services
Conference in September. “We’re originating middle-market
loans, we put what we want to keep in our mezzanine funds and
then we syndicate the rest.”  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. declined for a fourth
day.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 0.25 basis point to a mid-price of
101.06 basis points as of 11:31 a.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index has fallen from 111.4 on
Nov. 15, the highest level since July 25.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.13 basis point to 12.44 basis
points as of 11:32 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Baidu Bonds  Bonds of Baidu Inc. are the most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with 55
trades of $1 million or more as of 11:33 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The owner of  China ’s most-popular search engine raised $1.5
billion in its debut bond issue yesterday. The Beijing-based
company’s $750 million of 2.25 percent, five-year notes rose 0.9
cent from the issue price to 100.8 cents on the dollar to yield
2.07 percent as of 11:31 a.m. in New York, Trace data show.  KKR, the New York firm led by  George Roberts  and  Henry
Kravis , managed $343.6 million of high-yield bond issuance this
year, including part of a $500 million offering from Dollar
General Corp. in June, Bloomberg data show.  “The way KKR Capital Markets approaches it is a little
different; we take the perspective of an owner of the company,”
said Jeffrey Rowbottom, a managing director in the firm’s
capital markets group, who joined the firm in June 2009 from
Barclays Plc. “Sometimes telling our story directly is more
effective.”  Ares Capital  Ares Capital Corp. (ARCC) , externally managed by an affiliate of
Ares Management LLC, served as an agent in $340.5 million of
loans this year compared with $106.5 million in all of 2011,
Bloomberg data show. Ares Capital lends directly to middle-
market companies.  Private-equity firms are seeking to reap fees from the
unprecedented debt issuance unleashed by the Fed’s policy of
buying bonds to suppress  borrowing costs . Investors have
funneled $21.6 billion into U.S. high-yield bond funds this
year, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, as they
seek a reprieve from benchmark  interest rates  held in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  While the central bank’s stimulus has spurred $578.1
billion of dollar-denominated junk bond and loan sales this
year, more than half of the proceeds have gone toward
refinancing existing debt, JPMorgan data show. About 28 percent
of leveraged-loan sales were intended to pay for acquisitions
this year compared with 64 percent in 2007, according to the
data.  Takeovers Decline  The volume of U.S. corporate takeovers has declined from
$734.4 billion of deals during the same period last year as the
nation’s economic growth slows to an estimated 2 percent in 2013
from 2.2 percent in 2012, according to 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The largest private-equity firms have been preparing their
investors for lower returns from leveraged buyouts as the
economic recovery flags and record amounts of fund capital drive
up deal prices.  David Rubenstein , Carlyle’s co-founder and co-
CEO, said last week that while his firm has historically
produced average returns of about 30 percent, it’s now targeting
gains of about 20 percent.  A study released Oct. 18 by the Wharton Global Family
Alliance, a unit of the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School, found that so-called single-family offices cut their
average outlay for private-equity funds to 9 percent in 2011
from 11 percent two years prior because of declining returns,
lock-up periods and high fees.  With fundamental strength in credit, private-equity firms
“are stepping in and competing with their traditional
underwriters and are changing the competitive dynamic as a
result,” said Ed Mally, head of institutional research at
Imperial Capital LLC, an investment bank in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  