-- Naked Men Draw Women, Enraged Philistines to Vienna
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-11-21T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/naked-men-draw-women-enraged-philistines-to-vienna.html
Naked men are much more interesting
than naked women. That might sound subjective and it is, partly.
Yet I have some good arguments to back it up.  Austria is the place to go to ogle hundreds of men with no
clothes on. Both the  Leopold Museum  in Vienna and the  Lentos
Museum  in Linz -- independently and, apparently, coincidentally
-- are exposing the male sex in big exhibitions.  Both museums report a rise in the proportion of female
visitors. “It’s noticeable that there are a lot of young women
between 25 and 30, sometimes in groups,” said Tobias Natter,
director of the Leopold Museum. Many men, he said, seem ill at
ease with the show. “Men tend to compare themselves with the
artworks,” he said. “Women are much more relaxed.”  Naked men make a refreshing change. After all, female nudes
have been a fixture of the art canon for centuries. Most of the
artists who produced them, the collectors who bought them and
the curators who displayed them were men. The interest in them
is one-dimensional -- the focus is on their erotic value.  Male nudes carry many varied messages and tell us much more
about the human condition.  Stripped down to their birthday suits, men can still be
heroic, like Michelangelo’s sculpture of David. More recently,
the French artist duo Pierre and Gilles portrayed three soccer
players in full frontal, wearing nothing but their socks and
sport shoes in “Vive la  France .”  Red Stripe  Printed on the poster for the Leopold show, it served as a
reminder that male nudity can still offend. The museum chose to
cover parts of the picture with a red stripe after complaints.  Male nudes can also be vulnerable or tragic, like many
historical images of Christ on the cross. The Austrian painter
Albin Egger Lienz’s 1926 “Pieta” shows a pale corpse on a
mortuary slab, his body foreshortened by the perspective.  Nude self-portraits can be brutal in their desire to
expose. Albrecht Duerer turned his scientific attention to
detail to his own body in an unsparing, astonishing “Self-
Portrait as Nude” (1503-1505). He was recovering from a serious
illness and the skin hangs loose from his flesh.  The convention of his time was to minimize genitals in the
interests of decency. Duerer made no such compromises, and his
own are life-sized and pendulous. He never intended this
portrait for public consumption.  It took 500 years and  Sigmund Freud  for such rigorous self-
examination to resurface.  Egon Schiele ’s nude self-portraits
(there are examples in both Linz and Vienna) reveal an
unsettling divergence between the provocative and melancholy.  Sad Affair  The most heart-breaking of the Leopold nude self-portraits
is by the Austrian painter Richard Gerstl, who committed suicide
at the age of 28 after a failed love affair with the wife of the
composer Arnold Schoenberg.  The furrowed, intense face is strangely lit, the eyes stare
with a blank intensity. Painted in 1908 just weeks before his
death, it is the incarnation of despair and isolation.  Video offers new potential for self-exposure, and the Linz
show has a courageous offering from  Peter Land , a Danish artist.
Land filmed himself in a shabby modern apartment, performing a
striptease while dancing exceptionally badly to banal pop music.  He is overweight, clumsy, and wears a pair of saggy gray
underpants and socks. At one point, he nearly falls over after
getting a foot caught in his pant-leg. Yet he still manages to
be endearing, while making a point about the modern fixation
with sanitized, bland physical perfection. The catalogue says
Land had to get drunk to make the film. It’s worth the hangover.  Camp Sebastian  Of course, male nudes can be erotic too, in the passive,
eye-candy way of many female nudes. Think of all those camp St.
Sebastians of the Renaissance, their pale skin helplessly
exposed to a hail of penetrating arrows.  Both Linz and Vienna examine gay art; some of it reduces
men to sex objects, some is explicit and provocative.  Linz does better than Vienna on female artists, with a
fabulous painting by Sylvia Sleigh called “Imperial Nude” of a
beautiful man reclining on a divan. Painted in 1975, it is very
much of its era: It’s rare to see men with thick curly chest
hair portrayed as sex objects these days.  Yet it was Elke Silvia Krystufek’s “Hescape” that made me
think there should be more male nudes by women. Her man has a
mane of dark hair and is lost in thought. It’s clear from her
portrayal that she finds him attractive, yet it’s empathetic as
well as erotic.  I can’t think of a single equivalent example of a female
nude that makes me think I’d like to know the person. This is no
objectification: Krystufek’s model retains his dignity and
personality, even without his clothes.  Women were excluded from nude drawing classes at art
schools until the 20th century, so have a lot of catching up to
do. These new male nudes mark the start of a genre that could
run for a few centuries more, if the male fascination with naked
women is a guide.  “Nackte Maenner” (Nude Men) is at the Leopold Museum in
Vienna through Jan. 28, 2013. “Der nackte Mann” (The Naked
Man) is at the Lentos Museum in Linz through Feb. 17, 2013. For
more information, go to:  http://www.leopoldmuseum.org/en  and
 http://www.lentos.at   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Vienna at  chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 