-- Natural Gas Rises to 1-Year High as Supply Drop Exceeds Forecast
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-11-21T21:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/natural-gas-declines-from-one-year-high-before-inventory-report.html
Natural gas futures advanced to the
highest price in in more than a year after a government report
showed a bigger-than-forecast inventory decline.  Gas gained 1.9 percent after the Energy Department said
 U.S. stockpiles  fell 38 billion cubic feet last week to 3.873
trillion.  Analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg showed a
decrease of 28 billion and a survey of Bloomberg users predicted
a drop of 30 billion.  “That’s a big number; 38 bcf is a game changer,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of Schork Group Inc., a consulting
group in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “That is stronger than
weather patterns would have suggested. If you’re of the mindset
that demand wasn’t driving this, rather this was a supply issue
and a function of producers cutting back, then this is going to
be structurally helpful.”  Gas for December delivery rose 7.1 cents to $3.903 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement price since Oct. 31, 2011. The
futures are up 15 percent from a year ago.  An assault on $4  gas prices  is “imminent” amid rising
seasonal demand and persistently high nuclear outages,  Mike Fitzpatrick , editor of the Energy OverView newsletter in New
York, wrote today.  December $4 calls were the most active options in
electronic trading. They rose 0.7 cent to 3.1 cents on volume of
1,208 lots at 4 p.m. Calls accounted for 57 percent of the
volume today.  Stockpile Reclassification  Stockpiles in the so-called producing region in the south-
central U.S. were cut by 7 billion cubic feet because one or
more producers  reclassified  supplies from working gas, or
inventories available for delivery, to base gas, or supplies
needed to maintain adequate pressure, the Energy Department
said. This increased the implied net withdrawal to 38 billion
cubic feet last week from 31 billion in the lower 48 states, the
agency said.  “This marks the largest draw in this calendar week since
2000,” Mike Tran, an analyst with CIBC World Markets Inc. in
 New York , said in a note to clients today. “The first couple
weeks of this month registered as the coldest start to November
seen over the past five, and the cold doesn’t appear to be
letting up.”  The five-year average change for the week ended Nov. 16 was
a gain of 3 billion, department data show. A gas  surplus  to the
historical norm fell to 4.5 percent from 5.6 percent the
previous week.  Weather Outlook  Temperatures will be below normal on the East Coast and in
the Midwest from Nov. 26 through Nov. 30, according to Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . The forecaster revised
its outlook for December weather to colder than last year and
below the 10-year average,  Matt Rogers , president of CWG, said
yesterday.  The low in New York on Nov. 30 may be 27 degrees Fahrenheit
(minus 3 Celsius), 10 below the usual reading, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  The gas-weighted heating-degree days value, a measure of
fuel demand, for December will probably be 879, or 28 more than
the previous forecast and 109 higher than last year, CWG said.  About 50 percent of the nation’s households use gas for
heating, department data show.  Nuclear generation  has averaged 75,281 megawatts so far
this month, 12 percent lower than the average output of 85,469
megawatts the same time last year, according to daily U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nuclear Plants  The unexpectedly large number of nuclear shutdowns “is
boosting natural gas demand this month,” based on a combination
of planned and unplanned shutdowns, said Shiyang Wang, an
analyst with Barclays Plc in New York.  If all of the shut nuclear capacity was replaced by base-
load gas generation, it would boost gas use by 2.2 billion cubic
feet a day, Wang said. She expects output for the next two
months to fall below year-earlier levels, which may increase
incremental daily gas demand of 675 million cubic feet in
December and 340 million in January.  U.S. marketed gas production will average 68.84 billion
cubic feet per day this year, 4 percent higher than last year’s
record of 66.22 billion, the Energy Department said in its Nov.
6  Short-Term Energy Outlook . The department predicted that
output will hold steady next year after rising for seven
 consecutive  years.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
311,930 as of 2:51 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 364,000. Volume was 234,328 yesterday. Open interest was 1.16
million contracts. The three-month average is 1.14 million.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting full
volume and open interest data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 