-- Nestle Says Duvoisin to Become Head of Nespresso Next Year
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-11-21T08:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/nestle-says-duvoisin-to-become-head-of-nespresso-unit-next-year.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  said human resources
director Jean-Marc Duvoisin will run the Nespresso coffee
division from next year as Richard Girardot, who now leads
the unit, takes control of the company’s French business.  Duvoisin, who previously ran businesses in  Latin America ,
will take up the new position on March 1, the Vevey,
Switzerland-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.
Martial Rolland, who runs the French business, will become head
of Nestle Professional, which sells to restaurants and hotels,
replacing Marc Caira, who retires at the end of April.  “While the choice of a HR executive may seem unusual,
Nestle has an excellent  production line  in developing top
managers and Duvoisin obviously has experience internationally,
which should help Nespresso’s development outside its home
Europe market,” said Jon Cox, head of Swiss research at Kepler
Capital Markets in Zurich.  Nespresso  has been one of the company’s fastest-growing
businesses over the past decade and had revenue of 3.5 billion
Swiss francs ($3.7 billion) in 2011, or about 4 percent of
Nestle’s sales. The unit faces increased competition from
companies including D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV that sell
single-serve capsules that are compatible with its machines.  Master Blenders markets its L’Or capsules in  France , the
Netherlands, Belgium and Spain, while Ethical Coffee Co.’s
competing capsules are available in at least 10 countries
including Austria and Germany.  Duvoisin has worked at Nestle since 1986, running the food
company’s business in Colombia,  Venezuela ,  Ecuador  and Mexico.  Nestle has said the premium-coffee unit will have more than
300 boutiques by the end of this year.  The Swiss food company today also named Peter Vogt, who
runs Nestle’s business in Malaysia and Singapore, to replace
Duvoisin as head of human resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  