-- New York Man Sentenced Up to 18 Years for Real-Estate Scam
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-21T18:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/new-york-man-sentenced-up-to-18-years-for-real-estate-scam-1-.html
A New York man was sentenced to as
long as 18 years in prison for bilking investors out of more
than $31 million in a real-estate swindle.  Joseph Greenblatt, 50, was sentenced by Justice Maxwell Wiley today in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .
Greenblatt pleaded guilty last month to more than 30 counts,
including grand larceny and securities fraud, in exchange for a
sentence of six years to 18 years.  “I just want to say I’m very sorry for what has happened
and to the victims,” Greenblatt said before the judge imposed
the sentence.  Greenblatt was accused of persuading investors to place
money with his Paramus, New Jersey-based company, Maywood
Capital, to acquire or renovate property in upper Manhattan and
resell it at a profit, prosecutors said.  Instead, he kept most of the money, using some of it to pay
several million dollars in restitution owed under a separate
criminal conviction against him in  Brooklyn , New York,
prosecutors said.  “He did pay restitution in that case and it came from the
pockets of the victims in this case,” prosecutor Michael Kitsis
said during the hearing. “Mr. Greenblatt has shown no ability
over the last 20 years to lead a law-abiding life.”  Many of Greenblatt’s victims in the more recent case were
elderly, Kitsis said. In a recorded statement played in court,
one of the victims, Stephen Coffey, of Sarasota,  Florida , called
Greenblatt a “financial predator.”  “The only one he feels sorry for at this time is
himself,” Coffey said in his statement.  The case is New York v. Greenblatt, 05439/2007, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  