-- Nigeria Validates Manitoba’s Power-Mangement Contract
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-11-21T14:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/nigeria-validates-manitoba-s-power-mangement-contract.html
Nigeria  validated a power-management
contract signed by Canada’s Manitoba Hydro Electric Board in
July to run the state-owned power utility Transmission Co. of
Nigeria after regulatory approval, the Bureau of Public
Enterprises, the privatization agency, said.  “We have received ratification from the Bureau of Public
Procurement and the contract has been certified,” Chukwuma
Nwokoh, a spokesman for the Abuja-based privatization agency
said by phone today. Under Nigerian laws, all contracts entered
into by the government needs to be certified by the  Bureau of
Public Procurement .  Reuben Abati, a spokesman for President Goodluck Jonathan,
on Nov. 14 announced the cancellation of the contract saying the
correct procedure wasn’t followed. Manitoba “did not follow the
law strictly” and initial report of the termination was a
“misunderstanding,” Jonathan said on Nov. 18 in an interview
broadcast on state-rub television NTA  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer, is selling majority
stakes in  power plants  and letting private investors buy as much
as 60 percent of 11 distribution companies spun out of the
former state-owned utility as it seeks private investment to
curb power shortages. Blackouts are a daily occurrence in
Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country with more than 160
million people. Demand for electricity in Nigeria is almost
double the supply of about 4,000 megawatts and the government
plans to boost output to 14,019 megawatts by 2013.  Bids worth more than $2 billion by companies including
 Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP)  were approved by the
government for the sale of the companies on Oct. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  