-- Nikkei 225 Rally May Falter as Volume Wanes
-- B y   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-11-21T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/nikkei-225-rally-may-falter-as-volume-wanes-technical-analysis.html
Japanese stocks will have difficulty
maintaining a rally that lifted the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  to
a two-month high unless volume increases, according to Mizuho
Securities Co. technical analyst  Yutaka Miura .  The Nikkei 225 advanced 6.4 percent in the last five days
amid  bullish signals  including a so-called double-bottom pattern
that formed on Nov. 19, when the benchmark rose above its 200-
day moving average, Miura said. The gauge also broke out of a
resistance range on an ichimoku chart, he said. Trading volume
of Nikkei 225 shares hit an eight-month high on Nov. 16, when
the gauge had its biggest advance of the rally. Volume has
fallen 32 percent since.  “I think pressure is mounting a lot to sell,” said the
analyst, who works for a unit of Mizuho Financial Group Inc.,
 Japan ’s third-largest lender. “The market will need enough
energy to overcome that selloff. As technical charts turn
positive, volume must increase for the Nikkei to maintain
momentum and advance further.”  A double bottom is a chart pattern showing a drop in price,
followed by a peak and then another drop to near the same level,
again followed by a rebound, indicating support. Ichimoku
analysis is used to predict an index’s direction through
analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows.  The Nikkei 225’s rally, its biggest in a five-day period
since March 2011, came after Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
called for elections that polls show the opposition party will
win. The opposition favors more monetary easing by the central
bank and has proposed more stimulus spending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Satoshi Kawano in 東京 at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  