-- Notre Dame-Alabama Championship Game May Draw $2 Billion in Bets
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-21T14:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/notre-dame-alabama-championship-game-may-draw-2-billion-in-bets.html
A national championship matchup
between the University of  Notre Dame  and the  University of
Alabama  probably would be the most-wagered college football game
in history, Las Vegas oddsmakers said, with a worldwide betting
handle of more than $2 billion.  Notre Dame and Alabama are two of the sport’s most
acclaimed programs, with passionate fan bases, a combined 1,688
victories and 15 Associated Press national championships between
them in the past 70 years.  Notre Dame has an 11-0 record and is back atop the national
polls for the first time in 19 years, while Alabama (10-1) is
seeking its second straight Bowl Championship Series title and
third in four seasons.  “You’d have two storied programs and almost five weeks of
buildup,” said Jimmy Vaccaro, a spokesman for William Hill
U.S., which represents 150 sports books in  Nevada . “The
intrigue about it is going to make it a monster.”  While the Nevada Gaming Control Board doesn’t track the
total amount bet on individual college football games, Vaccaro
projects a Notre Dame-Alabama matchup might draw between $20
million and $25 million in in-state wagers. RJ Bell, the founder
of the Las Vegas-based handicapping information website
Pregame.com, said the worldwide handle for such a game would be
about $2 billion.  Bell said he didn’t know what the most heavily bet college
game until now has been, though it probably was one of the
previous championships.  Alabama, whose lone blemish this season was a 29-24 loss to
 Texas A&M , would be about a 10-point favorite against Notre Dame
if they meet in the BCS title game, oddsmakers said.  ‘Love/Hate’  “There’s still this great love/hate relationship with
Notre Dame and that’s actually carrying over to Alabama,”
Vaccaro said. “When you get those type of things, you get the
people who normally would bet, and the people who normally
wouldn’t bet who want to wager against that other team.”  Notre Dame and Alabama are ranked 1-2 in the BCS standings
and would have to win the rest of their games to set up that
dream matchup for oddsmakers. The championship game is scheduled
for Jan. 7 in Miami.  Notre Dame can clinch a spot in the title game with a
victory in its Nov. 24 season finale at the University of
 Southern California . USC, which has won nine of the past 10
meetings with the Fighting Irish, will be without starting
quarterback Matt Barkley because of a shoulder injury. Notre
Dame is favored by 6.5 points.  Auburn Focus  For Alabama to have the chance to defend its BCS title, the
Crimson Tide need a win against in-state rival  Auburn University 
(3-8) on Nov. 24 and then a victory in the Southeastern
Conference championship game on Dec. 1 in Atlanta. Alabama coach
Nick Saban said he won’t let his team look that far ahead.  “Unless we win the next game, we don’t have another,”
Saban said. “We are trying to work our way into a conversation
by how we play. We are not trying to hold a position. We are
trying to create one by what we do and how we play.”  Alabama  and Notre Dame, for all their history, have met
only twice in bowl games.  The national championship was at stake in their 1973 Sugar
Bowl showdown, when coach Ara Parseghian’s Notre Dame squad won
24-23 against an Alabama team coached by Paul “Bear” Bryant.
It was a game that featured six lead changes. The schools met
again the following postseason, with Notre Dame defeating
Alabama 13-11 in the Orange Bowl.  “You’ve got two schools with really strong, loyal fan
bases,” Jay Rood, the sports book director at the MGM Mirage,
said in a telephone interview. “Those two coming together would
create the most interest for everyone -- for us here in Vegas,
television I think would be very happy with that matchup, as
would all the sponsors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  