-- Oil Trades Near Three-Day High on Supplies, China Manufacturing
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-11-22T07:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/oil-gains-a-second-day-as-crude-stockpiles-unexpectedly-decline.html
Oil traded near the highest level in
three days in  New York  on signs that  China ’s manufacturing will
expand and as stockpiles unexpectedly fell in the U.S., the
world’s biggest crude user.  Futures were little changed after climbing 0.7 percent
yesterday. A preliminary reading for China’s purchasing
managers’ index was 50.4, indicating the first expansion in 13
months. U.S. crude inventories dropped  1.47 million barrels  last
week, according to the Energy Department. Supplies were forecast
to increase by 1 million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts.  “China has been providing good fundamentals, and if the
economy moves to a higher level, they need oil,” said  Tetsu Emori , a chief  fund manager  at Astmax Investment Management Inc.
in  Tokyo . “Downside risk is quite limited, and we’re looking
for oil to reach $110 by the end of the year.”  Crude for January delivery was at $87.60 a barrel, up 22
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:50 p.m. Singapore time. The contract climbed 63 cents
yesterday to $87.38, the highest close since Nov. 19. Prices are
down 11 percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement slid 21 cents to $110.65 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $23.05 to New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread widened for a
third day yesterday to $23.48.  China Economy  The Chinese manufacturing index for November from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was up from a final level of
49.5 for October. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. The
economy in China, the second-largest oil consumer, slowed last
quarter to the weakest pace in more than three years.  U.S. crude stockpiles declined to 374.5 million barrels in
the week ended Nov. 16 as imports slowed and refiners boosted
processing, according to the Energy Department data.  The first inventory drop in three weeks was “a surprise
decline,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Melbourne, said in a note.  Gasoline inventories fell  1.55 million barrels , compared
with a median 1 million-barrel increase predicted by analysts in
the Bloomberg survey. Distillate supplies, including heating oil
and diesel, were down 2.68 million barrels, more than a
projected 1 million-barrel decrease. Stockpiles were at 112.8
million barrels, the lowest since May 2008.  Gaza Conflict  Oil’s advance in New York may stall around $89.50 a barrel,
along the top of a downward-sloping trend channel on the daily
chart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted a
rally this week in this channel, which goes back about two
months. Sell orders tend to be clustered near technical-
resistance levels.  Crude pared gains yesterday after Israel and the
Palestinian group Hamas agreed to a cease-fire that started at 9
p.m. local time, following talks brokered by Egypt’s Islamist
leaders and the U.S. More than a week of air strikes and missile
attacks have left at least 150 people dead in Gaza and killed
five Israelis, according to officials.  “Given the supply risks from the  Middle East , I don’t
really think prices will be going down further,” said Emori at
Astmax, who predicts  Brent crude  will trade around $120 to $125
a barrel by the end of the year.  The conflict in Gaza threatens further instability in the
Middle East and North Africa after a wave of uprisings that
started last year, including one that almost entirely halted
crude exports from  Libya . Israeli leaders have said that all
options, including a military strike, are justified in
countering what they describe as an existential threat from
 Iran , the fifth-largest oil producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  