-- Crude Oil Rises on Gaza Conflict Amid Declining U.S. Stockpiles
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-11-21T13:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/oil-rebounds-after-biggest-drop-in-two-weeks-as-stockpiles-fall.html
Oil rose after a blast on a bus in
Tel Aviv injured at least 10 people, boosting speculation that
the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians of Gaza may
disrupt crude supply from the  Middle East .  Futures climbed as much as 1.3 percent after the explosion
near the military headquarters in Israel’s commercial hub.
Egyptian plans to announce a cease-fire in Gaza fell through
yesterday following a weeklong barrage of Palestinian rockets
and Israeli airstrikes. Prices advanced earlier after American
Petroleum Institute data yesterday showed crude inventories fell
for the second week in three. An Energy Department report today
is forecast to show supplies increased.  “Until we get some further news from the Palestine-Israel
situation, traders will probably trade from the long side,” Ole Hansen, senior manager of trading advisory at Saxo Bank A/S,
said by phone from Copenhagen today. “There were increased
hopes of a cease-fire in the Middle East yesterday. That has not
really materialized.”  Crude for January delivery was at $87.58 a barrel, up 83
cents, or 1 percent, in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange at 1:38 p.m.  London  time. The contract
dropped $2.53 yesterday to $86.75, the biggest decline since
Nov. 7. Prices are down 11 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement was up $1.37 at $111.20 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The
European benchmark was at a premium of $23.60 to New York-traded
West Texas Intermediate, the widest in four days.  Unexplained Blast  The cause of the bus explosion in Tel Aviv wasn’t
immediately clear, Israeli police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said
by telephone. Television footage showed broken windows and
damage to the vehicle’s interior while the chassis was largely
intact.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will shuttle today
between Jerusalem, the  West Bank  and Cairo in a bid to salvage a
proposed cease-fire intended to halt the bloodshed over Gaza. At
least 138 Palestinians have died in the conflict, as have five
Israelis.  Clinton met with Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in
Jerusalem and then travelled to the West Bank for talks with
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas . Her next stop is
 Egypt , where President Mohamed Mursi has been spearheading the
search for a truce.  ’Choppy’ Trading  “Crude trade will remain choppy until we have some clarity
on the Israeli-Gaza conflict,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst
at VTB Capital in London, said in an e-mail. “Traders in the
U.S. might not want to be short ahead of the long holiday
weekend.” U.S. markets will be closed for the Thanksgiving
holiday tomorrow.  Societe Generale SA raised its predictions for global  oil
prices  next year, citing a “neutral outlook” for market
fundamentals. The bank increased its price outlook for Brent to
$110 a barrel from $103 previously, according to an e-mailed
report. It forecasts WTI will advance to $97 a barrel, up from
an earlier 2013 forecast of $92.  Anthony Nunan , a senior adviser for risk management at
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  in Tokyo, said Brent oil may trade between $105
and $112 a barrel in coming months.  U.S. crude decreased yesterday after failing to trade
higher than the 50-day moving average for a second day,
signaling technical resistance, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This indicator, about $89.56 a barrel today, is where
sell orders may be clustered. Crude rallied to $100 on Sept. 14,
two months after breaching this chart-resistance level.  Stockpile Forecast  Crude stockpiles in the U.S. slid 1.9 million barrels in
the week ended Nov. 16, the API’s report showed. The U.S.
Department of Energy will release data for the same period at
10:30 a.m. today Washington time. The  median estimate  of 11
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the department’s
release of the data indicates that supplies in the period
probably rose 1 million barrels.  “The stockpile numbers have been volatile and we’ll look
to the DOE data” for direction, said  Jonathan Barratt , the
chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity
newsletter in Sydney.  Gasoline and distillate inventories shrank to the lowest
levels since 2008, the API said. Gasoline slid 4.8 million
barrels, compared with a gain of 1 million barrels in the
Bloomberg survey. Distillates, including diesel and heating oil,
declined 4.4 million barrels, compared with a projected 1
million-barrel decrease.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department in Washington for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  