-- OMV Aims for April 1 Gazprom Talks to Narrow Natural Gas Prices
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-11-21T17:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/omv-aims-for-april-1-gazprom-talks-to-narrow-natural-gas-prices.html
OMV AG (OMV) , central  Europe ’s biggest oil
company, said the gap between natural gas spot prices and long-
term supply contracts with  Russia ’s  Gazprom OAO (GAZP)  will continue to
pressure earnings next year.  OMV’s next round of price reviews with Gazprom is April 1,
said OMV gas and power head Hans-Peter Floren at a press
briefing in  London . The Austrian company pays Gazprom about 5
euros ($6.4) more for gas per megawatt hour than it could
purchase the commodity on European spot markets, the Vienna-
based company said today.  “Those who are committed to purchase gas from Russia with
the oil price as part of the formula of calculating the price
are clearly carrying the burden,” OMV Chief Financial Officer
David Davies said. “For Econgas, our sales subsidiary for
natural gas in  Austria , this has become a particular burden and
it is now being seen in its results.  OMV’s reliance on Russian natural gas goes back to 1968,
when the Alpine Republic negotiated imports with the former
 Soviet Union . Current agreements through 2027 will deliver
Siberian natural gas to OMV storage facilities in Baumgarten,
Austria. Gazprom, the world’s largest natural gas producer,
plans to ship natural gas to Baumgarten via its South Stream
pipeline.  ‘‘No company has a longer relationship with Gazprom than
OMV,” Davies said. While the company’s deal with Russia “is
good when there’s no reliable liquid market” the emergence of
spot pricing means “supply linked to the oil price makes it
uneconomic.”  Earnings Fall  OMV’s third-quarter earnings before interest and tax fell
64 percent from the previous three months and were negatively
impacted from the Russian spread, the company  said Nov. 7 . The
day-ahead Austrian spot price for natural gas on Nov. 15 was
27.25 euros a megawatt hour, according to data collected by
Bloomberg.  The increase in gas traded on exchanges and over the
counter underlines attempts by Europe’s biggest utilities to end
a pricing system that has led to losses as oil has climbed,
while benefiting suppliers such as Russia’s OAO Gazprom. EON,
Germany’s largest importer of the fuel, and  RWE AG (RWE)  are in
arbitration with Gazprom. The Russian company may have to refund
European customers as much as $10 billion in retroactive
discounts, Moscow-based Interfax reported April 13.  OMV’s talks with Gazprom on April 1 will focus on the
“price level, pricing dynamics and price pegging,” Floren
said. “The most important issue is to bring the price level
down to the market level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  