-- London Bankers Become Landlords as Rents Hit Record
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-11-21T16:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/london-bankers-become-landlords-as-rents-hit-record-mortgages.html
Vivek Jeswani became a landlord by
accident when  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  transferred him to  New York  two
weeks after he moved into a new home in central  London . Now back
in the U.K., Jeswani views the apartment in Baker Street, the
fictional home of  Sherlock Holmes , as one of his best assets and
is about to buy another home to expand his rental business.  “There are no other investments as attractive and you’ve
got some security if you’ve got an asset you can use yourself,”
the 36-year-old risk officer at China Construction Bank Corp.’s
U.K. unit said. “There’s a good yield over 5 percent and being
in central London, you’ve got demand domestically and
internationally.”  London rents have risen more than 6 percent in the past
year to a record, even as job cuts by banks reduce employment in
the financial-services industry to a 20-year low. Technology and
media companies are drawing workers to the city, while lenders
restrict mortgages to all but the most creditworthy customers.
That’s encouraged individual investors and companies including
KKR & Co. to enter the rental market as central banks push down
yields on debt to record lows.  The average rent in greater London climbed to 1,240 pounds
($1,974) last month, according to an index compiled by HomeLet.
That was up 32 percent from October 2009, when rents averaged
940 pounds per month. The cost of renting a property in the rest
of the country increased 7 percent between 2009 and 2012, said
Homelet, the U.K.’s largest referencing and rentals insurance
company.  ‘World Cities’  The jump in London mirrors that seen in  Manhattan , where
the average apartment rent was $3,195 in September, 10 percent
more than a year earlier. In Berlin, the average monthly rent
was 524 euros ($670) in the first half, 13 percent more than a
year ago, according to data compiled by Jones Lang LaSalle.  “Improving economic performance creates demand and
migration regionally and nationally,” said Yolande Barnes, a
director of  Savills Plc (SVS) ’s research team. “The economy of those
cities is strong because they are world cities,” while asking
prices are particularly high, she said.  In Britain, rising rents are encouraging investors to take
out loans for buy-to-let transactions, a type of mortgage that
helped fuel speculation during the housing boom. Loans of this
kind totaled 4.2 billion pounds in the three months through
September, the most since the third quarter of 2008, when the
housing market was crashing.  Jeswani bought his first apartment in 1999 on Baker Street
for 100,000 pounds and said he plans to spend 1.35 million
pounds on the latest property, which he will move into, and then
rent out the place where he’s currently living.  Baker Street  He’s renting out the one-bedroom Baker Street property in a
mansion block by Regent’s Park for 395 pounds a week. That
compares with an average of 475 pounds per week in the city’s
Chelsea neighborhood and 550 pounds in nearby Knightsbridge,
according to the Mayor of London’s website.  Demand for rental properties is growing because first-time
buyers in the city typically need down payments of about 25
percent, according to the Greater London Authority. The average
deposit is 57,175 pounds, more than double the national figure,
said Halifax, the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  The restrictions on lending are reflected by a slump in the
number of mortgages that have been granted in the past five
years. Gross mortgage lending amounted to about 141 billion
pounds in 2011, down from 363 billion pounds in 2007, according
to the  Council of Mortgage Lenders .  Northern Rock  In August 2007, before the  Northern Rock  Plc bank collapse
sparked the U.K.’s financial crisis, there were 829 mortgages
available for those with a 10 percent down payment. Today, about
a third of that number are offered at that loan-to-value,
according to personal finance website moneyfacts.co.uk  In comparison, there are 101 buy-to-let products available
with a loan-to-value of 70 percent at the moment, compared with
47 in August 2007, moneyfacts.co.uk said.  At the same time, bond investors are more willing to buy
securities tied to  buy-to-let  mortgages. The extra yield they
demand above benchmarks to hold the debt fell to 1.55 percentage
points this month, half the spread in July and down from 11
percentage points in June 2009, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  Paragon Group of Companies Plc , which lends mainly to
landlords with more than 10 properties, sold 175 million pounds
of bonds last month. The mortgage provider fell 1 percent today
to 238.30 pence at 4:35 p.m. in London, trimming its gain this
year to 30 percent.  Buy-to-let investors are likely to benefit from the
Financial Service Authority’s mortgage market reform. From April
2014, lenders will need to be stricter on verifying incomes and
must assess borrowers’ ability to handle higher  interest rates .  Affluent Investors  “They don’t regulate the buy-to-let market,” Neil
Chegwidden, director of residential research at  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , said by phone. “Buy-to-let investors tend to be
more affluent. Most have more than one property, so you’ve got
greater security by writing that kind of mortgage.”  London rents are expected to rise 3 percent this year and 4
percent the following year, according to Savills. That’s also
being fuelled by the lowest number of home completions in London
for 18 months in the quarter through September, according to the
Department for Communities and Local Government.  “For investors, the U.K.’s private rented sector looks an
attractive option,” Barnes said.  KKR, the buyout firm led by founders  Henry Kravis  and
 George Roberts , is considering financing development of rental
and for-sale apartments in the capital. The company is seeking
to meet demand for housing from both U.K. residents and
international renters and homebuyers, said Ralph Rosenberg, head
of KKR real estate.  Knightsbridge, Belgravia  “The market is a lot deeper than just the local market,
given the interest from wealthy individuals in the  Far East ,
 Middle East  and  Europe ,” he said.  Rents in the U.K. capital will grow 26.4 percent in the
five years through 2017, Savills said. That compares with 24
percent in London’s best neighborhoods, such as Knightsbridge
and Belgravia, and 18.2 percent nationally.  That’s ideal for those seeking a place to put their money
as potential returns diminish in London’s financial-services
industry.  European and Japanese financial firms, with securities
trading hubs in London, are cutting positions amid volatile
markets and increased regulation in the U.K. UBS AG plans to cut
10,000 jobs as  Switzerland ’s largest lender shrinks its
investment bank.  Fewer Jobs  The decline in City jobs reflects a 20 percent fall in
equity trading this year compared with a year earlier and a 50
percent fall in international orders for equity trading. U.K.
mergers have dropped by a third, while international deal-making
has declined more steeply, the Center for Economics and Business
Research said this month.  The U.K. economy’s weakness is crimping the government’s
tax revenue from company profits and contributing to an increase
in spending. As a result, Britain’s budget deficit widened
unexpectedly last month.  Technology workers relocating from overseas will help
protect London’s richest rents from the gloom overhanging a
European finance industry that’s cutting thousands of jobs this
year, according to Savills.  This type of migration has helped drive the type of tenants
Jeswani rents to, which have included people from  India ,
Lebanon,  Morocco  and Switzerland. Soon, he will add a French
couple to that list, though he’s unlikely to increase his rent.  “Given that there’s a huge demand, I’ve used that to
filter out the type of tenant,” he said. “So if I don’t want
students I can be fussy. I can avoid void periods and if someone
wanted to share, I don’t want to get wear and tear, so I look
for a single professional. I became an accidental landlord.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net . 