-- Moody’s Clashes With R&I as Panasonic Bonds Rally: Japan Credit
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-11-21T02:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/moody-s-clashes-with-r-i-as-panasonic-bonds-rally-japan-credit.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s success in
persuading investors it can switch focus to intelligent
appliances from loss-making televisions may help its bonds
withstand a rating cut from Moody’s Investors Service.  Notes in the company, which sells fridges that send recipes
and energy-use readings to smartphones, returned 5.03 percent
since Nov. 8, the most among the top 50 issuers in the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Japan Corporate Index. The debt had
dropped 9.21 percent after the electronics maker on Oct. 31
forecast a loss 30 times bigger than analyst estimates as TV
sales slumped. Global corporate bonds declined 0.41 percent
since Nov. 8, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Moody’s cut Panasonic’s rating by two levels to Baa3 with a
negative outlook after the Tokyo stock market close yesterday,
saying the company will "face challenges" in improving its
profitability. That followed the Nov. 15 decision by  Japan ’s
Rating & Investment Information Inc. to change the outlook on
the company’s A- rating to stable from negative because of the
strength of its appliances business, leaving it at a grade that
allows the debt to stay in the nation’s largest bond index.  “R&I was all that mattered ratings-wise, and that’s
over,” Toshiyasu Ohashi, chief credit analyst at Daiwa
Securities Co. in Tokyo, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. While Moody’s rating at “one level above junk isn’t
exactly reassuring, it’s probably not enough to change the
market trend.”  Nomura Index  After R&I’s action, Panasonic’s notes will be able to stay
in the Nomura Bond Performance index, which is tracked by some
of the country’s largest investors. The index requires its
members to have ratings higher than A- by at least one of four
assessors including R&I. The R&I grade for Panasonic is the
fourth-lowest investment score.  “Those investors who can only own bonds rated A- or higher
no longer have to sell the notes immediately, and aggressive
sellers are gone,” Tomone Kawachi, executive partner in  Tokyo 
at WERU Asset Management Co., said in a telephone interview Nov.
19. “Panasonic bonds were in panic-selling mode at one point,
but the market gradually regained stability.”  While Sharp Corp. and Sony Corp. battle  South Korea ’s
Samsung Electronics Co. in the TV market, Panasonic is shifting
its focus to products such as solar panels, and navigation
systems and batteries for electric cars.  Sharp’s notes were ousted from the Nomura gauge in August
after R&I cut its bond rating to BBB. The  grade  was reduced to
BB by the rating company this month.  French Samurai  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Societe Generale SA
narrowed the extra yield it proposed on five tranches of fixed-
rate and floating-rate Samurai bonds that will price on Nov. 22,
according to a person familiar with the matter. It is
considering a spread of 75 to 77 basis points for five-year
fixed-rate notes, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the terms aren’t final.  Teijin Ltd., an Osaka, Japan-based polyester manufacturer,
hired banks for an offering of seven-year debt, according to a
statement yesterday from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co., which is managing the deal together with Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. and Nomura Holdings Inc.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 0.14
percent loss this month, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. Samurai notes, which are yen-denominated debt issued
in Japan by overseas borrowers, returned 0.17 percent, while
company debt worldwide lost 0.04 percent, the data show.  Default Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of  credit-default swaps  for
50 companies fell one basis points yesterday to 184.5 basis
points, the lowest since Sept. 14, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. A decrease
in the contracts signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  Yields on Japan’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose
half a basis point to 0.735 percent as of 11:06 a.m. in Tokyo,
after matching a four-month low yesterday. The securities
 yielded  94 basis points less than similar maturity  U.S.
Treasuries , compared with 100 basis points a year earlier. One
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The yen touched a seven-month low of 81.96 per dollar today
in Tokyo after data showed Japan’s exports fell for a fifth-
straight month in October. While the Japanese currency has
weakened 6.5 percent this year, it’s 8.4 percent stronger than
the five-year average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Above Junk  Moody’s said the strong yen, competition from South Korean
and Chinese companies and weak presence in  emerging markets  are
hurting Panasonic’s key products. Its rating of Baa3 is one
level above junk, or non-investment grade.  R&I cut  Panasonic’s rating  by two levels to A- on Nov. 15,
saying in a statement the company is making “little progress”
in improving its earnings. At the same time, it said the
company’s production of household appliances will allow it to
maintain a competitive advantage and generate profit.  The
Osaka-based manufacturer’s rating was cut by a total three
levels by R&I this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to own 200 billion yen
($2.4 billion) of 0.752 percent bond due March 2016 rather than
government debt fell to 149.7 yesterday from the record 329.8
basis points Nov. 8, JS Price data show. The note was priced at
a spread of 19 basis points March 3 last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Panasonic’s Losses  Atsushi Hinoki, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Panasonic,
declined to comment yesterday, citing the company’s policy not
to comment on market movements.  Panasonic projected a net loss of 765 billion yen in the
year ending March 31, it said in an Oct. 31 statement, scrapping
its May forecast of 50 billion yen in income. That would be the
second-highest loss in its history. Panasonic is planning to cut
8,000 jobs by the end of March.  The company’s home-appliance business contributed 81.5
billion yen to its 43.7 billion yen operating income last fiscal
year, while the audio and visual products segment, which
includes Viera TVs and digital cameras, lost 67.9 billion yen,
according to its earnings statement.  Outstanding Debt  Panasonic has 930 billion yen of  bonds outstanding ,
including 150 billion yen due March, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s compared with Sony’s 492 billion yen and
Sharp’s 395 billion yen, the data show.  The  cost to insure  Panasonic’s debt for five years against
nonpayment rose 8.6 basis points yesterday to 315 basis points,
compared with a record 506 basis points Nov. 6, according to CMA
prices. The company’s  stock  fell 0.3 percent in morning trading
today. It has dropped 38 percent this year.  “Panasonic’s bond spreads had widened even more than you’d
expect if there was a three-level rating cut,” Takayuki Tezuka,
a credit analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said in a
telephone interview on Nov. 19. “Realizing it was oversold,
investors started buying, which brought the prices back to
normal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  