-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Pares Gains as Greek Talks Falter
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2012-11-21T07:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/top-oil-market-news-crude-pares-gains-as-greek-talks-falter.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Pares Gain as Greek Talks Falter While U.S. Stockpiles Drop  Oil swung between gains and losses after European finance
ministers failed to agree on a debt- reduction package for
Greece. Prices rose earlier after a report showed crude
stockpiles shrank in the U.S.  Clinton Shuttles in Mideast in Bid to Broker Gaza Cease-Fire  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will shuttle today
through Jerusalem, the West Bank and Cairo in a bid to salvage a
proposed cease-fire intended to halt a weeklong torrent of
Palestinian rockets and Israel air strikes.  Surging Gas to Boost Power From Eight-Year Lows: Energy Markets  The longest sequence of quarterly gains in U.S. natural gas
prices since 2009 is threatening to drive up the cost of
electricity next year even as the nation’s energy production
breaks records.  European Naphtha Exports to Asia May Rise to Three-Year High  European suppliers may ship the highest volume of naphtha
to Asia in almost three years this month, according to
shipbroker data compiled by  Bloomberg News .  Indonesia’s Pertamina Drops Bid to Buy Coastal Energy on Price  PT Pertamina dropped a bid to buy Coastal Energy Co., a
Houston-based oil and gas explorer, according to Ali Mundakir, a
spokesman at the Indonesian state- owned energy company.  China Crude Stockpiles Fall Most Since February; Gasoline Gains  China’s commercial oil inventories fell last month by the
most since February as the nation’s refineries raised processed
volumes to a record.  SocGen Raises 2013 Brent Oil Forecast to $110/B, WTI to $97/B  Societe Generale SA sees upside to WTI prices in coming
months, according to e-mailed report  Japan’s LNG Imports Rise 8.3% in October; Crude Drops 25% (1)  Japan’s liquefied natural gas imports rose 8.3 percent in
October from a year earlier while crude purchases dropped 25
percent, the finance ministry said.  Natural Gas Rises to One-Year High on Forecasts of December Cold  Natural gas futures climbed to the highest settlement price
in more than a year on forecasts for a colder-than-normal
December that would increase heating demand.  Gas Supplies Dropped Last Week on Heating Demand, Analysts Say  U.S. natural-gas stockpiles fell last week as cooler
weather boosted demand for the heating fuel, according to
analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  U.K. Energy Secretary to Publish Energy Reform Bill Next Week  U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said he plans to publish
legislation designed to reform the  electricity market  next week.  API Snapshot: U.S. Crude-Oil Inventories Fell 1.92 Mln Barrels  The following table is a summary of the latest Weekly
Statistical Bulletin from the  American Petroleum Institute . *T  OPEC  Saudi Fuel Imports Rise to Preserve Crude Capacity, Sen Says  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, doubled
imports of  fuel oil  this year and is poised to maintain them at
a high level to preserve its spare capacity for producing crude,
Energy Aspects Ltd. said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  PDVSA Says It Controlled Leak in Amuay Refinery Flexicoker  Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the state oil company, said it
controlled a leak at a flexicoker in its Amuay refinery.  Los Angeles Diesel Drops as Phillips 66 Plant Said to Start Unit  Spot diesel in Los Angeles fell against futures as Phillips
66 was said to be starting a hydrocracker at its Los Angeles-
area refinery after finishing planned maintenance.  Texas Oils Reach Record Lows as Borger Refinery Extends Work  Texas oils plummeted to record lows as Phillips 66 said
repairs at its Borger, Texas, refinery would take longer than
anticipated, decreasing demand for an increasing supply of crude
produced in the state.  Phillips 66 Bayway Said to Start Producing Next Week at Earliest  Phillips 66’s Bayway plant in New Jersey, the largest
single refinery on the U.S. East Coast, will start producing
fuel next week at the earliest, a person with direct knowledge
of operations there said.  Phillips 66 Los Angeles Plant Said to Be Starting Hydrocracker  Phillips 66, the largest U.S. independent refiner by market
value, is starting the hydrocracker at its Los Angeles-area
plant after finishing planned maintenance, a person familiar
with the work said.  Flexicoker at Amuay Refinery Shut Down After Leak, Official Says  Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the country’s state oil company,
shut down a flexicoker at its Amuay refinery in Falcon state
after a leak, a company official briefed on the matter said by
telephone today. The official isn’t an authorized spokesperson.  Phillips 66 Said to Extend Borger Turnaround at Least a Week  Phillips 66 has extended work at its Borger, Texas,
refinery at least a week and as long as two weeks because
repairs were more difficult to make than anticipated, a person
with knowledge of the situation said.  Phillips 66 Extends Maintenance at Borger Oil Refinery in Texas  Phillips 66 has extended maintenance at the 146,000-barrel-
a-day Borger oil refinery in Texas that began in late September.  Eagle Ford September Oil Production Doubled From Previous Year  EOG Resources Inc. and other producers more than doubled
production in September from a year earlier in south Texas’s
Eagle Ford shale formation.  Motiva Plans to Begin Start for  Port Arthur  Crude Unit (1)  Motiva Enterprises LLC plans to begin the start process for
a 325,000-barrel-a-day crude unit at the Port Arthur, Texas,
refinery later this month or in early December.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  HPCL-Mittal Seeks to Buy Basrah Light Crude for January Loading  HPCL-Mittal Energy Ltd., which runs a refinery in northern
India partly owned by billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal , is seeking to
buy Iraq’s Basrah Light crude, according to a tender document
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Rise 2.0 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
Japan rose 2.0 percent to 10.29 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Tanker Glut Seen at 22-Week Low as Asian Crude Demand Gains (1)  A glut of the largest  oil tankers  in the Middle East is
poised to fall to the lowest in 22 weeks as crude shipments to
refineries across Asia increase because of colder weather.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Gaza Truce Talks Prolonged as Israel Carries Out Strikes (1)  Talks to end fighting between Israel and Palestinian groups
extended today as the Israeli army renewed its bombardment of
Gaza and militants fired more rockets at the Jewish state.  Rifle-Toting Terrorists Called Threat to U.S. Power Grid (1)  An attack on the power grid by terrorists -- even ones
armed with relatively simple weapons is among the greatest
threats to the reliability of the nation’s power system, the
chairman of the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission said.  Utility Puts Drop to One-Year Low on Dividend Tax Bets: Options  Bearish options on U.S. utilities fell to the cheapest
level in 13 months, pushed down after the stocks hit a one-year
low and traders speculated President  Barack Obama  and Congress
will agree to limit dividend taxes.  Ex-Merrill Banker Starts Japan Hedge Fund Seeking 20% Return  Takashi Hayashida, a former commodities salesman at Bank of
America Corp., started a hedge fund in Japan focused on energy,
metals and grains futures and targeting a 20 percent annual
return.  Petronas Said to Offer Progress Relisting to Win Canada Support  Petroliam Nasional Bhd., which is seeking approval of a
$5.2 billion takeover of Progress Energy Resources Corp., has
proposed a public offering of shares in the natural gas producer
within five years as a concession to Canada’s government, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  China Grabs Share in Latin America Wind With Cheap Loans: Energy  Chinese wind-turbine makers have broken into the South
American market, the world’s fastest- growing, by offering
government-backed loans at  interest rates  as much as 50 percent
lower than local offerings.  BNEF Lowers California Carbon Price Forecasts After First Sale  California carbon allowances will sell for $14.06 each next
year, down 2.7 percent from previous forecasts, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance said after permits cleared in an auction near the
lowest allowable price.  ONGC Said to Plan Bond Sale to Fund Azeri Stake: Corporate India  Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India’s biggest energy explorer,
is planning to sell dollar bonds to fund a $1 billion
acquisition in Azerbaijan, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  Japan’s LNG Imports Rise 8.3% in October; Crude Oil Drops 25%  Japan’s liquefied natural gas imports rose 8.3 percent in
October to 6.67 million metric tons from a year earlier, the
 finance ministry  said.  OTHER MARKETS  Euro Weakens, Asian Stocks Erase Gain as Greek Debt Talks Falter  The euro weakened and Asian stocks erased gains after
European finance ministers failed to agree on a debt-reduction
package for Greece. Treasuries and the dollar rose, while copper
led industrial metals lower.  Pound Climbs on French Downgrade; Gilt Sold at Record-Low Yield  The pound strengthened after France lost its top  credit
rating  from Moody’s Investors Service and the U.K. sold five-
year gilts at a record-low yield as investors sought the
relative safety of British assets.  Asian Stocks Outside Japan Fall as Greek Debt Talks Deadlocked  Asian stocks outside Japan fell, with a regional gauge
heading for its first decline in three days, after policy makers
meeting in Brussels failed to reach a decision on assisting
debt-laden Greece.  Pakistan Stocks Beat World as Violence Ignored: Riskless Return  Pakistan is handing equity investors the world’s best risk-
adjusted returns as terrorist attacks, power blackouts and a war
with Taliban insurgents fail to curb gains in  consumer spending 
that sent profits to a record high.  Drought No Obstacle to Record Income for U.S. Farms: Commodities  Even after the worst drought in a half century shriveled
crops from Ohio to Nebraska, U.S. farmers are having their most-
profitable year ever because of record- high prices and
insurance claims.  Silver Trade Drops 30% on China Bourse as Industrial Demand Ebbs  Silver trading on the largest  spot market  in China, the
second-largest consumer, tumbled this year as slowing growth cut
industrial use, said an industry official.  Asian Economies Aim for Trade Deal as Sea Dispute Set Aside (1)  China, Japan and South Korea started talks on a free-trade
agreement vital to an Asia-wide deal in a move to forge closer
economic ties even as they spar over disputed islands.  Mumbai Gunman Hanged Before Four-Year Anniversary of Attack (2)  Pakistani militant Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the only gunman
caught alive during the 2008 guerrilla assault on Mumbai, was
hanged early today in India, as the two nations rebuild peace
talks shattered by the attacks.  SPORTS  Beckham Says He Has ‘Exciting Options’ for Last Soccer Challenge  David Beckham  said he’ll weigh some “exciting options”
for the final challenge of his soccer playing career once his
six-year U.S. stint ends next month.  Australia’s Watson Fails to Prove Fitness for 2nd Cricket Test  Australia vice-captain  Shane Watson  won’t play in the
second cricket Test against South Africa starting tomorrow in
Adelaide because he hasn’t fully recovered from a calf injury.  UEFA Champions League Group Standings, Results, Schedule  The standings, results and schedule for the group stage of
the European  Champions League . Top two teams in each group
advance to the round of 16, with the third- place team
qualifying for the Europa League.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch  Contract  ----   ----  ----   ----  --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       86.86  +0.11  +0.1  Nymex      Jan.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    109.86  +0.03  +0.0    Ice undefined
Gasoil ($/Ton)         946.00  -1.25  -0.1    Ice      Jan.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       272.35  +1.10  +0.4  Nymex      Dec.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.80  -0.03  -0.8  Nymex      Dec.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    110.43  -0.56  -0.5    OTC   21 Days
Heating Oil            304.65  +0.73  +0.2  Nymex      Dec.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            81.21  +0.3
Gold ($/Oz)          1,723.60  -0.6
MSCI World Index     1,280.70    --  Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  