-- Morgan Stanley Cuts Forties Offer; Force Majeure on Qua Iboe Oil
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-11-21T17:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/morgan-stanley-cuts-forties-offer-force-majeure-on-qua-iboe-oil.html
Morgan Stanley failed to sell a
cargo of  North Sea  Forties crude even after lowering its offer.
No bids or offers were made for Russian Urals blend in Europe
for a third day.  Exxon Mobil Corp. declared force majeure on Nigerian Qua
Iboe loadings because of repair works on a pipeline following an
oil leak on Nov. 9, the company said today in an e-mailed
statement. CPC Corp. bought four cargoes of Angolan Cabinda and
two of Nemba for loading in January, according to three traders
with knowledge of the matter.  North Sea  Morgan Stanley failed to sell the Forties for loading Dec.
8 to Dec. 10 at 10 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent, down
from its offer yesterday at a premium of 10 cents for the same
shipment dates, according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and
brokers monitoring the Platts window. A lot for Dec. 4 to Dec. 6
traded in the previous session at a discount of 25 cents.  Mercuria Energy Trading SA was unable to sell a cargo for
loading on Dec. 6 to Dec. 8 at 15 cents less than Dated Brent,
while Vitol Group didn’t find buyers for a consignment for Dec.
3 to Dec. 5 at a discount of 30 cents, the survey showed.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Before the session,
Forties loading in 10 to 25 days was 8 cents less than Dated
Brent, compared with a premium of 4 cents yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brent for January settlement traded at $110.42 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $110.05 yesterday. The February contract
was at $109.59, a discount of 83 cents to January.  Statoil ASA booked a supertanker to haul North Sea crude to
 South Korea , boosting the tally this year to 48 million barrels,
according to shipbroker reports.  Statoil chartered the very large crude carrier Samco
Scandinavia to load on Dec. 15 from Mongstad,  Norway , at a cost
of $5.75 million, according to four fixture lists including from
Athens-based Optima Shipbrokers Ltd. Mongstad is the loading
terminal for Norwegian Troll and Heidrun blends. This is the
first tanker booked for December and compares with two scheduled
for this month.  Mediterranean/Urals  Urals was unchanged at 90 cents a barrel less than Dated
Brent in the Mediterranean, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Russia  will reduce Urals shipments from three ports in
early December, according to a partial loading schedule obtained
by  Bloomberg News .  Exports from the Baltic port of Primorsk will be cut to 15
cargoes of 100,000 metric tons each from Nov. 30 to Dec. 11, six
less than a month earlier, the program showed.  Russia will ship four lots of 140,000 tons and five of
80,000 tons from Novorossiysk on the  Black Sea  in the same
period, the plan showed. This totals 960,000 tons, compared with
1.32 million tons a month earlier. Siberian Light loadings from
this port will be unchanged at one cargo of 80,000 tons,
according to the program.  Exports of Urals from the Baltic port of Ust-Luga will be
seven cargoes of 100,000 tons each from Dec. 1 to Dec. 11, one
less than a month earlier, according to the schedule.  West Africa  Qua Iboe fell 2 cents to $1.77 a barrel more than Dated
Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc lifted its force majeure on Bonny
Light exports from  Nigeria  at 9 a.m. local time today, while
maintaining its halt on shipments of Forcados grade, a company
official said.  Nigeria raised its December official selling price for
benchmark Bonny Light and Qua Iboe crudes to the highest level
in six months, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. said in an
e-mailed statement.  The two grades were set at $1.90 a barrel more than to
Dated Brent, the most since June and compares with a premium of
$1.80 for this month, according to the list.  Sonangol Holdings, Chevron Corp., China International
United Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Unipec, and
PetroChina Co. were awarded the Cabinda lots from CPC, the
traders said, declining to be identified as the information is
confidential. Sonangol also sold the two Nemba shipments.  PT Pertamina bought 950,000 barrels of Nemba crude for
January delivery via a tender, according to a company official
who asked not to be identified because of internal policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in  London  at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  