-- Osborne Warns Against Unpicking Vickers Bank Consensus
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-11-21T17:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/osborne-warns-against-unpicking-vickers-bank-consensus.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  warned lawmakers not to undermine support for
legislation to make U.K. banks safer, urging them to stick with
plans to erect firewalls around lenders’ retail units.  Osborne told the  Parliamentary Commission on Banking
Standards  not to overstep its remit and to look at existing
draft legislation rather than make new proposals. The 10-member
panel headed by  Andrew Tyrie , a lawmaker from Osborne’s
 Conservative Party , is considering calls to add U.S.-style
powers to break up banks.  “You will be unpicking a consensus that has been
established over the last two years,” Osborne said in testimony
to the panel in  London  today. “That work has been accepted by
all the political parties. Now, if you come back and tell me we
need a new approach, either you will carry the day and we will
have to start again with new legislation, or you won’t carry the
day.”  The cross-party panel drawn from both chambers of
Parliament, which was appointed by Osborne to look at conduct in
the industry following the Libor scandal earlier this year, had
its remit expanded in September to examine the Banking Reform
Bill. Osborne’s comments suggest he is concerned that the
scrutiny, initially aimed at boosting the credibility of the
legislation, may now backfire and sink it.  Bank Lobbying  In a confrontational exchange with lawmakers, Osborne
defended himself against accusations that his primary
legislation lacks sufficient detail and would allow banks to
lobby for a watering-down of the proposals.  Osborne said secondary legislation, which is easier to
modify in future as the banking industry changes, is more suited
to include the detail the panel is seeking. Tyrie said he wants
Osborne to pass the secondary legislation to the panel as soon
as possible for their scrutiny.  Tyrie released a statement after the hearing, saying
Osborne had accepted the need to look at the structure of banks
and that his panel’s remit was broader than that of the
Independent Commission on Banking, led by Oxford University
Professor  John Vickers , which provided the basis of Osborne’s
legislation. Tyrie reiterated the need for Osborne to hand over
detailed legislation.  “If we are to do our job properly, we must have the
necessary detail,” Tyrie said. “Much of this morning has been
spent attempting to elicit it.”  Dilution Concerns  Successive witnesses at the committee’s hearings have
expressed concern that the Vickers proposals will be diluted by
the banks before they are properly implemented.  Witnesses including former  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Taylor  said regulators should be given the power
to fully split banks along retail and investment lines if
proposed arrangements for a firewall fail.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who designed
the U.S. approach, told the panel that the successful ring-
fencing of banks’ operations is very difficult to maintain and
financial institutions will seek to unwind the separation over
time.  “We have reached this point, we have got agreement,”
Osborne said. “Let’s get on and implement it. I don’t think
this is the right moment to tear up all the work that has been
done over the last few years. I would just caution Parliament
about starting all over again.”  ‘Go Further’  The opposition  Labour Party ’s  Chris Leslie  rejected
Osborne’s argument that there is cross-party agreement on the
proposals. He said in a statement after the hearing that if the
Vickers plans are diluted, “we will need to go further and
legislate to break up high street and investment banks.”  Pat McFadden, a Labour Party lawmaker, said during the
hearing that regulators had told the committee that they fear
they won’t have the right powers to prevent banks from watering
down Vickers’s plans.  “Regulators are not confident they have the powers,” he
said. Osborne told the panel the expanded powers of the central
bank as financial regulator will do the job.  “The  Bank of England  is a powerful institution with a long
history, and they will be able to withstand the lobbying from
banks,” he said.  Andrew Haldane , the Bank of England’s executive director
for financial stability, said on Nov. 7 that the proposals have
a “gray area” that may be manipulated by banks. The threat of
full separation is “quite a clever way of ensuring that Vickers
is implemented faithfully and achieves what it is meant to
achieve,” Haldane said.  Even Vickers, who said the powers he proposed would in
themselves be enough to make the banking system safer, told the
panel on Nov. 12 he would not be opposed to putting powers to
full separate institutions on the statute book.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  