-- Hostess Fail to Reach Union Deal in Mediation
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-11-21T01:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/hostess-said-to-fail-to-reach-union-deal-in-mediation.html
Hostess Brands Inc. failed to reach
a deal with union representatives during a mediation session
aimed at preventing the Twinkie maker from liquidating and
eliminating more than 18,000 jobs.  “A mediation today with the Bakery, Confectionary, Tobacco
and Grain Millers Union was unsuccessful,” Hostess said in a
statement. The company said it won’t have further comment until
a court hearing set for tomorrow.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain in  White Plains ,  New
York , yesterday adjourned a hearing where Hostess planned to
seek permission to shut down, and sent the parties off for a
last-ditch effort to negotiate terms that might keep the
floundering company afloat.  “I’m giving the union as well as the debtors and their
lenders a last chance to try and work those issues out in
private,” Drain said at yesterday’s hearing. He cited “serious
questions as to the logic behind the decision” by the bakers’
union to go on strike earlier this month.  Corrina Christensen, a spokeswoman for the bakers union,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the failed
mediation after regular business hours.  Confidential Mediation  Hostess and the union agreed to Drain’s request to enter
confidential mediation under his supervision. They met today at
the law offices of  Jones Day  in New York. Drain postponed until
tomorrow the hearing on Hostess’s request to shut down and move
toward liquidation.  “Unfortunately, the last-minute mediation efforts by Judge
Drain were not successful,” Ken Hall, general secretary-
treasurer of the Teamsters union that represents Hostess
drivers, said in a statement. “This is a tragic outcome.”  Hostess said it was forced to opt for liquidation after the
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers
International Union went on strike Nov. 9. The union,
representing about 5,000 Hostess workers, walked out after Drain
imposed contract concessions opposed by 92 percent of the
union’s members. Teamsters members accepted the proposed cuts.  Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas , sought court protection in
January, its second time in bankruptcy, listing assets of $982
million and debt of $1.43 billion. The 82-year-old maker of
Hostess CupCakes, Ding Dongs and Ho Hos has endured years of
declining sales as Americans turned to rivals’ snacks and
breads, while ingredient costs and labor expenses climbed.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  