-- Hostess Judge to Weigh Shutdown After Mediation Fails
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-11-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/hostess-judge-to-weigh-shutdown-after-mediation-fails.html
Hostess Brands Inc. will ask a
bankruptcy judge today for permission to shut down permanently,
costing more than 18,000 jobs, after mediation with its bakers’
union failed to resolve a contract dispute.  “A mediation today with the Bakery, Confectionary, Tobacco
and Grain Millers Union was unsuccessful,” Hostess said
yesterday in a statement. The company said it wouldn’t comment
further until today’s court hearing.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain in  White Plains , New
York, on Nov. 19 adjourned a hearing where Hostess planned to
seek approval to close and sent the parties off for a last-ditch
effort to negotiate terms that might keep the floundering
company afloat.  “I’m giving the union as well as the debtors and their
lenders a last chance to try and work those issues out in
private,” Drain said at the Nov. 19 hearing. He cited “serious
questions as to the logic behind the decision” by the bakers’
union to strike.  Hostess and the union agreed to Drain’s request to enter
confidential mediation under his supervision. They met yesterday
at the law offices of  Jones Day  in  New York . Drain postponed
until today the hearing on Hostess’s request to shut down and
move toward liquidation.  Corrina Christensen, a spokeswoman for the Bakery,
Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International
Union, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
failed mediation after regular business hours.  ``Unfortunately, the last-minute mediation efforts by
Judge Drain were not successful,'' Ken Hall, general
secretary-treasurer of the Teamsters union that represents
Hostess drivers, said in a statement. ``This is a tragic
outcome.''  Contract Imposed  Hostess said it was forced to opt for liquidation after the
union went on strike Nov. 9. The union, representing about 5,000
Hostess workers, walked out after Drain imposed contract
concessions opposed by 92 percent of the union’s members.  Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas , is asking the judge for
approval to shut down 36 bakeries, 242 depots, 216 retail
stores, and 311 hybrid depot-store facilities, according to
court filings. There are 58 other leased or owned sites used for
storage, warehousing of products or parking. The plants are in
22 states, stretching from  Alaska  to  New Jersey .  Hostess sought court protection in January, its second time
in bankruptcy, listing assets of $982 million and debt of $1.43
billion. The 82-year-old maker of Hostess CupCakes, Ding Dongs
and Ho Hos has endured years of declining sales as Americans
turned to rivals’ snacks and breads, while ingredient costs and
labor expenses climbed.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  