-- Toyota Says China Retail Sales Rebounding After Protests
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/toyota-venture-says-china-retail-sales-rebounding-after-p.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which saw its
 China  sales plunge for the last two months, said it expects
demand for Japanese cars to soon return to levels before
protests erupted in September over a territorial dispute.  Retail sales at its Chinese joint venture, GAC Toyota Motor
Co., have rebounded close to levels before the wave of anti-
 Japan  sentiment, Feng Xingya, executive vice president of the
venture, said at a briefing in Guangzhou yesterday. The
 automaker  cut production to ease pressure on the dealerships and
stockpile levels have “reduced dramatically” in the past two
months, he said.  “The faster the sales recover the better,” Kunihiko Ogura, Toyota managing officer and president of its joint
venture with Guangzhou Automobile Group Co., said at the same
briefing. “Our sales are recovering steadily and will return to
normal in the not-too-distant future.”  Toyota’s projection adds to evidence that Japanese
automakers are becoming more confident the consumer backlash is
fading in the world’s largest auto market.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  said
this month its orders and dealership traffic in China had
rebounded. The automakers will join  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  at the Guangzhou auto show this week, the first
major marketing event since rioters smashed cars and torched
dealerships two months ago.  Toyota  rose  2.2 percent to close at 3,435 yen in  Tokyo 
yesterday before the briefing. The benchmark Nikkei 255 Stock
Average gained 0.9 percent.  “The general expectation in the market is for the
situation to gradually normalize in the January-to-March period
next year,”  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-based auto analyst at Toward
the Infinite World Inc., said by phone. “China is the world’s
biggest car market and Japanese carmakers have invested a lot
into this country already, so withdrawing its plans or not
attempting to recover sales is not an option.”  New Brand  Toyota, which took on more exhibition space at this year’s
Guangzhou show, will announce its plan for a new joint venture
brand “very soon,” Ogura said. The automaker is also sticking
to its plan to expand in the smaller, or so-called third- and
fourth-tier cities, by setting up satellite dealerships,
according to Feng.  Japanese car sales plunged in China in September and
October after tensions escalated over ownership of a group of
uninhabited islands -- known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in
China -- prompting  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and Nissan to cut their full-
year profit forecasts by a fifth.  Japan’s automakers may suffer production cuts into 2014 and
lose a combined 650,000 units in vehicle output if tensions
don’t abate between the two countries, according to estimates by
IHS Automotive.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  