-- HP’s Explanation Still Makes No Sense
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-11-21T17:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/hp-s-explanation-still-makes-no-sense.html
My Bloomberg colleague Jesse Drucker
has an  article  today that puts some numbers on  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s allegations of book-cooking at Autonomy Corp. HP says the
financial-reporting improprieties at Autonomy caused more than
$5 billion of the $8.8 billion writedown that it disclosed
yesterday.  The article underscores how HP’s explanation  doesn’t make
sense . About $200 million of Autonomy’s revenue had been
recorded prematurely or improperly over a two-year period
beginning in 2009, HP’s general counsel, John Schultz, said in
an interview for Drucker’s story. Autonomy’s former executives
deny HP’s claims. That would be equivalent to about 12 percent
of Autonomy’s revenue for 2009 and 2010 combined.  This is the only hard number quantifying the supposed
accounting errors that HP has disclosed so far. Let’s assume for
the moment that what Schultz said is true. That doesn’t explain
more than $5 billion of writedowns. Some writedowns, perhaps.
But not more than $5 billion worth. Maybe HP will eventually
provide a more thorough explanation.  The real story here is that HP grossly overpaid -- again --
for an acquisition. The $11 billion purchase price was more than
11 times Autonomy’s $931 million of revenue for the 12 months
ended June 30, 2011.  In other words: HP was the sucker. Now it’s trying to shift
the blame elsewhere, which shouldn’t come as a surprise. Here
are some other observations on the HP mess:  -- The $200 million revenue issue is one of two examples HP
has given of “accounting improprieties and misrepresentations”
at Autonomy. In its  statement  yesterday, HP said the other was
“the mischaracterization of revenue from negative-margin, low-
end hardware sales with little or no associated software content
as ‘IDOL product,’ and the improper inclusion of such revenue as
‘license revenue’ for purposes of the organic and IDOL growth
calculations.”  HP said “this negative-margin, low-end hardware is
estimated to have comprised 10-15% of Autonomy’s revenue.”  That doesn’t seem like an accounting issue; it wouldn’t
change the numbers Autonomy reported before it was bought.
Autonomy’s income statement showed only one revenue line, which
didn’t distinguish between types of revenue. Even if HP is
correct to call this a misrepresentation, it still doesn’t
explain how Autonomy’s financial-reporting improprieties were
responsible for more than $5 billion of the writedowns at HP
last quarter.  -- During a conference call with investors yesterday, HP
Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  said this about Autonomy’s
outside accounting firm, Deloitte LLP in the U.K.: “The board
relied on audited financials -- audited by Deloitte -- not Brand
X accounting firm but Deloitte.”  Brand X may look good compared with what the  Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board  said about  Deloitte & Touche LLP , the
Big Four accounting firm’s U.S. affiliate, in a May 2008
inspection report. The  report  was released in October 2011.
Quality-control problems included “a firm culture that allows,
or tolerates, audit approaches that do not consistently
emphasize the need for an appropriate level of critical analysis
and collection of objective evidence, and that rely largely on
management representations.”  Autonomy’s reputation for aggressive accounting wasn’t  a
secret . Dan Mahoney, who heads the accounting-research firm CFRA
in  New York , said in an e-mail this morning that, “from 2001
through 2010, our firm wrote 14 reports and four notes on
Autonomy raising questions about its accounting and disclosure
practices.” At CFRA, he said, “the reaction was not one of
surprise but more ’what took so long?’”  -- The Deloitte partner who signed the firm’s audit report
on Autonomy’s year-end 2010  financial statements  is Nigel Mercer
of Cambridge,  England . In the U.S., accounting firms at publicly
traded companies don’t name the partners responsible for their
audit reports. But in some countries, such as the U.K., they do.  The accounting oversight board for years has been floating
the idea of requiring U.S. audit firms’ partners to identify
themselves by name when they vouch for companies’ financial
statements. This is information that investors clearly should be
told. But the board’s proposal has gone nowhere, partly because
of opposition by the accounting profession.  You can bet there are short sellers and other investors out
there checking to see what other audits Mercer may have been in
charge of.  -- HP is making a big fuss about how it purportedly got
duped by Autonomy’s accounting practices. At the same time, it’s
also suggesting that investors disregard the $8.8 billion
writedown when they analyze the company’s financial results.  The first number cited in HP’s  earnings release  yesterday
was “fiscal 2012 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of
$4.05.” Translation: earnings before bad stuff. HP had a fiscal
2012 net loss of $12.7 billion, or $6.41 a share, under
generally accepted accounting principles. That included a $6.9
billion loss for the fourth quarter.  HP’s earnings spin is so patently ridiculous, you have to
wonder: Why bother?  -- Autonomy showed $3.5 billion of total assets as of June
30, 2011, which was the last time it disclosed a  balance sheet 
as a public company. The figure included $1.5 billion of
goodwill, which is the bookkeeping entry a company records when
it buys another company for a premium. HP, for its part,
recorded $6.9 billion of the $11 billion purchase price for
Autonomy as goodwill.  What we have here is one serial acquirer blowing up after
buying another serial acquirer. It’s a classic roll-up story.
HP’s core business has been horrible for years. So it has relied
on high-priced acquisitions -- such as Compaq Computer,
Electronic Data Systems, and Palm -- to fuel its growth. It made
one bad deal after another, repeatedly overpaying. Finally HP
hit a wall, just like many roll-ups of the past -- everything
from Citigroup and Bank of America during the financial crisis
to Waste Management and WorldCom more than a decade ago.  -- Even if HP hadn’t identified any accounting
improprieties at Autonomy, writedowns of the magnitude disclosed
yesterday were predictable. The need to record them was obvious,
as I wrote in an Oct. 4  blog post .  HP finished the fiscal third quarter with $32 billion of
shareholder equity. Its  balance sheet  showed $36.8 billion of
goodwill (which isn’t a saleable asset) and $8 billion of other
intangible assets. By comparison, HP finished the fiscal fourth
quarter on Oct. 31 with a stock-market value of $27.2 billion.  In other words, on paper, HP’s goodwill supposedly was
worth more than the company as a whole. The market knew big
writedowns were necessary. Investors saw that Autonomy was a
disaster. They were just quicker to acknowledge the reality than
HP was.  That’s why the company’s market capitalization fell only
$3.2 billion yesterday, or 12 percent, on news of a $6.9 billion
quarterly net loss. Much of that red ink had been anticipated.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .
 