-- Petrobras Losing $8 Billion on Cheap Gasoline
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-11-21T22:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/petrobras-losing-8-billion-on-cheap-gasoline.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  is losing a
record $8 billion at its refining unit this year as Brazilian
President  Dilma Rousseff ’s battle with inflation means the
state-run company must sell imported gasoline below cost.  Lacking refining capacity to meet demand, Petrobras
increased gasoline imports 65 percent to 84,000 barrels a day in
the third quarter, according to earnings statements. The
imports, which the company sells at about 8 percent less than
cost, caused year-to-date losses at its refining division to
widen to 17.3 billion reais ($8.4 billion) from 10 billion reais
for the whole of 2011.  Rousseff is preventing Petrobras from raising fuel prices
as inflation has exceeded Brazil’s 4.5 percent target since
September 2010. The subsidy will erase $4 billion to $6 billion
in revenue next year unless Petrobras is allowed to sell imports
at cost, according to Bank of America Corp.  “Demand is high, the economy is going up again and we
don’t have the capacity to supply the market,” said Lucas Brendler, who helps manage about 6 billion reais at Banco
Geracao Futuro de Investimentos, including Petrobras shares.
“You still don’t have any surplus in refining capacity in
Brazil, so Petrobras is still going to import these products.”  Petrobras, based in  Rio de Janeiro , fell 11 percent this
year before today, the worst performer of the world’s top six
oil companies by market value. The stock has also underperformed
the benchmark Bovespa index, which dropped 0.5 percent. It’s
trading at 8.25 times earnings estimates for the next four
quarters compared with the 9.27 average ratio among global
peers,  data compiled  by Bloomberg show. It declined 0.5 percent
to 19.03 reais at 3:21 p.m. in  Sao Paulo .  Asset Sales  The oil producer may have to sell more assets or curb
investment if its government-run board doesn’t raise prices for
fuel sold to distributors, Chief Financial Officer Almir
Barbassa told reporters in  New York  on Nov. 15.  “Prices in 2011 and 2012 were below what we think they
should be,” Barbassa said. “But we don’t have any projections
about the adjustment.”  The government controls the company through a majority
voting stake. Petrobras plans to generate $14.8 billion from the
sale and restructuring of assets, according to its 2012-2016
business plan.  Refining output in  Brazil , which was self-sufficient in
crude and gasoline until 2009, hasn’t kept up with surging
consumption as Petrobras, the only domestic refiner, faces
delays and cost overruns at its biggest projects. Demand is
growing four times faster than the economy as consumers who are
getting access to credit for the first time buy cars.  Brazil, the world’s largest emerging economy after  China ,
will expand 4 percent next year after an estimated 1.5 percent
in 2012, according to a central bank survey of economists.  New Management  Since taking office in February, Chief Executive Officer
Maria das Gracas Foster started a program to cut costs, improve
efficiency and increase production. She replaced the head of
refining, Paulo Costa, with Jose Consenza and boosted fuel
output to a record in the third quarter.  Petrobras is generating enough cash to cover investments
with current  oil prices  and the local  exchange rate  and doesn’t
have a timeframe for an increase in domestic fuel prices, Foster
told reporters in Brasilia today. While the company expects to
raise prices eventually, it won’t need to if crude prices fall
like they did in 2009, she said.  Petrobras was last allowed to raise prices for gasoline by
7.8 percent in June. It boosted diesel prices by 3.9 percent in
June and by another 6 percent in July. The government
simultaneously cut a tax on fuels to reduce the impact of the
increases on inflation.  Rating Cut  The company is carrying out its $236.5 billion five-year
investment program as planned, the company said in an e-mailed
response to questions, declining to comment further.  Brazilian fuel prices have been lower than those in the
U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  since the start of 2011, when Petrobras’s
refining division started posting losses, according to company
presentations.  By comparison,  Colombia ’s state-run  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  adjusts
gasoline prices monthly according to international oil prices
and transportation costs.  Venezuela ’s state-owned Petroleos de
Venezuela SA sells the cheapest gasoline of all countries in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries because of
subsidies.  New Refineries  Bank of America Corp. cut its recommendation for Petrobras
to the equivalent of hold from buy in a Nov. 12 report mainly
because of the persistent discount in fuel prices. Earnings for
2012 could have been at least 35 percent to 40 percent higher if
Petrobras sold at international prices, analysts Frank McGann
and Conrado Vegner said in the report.  It will take three to five years for Petrobras to build
enough refineries to reduce imports and make the division
profitable, Erick Scott Hood, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based
brokerage SLW Corretora, said in a telephone interview.  The company is adding four refineries in Brazil. Its
imports will peak in 2014 and start declining after it starts
the Abreu e Lima refinery in northeastern Brazil, refining chief
Consenza said at a conference in Rio on Oct. 9.  Petrobras’s plan to build enough refineries to supply the
local market and export surpluses is a good long-term strategy
if the company can build facilities that are as efficient as
those in other countries,  Carmine Difiglio , deputy assistant
secretary at the U.S. Department of Energy, said in an interview
in Rio on Oct. 9.  “Brazil’s energy policies have been far sighted,”
Difiglio said. “Brazil was greatly criticized in the 1980s for
its biofuels policies, which turned out to be a great success.”  Petrobras’s management probably is pushing for a price
increase this year and another in 2013, while Rousseff’s
economic team will seek to delay the impact on consumer prices,
 Christopher Garman , director for  Latin America  at political risk
consulting firm Eurasia Group, said by phone from  Washington . He
expects the company will win an increase of 6 to 8 percent.  “Is that enough to stop the hemorrhaging?,” Garman said.
“Probably not. I think they’re going to slow the bleeding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  