-- Pfizer Destroyed Arthritis Drugs’ Files, Investors Claim
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-21T19:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/pfizer-destroyed-arthritis-drugs-files-investors-claim.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  destroyed documents
about the development of its Celebrex and Bextra arthritis drugs
while denying the existence of electronic databases containing
millions of files about the medicines, lawyers for some of the
company’s investors said in court filings.  Pfizer officials should be sanctioned for denying they had
a centralized filing system for Celebrex and Bextra files and
discarding records after investors filed suit accusing the
company of misleading them about the drugs’ prospects,
shareholders’ attorneys said in a court filing that was unsealed
Nov. 16 in federal court in Manhattan. Pfizer executives later
acknowledged the company maintained more than 2,000 so-called e-
Rooms that stored documents about the drugmaker’s products, the
lawyers said.  “Defendants destroyed documents in bad faith and
compounded their initial misconduct by making false statements
about the existence of centralized databases,”  Jay Eisenhofer ,
a New York-based attorney serving as lead counsel in the
investors’ securities-fraud suit, said in the filing.  Last month, Pfizer officials agreed to  pay  $164 million to
settle claims by a separate group of investors that the
drugmaker distorted the results of a study about Celebrex’s
safety profile.  Pfizer officials said today they are asking the judge in
New York to throw out investors’ claims over statements about
the drugs and called the sanctions request over the company’s
document handling “baseless.”  Sanctions Sought  Pfizer officials also are seeking sanctions against
investors who have sued over the company’s statements about
Celebrex and Bextra for their failure to “preserve electronic
documents relevant to this litigation,” Chris Loder, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Pfizer has complied with its document production
obligations in this case,” Loder said. The drugmaker is looking
“forward to an adjudication of this case on the merits.”  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in  New York , who is
presiding over a series of investor suits filed in 2004, ruled
in March that shareholders could band together to sue Pfizer
over its statements about Celebrex and Bextra.  No trial date has been set in the case against New York-
based Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker. The company opposed
shareholders’ requests to have their cases granted class-action
status.  2009 Settlement  Celebrex is Pfizer’s fifth best-selling medicine, with
almost $2.5 billion in annual sales. Pfizer officials pulled
Bextra off the market in 2005 after it was linked to an
increased risk of heart attacks and a rare skin condition.  In 2009, Pfizer agreed to pay $2.3 billion to settle a U.S.
investigation into illegal marketing of 10 of its drugs,
including Bextra.  Pharmacia & Upjohn Co. , a Pfizer unit, pleaded
guilty to a criminal charge related to misbranding drugs,
according to the U.S. Justice Department. The fine was one of
the largest in U.S. legal history.  Investors sued the drugmaker accusing executives of making
misleading statements about “the safety and marketability of
Pfizer’s Celebrex and Bextra products” over a four-year period
starting in 2000, according to a 2004 court filing.  ‘Health Risks’  “Defendants knew or recklessly disregarded that the
undisclosed health risks posed by these drugs would limit their
marketability and further knew that the potential financial
liability Pfizer faced from the harms these drugs caused posed a
serious threat to the company’s finances,” according to the
investors’ suit.  Eisenhofer and other lawyers for investors contend in the
unsealed court filings that Pfizer failed to properly hand over
documents in pretrial exchanges and destroyed records related to
Celebrex and Bextra.  At one point, the company argued the existence of the “e-
Rooms were a figment of plaintiffs’ imagination,” the lawyer
said. Pfizer officials later acknowledged the rooms existed and
turned over documents stored there electronically, investors’
lawyers said.  The lawyers also complained that Pfizer’s technical staff
undertook “two large-scale e-Room dismantling projects while
this case was pending” and still are failing to provide “vital
piece of information,” including database memberships,
according to the filing.  60 Million Documents  Pfizer’s lawyers counter in their filings that they have
turned over more than 60 million documents related to Bextra and
Celebrex and the company never misled their opponents about
electronically stored material.  “At no time did Pfizer ever mislead plaintiffs concerning
the existence of databases,” the company’s lawyers said in the
filing unsealed Nov. 16. “Stating that certain categories of
documents were not maintained in a centralized location is not
the same as representing that no databases exist.”  Pfizer turned over the equivalent of 220 boxes of files
from the e-Rooms once plaintiffs sought the information and
spent many hours locating “systems that had long been
integrated or retired” to produce the requested material, the
lawyers said.  The data Pfizer is accused of failing to turn over about
the drugs’ safety profiles was in the possession of federal
regulators and had been publicly disclosed, the lawyers added.  Nothing the company has done in finding and handing over
relevant material about Celebrex and Bextra “warrants
sanctions,” Pfizer’s attorneys said.  The case is In re Pfizer Inc. Securities Litigation, 04-
cv-9866, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  