-- Philippine Bonds Advance After Senate Approves Tax Increase Bill
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-11-21T08:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/philippine-bonds-advance-after-senate-approves-tax-increase-bill.html
Philippine bonds rose after the
Senate approved a bill to increase excise taxes on tobacco and
liquor, a move that officials said will boost revenue and the
chances of winning an investment-grade rating.  The regulation may add an estimated 40 billion pesos ($972
million) to government coffers in the first year of
implementation, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a
statement today. Credit-rating companies have identified the
bill as one of two measures that are important and will trigger
rating upgrades and positive outlooks, Tax Commissioner  Kim Henares  said in October.  “Higher revenue means there will be less need for the
government to borrow,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market
strategist at BDO Unibank Inc. in Manila. “With less pressure,
interest rates will go down.”  The yield on the 4.75 percent bonds due September 2022 fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.45 percent as
of 4:22 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition Financial
Services. That’s the lowest level since the debt was sold in
September.  Philippine local-currency notes have returned 7.6 percent
this year, the third-best performance after Indonesia and  India 
among 10 Asian debt indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Moody’s Investors Service raised the country’s credit
rating to one step below investment grade in October, citing
improved economic performance and rising revenue. The $225
billion economy expanded 6.1 percent in the first half of the
year, heading for its fastest annual growth since 2010.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 41.135 per dollar in  Manila ,
data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. One-month implied
volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to price
options, was unchanged at 4.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  