-- PICC Group Seeking Up to $3.6 Billion in Hong Kong IPO
-- B y   F o x   H u ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-11-21T08:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/picc-said-to-seek-up-to-3-6-billion-in-hong-kong-initial-offer.html
People’s Insurance Company (Group)
of  China , the nation’s largest property insurer, is seeking as
much as HK$27.8 billion ($3.6 billion) in what may become Hong
Kong’s biggest initial public offering in more than two years.  The insurer will offer about 6.9 billion shares at HK$3.42
to HK$4.03 apiece, according to a regulatory filing in  Japan 
today. The highest price values PICC Group at about 113 billion
yuan ($18 billion), said two people with knowledge of the IPO,
asking not to be identified as the information is private.  The IPO would be the largest in Hong Kong since October
2010, when  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  sold $20.5 billion of shares, and more
than double the $3.2 billion raised by companies in the city
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors have
stayed away from new equity amid an economic slowdown in China,
discounting a 15 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng Index
this year.  “Even though we’ve seen some inflows into the market, this
kind of money is not too eager to enter the IPO market,” said
Steven Leung, institutional sales director at UOB Kay Hian Ltd.
“This close to the year-end, not too many institutions would
like to get involved in such a big issue. Market sentiment is
not favorable.”  The 44 companies that priced shares in Hong Kong this year
are down almost 9 percent, on average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The value of funds raised in new share sales
this year is down from $15 billion in the same period last year,
and the lowest since at least 2001, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Cornerstone Investors  PICC Group has commitments for about $1.85 billion of
shares from so-called cornerstone investors, including  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  which will invest $500 million, two
people with knowledge of the matter said. Cornerstone investors
typically agree to hold shares for a fixed period of time in
exchange for a guaranteed amount of the offering.  Though the cornerstone investors will make PICC’s sale
easier, the company may still find it a challenge to reach the
high end of its offering range, Leung said.  “The rest depends on how aggressively they’re going to
place the stock,” he said.  The Beijing-based company is the biggest property insurer
in China with 147 billion yuan in premium income for the first
nine months of this year, according to the website of  China
Insurance Regulatory Commission .  Premium Valuation  Excluding its already listed property insurance business,
the price range values PICC Group at 1.18 times to 1.63 times
the estimated 2012 embedded value of its life and health
insurance business, one person said. That compares with 1.6
times at China Life Insurance Co., the nation’s biggest life
insurer, and 1.3 times at Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., the
person said.  The new shares will account for about 16.7 percent of PICC
Group’s enlarged share capital, one person said. China’s Social
Security Fund acquired 11.3 percent of PICC Group for 10 billion
 yuan  in June last year, according to a statement on the fund’s
website. That transaction valued the insurer at about 90 billion
yuan.  PICC Group expects a premium to the 90 billion yuan
valuation because the pension fund bought its shares at a
discount, people with knowledge of the matter said Nov. 12.  PICC Property & Casualty Co. (2328) , which was listed in Hong Kong
in 2003, has a market value of HK$121 billion. Its shares are
down 6 percent this year.  Overallotment Option  The company has the option to increase the offering by as
much as 15 percent if demand is sufficient, which would enable
PICC Group to raise as much as $4.1 billion, one person said.
The insurer plans to set a final price on Nov. 30 and begin
trading in Hong Kong on Dec. 7, according to a filing this
month.  Also among PICC Group’s cornerstone investors are China
State Grid Corp., which will invest $300 million, China Life
Insurance Co., which will invest $100 million, and  Tokio Marine
Holdings Inc. (8766)  and Zijin Mining Group Co., which will invest $50
million apiece, people said today.  China International Capital Corp., Credit Suisse Group AG,
Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and HSBC Holdings
Plc, are all global coordinators for the share sale, one person
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  