-- Pound Rises to 1-Week High Vs Euro on Greece, BOE Minutes
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-11-21T16:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/pound-gains-second-day-versus-euro-as-greece-debt-talks-stall.html
The pound rose to the strongest in a
week against the euro after European finance ministers failed to
agree on a debt-reduction package for  Greece  and as Bank of
 England  policy makers signaled they won’t cut interest rates.  Sterling held a four-day gain versus the dollar after
minutes of the central bank’s November meeting showed officials
voted 8-1 to stop expanding the so-called quantitative-easing
program this month. The majority of policy makers said
uncertainty among consumers and companies may be affecting the
impact of the stimulus program on the economy. U.K. government
bonds were little changed.  “The fact that the Bank of England suggested it’s not
going to cut rates any time soon is supportive for the pound,”
said Neil Jones, head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “The central bank still leaves a
door open for further stimulus. That, for me, is sterling
positive. Uncertainty in the euro region also helps the pound.”  The pound gained 0.1 percent to 80.42 pence per euro at
4:38 p.m.  London  time after appreciating to 80.06 pence, the
strongest since Nov. 14. The U.K. currency rose 0.1 percent to
$1.5940 after reaching $1.5949, the highest level since Nov. 9.  European Union finance ministers ended a meeting in
Brussels early today having failed to agree on a deal to steer
an extra 32.6 billion euros ($41.8 billion) of aid to Greece
over the next four years. They are also yet to find a way to
contain the resulting increase in the nation’s debt, already the
highest in  Europe .  Miles Dissents  The Bank of England minutes showed that policy maker David Miles dissented from the majority on the Monetary Policy
Committee, calling for a 25 billion-pound increase in the bond-
purchase target to 400 billion pounds. The committee voted
unanimously to keep its benchmark interest rate at a record-low
0.5 percent and said it was “unlikely to reduce” it in the
foreseeable future.  Policy makers said a case could be made for further easing
in monetary conditions, including “discouraging any further
appreciation of sterling.” For Miles, the argument for more
stimulus was “strong” due to the degree of slack in the
economy, the minutes showed.  Traders see a 39 percent chance that policy makers will cut
the benchmark rate to 0.25 percent at their next meeting on Dec.
5-6. That’s a decline from 41 percent a week ago,  interest-rate
swaps  showed.  Sterling’s Gain  Sterling has strengthened 1.5 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro declined 2.5 percent and
the dollar dropped 1.3 percent.  The pound is poised to weaken to 83 pence per euro during
the next six months as the risk of recession persists and
inflation remains elevated, according to Nick Parsons, head of
research for U.K. and Europe at National Australia Bank Ltd.  “The minutes today revealed the lack of policy options
that face the Bank of England,” London-based Parsons said.
“The market is underestimating the risk of a triple-dip
recession. We think the pound is set for prolonged period of
underperformance and it’s one of our least favorite picks.”  The  U.K. budget  deficit unexpectedly widened in October, a
report showed today. The shortfall excluding government support
for banks was 8.6 billion pounds compared with 5.9 billion
pounds a year earlier, the Office for National Statistics said
in London. The median of 25 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey 
was for a deficit of 6 billion pounds.  The yield on the 10-year gilt climbed one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.85 percent after rising seven basis
points yesterday. The 1.75 percent bond due in September 2022
fell 0.065, or 65 pence per 1,000-pound face amount, to 99.075.  Gilts returned 2.5 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
3.6 percent and U.S. Treasuries earned 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  