-- Prius Spared by Thieves Shunning Fuel Economy
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-11-21T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/prius-spared-by-thieves-shunning-fuel-economy.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s hybrid Prius is
less likely to be stolen in the U.S. compared with cars of a
similar age as thieves look for parts that can be used in more-
common vehicles, according to a trade group.  One in 606 of the 2008 to 2010 model-year Prius cars had
been stolen as of the end of June, compared with 1 in 78 of all
vehicles taken for those model years, the  National Insurance
Crime Bureau  said today in a report.  “It’s a one-model car; the parts on it won’t fit anything
else but a Prius,” John Abounader, executive director of the
 International Association of Auto Theft Investigators , said in a
phone interview. “If you use a Camry, for instance, the engine
might fit in another car. On a Prius, the engine is so different
because they’re hybrid.”  Hybrid cars like the Prius, introduced in the U.S. in 2000,
are marketed as being among the most fuel-efficient vehicles.
Thieves tend to target models that have been around longer
because there is a bigger market for parts. Honda Motor Co.’s
1994 Accord was the most frequently stolen car in the U.S. in
2011, according to a separate NICB report. The 1998 Honda Civic
was second.  “It could be that auto thieves are going to steal
something for which there is generally a market or a need for
the parts,” Frank Scafidi, a spokesman for the NICB, said in a
phone interview. Parts for Hondas or Nissans “are much more
valuable because people that own those things tend to keep them
a long time.”  California  had the most stolen Prius models, with 1,062
thefts. Florida came in second, with 127, followed by New York,
with 111. The hybrid became the  best-selling  vehicle line this
year in California, which increased the number of cars available
for theft.  The recovery rate for a stolen Prius is 96.7 percent,
according to the NICB report.  “As more and more of them survive the marketplace and are
on the road, if the sales really start taking off more and more,
we may see those numbers come more in line with what we’re
finding with the rest of the vehicles,” Scafidi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Pak in New York at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut@bloomberg.net  