-- Prokhorov’s Renaissance Leads Goldman-Backed TCS
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-11-21T14:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/prokhorov-s-renaissance-leads-goldman-backed-tcs.html
Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s
acquisition of Renaissance Credit is extending the retail
lender’s borrowing advantage over Goldman Sachs Group Inc.-
backed Tinkoff Credit Systems as yields tumble to records before
a possible bond sale.  Prokhorov’s Onexim Group, which purchased almost 50 percent
of Renaissance Capital for $500 million four years ago, acquired
the remainder of the investment bank on Nov. 15 and boosted its
stake in Renaissance Credit to 89 percent. The yield on
Renaissance Credit’s dollar debt due in April 2013 sank 448
basis points this week to 4.15 percent, the lowest since being
sold in March 2010. That widened their discount to Tinkoff’s
2014 dollar debt to 498 basis points, the most on record.  “Renaissance Credit is growing fast and needs funds so it
would be timely to sell bonds,” Roman Luchkovsky, an analyst at
VTB Capital, said by phone Nov. 15. “The fourth quarter is
usually strong for consumer lenders ahead of the New Year
holidays when people buy presents and go traveling so they will
want to get funding.”  While Prokhorov has said politics is more important to him
than business, his takeover of the bank is helping lower
borrowing costs as Renaissance Credit seeks funds to finance
double-digit growth. The bank is weighing its first Eurobond in
two years in the first quarter next year, according to a person
familiar with the matter who declined to be identified because
the plans aren’t public.  Debt Sales  Elena Leshchinskaya, a spokeswoman for RenCredit, didn’t
answer calls after business hours. Andrey Belyak, a spokesman
for Prokhorov’s Onexim Group, declined to comment. Oleg
Anisimov, a Tinkoff spokesman based in Moscow, didn’t answer
calls to his office.  Specialist consumer lenders Renaissance Credit, Home Credit
& Finance and Tinkoff had loan growth of 50 to 100 percent in
2011, and are enjoying a similar pace of expansion this year,
according to a RenCap report. Tinkoff, part-owned by Goldman
Sachs, said in September that it plans 14 billion rubles of
domestic debt, while Home Credit & Finance sold Eurobonds this
quarter along with billionaire Roustam Tariko’s ZAO Russian
Standard Bank.  Loan Growth  Renaissance Credit’s loan portfolio grew by 45 percent this
year and the lender will probably boost earnings to $110 million
from $80 million in 2011, Alexei Levchenko, chief executive
officer of Renaissance Credit, said on Nov. 19.  Prokhorov’s Onexim is likely to try to sell bonds on behalf
of both  Renaissance Capital  and Credit the company may need to
prove itself to investors, according Dmitry Poliakov, a senior
analyst at Sberbank Investment Research, who cited a
restructuring at RBC when Prokhorov acquired the media company
in 2009.  “Onexim has been unpredictable,” Poliakov said by phone
on Nov. 19. “I don’t think investors can rely just on the whims
of one particular individual.”  Onexim’s 50 percent ownership “did not have any impact on
operations or credit quality,” at Renaissance for three years,
according to Maxim Tishin, who helps manage $1 billion of assets
at UFG Asset Management in Moscow.  “I would like them to come forward and explain what their
plan is now that they have control,” Tishin said in e-mailed
comments. “If they need liquidity, Onexim can provide bridge
loan. It will be cheaper for them if Onexim comes up with a
credible strategy first, and then go to market.”  Ruble Gains  The ruble rose 0.4 percent to 31.1920 per dollar by 6:35
p.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide
to expectations of currency movements, showed the ruble at
31.6621 per dollar in three months.  A gain in  Russia ’s dollar bonds due in April 2020 cut the
yield three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.583
percent, the third day of declines. The yield on the
government’s domestic ruble bonds due in June 2017 dropped 12
basis points to a record 6.84 percent. The yield on Russia’s
international ruble bond due in March 2018 slid three basis
points today to 6.20 percent.  Russia is rated BBB by Fitch, the second-lowest investment-
grade ranking. The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian
government dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries fell two
basis points to 193, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.
The difference compares with 168 basis points for debt of
similarly rated  Mexico  and 150 basis points for  Brazil .  Cost Protection  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell one basis point to
148, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The default swaps
cost four basis points more than  Turkey , which is rated one
level lower at BBB- by Fitch. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Renaissance will now be more part of “the system,”
reducing risk and increasing revenue opportunities, former Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Jennings  said in an e-mail to staff on
the day Prokhorov’s takeover was announced. Onexim is
“dedicated” to developing RenCap, it said in a statement on
its website.  The ownership change is “moderately positive” because it
reduces risks resulting from the broader Renaissance Group’s
investments and leverage,  James Watson , a managing director at
 Fitch Ratings , said by phone Nov. 19.  It provides the “two entities with a single and relatively
strong controlling shareholder,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  