-- THQ Falls on Talks Seen Diluting Investors: L.A. Mover
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-11-21T16:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/thq-gains-breathing-room-from-lender-as-finance-chief-resigns.html
THQ Inc. (THQI) , the video-game maker
that’s in default on some debt covenants, fell as much as
7.2 percent after announcing talks that may lead to
“significant dilution” for stockholders.  THQ fell 4.8 percent to $1.19 at 11:26 a.m. in  New York 
after dropping as low as $1.16. The money-losing Agoura Hills,
California-based maker of games including “Saints Row” had
fallen 84 percent this year as of yesterday.  THQ said yesterday in a  filing  it entered into exclusive
talks with an unnamed financial sponsor that could lead to
“significant and material dilution to shareholders.” The
company also said Chief Financial Officer Paul J. Pucino
resigned. He may provide transition services through Dec. 3.  The company said on Nov. 13 that it was working with Wells
Fargo Capital Finance LLC  to resolve a technical default on its
$50 million credit facility. The company said yesterday it
reached a forbearance accord extending to Jan. 15 that will
provide more credit.  The video-game publisher announced on Nov. 5 that it hired
the investment bank Centerview Partners LLC to evaluate its
options after delays in three titles strained its finances.  The three titles, “ South Park : The Stick of Truth,”
“Company of Heroes 2” and “Metro: Last Light,” need more
work and will miss their March release dates, President Jason
Rubin said on Nov. 5. The delays “will likely create a need for
additional capital,” the company said.  Pucino was chief financial officer for almost four years,
THQ said. The company has retained  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN)  to assist
the finance and accounting team while it evaluates alternatives
for the position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  