-- Qinetiq Sales Fall on U.S. Defense Slowdown, U.K. Uncertainty
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-21T09:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/qinetiq-sales-fall-on-u-s-defense-slowdown-u-k-uncertainty.html
Qinetiq Group Plc (QQ/) , the tester of
aircraft for the U.K. military, said first-half sales fell 7.3
percent even as it increased operating margin on restructuring
measures put in place in the past two years.  Sales declined to 685.5 million pounds ($1.09 billion) in
the six months ended Sept. 30 from 739.6 million pounds a year
earlier, the London-based company said today in a statement. A
spree of contracts typically awarded by the Pentagon in
September did not take place this year, Chief Executive Officer
Leo Quinn said in an interview.  Qinetiq and other defense contractors are contending with
uncertainty about U.S. defense plans that have slowed activity
at the Pentagon at the same time that military spending in the
U.K. is pared. Qinetiq has undergone rounds of cost cutting in
both countries to counteract the budgetary restraint.  “Visibility remains much lower than usual, particularly in
the U.S.,” Quinn said, while predicting full-year performance
will be in line with expectations. Strong competition is causing
“aggressive bids” and protests on contract awards that are
slowing business, the company said.  Qinetiq declined 0.6 percent to 194.5 pence at 8:50 a.m. in
 London , valuing the business at 1.28 billion pounds. The company
has risen 46 percent this year.  The slowdown in sales was partly offset by earlier booking
of contracts for Qinetiq’s Q-Net, a netting system to protect
military vehicles against the threat of rocket-propelled
grenades, the company said. Revenue declined for the fourth
consecutive six-month period.  Cash Positive  Qinetiq’s underlying operating margin rose to 13.9 percent
from 11.1 percent, led by gains in the U.K. division.  There is uncertainty in the U.K. over the outcome of a
government review into how it prices single-source contracts and
the establishment of a government-owned, contractor-operated
system for the Defence Equipment & Support procurement agency,
Qinetiq said. While the company has ruled out a lone bid to run
the system, a partnership agreement could be considered, Quinn
said.  Qinetiq reported net cash of 21.5 million pounds after the
completion of a three-year debt reduction plan, which included
the suspension of dividend payments. The positive cash balance
allows the company to consider investments, Quinn said, with a
focus on training, simulation and OptaSense fiber-optic
activities. Small bolt-on acquisitions are also possible, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  