-- Rand Drops to Three-Year Low on Greece Woes, Rising Inflation
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-11-21T16:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/rand-drops-to-three-year-low-on-greece-woes-rising-inflation.html
The rand weakened, trading above 9
per dollar for the first time in three years after debt-cutting
efforts for  Greece  stumbled, damping demand for risky assets,
and as  South Africa  inflation unexpectedly quickened.  The currency retreated as much as 1.9 percent to 9.0092 per
dollar, the weakest since April 2009, and traded 1.6 percent
down at 8.9790 as of 6:20 p.m. in Johannesburg, the worst
performance among major and emerging-market currencies monitored
by Bloomberg. Yields on 13.5 percent bonds due September 2015
climbed five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.46
percent.  European finance ministers failed to scrape together enough
funds to help alleviate Greece’s debt burden as talks broke up
in Brussels today. The country’s fiscal woes are rekindling
doubts about the future of the euro, which buys a fifth of South
Africa’s exports, at a time when slowing exports are putting
pressure on South Africa’s balance of payments and growth. The
nation recorded its biggest quarterly trade deficit in four
years in September after violent strikes at mines cut output.  “There are fundamental reasons why the rand is under a bit
of pressure,”  Jim Bryson , head of foreign-exchange trading at
Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said by phone. “Uncertainty
crept into the rand after the strikes, and it just hasn’t
recovered.”  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said yesterday
that an agreement on reducing budget deficits could remove an
impediment to growth, while failure to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff would pose a threat to the recovery.  ‘Risk-Off’  “A combination of fears over the fiscal cliff and failure
to reach an agreement on Greece have switched the market tone to
risk-off,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.  Inflation accelerated to 5.6 percent in October from 5.5
percent a month earlier, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa
said on its website today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 23 economists was 5.4 percent. The central bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee, which aims to keep inflation between
3 percent and 6 percent, meets tomorrow to review borrowing
costs.  “The  Reserve Bank  will leave  interest rates  unchanged,”
Annabel Bishop, a Johannesburg-based economist at Investec Ltd.,
said in e-mailed comments. “Inflation is likely to continue to
rise this year”, exceeding the target range “for a significant
period in 2013,” she said.  South Africa’s Reserve Bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
repo rate by 50 basis points to 5 percent in July, citing
slowing growth. The MPC will leave the rate unchanged tomorrow,
according to all 23 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Two-year  interest-rate swaps , used to lock in borrowing
costs, climbed eight basis points to 5.09 percent after the
inflation data was announced, indicating that investors are
pricing in a chance of a rate increase over the next two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  