-- Rand Extending Drop to Three-Year Low to Societe Generale
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-11-22T07:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/rand-extending-decline-to-societe-generale-on-inflation.html
The rand is set to extend its slump
from the weakest level since 2009 as quickening inflation
exacerbates challenges for South Africa’s economy, already
reeling after mining strikes, according to Societe Generale SA.  The rand retreated as much as 1.9 percent to 9.0092 a
dollar yesterday, weakening past 9 for the first time in three
years and making it the worst performer among emerging-market
and major currencies monitored by Bloomberg. The currency
slipped after debt-cutting efforts for  Greece  stumbled, damping
demand for risky assets, and as South African  inflation 
quickened more than estimated in October.  The nation’s bonds have returned 0.5 percent in rand terms
since Oct. 1, when Citigroup Inc. included them in its World
Government Bond Index. That’s less than the total return on all
government debt in  Europe  and New Zealand, according to indexes
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg. Policy makers are trying to ward off
inflation threats while supporting an economy that’s set to
expand at its slowest pace since a 2009 recession.  “The central bank wants a weaker rand and they’ve
delivered it,” Guillaume Salomon, an emerging-markets fixed
income strategist at Society Generale in  London , said by phone
yesterday. “Be careful what you wish for. Once the weakness
started, it’s hard to control when it stops. I have a strong
feeling that we are going to see higher dollar-to-rand levels
going forward, maybe 9.20 to 9.30,”  he said.  South Africa’s currency last traded at or above 9.30 a
dollar on April 2, 2009. While the Reserve Bank doesn’t target a
specific level for the rand, a weaker currency may improve the
competitiveness of the nation’s exports, Governor Gill Marcus
said Oct. 10.  Surprise Cut  In July, the bank surprised economists by reducing the
 benchmark interest rate  for the first time in 20 months. The
growth outlook has deteriorated since then as the worst labor
unrest in almost two decades slashed mining exports while fuel
prices and the weaker rand threaten to push inflation outside of
the bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target band.  “They want a slightly weaker currency to help growth,”
Salomon said. “A lot of people who bought South African bonds
after Citigroup included them into the index will find the
position is not performing brilliantly. The discontent may hit
the rand further.”  The currency weakened less than 0.1 percent to 8.9527 per
dollar at 9:53 a.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on government’s 6.75
percent bonds due March rose one basis point to 6.66 percent.  Potential Gains  The currency may strengthen against the dollar today as the
decline yesterday was “overdone,” researchers at Johannesburg-
based Rand Merchant Bank said in an e-mailed note to clients.
“The positive global backdrop provides scope for moves back to
8.90,” it said.  A Chinese manufacturing index signaled the first expansion
in 13 months, while a U.S. report showed fewer people filed
applications for unemployment benefits. Leaders of the 27 EU
nations gather today for negotiations in Brussels. Israel and
Hamas agreed to a cease-fire after a week-long conflict. The
rand will probably be the best performing of 16 major currencies
in 2013, gaining 8.3 percent to 8.27 a dollar, according to the
median estimate of 30 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Inflation accelerated to 5.6 percent in October from 5.5
percent a month earlier, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa
said on its website yesterday. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 23 economists was 5.4 percent. The central
bank’s Monetary Policy Committee meets today to review borrowing
costs.  On Hold  “The Reserve Bank will leave interest rates unchanged,”
Annabel Bishop, a Johannesburg-based economist at Investec Ltd.,
said in e-mailed comments. “Inflation is likely to continue to
rise this year,” exceeding the target range “for a significant
period in 2013,” she said.  The MPC will retain the key rate at 5 percent, the lowest
level in more than 30 years, according to all 23 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Two-year  interest-rate swaps , used to lock in borrowing
costs, climbed six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
5.07 percent after the inflation data was released, signaling
that investors are pricing in a chance of an increase in
borrowing costs over the next two years.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar dropped six basis points yesterday to 13.8 percent,
indicating that options traders expect smaller swings in the
currency in the coming months. The rand’s volatility remains the
highest out of emerging-market and major currencies monitored by
Bloomberg.  The currency’s underperformance against emerging-market
peers “tells us that the local unit remains exceptionally
vulnerable,” researchers at Tradition Analytics said in a note.
“It only goes to reaffirm the argument for anticipating further
rand weakness in the weeks and months ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  