-- Treasuries Fluctuate After EU Fails to Agree on Greece
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-11-21T12:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/treasuries-stay-lower-before-consumer-confidence-report.html
Treasuries fluctuated after European
finance ministers failed to agree on a Greek debt-reduction
package.  U.S. government securities due in 10 years and longer have
returned 2.2 percent in the past month, the most among
securities in 144 indexes tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Euro-area finance
ministers plan another meeting next week after more than 11
hours of inconclusive talks. Volatility on Treasuries fell to
the lowest level since 2007.  “We’ve got a bit of support from this stalemate, which has
put the focus back on the risk around what’s happening in the
euro zone and Treasuries have at least stopped falling,” said
 John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  London . “The market is going to err on the
side of safety first until we get a proper resolution and a
feeling we are on more stable ground.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  was little changed at 1.66
percent at 7:38 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 1.625 percent note maturing in November 2022
was at 99 20/32.  European finance ministers meeting in Brussels failed to
agree on how to steer an extra 32.6 billion euros ($41.7
billion) to  Greece  through 2016 while finding a way to contain
the resulting increase in the nation’s debt. A further meeting
has been arranged for Nov. 26.  ‘Financing Gap’  “We have a series of options on the table on how to close
the financing gap,” German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble
told reporters in the Belgian capital. “We discussed the issue
very intensively, but since the questions are so complicated we
didn’t come to a final agreement.”  U.S. government securities fell yesterday as Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said an agreement to reduce
long-term U.S. deficits may remove an impediment to economic
growth and crimp haven demand.  “Yields are going to go up by the end of this year,” said
Kim Youngsung, head of fixed income in  Seoul  at Samsung Asset
Management Co., South Korea’s largest private bond investor with
the equivalent of $104.4 billion in assets. “The U.S. economy
is recovering with a moderate growth rate. I’m confident
President Obama will solve the fiscal-cliff problem.”  Fiscal Cliff  The fiscal cliff refers to $607 billion of tax increases
and spending cuts that will automatically come into force at the
beginning of 2013 unless lawmakers act. President  Barack Obama 
wants to impose higher taxes on the wealthy and reduce spending
while Republican lawmakers oppose raising taxes.  Treasury 10-year yields may rise as high as 1.90 percent by
Dec. 31, a level that may lead Samsung Asset to buy, Kim said.  A Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies with
the most recent projections given the heaviest weightings
projects the rate will rise to 1.74 percent at year-end.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  consumer
sentiment  index climbed to 84.5 in November from 82.6 in
October, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before the report at 9:55 a.m. New York time.  The figure will be the final reading for November. The
group issued a preliminary number of 84.9 earlier this month.
The index hasn’t been higher than 84 since July 2007. Separate
reports today will show growth in an index of leading economic
indicators slowed and initial claims for jobless insurance
declined, based on the Bloomberg surveys.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommended a full market  close  tomorrow for the Thanksgiving
holiday and an early close at 2 p.m. New York time on Nov. 23.  Volatility Declines  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures
price swings in Treasuries based on options, fell to 53.7
yesterday, the least since May 2007.  The U.S. is scheduled to sell $13 billion of 10-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities today. It also plans to
announce the sizes of two-, five- and seven-year notes being
auctioned next week.  Ten-year TIPS  yielded  negative 0.78 percent. The rate slid
to a record negative 0.96 percent last month, with investors so
concerned about inflation that they are willing to accept yields
below zero to buy debt that protects against price gains.  The previous 10-year TIPS sale in September drew  bids  for
2.36 times the amount of debt offered, the lowest since 2009.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of two-year debt on Nov. 27,
the same amount of five-year notes the following day and $29
billion of seven-year securities on Nov. 29, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory company based in Jersey
City, New Jersey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  