-- Reverse Convertible Sales Fall 57% on Volatility, Regulation
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-11-21T19:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/reverse-convertible-sales-fall-57-on-volatility-regulation.html
U.S. investors bought 57 percent
less reverse convertibles this year as lower volatility dulled
the securities’ appeal by reducing potential returns.  Banks in the U.S. issued $2.14 billion of the securities,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from notes registered
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
led the decline, selling $62.4 million of the investments, 93
percent less than during the same period in 2011.  Low volatility is making returns of reverse convertibles
less attractive for investors, said John Farrall, senior vice
president and director of derivatives strategy at PNC Wealth
Management in  Cleveland , in a telephone interview. The options
embedded in the securities, a kind of structured note that pays
a high coupon though converts into stock when its value
plummets, become cheaper when price swings are smaller.  “How many companies do you really want to take the
downside risk of?” Farrall said. “It seems like earnings were
still good, but maybe past peak.”  The  VIX (VIX) , as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, fell to a five-year low of 13.45 on Aug. 17. It
has since climbed to 15.08 yesterday.  Sales of reverse convertibles also declined after the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority advised investors in
July last year to be wary of advertising suggesting the products
are “safe and suitable for investors seeking high yields.”
After Finra’s statement, average monthly issuance of the
securities has plunged to $233.8 million, less than half of the
$577.8 million for the first seven months of 2011.  Citigroup Sales  Demand for Citigroup’s reverse convertibles dropped in the
second half of 2012 because of the market environment of low
 interest rates  and low volatility, Barbara Mullaney, managing
director and head in the Americas for Citigroup’s private
investors product group, said in an e-mail.  The bank’s sales of all reverse convertibles, including
those not registered with the SEC, fell 85 percent for the year
ending October, said Carmen Binder, head of marketing in the
Americas for Citigroup’s cross asset group.  While total U.S. issuance for the securities declined,
investors bought $225.9 million of reverse convertibles tied to
the shares of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 77 percent more than during the same
period last year, Bloomberg data show.  “I think the main driver is that the stock has strong
brand appeal and investors are looking for enhanced yields,”
said Glenn Lotenberg, a managing director at Incapital LLC in
 Boca Raton ,  Florida , who’s responsible for U.S. structured note
distribution.  Largest Note  HSBC Holdings Plc sold $35.3 million of one-year notes
linked to Apple, the year’s largest reverse convertible
offering. The notes, issued March 14, yield 7 percent a year,
with principal at risk if shares fall below 92.4 percent of
their initial value, according to a  prospectus  filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  