-- Rice in Japan Climbs to Highest in 6 Years, Boosting Imports
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-11-22T06:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/rice-in-japan-climbs-to-highest-in-six-years-boosting-imports.html
Rice in  Japan  rallied to a six-year
high amid the best crop since 2008, boosting demand for cheaper
overseas supply and raising questions about a government policy
that protects producers.  The average price of domestic food-rice sold by shippers to
wholesalers jumped 10 percent from a year ago to the highest
level since 2006, said Takashi Amou, director of the agriculture
ministry’s policy planning division.  Rice in  Chicago  has climbed 3.6 percent in the past year.
Demand from Japan’s  food industry  for foreign grain reached
88,840 metric tons in an import tender this month, more than
tripling from the state-set ceiling of 25,000 tons, as retailers
sought cheaper alternatives. The ministry limits the volume of
food-rice imports to protect farmers from foreign competition.
Higher rice prices erode earnings of restaurant-chain operators
such as  Yoshinoya Holdings Co. (9861)  and  Matsuya Co. (8237)   “The current policy offers benefits to producers at the
expense of consumers,” said  Nobuyuki Chino , the president of
Continental Rice Corp. in Tokyo. “It won’t be sustainable as
rising prices will weaken demand for domestic rice further.”  Prices rose as the nation’s largest farmers group paid more
to collect rice from growers, who aren’t in a rush to sell under
the government’s income-support program, said Ryo Kimura, the
chairman of Japan Rice Millers and Distributors Cooperative.  Bread & Meat  Demand for local rice is forecast to drop 1.5 percent to
7.98 million tons in the year to June 30, the lowest level in at
least 17 years, according to the ministry. High prices curbed
demand from the food industry, while consumers prefer to eat
more bread and meat, said Chino, who has trade grains for more
than three decades.  “The rising cost of rice was the largest reason” that
profit declined in the first half, said Yuriko Handa, a
spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Yoshinoya, which reported a 29
percent drop in operating profit in the six months ended Aug. 31.
“The import volume is not large enough to fulfill our demand.”  The ministry, which has maintained the ceiling on food-rice
imports at 100,000 tons a year for the past 11 years, has no
plan to expand the volume, Amou said in an interview in  Tokyo .  Food-rice prices in Japan, which jumped 17 percent in the
year ended Aug. 31, extended gains this marketing year as
National Federation of Agricultural Co-operative Associations
increased payments to individual growers by 10 percent to 20
percent, said Kimura at the rice millers organization.  Zen-Noh  The agriculture group, known as  Zen-Noh , plans to collect
12 percent more rice to 3 million tons this year, spokesman
Yoichi Nobuta said, declining to confirm the price increase.  The price averaged 16,650 yen ($203) a bag in September,
rising from 15,196 yen a year ago, according to the ministry,
which compiles data every month. One bag contains 60 kilograms.  Farmers are reluctant to sell rice at low prices as their
income is supplemented by the government program that provides
15,000 yen per 10 ares of paddies to each grower, Kimura said in
an interview in Tokyo. One “are” equals 100 square meters.
They also increase rice sales to consumers through internet to
maximize profits, reducing shipments to Zen-Noh, he said.  The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan, which won farmer
votes from the  Liberal Democratic Party  to gain power in 2009,
introduced the program of paying cash to those who produce rice
in accordance with the ministry’s policy of balancing output
with domestic demand for  price stability .  The program drew criticism from members of an advisory
panel to Japan’s Finance Minister this month, as they proposed
to review spending that didn’t increase efficiency in the
agricultural sector.  ‘Failed’ Program  “The program was originally aimed at supporting farmers in
case the government promotes free-trade agreements and lowers
tariffs on imports,” said Chino at Continental Rice. “The
ruling party has failed to pursue the objective because of
strong opposition from producer groups.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has put on the agenda for the
Dec. 16 election Japan’s participation in the negotiations over
the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact, raising the prospect
of eliminating barriers on farm imports. The chairman of the
Central Union of Agricultural Co-Operatives, Japan’s biggest
farm lobby, has said it will support candidates opposing the
participation in the trade-liberalization pact.  Japan agreed to give minimum-market access to rice-
exporting countries at the  Uruguay Round  of world trade talks in
1993, buying 770,000 tons a year. Most of them are used for
production of liquor, processed food and livestock feed. The U.S.
was the top supplier to Japan last year, followed by  Thailand .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  