-- Rochdale Trading Co-Heads Leave to Join Rival Brokerage
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-11-21T18:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/rochdale-trading-co-heads-leave-to-join-rival-brokerage.html
Rochdale Securities LLC, the
brokerage struggling to survive after an unapproved $1 billion
trade in  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. went sour, lost its two co-heads of trading
to a rival firm.  Kristen Talgo and Hal Tunick, who led equities
institutional trading from Rochdale’s  Stamford ,  Connecticut 
headquarters, have joined  Rafferty Capital Markets LLC ,
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority records show. The two
collectively owned 20 percent to 50 percent of Rochdale,
according to Finra records.  “If the senior people are bailing out, it’s obvious they
don’t have much confidence,” said Richard Lipstein, managing
director of New York-based recruiting firm Gilbert Tweed
International. Lipstein, who hasn’t been involved in the moves,
said the traders may have forfeited compensation by leaving.  Rochdale President Daniel J. Crowley is seeking a rescue
for the 37-year-old company, home of Dick Bove, the analyst
known for his coverage of the biggest U.S. banks. The brokerage
hasn’t been allowed to trade since telling regulators last month
that the Apple purchase had drained its cushion for losses, said
two people with knowledge of the situation. That left employees
unable to earn commissions, said the people, who asked for
anonymity because they weren’t authorized to comment publicly.  Bove Stays  Michael Rafferty, president of the firm bearing his name,
declined to say whether he had hired the Rochdale employees.
Talgo, Tunick and Crowley didn’t respond to e-mails and
telephone calls. Bove, 71, said in an interview today he told
Rochdale managers he’ll stay until the situation is resolved.  Top executives told potential investors that an employee
named  David Miller  bought about $1 billion in Apple stock around
the time of the Cupertino, California-based technology firm’s
October earnings release, the people said. Kenneth “Casey”
Murphy, Miller’s lawyer at Simon & Partners LLP in  New York ,
declined to comment on Miller’s role.  Crowley has sought about $5 million to rebuild capital or a
firm to merge with Rochdale, the people said. His task was
complicated by the defections and by possible investigations
from regulators into the firm’s struggle, the people said.  Other Rochdale employees who have joined Rafferty include
Jeffrey Wicker, Peter Doehla and Patrick Burke, Finra records
show. Burke, saying he spoke for all three, confirmed in an
interview they had moved to Rafferty and wouldn’t elaborate. Dow
Jones reported earlier today that Doehla and Burke had resigned.  Rafferty’s  website  lists its headquarters in  Garden City ,
New York. The Finra records, dated Nov. 19, show the two trading
co-heads joined Rafferty’s office in Rowayton, Connecticut.  Rochdale has provided trading and research for
institutional clients since 1975, according to the company’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  