-- SAC’s Cohen Pulled Deeper Into Trading Probe by Martoma
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-11-21T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/sac-s-cohen-pulled-deeper-into-trading-probe-by-martoma.html
For the sixth time, the U.S.
government has linked an employee of hedge-fund icon Steven A.
Cohen to insider trading while at the firm. For the first time,
prosecutors said Cohen had talked with a defendant about the
stocks in their complaint, pulling him deeper into one of the
biggest investigations of securities fraud in history.  Mathew Martoma, a former health-care portfolio manager at a
unit of Cohen’s $14 billion SAC Capital Advisors LP, was charged
yesterday with using inside information from a clinical trial of
an Alzheimer's drug to help the firm reap as much as $276 million
in profits and averted losses on shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth
LLC. Cohen bought the pharmaceutical stocks on recommendations
from Martoma and sold them after Martoma was told of
disappointing results from the companies’ tests, prosecutors
said.  “This is a significant step forward for the government in
their tracing of evidence that seems to be leading to SAC,”
Thomas Gorman, a partner in Dorsey & Whitney’s litigation and
enforcement practice group based in  Washington , said in an
interview. It also “raises the question of compliance
procedures and how well they are policed at SAC.”  Martoma’s lawyer, Charles Stillman, said he is confident
his client will be exonerated. Neither Cohen, 56, nor SAC
Capital have been charged with any wrongdoing.  “Mr. Cohen and SAC are confident that they have acted
appropriately and will continue to cooperate with the
government’s inquiry,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC
Capital, said in an e-mailed statement.  Cohen Deposition  Cohen is a renowned art collector who is worth $9.5
billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . One of
the most successful hedge-fund managers, with average annual
returns of 30 percent since he started in 1992, he has
repeatedly landed in the cross hairs of a U.S. government
crackdown on insider trading that burst into public view three
years ago with the arrest of Raj Rajaratnam, founder of Galleon
Group LLC.  More than 80 people have been sued by regulators or charged
by prosecutors since 2008 for passing or getting inside tips
about pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other stocks.  Cohen was deposed earlier this year by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission about trades made close to news that
generated profits for his  Stamford , Connecticut-based fund,
people familiar with the matter said in June.  Doctor’s Role  The prosecutor’s complaint against Martoma, filed in
federal district court in New York, and a related civil case
filed by the SEC are the first to say Cohen discussed stocks
involved in insider-trading schemes. The documents don’t name
Cohen, instead referring to “the hedge-fund owner.” The SEC
identified Martoma as an employee of CR Intrinsic, which is an
affiliate of SAC Capital. Cohen is the founder and owner of SAC.  Neither prosecutors nor the SEC alleged that Cohen knew
Martoma’s information was obtained illegally.  Martoma, 38, worked at CR Intrinsic from 2006 to 2010, and
like other portfolio managers recommended investment ideas to
Cohen. He had been talking to Sidney Gilman, a doctor involved
in the trials of the experimental Alzheimer's drug, since 2007.
Based on Gilman’s inside information on the trials, SAC Capital
owned $328 million of shares of Elan and $373 million of Wyeth
as of June 30, 2008, according to the criminal complaint.  Cohen held some of these shares in a portfolio he
personally manages for the firm, even as other analysts at SAC
Capital said they thought the investment was too risky. Cohen
had confidence in Martoma’s views because he was “closest” to
the drug trial, according to the complaint, which cited a March
28, 2008, instant message from Cohen.  Phone Call  After Martoma got inside information in July 2008 that the
trial wasn’t going well, he messaged Cohen.  “Is there a good time to catch up with you this morning?
It’s important,” Martoma said in an e-mail to Cohen on a
Sunday, after he was briefed by Gilman on the negative trial
results of the drug, according to the complaint.  An hour later, Martoma had a 20-minute phone call with
Cohen. The complaint didn’t say what the two men discussed.  The next day, Cohen instructed a head trader at SAC Capital
to begin selling positions it owned in Elan and “to do so in a
way as to not alert anyone else, inside or outside of the hedge
fund,” according to the complaint.  Dark Pools  The trader used algorithms, which are programs that
disguise orders and keep them from being exploited by faster
traders, and dark pools, exchanges that hide the identity of the
buyers and sellers, to execute the trades.  SAC Capital unloaded its $700 million of shares in both
Elan and Wyeth and then bet the stocks would fall, making $76.2
million from short sales, according to the complaint.  Both stocks fell when the trial results were announced on
July 29. Elan’s stock slumped 42 percent the day after the
announcement, and Wyeth tumbled 12 percent.  According to the complaint, Martoma was forbidden by his
hedge fund’s policy to trade on the basis of inside information.
The expert-networking firm that arranged his meetings with
 Gilman  also told Martoma that Gilman couldn’t discuss the
experimental Alzheimer's treatment because he was involved in
the trial.  Gilman has entered into a non-prosecution agreement with
the U.S. government, according to his lawyer,  Marc Mukasey . He
is cooperating with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s office, the
lawyer said.  Legal Pressure  Gilman’s cooperation could increase the legal pressure on
Martoma to help the government. Investigators would need to get
Martoma to disclose what was said in his conversation with Cohen
if they wanted to charge the hedge-fund titan with insider
trading, according to Peter Henning, a professor at Wayne State
University Law School in  Detroit .  “If Martoma isn’t willing to say that he told Cohen his
recommendation was based on inside information, then the
government is stuck,” Henning said in a phone interview. Even
if Martoma did divulge that information, it’s a circumstantial
case. “It’s he said-he said,” Henning said.  Investors say that SAC Capital has told them it has
stringent measures to prevent traders from dealing in insider
information. Cohen’s staff includes about 30 legal and
compliance workers who, among other things, monitor instant
messages and e-mails, including those sent and received by
Cohen.  Harvey Pitt, former chairman of the SEC, and Stephen
Cutler, former head of the regulator’s enforcement unit, have
held workshops with SAC Capital employees about complying with
SEC rules.  Last year, U.S. criminal prosecutors said they were looking
at SAC Capital’s trading accounts, including one run by Cohen
that is made up of the best ideas from the firm’s portfolio
managers and analysts. Since the start of government’s probe,
six employees have been tied to insider trading while working at
SAC Capital.  Longueuil, Freeman  Portfolio manager Michael Steinberg, who has worked at the
hedge fund for 15 years, has been described by federal
prosecutors as an “unindicted co-conspirator” in the
securities-fraud case of Jon Horvath, a former SAC Capital
technology analyst that he supervised. Former SAC Capital
portfolio managers, Donald Longueuil and Noah Freeman, last year
pleaded guilty to securities and wire fraud for insider trading
while at SAC Capital. Longueuil is currently serving a 30-month
prison term, while Freeman has been cooperating with the
government’s investigation.  SAC Alumni  Former SAC Capital analyst Jonathan Hollander agreed in
April last year to settle SEC allegations that he traded on
inside information about a pending takeover of the Albertson’s
LLC grocery chain. The SEC alleged that Hollander tipped others
about the acquisition and that he and others earned $95,807 in
illegal profits.  Hollander, who was trading in his personal account, agreed
to pay more than $222,000, said his lawyer,  Aitan Goelman .  The government has charged or sued three former SAC Capital
employees in its investigation for activities that occurred
after they left the firm. They are Ricard Choo Beng Lee, a
former partner at San Jose, California-based Spherix Capital
LLC; Anthony Chiasson, co-founder of Level Global Investors LP;
and Chip Skowron,a former fund manager at FrontPoint Partners
LLC.  Chiasson is currently on trial. Lee pleaded guilty, and
Skowron is currently serving a five-year sentence for insider
trading.  Martoma was arrested at his home in Boca Raton, Florida, at
6:30 a.m. yesterday, said Peter Donald, a spokesman for the
Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York. He appeared before
U.S. Magistrate David Brannon this morning in federal court in
the Southern District of  Florida , according to a court clerk.  Martoma earned a $9.4 million bonus for 2008, mostly
attributable to his calls on Elan and Wyeth. On May 5, 2010, an
SAC Capital employee emailed a recommendation that Martoma be
fired after losing money in 2009 and into 2010, calling him a
“one trick pony with Elan.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-MAG-2985; and the
civil case is SEC v. CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-8466, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  