-- Samsung Bid for Apple’s HTC Settlement Reviewed by Judge
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-11-21T21:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/samsung-bid-for-apple-s-htc-settlement-reviewed-by-judge-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s request to
force Apple Inc. to reveal the details of its settlement with
 HTC Corp. (2498) , including the financial terms, was heard by a judge
in federal court in San Jose,  California .  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal reviewed Samsung’s
argument that details of the settlement are “highly relevant”
to Apple’s request for an order blocking sales of Samsung
smartphones. Grewal said he won’t rule today.  Apple said in a court filing that HTC is willing to provide
a copy of the accord with the financial terms redacted, which
Samsung opposes.  “The un-redacted version should be produced because the
financial terms” of the agreement are relevant to Apple’s
request for an injunction, Samsung lawyer Daryl Crone told
Grewal by phone in court today. “If the amount of the license
were relatively small” for the patents at issue in the  San Jose 
case it might demonstrate that “those particular features are
insignificant to driving consumer demand.”  Licensing Deal  Apple, which had accused HTC of copying features that made
its iPhone unique, on Nov. 10 settled all global lawsuits with
HTC and agreed to a 10-year licensing deal. Samsung claims the
settlement details are important because the accord probably
covers some of the patents at issue in the lawsuit between the
two mobile phone giants.  Apple is seeking to block sales of Samsung smartphones that
it alleges are covered by Apple patents, claiming it doesn’t
license the patents to competitors and it can’t be compensated
for alleged infringement through money damages, Samsung said in
court filings.  “To the contrary, Apple’s apparent willingness to license
these patents supports Samsung’s argument that Apple cannot show
irreparable harm because monetary damages are adequate,”
lawyers for Samsung wrote in court filings.  Apple won a $1.05 billion patent-infringement verdict in
August in a  jury trial  against Samsung in San Jose. U.S.
District Judge Lucy H. Koh scheduled a Dec. 6 hearing for
Apple’s bid for a permanent U.S. sales ban on eight Samsung
smartphone models and the Tab 10.1 tablet computer. She will
also consider Samsung’s bid to get the verdict thrown out based
on claims of juror misconduct.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  