-- HSBC China Ambitions Seen as Untarnished by Ping An Sale
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-22T02:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/hsbc-s-ambitions-in-china-seen-as-untarnished-by-selloff.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  can reap a
windfall from its $9.2 billion stake in a Chinese insurer
without eroding the bank’s commitment to its most profitable
emerging market, analysts at CCB International Securities Ltd.
and Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. said.  Europe ’s largest lender by market value said Nov. 19 it’s
in talks to offload its holding in  Ping An Insurance (Group)
Co. (2318) , without identifying potential buyers.  Thailand ’s Charoen
Pokphand Group is offering to buy the stake for HK$74 billion
($9.6 billion), the Shanghai Securities News said on Nov. 20,
citing a person it didn’t identify.  The sale -- HSBC’s largest since at least 1995 -- would
leave it with more than $10 billion of stakes in Chinese banks
even as Chief Executive Officer Stuart Gulliver sells insurance
operations across Asia. The lender, founded in Hong Kong and
 Shanghai  in 1865, aims to boost its outlets in  China  sixfold to
800 when regulators ease rules, consolidating its grip as the
 largest foreign bank  in the country.  “HSBC isn’t taking its eye off of China,” said Sandy Mehta, the Hong Kong-based chief executive officer of Value
Investment Principals Ltd. “They are walking a tight rope,
wanting to book profits on Ping An while at the same time not
wanting to appear to be less committed to China.”  The British lender  valued its holding  in Shenzhen-based
Ping An at $6.37 billion at the end of December, according to
its annual report, compared with the $1.6 billion it has spent
since 2002 building up the stake. A disposal would result in
about $3 billion in pretax gains for London-based HSBC, CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets analysts estimated this week.  Shares Gain  Shares of HSBC  have climbed 26 percent this year in London
trading, and 30 percent in Hong Kong, as Gulliver pared costs
and sold assets to revive profit and focus on emerging economies
in which the bank has a greater market share.  Pretax profit from China increased 14 percent in the first
half to $2.02 billion, accounting for 16 percent of HSBC’s
total, according to an interim report. Losses in the U.K.
weighed down the group’s  net income  in the period, which fell
8.3 percent to $8.44 billion.  HSBC booked a pretax profit of $447 million from its
investment in Ping An in the first half, accounting for 3.5
percent of the group’s total.  ‘Logical Step’  “The issue is not China, which is clearly a market for the
future of HSBC, the issue is insurance,” said Jim Antos, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities. “The bank has sold a
number of general insurance businesses globally in the past
year, so divesting Ping An shares is a logical step.”  In March, Paris-based Axa SA agreed to pay about $494
million to acquire HSBC’s general insurance business in Hong
Kong,  Singapore  and  Mexico . Sydney-based QBE Insurance Group
Ltd. will pay about $420 million for operations in  Argentina  and
a unit of Hang Seng Bank Ltd., a subsidiary of HSBC.  Meanwhile, the bank, which has so far invested more than $7
billion in China since 2001, has held on to stakes acquired in
Chinese financial firms even as rivals including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Citigroup Inc. and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  pared
holdings to replenish capital.  HSBC now owns 19 percent of  Bank of Communication Co. , the
nation’s fifth-largest lender, and 8 percent of closely held
Bank of Shanghai Co. Its Hong Kong unit, Hang Seng Bank, holds a
13 percent stake in China’s Industrial Bank Co.  Fivefold Gain  Its commitment to China has already paid off. The holding
in Shanghai-based Bank of Communications, known as BoCom, now
has a market value of about $9.9 billion -- a more than fivefold
increase from its initial investment in 2004 -- and was valued
on HSBC’s books at $8.51 billion as of the end of 2011. Bank of
Shanghai is planning an initial public offering in Hong Kong.  HSBC’s strategy in China won’t change if the bank sells the
stake,  Gareth Hewett , a Hong Kong-based spokesman, said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  “We are continuing to invest in and expand our businesses
and operations in China with new branch openings and a new back
office center in  Guangzhou ,” he said. “We continue to work
with our long-term strategic partner BoCom, helping with their
clients ‘going-out’ and our clients investing in China.”  The lender is unlikely to sell its holdings in  Industrial
Bank (601166)  or BoCom, said Adam Chan, an analyst at CCB International
in Hong Kong who rates HSBC as neutral, said by telephone.  China Exposure  “HSBC’s core competence isn’t insurance,” said Chan. It
also needs to hold on to the remaining stakes because it needs
“to provide investors with exposure to China, and at this point
of time, the most effective way is through these investments.”  HSBC and other overseas banks have struggled to expand
their independent operations in China, while local lenders’
earnings soared. The combined profit at China’s four largest
banks, led by Beijing-based  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , rose 15 percent to 189 billion  yuan  ($30 billion) in
the third quarter, almost triple the amount at the top four U.S.
banks.  Foreign banks hold less than 2 percent of banking assets in
China, the lowest share among  emerging markets , according to a
January report from the International Monetary Fund. That means
HSBC and rivals such as New York-based  Citigroup (C)  are dependent
on their minority stakes in their Chinese counterparts for a
large part of their profits from the nation.  Goldman Sachs, Bank of America,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Citigroup and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc were among the global financial
institutions that began buying into Chinese lenders more than a
decade ago. They have since collectively sold about $24 billion
in holdings in the past three years to replenish capital and
meet global regulatory requirements.  The sale of the stake in Ping An, China’s second-largest
insurer, would be “a step that fits the bank’s overall
strategy, which is to focus on businesses in markets where HSBC
can achieve meaningful scale and meaningful profitability,”
Mizuho’s Antos said.  Crimped Profits  China may become the world’s third-largest insurance market
by 2020, the China Center for Insurance and Social Security
Research said in a report in September.  Still, losses on Ping An’s equity holdings helped to crimp
the rise in third-quarter profit to 21 percent. Bigger
competitor China Life Insurance Co. reported its first quarterly
loss since 2008 on lower returns as China’s benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 8 percent this year.  HSBC is rising for a fourth consecutive day in Hong Kong
following its Nov. 19 statement on Ping An, in which the bank
said it “is in discussions which may or may not lead to the
sale of the shares.” The shares gained 0.3 percent as of 10:29
a.m. to HK$76.25.  The lender approached China Investment Corp., which manages
some of the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves, about purchasing
its shares in Ping An, the Wall Street Journal said yesterday.  ‘Greater Control’  “China remains core to the group’s strategy and an
important engine for earnings growth,” Fitch Ratings analysts
Sabine Bauer and Cynthia Chan wrote in a note yesterday. “The
group would have greater control over the risks it undertakes
there if it grows organically rather than increases its exposure
through minority stakes.”  Disposing the Ping An holding would also help the bank to
bolster its risk buffers before the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision’s latest round of capital rules take effect.  “Selling now is intelligent capital planning,” Mizuho’s
Antos said. “They may invest the proceeds in highly liquid, but
low yield, government bonds to bolster their Basel III liquidity
ratio.”  The profit from the sale of the Ping An stake together with
the reduction in capital required under the Basel III rules
would boost HSBC’s core Tier 1 ratio by 50 basis points, Josh Klaczek and Joy Wu, analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co., estimated
in a research note on Nov. 19. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
points.  The world’s biggest banks will probably continue paring
investments in China as well as other parts of the world to
deleverage balance sheets, Value Investment’s Mehta said.  “It’s more of a reaction to the evolving regulatory
situation globally, and not necessarily a reflection of their
view on China,” he said. HSBC, for one, remains “very
committed and bullish about China,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  