-- Schaeuble Backs Greek Bond Buyback Amid Euro Bloc Differences
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-11-21T15:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/schaeuble-backs-greek-bond-buyback-amid-euro-bloc-differences.html
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said Germany favors allowing Greece to buy back as much as 10
billion euros ($12.8 billion) of its bonds after euro finance
ministers early today failed to agree a deal on Greek debt.  While making “good progress” in the talks in Brussels,
euro area leaders differed over how to plug a 14 billion-euro
gap in a Greek debt-reduction package, Schaeuble told reporters
in Berlin. Some states favor cutting interest on loans from
Greece’s first aid package while Germany prefers a buyback of
Greek bonds, Schaeuble said.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government views a reduction in
interest paid by Greece as “not suitable,” he said. Germany
wants to boost the temporary euro rescue fund, called the
European Financial Stability Facility, by about 10 billion euros
for a short period to allow it to buy back its bonds, Schaeuble
said.  While ministers in yesterday’s talks agreed on the buyback
option, they failed to agree on whether the proposal should
fully cover Greece’s needs, Schaeuble said.  Germany  could not
agree with its partners over the scope of a reduction on
interest on loans made to Greece, he said. Schaeuble said he
also rejected a proposal to tap 4.2 billion euros in profit from
the European Central Bank’s Securities Markets Program to help
Greece, citing Bundesbank misgivings.  Schaeuble said he’s confident that a “satisfactory”
agreement will be reached on Greece at a third meeting of
finance ministers in as many weeks on Nov. 26.  Greece currently pays interest on its loans equal to 150
basis points over the Euribor rate, said Schaeuble. Some finance
ministers wanted to cut the interest “to almost nothing,” he
said.  Germany’s KfW development bank refinances the loans it
makes to  Greece  at 60 basis points above Euribor, meaning
Germany cannot agree to a larger reduction without cost to the
taxpayer, said Schaeuble.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  