-- Shanduka May Boost Power Projects to More Than 200 Megawatts
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-11-22T08:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/shanduka-may-boost-power-projects-to-more-than-200-megawatts.html
Shanduka Group Ltd., the  investment
company  led by  Cyril Ramaphosa , may bid to build more renewable-
energy plants in South Africa after completing plans for a 1.5
billion-rand ($167 million) wind-power project.  “We reached financial close on Nov. 15,” Nandkishor
Moharir, managing director of energy and infrastructure at
Johannesburg-based Shanduka, said by phone yesterday.
“Construction should begin pretty soon.” The 74-megawatt plant
could start generating power from July 2014, he said.  South Africa is calling for bids to build wind, solar and
other renewable-energy plants as it seeks to reduce the portion
of electricity that coal-based operations generate. The
government will buy power from the plants built by  Tata Power
Co. (TPWR) ,  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  and other successful bidders.  Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender, provided
1.1 billion rand in debt financing to the Noblesfontein wind-
power plant near Victoria West in the Karoo region. Gestamp
Corp. owns 60 percent of the project while Shanduka owns 25
percent, it said in an e-mailed statement.  Shanduka may submit bids for two or three projects with a
combined capacity of about 140 megawatts in  South Africa ’s third
bidding round opening next year, Moharir said. It may also
announce projects elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa early next
year, he said, declining to give further details.  Investment Balance  “We’re a heavily resource-biased company, so we’re trying
to achieve a balance between our portfolios” by investing in
renewable-energy plants, he said. Shanduka has coal, steel,
platinum and diamonds investments in South Africa. It also owns
70 percent of McDonald’s Corp. franchises in the continent’s
biggest economy.  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and Group Five Ltd. will build the Karoo wind
plant while  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  will supply the turbines,
Moharir said.  The project is among 28 approved by the government after a
first round of bidding. They’ll add 1,416 megawatts and have a
combined cost of about 47 billion rand. Financial arrangements
for projects in the second bidding round should be concluded in
March and the third round will open on May 7, the  Department of
Energy  said on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  