-- Sharp Gets Customers for IGZO Display Panels, Executive Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-11-22T06:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/sharp-lands-customers-for-igzo-display-panels-executive-says.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , Japan’s largest maker
of liquid-crystal displays, has lined up customers for its most
advanced panels after saying earlier this year it was struggling
to find buyers.  Other electronics makers will probably begin selling mobile
products featuring the company’s IGZO displays starting in the
first three months of 2013, a senior Sharp executive said
yesterday at a briefing in Osaka, given on condition of
anonymity. The executive declined to name  customers  or say
whether the products are smartphones or tablets.  “A domestic company will probably offer products using
IGZO display panels from the first quarter of the calendar
year,” the executive said. “As for foreign brands, you will
probably see such products in the second quarter.”  Finding buyers for the IGZO panels is critical to Sharp as
the company tries to end losses at its display business. The
Osaka-based manufacturer on Nov. 1  forecast  a record net loss of
450 billion yen ($5.5 billion) for the year ending March 31 amid
falling prices and demand, a  strong yen  and competition from
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Sharp shares rose 4.3 percent to 171 yen at the 3 p.m.
close in  Tokyo , trimming their year-to-date decline to 75
percent. The stock is the worst performer among more than 1,600
companies in  the MSCI World Index  of developed nations.  ‘Imminent Risk’  A Sharp executive said in September the company was
struggling to find customers for the panels, which use a new
oxide semiconductor that consists of indium, gallium and zinc.
The displays offer higher resolution and use less power than
current LCD panels, according to Sharp.  The company began making computer panels using the
technology at its Kameyama No. 2 plant in central Japan in
March. It started making small IGZO displays for smartphones at
its plant in Tenri, near  Osaka , in October.  Sharp didn’t make any revenue selling IGZO displays made at
that Kameyama plant last quarter, Masahiro Ono, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., said in a report
Nov. 2. That’s down from 9 billion yen the previous quarter,
according to the report. The medium-sized IGZO operation will
generate 18 billion yen in sales in each of the following two
quarters, the report said.  “The low operation rate of the Kameyama No. 2 plant has
been an issue for the company,” said Hideki Yasuda, an analyst
at Ace Securities Co. in Tokyo. “It’s positive that demand for
Sharp’s IGZO panels is rising. It gives me the impression that
imminent risk may be fading away.”  Aquos Smartphone  Sharp will start offering the Aquos smartphone using 4.9-
inch IGZO displays and the Aquos Pad using a 7-inch IGZO panel
in  Japan  by year’s end, the company said Oct. 23. The company is
in talks with Dell Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co. to supply IGZO
displays for the makers of personal computers, the Yomiuri
newspaper said Oct. 20.  Sharp is continuing discussions with  Taiwan ’s Foxconn
Technology Group on possible cooperation to promote sales of
IGZO panels, the Sharp executive said. The two companies looked
into using the technology in business-use monitors and decided
against it, the executive said.  “The monitors don’t really require IGZO specifications,”
the executive said.  Sony, Panasonic  Sony Corp., Panasonic Corp. and Sharp have resorted to
closing factories, eliminating jobs and cutting costs to revive
profit as TV demand declines and after failing to come up with
hit products to challenge Samsung and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  There was
“material doubt” about Sharp’s ability to survive, the company
said in a financial statement Nov. 1.  In March, Sharp signed an agreement to sell a 9.9 percent
stake through new shares to Taipei-based Foxconn at 550 yen
apiece, for a total investment of 67 billion yen. The Osaka-
based company hasn’t been able to close the deal after an
earnings forecast revision in August caused its  shares  to
plunge, prompting a renegotiation.  Sharp assumes a deal can be reached, President Takashi Okuda said Nov. 1.  In July, Sharp sold a stake in an LCD factory in central
Japan to Foxconn’s billionaire founder Terry Gou, who will
jointly run the 10th-generation facility, the most advanced in
the industry.  Fitch Ratings  cited Sharp’s growing liquidity risks in
cutting the company’s  credit rating  Nov. 2 by six levels to B-,
a junk rating defined as “highly speculative.”  Sharp sought banks’ support to help refinance its
commercial papers after its credit rating was cut, and the
company secured 360 billion yen in loans in September.  The company will book a 25.3 billion yen one-time charge in
the quarter ending Dec. 31 to eliminate 2,960 jobs, Sharp said
Nov. 20. Its turnaround plan includes seeking voluntary
retirements, cutting salaries, selling assets and reducing
capital investments, Sharp said Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  