-- Sky Deutschland Shares Jump on Deal-Friendly Tax Rule
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-11-21T09:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/sky-deutschland-shares-jump-on-deal-friendly-tax-rule.html
Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD) , the German pay-
TV provider half-owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., rose as
much as 13 percent in Frankfurt trading after regulators paved
the way for a takeover with a favorable tax ruling.  Sky Deutschland  rose  27 cents, or 7.5 percent, to 3.86
euros at 10:33 a.m. local time, with volume reaching more than
double the three-month average. The shares earlier jumped 13
percent, the biggest intraday move since April.  German authorities approved an accounting method which
would allow Sky to preserve part of its 2.3 billion euros ($2.9
billion) in tax losses, reducing future obligations, in the
event that ownership changed. The move makes it more likely that
 News Corp. (NWSA)  will increase its stake to more than 50 percent or
make a bid for the entire company, Polo Tang, an analyst at UBS
AG, said today in a note to investors.  “We would expect NWS to move to increase its stake,” Tang
said. “Prior to this approval, SkyD would have lost all of its
tax assets had NWS increased its shareholding.”  Miranda Higham, a News Corp. spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Sky Deutschland, which has reported net losses since 2006,
also has been working to refinance some of its borrowings. The
Unterfoehring, Germany-based company had net debt of 549 million
euros at the end of September.  Chief Executive Officer Brian Sullivan is trying to
increase subscribers’ monthly bills and expand the company’s
programming to mobile devices and high-definition channels.
 Germany ’s government cut its 2013 growth forecast for the
country last month as southern  Europe ’s debt crisis spreads
throughout the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  