-- SNB’s Zurbruegg Says Franc Celing Is an Extreme Measure
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-11-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/snb-s-zurbruegg-says-franc-celing-is-an-extreme-measure.html
Swiss National Bank Governing Board
member Fritz Zurbruegg said the franc ceiling is an extreme
measure that carries “considerable” risks.  “The minimum exchange rate has met with the support of the
general public and the political domain,” Zurbruegg said in
Lucerne,  Switzerland , late yesterday. “However, it should be
regarded as an extreme measure. It is not a panacea for all the
problems facing the Swiss economy, and carries considerable
risks.”  The SNB introduced a ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro in
September 2011 after the franc rose to a record against the
European single currency, hurting exporters and increasing the
risk of a general drop in the price level.  While Zurbruegg didn’t specify what the dangers of the
currency cap might be, he referenced an April 27 speech by SNB
President Thomas Jordan, in which the central bank head
mentioned the potential of “very considerable expansion of
foreign currency reserves” associated with the franc ceiling.  Since the introduction of the minimum  exchange rate , the
SNB has piled up unprecedented currency holdings to defend the
ceiling. While reserves fell last month, they still amount to
almost 70 percent of Switzerland’s gross domestic product.  “The excessive appreciation of the Swiss franc is a
monetary problem, because it carries the risk of deflation,”
Zurbruegg said. He spoke at Lucerne University, where he
received an honorary doctorate on Nov. 8.  Swiss price stability “is not under threat for the next
few years,” Zurbruegg said, citing the SNB’s inflation
forecast. “As the crisis recedes, however, central banks will
face the challenge of returning monetary policy to normal in a
timely manner and reabsorbing liquidity.”  “The SNB’s mandate is to ensure  price stability  while
taking due account of economic developments,” he said. “We
will continue to take all action necessary to fulfill this
mandate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  