-- Spain's Linde Doesn’t Know Scale of Repossession Problem
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-11-21T13:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/spain-s-linde-doesn-t-know-scale-of-repossession-problem.html
Spain lacks data on evictions linked
to mortgage defaults, Bank of Spain Governor Luis Maria Linde
said, after the government announced emergency measures to
prevent people losing their homes.  “We don’t have good statistics on the judicial side, on
the judicial procedures that affect mortgages,” Linde told
reporters in  Madrid  today. “We don’t have good data on
evictions, we lack data on the scale of the problem.”  Spain’s government, responding to public outrage over
suicides linked to repossessions, passed a decree last week to
prevent low-income families losing their homes. The government
hasn’t quantified the impact on banks, which are still reeling
from losses caused by the collapse of the debt-fueled property
boom five years ago.  Linde said Spain can afford to take “humanitarian”
measures to prevent “dramatic” cases of people losing their
homes without endangering the banks. Still, any changes to the
mortgage law should be carried out with “great care,” he said.  Spanish home loans are usually full recourse, which means
homeowners remain on the hook for their debts even after a
foreclosed property is sold or confiscated by the lender for
less than the value of the mortgage. The Bank of Spain says the
incentives created by those rules have held down the mortgage
default rate.  The measures passed last week apply to families with income
of less than 1,597 euros ($2,045) per month that also meet other
conditions such as having at least three children or one child
under three, being a single parent with two children or being
unemployed and not receiving benefits.  Spain’s bad-loan ratio rose to 10.7 percent in September,
according to data from the Bank of Spain, which forecasts the
rate will continue to rise amid a shrinking economy and a record
26 percent unemployment. The default rate on residential
mortgages was 3.1 percent in June, central bank data show, and
about 9 percent of Spanish mortgages have already been
renegotiated, according to Sept. 28 stress tests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  