-- Spanish Exports Slow as Euro Area Returns to Recession
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-11-21T13:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/spanish-exports-slow-as-euro-area-returns-to-recession-1-.html
Spanish exports grew the least in
five months in September as the euro area relapsed into a
recession and the region’s fourth-largest economy continued to
contract.  Exports rose 0.5 percent from a year earlier, compared with
7.4 percent in August, the Economy Ministry in Madrid said in an
e-mailed statement today. The trade deficit narrowed 36 percent
to 3.08 billion euros ($3.94 billion).  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is  counting  on exports to make
up for shriveling domestic demand in an economy that shrank for
a fifth straight quarter between July and September. The
government expects economic output to keep contracting next year
after five rounds of austerity to tackle the  budget deficit .  Rajoy said today that measures to make it easier and
cheaper to fire workers are vital to “strengthen confidence,”
even if the decision was “controversial.” He said Renault SA
is increasing its investment in  Spain  as a result of government
efforts to increase competitiveness.  The labor-law overhaul is “the best proof of the
government’s commitment to improve flexibility and
competitiveness, and in particular the automobile industry,” he
said during a visit to a  Renault (RNO)  factory in Palencia, in the
northeast. Spain wouldn’t attract investment if its “car
factories weren’t among the most flexible and competitive in
Europe,” he said.  The government said on Sept. 27 it planned to implement
within six months a package of measures to further overhaul the
economy.  In 2014, Spain will have recovered “practically all” the
competitiveness it lost from 1998 to 2008 in terms of unit-labor
costs, Bank of Spain Governor Luis Maria Linde said today.  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  said last month it’ll close a 48-year-old Belgian
factory in the same year and shift part of production to its
Spanish site in Valencia as it seeks to cut costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  