-- Sponge Parks, Sand Dunes May Boost Resilience to Storms
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-11-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/sponge-parks-sand-dunes-may-boost-resilience-to-storms.html
A couple of years ago, I walked
along a flood-protection wall in the oceanfront New Jersey town
of Sea Bright and wondered how severe weather would affect it.
Now I know.  Photos show waves overtopping the wall and sweeping through
the streets of the town, very close to where  Hurricane Sandy 
made landfall on Oct. 29.  Ripping apart seaside communities is just one way that
storm took its toll. The variety and enormous geographic extent
of the destruction will require us to think hard about how to
protect communities against future disasters.  Beyond the coastline damage of Sandy, we must look at how
to protect rail and road tunnels from flooding and how to
strengthen the electrical infrastructure -- whether in flood-
prone underground vaults or the thousands of square miles of
overhead lines in suburbs. How will we fortify airports and
avoid evacuating low-lying hospitals?  We have to ask now, because decisions that are currently
being made will affect how well rebuilt neighborhoods and
infrastructure will withstand the next major storm.  Dodging Costs  Many cities and states have drawn up plans to increase
resilience to catastrophes, but there has been little impetus to
act on anything that’s costly or requires complex negotiations.  The obvious answer is to build higher sea walls along the
ocean coast or around Lower Manhattan. In  New York City  there’s
long been talk of a massive storm-surge barrier outside the
 Verrazano-Narrows Bridge . These are investments of at least
hundreds of billions of dollars.  I don’t think the U.S. is willing to spend that kind of
money.  Resilience thinking helps us choose solutions that protect
us while delivering other benefits that make large investments
worthwhile.  Rebuilding natural dunes is a “soft” path to coastal
restoration. The dunes repel waves and feed the beach with sand.
Many shorefront owners will demand higher seawalls, which is the
“hard” path, and it has drawbacks.  Engineered fortifications also destroy the beach ecology
and the amenity that draws people and creates jobs. Seawalls can
induce permanent loss of beach sand, requiring even higher
walls. For that matter, dune building isn’t foolproof; dunes
slowed Sandy’s surge but didn’t stop extensive flooding.  Land Devalued  In  New York , high walls (20 feet minimum) would obliterate
waterfront parks and promenades that have proven immensely
valuable. The walls would devalue billions of dollars of park
and neighboring investments.  Many cities are experimenting with rain gardens, storm-
water-retention wetlands, and a variety of other devices that
fill up with water during storms so that the drainage
infrastructure is not overwhelmed. Making landscapes resistant
to floods (note the lack of long-term damage to New York city
waterfront parks) is generally cheaper than building high walls.  I looked back on resilience work designed for a Museum of
Modern Art exhibition two years ago, called “Rising Currents.”
It now seems prophetic.  Among the proposals by Susannah Drake of landscape-
architecture firm  Dlandstudio  and Stephen Cassell of
 Architecture Research Office  was the “Sponge Slip,” which
would have replaced a  Lower Manhattan  parking lot with a sunken
park. The idea was to guide floodwaters into the park basin and
away from the subway tunnels and electrical infrastructure that
Sandy crippled.  What seemed a pipedream then seems a no-brainer today.  Other Tools  It may be too expensive to save some neighborhoods. Then
citizens must think about moving individual structures or
perhaps entire neighborhoods out of harm’s way.  Land-use tools, rarely considered in disaster contexts, can
help. Land readjustment, used in water-soaked Holland, lets
owners collectively redraw their property lines to create
greater value through more efficient development patterns, while
shifting development away from vulnerable areas.  These choices aren’t simple. In a few months the urgency of
building for resilience may well fade, and rebuilding in the
same vulnerable way is the path of least resistance. We must
keep in mind that the next Sandy or Katrina awaits.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City: Building Well Being and Wealth in an Era of  Climate
Change .” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining,  Craig
Seligman  on  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 