-- Stillman & Friedman, DLA Piper, Hogan: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-21T20:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/stillman-friedman-dla-piper-hogan-business-of-law.html
A former portfolio manager for
 Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital Advisors LP was charged with what
U.S. prosecutors called a record-setting insider-trading scheme
that netted as much as $276 million for the hedge fund.  Prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
 Manhattan  yesterday charged the portfolio manager, Mathew Martoma, with trading on insider tips about clinical trials of
bapineuzumab, a drug to treat  Alzheimer’s disease .  “Mathew Martoma was an exceptional portfolio manager who
succeeded through hard work and the dogged pursuit of
information in the public domain,” his lawyer,  Charles Stillman , of Stillman & Friedman PC, said in an e-mailed
statement. “What happened today is only the beginning of a
process that we are confident will lead to Mr. Martoma’s full
exoneration.”  Martoma, 38, is accused of advising Cohen to sell shares of
 Wyeth LLC (PFE)  and  Elan Corp. (ELN)  before bad news about the drug’s
prospects was announced. Cohen’s firm made $276 million in
profits or losses avoided after receiving the advice,
prosecutors said in a criminal complaint.  Martoma is charged with conspiracy and securities fraud, a
crime that carries a maximum 20-year prison term. The complaint
doesn’t state whether Cohen knew Martoma’s advice was based on
illegal insider tips. Cohen wasn’t charged or sued over the
matter.  “Mathew Martoma and his hedge fund benefited from what
might be the most lucrative inside tip of all time,” Bharara
said in a statement. “As Martoma allegedly got sneak peeks at
drug data, he first recommended that the hedge fund build up a
massive position in Elan and Wyeth stock, and then caused the
fund to shed those shares after getting a secret look at the
unexpectedly bad results of a clinical drug trial.”  The SEC sued Martoma, CR Intrinsic and Dr. Sidney Gilman,
the neurologist who allegedly supplied the tips.  Gilman has entered into a non-prosecution agreement with
the U.S. government, according to his lawyer,  Marc Mukasey , a
partner at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP.  “He is cooperating with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s
Office,” Mukasey said.  “Mr. Cohen and SAC are confident that they have acted
appropriately and will continue to cooperate with the
government’s inquiry,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a company
spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-MAG-2985; and the
civil case is SEC v. CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-8466, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  News  DLA Piper, Kingsley Napley Advise on News Corp. Bribery Probe  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit, and  Andy Coulson , who edited the company’s
now-defunct News of the World tabloid, were charged in a bribery
probe, police in  London  said.  DLA Piper LLP is advising Coulson and Brooks’s law firm is
 Kingsley Napley  in London.  Brooks and Coulson, who quit last year as Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s press chief as the scandal unfolded, conspired
with two News Corp. reporters to pay public officials for
stories as early as 2002, the  Crown Prosecution Service  said
yesterday. Brooks paid 100,000 pounds ($159,000) to a defense
ministry employee, while Coulson swapped cash for a palace phone
directory for the royal family and their staff, the CPS said.  The former executives were charged by police after
prosecutors said in a formal decision that Brooks and Coulson
should face claims they conspired to commit misconduct in public
office. The two reporters and the defense employee involved in
the case should also be charged, the CPS said.  The charges stem from a police probe into News Corp.’s
best-selling Sun daily tabloid and the News of the World, which
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed last year to help quell public
anger over a related phone-hacking scandal. The affairs have
cost New York-based News Corp. at least $315 million in civil
settlements with victims, legal fees and other costs.  Brooks and Coulson, both 44 years old, will appear at a
court hearing scheduled for Nov. 29, police said. They are
already due to stand trial in London for parallel phone-hacking
offenses in September, along with a dozen other people.
Prosecutors haven’t said if hearings on the new bribery claims
may overlap or if the cases will be combined for some
defendants. More people could be charged in both cases.  “I am extremely disappointed by this latest CPS
decision,” Coulson said in a statement e-mailed by DLA Piper.
“I deny the allegations made against me and will fight the
charges in court.”  Paul Askew, a spokesman for Kingsley Napley, declined to
comment in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  Dubai Group, Banks Said Close to $6 Billion Debt Agreement  Emirates NBD PJSC and Noor Islamic Bank are among creditors
close to an agreement with Dubai Group LLC on restructuring $6
billion of debt after more than two years of talks, four bankers
familiar with the matter said.  Law firm Linklaters LLP, which represents the so-called co-
ordinating committee of creditors, is drafting the accord and a
final agreement may be reached as soon as mid-December, the
people said, asking not to be identified as talks aren’t public.
The deal envisages interest of 1 percent to 2.5 percent and was
proposed by Dubai Group earlier this year, the people said.  The creditor group, comprising about 35 banks, is seeking
to win approval from  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Standard
Bank Group Ltd. and Commerzbank AG for the deal, three of the
people said. The three banks walked away from the lender group
in July because of a lack of progress on the restructuring.  Dubai Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is one of
several companies in the state seeking to restructure loans that
were arranged before property prices slumped and credit markets
froze with the onset of the 2008 global credit crisis.  Katie Taylor, a spokeswoman for Linklaters, declined to
comment. A spokeswoman for RBS in Dubai, who can’t be identified
under corporate policy, declined to comment. An Emirates NBD
spokesman said the bank won’t comment on client issues. Martin Halusa, a spokesman for Commerzbank, declined to comment. A
spokesman for Noor Islamic bank also declined to comment. A
Dubai Group spokeswoman also declined to comment.  Dubai Group, whose parent company is owned by Dubai ruler
Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, used cheap loans to
invest in financial services companies and property in the U.S.
The company, which also owes another $4 billion to shareholders,
holds stakes in companies including Dubai-based investment bank
 Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , Cairo-based investment bank  EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE (HRHO) , and  BankMuscat SAOG (BKMB) , Oman’s biggest bank by assets.  For more, click here.  Deals  Five Firms Advise on News Corp. Acquisition of YES Network Stake  News Corp., the media company led by Rupert Murdoch, agreed
to buy 49 percent of the YES Network, the cable channel that
carries  New York Yankees  baseball games, in a deal that values
the pay-TV outlet at about $3 billion.  News Corp. is acquiring the stake from the Yankees,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other investors, the companies said
yesterday in a statement. Murdoch can increase the stake to 80
percent after three years. Other financial terms weren’t
announced.  Hogan Lovells LLP and Jenner & Block LLP advised News Corp.
Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP represented YES network. Herrick,
Feinstein LLP served as lead counsel to the New York Yankees and
Yankee Global Enterprises. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP is representing Goldman Sachs.  From Hogan, the partners on the deal included Stephen Kay,
corporate; Ira Sheinfeld and Philip Altman, tax; Michele Harrington and Logan Breed, antitrust; and Carin Carithers,
employment and benefits.  The lead partner for Jenner’s team is Carissa Coze.  Boies Schiller partners included Richard Birns, Mike Huang
and Jason Hill, corporate; and Michael Kosnitzky, tax.  The Herrick Feinstein deal team was led by Irwin A.
Kishner, chairman of the executive committee and co-chairman of
the corporate department, and included partners Richard M.
Morris, Edward B. Stevenson, co-chairman of the corporate
department, and Daniel A. Etna.  The Skadden team includes the following partners from the
New York office: Thomas Greenberg, mergers and acquisitions, and
Dean Shulman and Matthew Rosen, tax.  Acquiring YES strengthens News Corp.’s regional sports
 business  by adding the Yankees, a marquee Major League Baseball
team, and the  National Basketball Association ’s Brooklyn Nets.
YES also negotiated a five-year extension of its agreement to
carry Yankees games through 2042, program rights that underpin
the valuation, people with knowledge of the situation said.  “This is a tremendous opportunity to enhance News Corp.’s
industry-leading portfolio of sports properties, while also
strategically re-entering the New York market,”  James Murdoch ,
the company’s deputy chief operating officer, said in the
statement.  For more, click here.  HP Says $8.8 Billion Charge From False Autonomy Accounting   Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  accused Autonomy Corp., the British
software maker it bought last year, of falsifying finances and
took a related $8.8 billion writedown, adding to challenges
facing Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman . The shares plunged
to a 10-year low.  “Some former members of Autonomy’s management team used
accounting improprieties, misrepresentations and disclosure
failures to inflate the underlying financial metrics of the
company, prior to Autonomy’s acquisition,” Hewlett-Packard said
yesterday in a statement. Autonomy denied the allegations.  More than $5 billion of the total charge is due to
accounting practices, which were disclosed by a senior executive
at Autonomy after founder Mike Lynch, 47, departed in May,
Hewlett-Packard said.  Autonomy misrepresented its gross profit margin and also
falsely created or miscategorized more than $200 million in
revenue over a two-year period starting in 2009, John Schultz,
Hewlett-Packard’s general counsel, said in an interview.
Autonomy was reselling  Dell Inc. (DELL)  computers and counting those
sales as software revenue, he said. Some sales were also
fabricated through resellers.  “The board relied on audited financials -- audited by
Deloitte -- not Brand X accounting firm but Deloitte,” Whitman
said yesterday on a conference call with investors. “The CEO at
the time and the head of strategy who led this deal are both
gone --  Leo Apotheker  and  Shane Robison .”  Autonomy’s former top management team said allegations by
Hewlett-Packard are “false,” according to Vanessa Colomar, a
spokeswoman for Lynch.  Jamie Harley, a spokesman for Deloitte, Judith Burns, a
spokeswoman for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
Jina Roe, a spokeswoman for the U.K. Serious Fraud Office, and
 Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, all declined to comment. Robison didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  Legal advisers for Hewlett-Packard on the deal included DLA
Piper LLP; Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP; Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. Legal
advisers for Autonomy were Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP and
Slaughter and May.  Apotheker said he’s “stunned and disappointed” by the
alleged improprieties and that he did thorough due diligence on
the acquisition.  For more, click here.  Moves  USPTO Hires Google’s Michelle Lee to Head Silicon Valley Office  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office hired Michelle Lee to
head its new  California  satellite office in Silicon Valley.  Lee is the former deputy general counsel and head of
patents and patent strategy at  Google Inc. (GOOG)  She previously was a
partner at  Mountain View , California’s Fenwick & West LLP.  She served as a judicial clerk for U.S. District Judge
Vaughn Walker and Judge Paul Michel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit, the Washington-based court that hears
appeals of patent cases.  Lee’s hiring is part of the patent office’s push to improve
the quality of software patents, David Kappos, the office’s
director, said yesterday in a  speech  at a conference sponsored
by the Center for American Progress.  McDermott Adds International Arbitration Partner Duo  McDermott Will & Emery LLP announced the appointments of
two international arbitration lawyers, Sabine Konrad and Lisa
Richman, as partners in the firm’s Frankfurt and  Washington ,
offices, respectively. They specialize in international
investment treaty arbitration and join from K&L Gates LLP, where
they worked together as a team.  Konrad has handled high-profile cross-border disputes,
particularly in international commercial arbitration and public
international law, the firm said. She advises investors and
governments in matters of investment protection.  Richman focuses her practice on international commercial
and investment arbitration. She also represents corporations,
corporate officers and directors and individuals in regulatory,
prosecutorial and private matters.  “They bring to McDermott highly sought-after experience in
international investment treaty arbitration while helping us
build out our German platform,” Lazar P. Raynal, the head of
McDermott’s Trial Practice Group, said in a statement.  McDermott has more than 1,000 lawyers in 18 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  King & Wood Hires Melbourne Environmental Partner from DLA  King & Wood Mallesons hired partner Mark Beaufoy in the
environment, planning and native title practice in the Melbourne
office. He joins from DLA Piper LLP, where he was the lead
environment partner in their Australian practice, KWM said in a
statement.  Beaufoy has advised on and managed legal risks relating to
site contamination and brownfield transactions and
redevelopment.  King & Wood has more than 380 partners and 1,800 lawyers in
21 offices in Asia, Australia, the U.K. and the U.S.  Alston & Bird Hires Litigation Partner in Los Angeles  James R. Evans Jr. joined  Alston & Bird LLP ’s litigation
team as a partner in the  Los Angeles  office. Evans, who has
almost 30 years of experience defending complex and high
exposure lawsuits, was previously at Fulbright & Jaworski LLP.  Evans has class-action experience, and regularly defends
high-stakes matters involving claims of wage and hour law
violations, employee misclassification, unfair competition,
false advertising, disability discrimination and privacy
violations, the firm said. He also provides strategic counsel on
employment and intellectual property matters, as well as
complicated business disputes.  Alston & Bird has 800 attorneys in 10 offices in the U.S.
and Brussels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  