-- Strauss Profit Advances Even as Strong Shekel Hurts Sales
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-21T14:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/strauss-profit-advances-even-as-strong-shekel-hurts-sales-1-.html
Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS) , the second-
largest Israeli food producer and marketer, said third-quarter
profit doubled and revenues advanced even as sales were hurt by
the effect of exchange rate fluctuations.  The company reported a  3.1 percent rise in  sales to 2.1
billion shekels ($536 million). Organic sales, excluding the
effect of changes in exchange rates, grew by 4.4 percent, the
company said in a PRNewswire statement today. Net income for the
third quarter rose to 105 million shekels from 47 million
shekels in the same period a year earlier, according to a filing
with the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange today. Strauss  shares  gained
1.1 percent to 43.55 shekels in Tel Aviv.  “Overall there was a slightly negative impact on sales
from foreign exchange movements,” with a 9 percent decline of
the Brazilian Real against the shekel, Gil Dattner, an analyst
at  Bank Leumi Le-Israel (LUMI) , said by phone today.  Total  coffee sales  rose 2.7 percent in the quarter to 1.05
billion shekels, Strauss said in the statement. Excluding the
impact of currency exchange rates, the growth amounted to 7.6
percent, the company said. The growth in coffee sales was led by
Russia, Poland and Israel. Coffee sales to  Brazil  decreased, the
company said.  Profitability in the coffee segment “improved markedly due
to a combination of retail price increases and lower coffee
prices,” Dattner said in an emailed note today. “The company’s
salads business is increasingly becoming a key asset in the
group’s mix.” Third-quarter salad sales totaled 273 million
shekels compared with 203 million shekels a year earlier.  The group is implementing cost-cutting strategies in  Israel 
to refrain from raising prices of its products, the company said
in the statement. Marches that drew thousands of protesters in
the streets of Tel Aviv last year led the company to reduce the
prices on some of its products and to target overseas markets,
including Latin America and  Europe . The protests also spurred
Israeli policy makers to propose measures to increase
competition in the food-supply sector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  