-- Swap-Dealer Clearing Rules Set for Completion by CFTC Next Week
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-11-21T16:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/swap-dealer-clearing-rules-set-for-completion-by-cftc-next-week.html
Wall Street’s largest swap dealers,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
will be required to guarantee trades at clearinghouses starting
in March under a government rule set for completion next week.  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission members will meet
Nov. 29 to weigh final determinations of which credit and
 interest-rate swaps  must be guaranteed at clearinghouses owned
by  CME Group Inc. (CME) , LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Intercontinental
Exchange Inc., according to a statement released by the agency
today. Clearinghouses accept collateral from buyers and sellers
to reduce the risk from default in a trade.  “Central clearing equalizes access to the market and
democratizes it by eliminating the need for market participants
to individually determine counterparty credit risk,” CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a Nov. 1 speech.  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are
required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to write rules intended to
curb risk in a $639 trillion global market. Lawmakers took
action after unregulated trades helped fuel a credit crisis that
in 2008 led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
U.S. bailouts for companies including  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , the New York-based insurer.  The five-member commission’s proposed requirement, approved
unanimously in July, included interest-rate and credit swaps
already offered for settlement at clearinghouses. The agency
said it would later consider other types of swaps.  The Clearing Coalition, a group including investment
company Citadel LLC and trading firm Getco LLC, has urged the
CFTC to adopt the clearing requirement by the end of the year.  The $639 trillion measure of the global swaps market
represents the total notional amounts outstanding of over-the-
counter derivatives through June,  according  to the Bank of
International Settlements, a Basel, Switzerland-based
organization that promotes global financial collaboration and
serves as a bank for central banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  