-- Sweden Without Crisis Plan Tests Economic Reality: Nordic Credit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-11-21T10:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/sweden-without-crisis-plan-tests-economic-reality-nordic-credit.html
Reality is about to catch up with
 Sweden ’s government.  Finance Minister  Anders Borg  signaled yesterday he probably
needs to cut growth estimates for the $500 billion economy for a
fourth time this year even as he rejected speculation Sweden may
need a crisis package to soften the blow.  “The government’s forecasts have been very optimistic this
autumn, which has drawn some attention as they have a rather
different view than the market,” Andreas Halldahl, who helps
manage about $15 billion in fixed-income assets at Storebrand
Kapitalforvaltning AS in Stockholm, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “But reality is catching up and they will have to
revise both the gross domestic product forecast and budget
numbers.”  The largest Nordic economy is stalling as a recession in
the euro area wreaks havoc on exports, prompting mass job cuts
from some of Sweden’s biggest companies, including Ericsson AB,
 Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and  TeliaSonera AB. (TLSN)  The central bank has said it’s
reluctant to ease policy further for fear of spurring household
debt growth, while Borg has told exporters they can’t rely on a
weaker krona to provide the same relief as in previous crises.  Bond Returns  Swedish bonds have returned 2.1 percent this year, the
third-worst performance after Japan and  Spain  among the 26 major
Bloomberg/EFFA sovereign indexes. The yield on Sweden’s 10-year
note fell one basis point to 1.50 percent today. The spread to
similar-maturity German bunds was little changed at nine basis
points.  About half of Sweden’s output comes from exports, roughly
70 percent of which go to European markets. Manufacturing
confidence has remained negative since August last year and sank
to a three-year low in October, according to Sweden’s National
Institute of  Economic Research .  Consumer confidence  fell for a
third month in October as announcements of job cuts grow more
frequent.  Yet as recently as September, the government estimated
Sweden’s economy will expand 2.7 percent next year, and forecast
a budget deficit of 0.6 percent of GDP. At the start of 2012,
the government predicted a 3.5 percent expansion for next year.
Borg’s latest forecast for this year is for 1.6 percent growth.  ‘Uphill Battle’  SEB AB (SEBA) , the Stockholm-based bank, said yesterday Sweden’s
government “faces an uphill battle in terms of credibility” as
its growth forecasts over the next two years are in “great need
of downward revisions.” The lender predicts a deficit of almost
1.3 percent of GDP in 2014, compared with a government forecast
for a 0.3 percent surplus. SEB sees GDP expanding 0.7 percent
this year and 1.3 percent in 2013.  The government in its 2013 budget, unveiled in September,
said it plans to spend 0.7 percent of GDP on roads, railways,
research and corporate tax cuts. Borg’s ministry estimates the
measures will boost growth by 0.4 percentage point and raise
employment by 17,000 jobs in 2014.  “We have, so to speak, sufficiently strong public finances
that if we see a slowdown, then we have the strength to perhaps
consider what has to be done in 2013 and in 2014,” Borg said in
a speech in  Stockholm  yesterday. “But we’re not in a situation
where there are any plans of an extensive crisis package.”  As the government withholds any significant stimulus, the
central bank is struggling with internal divisions in its six-
member board. Governor Stefan Ingves has warned debt growth
makes continued rate cuts dangerous, while Deputy Governor Lars E.O. Svensson has argued the bank’s failure to cut rates further
is killing jobs.  Household Debt  Borg has sided with Ingves, reiterating concerns yesterday
that the bank is restricted in its ability to ease policy
because of high household indebtedness. Swedish consumers have
debt equivalent to about 170 percent of disposable incomes, the
central bank estimates. Borg said that level should be kept
unchanged over the next 10 years.  While there’s an economic case to be made for rate cuts “I
think they are mindful of the impact it has on household debt,”
said  Daragh Maher , a currency strategist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in
 London . “There’s a chance of a rate cut but I don’t think it is
as certain as some people suggest.”  Household debt as a share of disposable income mustn’t
exceed 200 percent, Ingves said this month. The bank predicts
the level will remain largely unchanged at about 170 percent
through 2015, after having risen from 90 percent in 1996,
provided it doesn’t cut rates further.  Still, overnight index swap levels today showed a 41
percent probability of a rate cut next month and a 59 percent
probability for no change. Futures on the Riksbank rate are
trading at 1 percent in March, indicating a rate cut by then.  “The Riksbank will have to cut more than they are
communicating at the moment,” said Halldahl. “They will
absolutely have to cut rates going forward, but the market is
already pricing in more than the Riksbank is forecasting too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  