-- Symptoms of Autism Linked to Brain Protein in Mouse Study
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-11-21T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/symptoms-of-autism-linked-to-brain-protein-in-mouse-study.html
Abnormalities in proteins that help
connect neurons produced autism-like symptoms in mice, which may
focus the search for drugs to treat people, researchers said.  The genetically altered mice had difficulty communicating,
weren’t good at social interaction and showed repetitive
behaviors, according to a paper published today in the journal
 Nature .  Some scientists are studying whether autism is the result
of wrongly connected spaces between brain cells. Today’s data
bolster that theory because the mutant mice had too many brain
connections, making it impossible for the cells to communicate,
said  Daniel Smith , senior director of discovery neuroscience for
 Autism Speaks , an advocacy group based in  New York .  “The bottom line is it’s still a long way from treating
patients, but it’s exactly what we need from early discovery,”
Smith, who didn’t participate in today’s study, said in a phone
interview. “It gives us something more to hang our hat on.”  The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
reported in March that 1 in 88 children in the U.S. had autism
or a related disorder in 2008, the latest period for which data
is available. That was a 23 percent rise from 2006, the agency’s
researchers reported, saying it was unclear how much of the
increase was due to greater awareness of the disease.  The scientists in today’s study,  led by Nahum Sonenberg , of
 McGill University  in  Montreal , research how proteins are made to
look for clues to cancer. When they knocked out a gene called
4E-BP2, more proteins called neuroligins were produced in the
mice.  Brain Function  Brain cells, called neurons, are connected through
junctions called  synapses . Neuroligins are on the receiving end
of a synapse and too many of them increase the number of
synapses. That isn’t necessarily good, though, Sonenberg said in
a telephone interview.  “Neuroligins make contact, like a handshake,” Sonenberg
said. “But with this mutation, the handshake becomes more like
a tackle. It’s too much.”  To see if the changes caused by the gene mutation were
reversible, the scientists gave the mice an experimental cancer
drug to cut some of the synapse formation. After the now-adult
mice received the medicine, many of their social deficits
attenuated.  The drug  isn’t safe for people because it’s too toxic,
Sonenberg said. However, its demonstration in mice may spur
scientists to explore similar compounds as treatments for the
symptoms of autism, he said. Because the pathway has been well-
studied in cancer, there may already be treatments available,
said co-author Christos Gkogkas, a post-doctoral fellow at
McGill.  The study was supported by grants from the Canadian
Institutes of Health Research and Autism Speaks, among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 