-- Syria Opposition Aims to Raise $60 Billion for Rebuilding
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-11-21T15:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/syria-opposition-seeks-to-raise-60-billion-for-reconstruction.html
A coalition of groups battling
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is seeking to raise $60 billion
from allied nations to help rebuild the country when fighting
ends, an opposition leader said.  Syria will need the money for reconstruction in the first
six months after the conflict ends, Syrian National Council
leader George Sabra told reporters in Dubai today. The  United
Arab Emirates  may provide funds “soon,” he said.  The Syrian National Council is one of the components of the
National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition
Forces, the newly created umbrella group for forces fighting to
end Assad’s rule. The oil-rich Gulf Arab countries and the 27-
nation European Union have recognized the coalition as
legitimate representatives of the Syrian people.  “We will raise the funds through aid and loans,” Sabra
said. “We depend on the friends of Syria and the international
community, which has an obligation toward Syria.”  The U.A.E., the second-biggest economy in the  Middle East 
after  Saudi Arabia , is willing to help Syria rebuild when
fighting halts, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash said today in Dubai. “What we want to do is involve the
private sector in what sort of economy emerges in a future
Syria,” he said.  U.A.E. Companies  U.A.E. companies, including Mubadala Development Co.,  Abu
Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , Masdar and DP World are interested in
investing in postwar Syria, the country’s Economy Minister
Sultan Al-Mansouri told reporters in Dubai.  Drydocks World LLC, a Dubai-based operator of bulk
carriers, cargo vessels and ship-repair services, is also
interested in working in the country when the conflict ends,
Chairman Khamis Buamim told reporters in Dubai. “When you go to
a place like Syria, there’s a lot of opportunities on the
coastline, in the trade side.”  The country has suffered “catastrophic” destruction since
the anti-Assad uprising started in March last year, Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations peace envoy for Syria, said last
month. Oil exports, which in 2010 accounted for a quarter of
Syrian government revenue, have almost ended, according to an
Oct. 26 report by the Economist Intelligence Unit. Rebels
regularly attack oil pipelines.  Gross domestic product is set to contract by 10.2 percent
this year, according to the EIU. Inflation accelerated to more
than 36 percent in August.  Damascus Clashes  Osama Kadi, a panelist at the conference, said Syrian
businessmen have committed to investing $5 billion in postwar
rehabilitation, without naming the companies or the people. He
estimated that  Syria ’s foreign reserves have shrunk to about $3
billion from $18 billion before the crisis.  Forces loyal to Assad clashed today with rebels in Latakia
province on the Mediterranean coast and in the southern
neighborhoods of Damascus, the U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights  said on in its Facebook page. The Syrian  air force 
carried out raids in Deir Ezzour and Idlib, the group said.  The Syrian army pursued and killed “terrorists” in the
Damascus suburbs of Arbeen, al-Huseinyeh and Saida Zeinab, the
state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported, citing an
unidentified Syrian offical. An armed group targeted a mosque in
the Daraya suburb, the news service said.  More than 35,000 people have died since the uprising began,
according to the Syrian Observatory. Syrian troops loyal to
Assad killed 32 people across the country today, including 10 in
or around Damascus, the opposition Local Coordination Committees
said in an e-mailed statement.  President  Barack Obama  said on Nov. 14 that the U.S. wasn’t
ready to recognize the opposition coalition as a government in
exile, though it will hold talks with the group.  “We hope the Americans will change their position and
recognize the opposition,” Sabra said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  