-- U.K. Budget Deficit Unexpectedly Swells on Spending Gain
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-12-21T09:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/u-k-budget-deficit-unexpectedly-widens-as-spending-climbs.html
Britain’s budget deficit
unexpectedly widened in November as spending surged and a drop
in income-tax receipts depressed government revenue.  The shortfall excluding government support for banks was
17.5 billion pounds ($28 billion) compared with 16.3 billion
pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said
in  London  today. The median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a deficit of 16 billion pounds. Spending rose 6.3
percent and revenue gained 0.6 percent.  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  cut its growth
forecasts this month and said Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  will miss his target of cutting the burden of government
debt by 2015, prompting warnings that Britain could lose its top
 credit rating .  Fitch Ratings  said letting the debt goal slip
weakened the credibility of his fiscal regime and Standard and
Poor’s lowered its outlook to negative from stable, citing weak
prospects.  “The chancellor acknowledged in his autumn statement that
the public finances are taking longer to rectify than had been
targeted,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global
Insight in London. “There has to be a very real danger that at
least one of the  credit rating agencies  will strip the U.K. of
its AAA rating over the coming months.”  The pound remained lower against the dollar and was trading
at $1.6247 as of 9:35 a.m. in London, down 0.2 percent on the
day. In a separate report, the statistics office cut its
estimate of growth in the third quarter to 0.9 percent from 1
percent.  Income Tax  Tax revenue was held back last month by a 12 percent drop
in income-tax receipts to 9.2 billion pounds. That was partly
offset by taxes on corporate profits, which rose 18 percent to
1.6 billion pounds.  Welfare costs rose 5 percent on the year and central
 government spending  jumped 9 percent, partly reflecting payments
to local academies. There was also an increase in  capital
investment .  In the first eight months of the fiscal year, the deficit
climbed to 92.7 billion pounds from 84.4 billion pounds a year
earlier, with spending up 2.7 percent and revenue down 0.1
percent. Those figures exclude a one-time boost from the 28
billion-pound transfer of Royal Mail Group Ltd. pension assets
to the public sector. The OBR, a non-partisan body that oversees
forecasting for the Treasury, predicts a deficit of 120 billion
pounds for the full fiscal year.  Debt Target  A cash measure showed the public finances in surplus by 6.8
billion pounds. This was due to the financial position of
publicly-controlled banks. The central government cash deficit
was 12 billion pounds. Net borrowing including financial
interventions was 15.3 billion pounds.  In his Dec. 5 statement Parliament, Osborne said the
economy will shrink by 0.1 percent this year, rather than grow
0.8 as forecast in the March budget, and the OBR downgraded its
growth estimates for the next four years, blaming the euro-
region debt crisis. The underlying deficit will be more than 100
billion pounds higher than previously thought, forcing Osborne
to roll over his target for erasing the structural deficit by
another year to 2018.  Osborne drew criticism by counting 3.5 billion pounds from
the planned sale of 4G mobile-phone spectrum licences against
the deficit this year, along with 11.5 billion pounds from the
transfer of income the  Bank of England  has accrued on its asset-
buying program.  There will also small downward effect on borrowing from a
decision to reclassify nationalized mortgage lenders  Northern
Rock  Asset Management and Bradford & Bingley Plc as part of
central government.  Ratings Risk  The ONS said proceeds from the 4G sale will be known in
February or March and included in the public finances in the
following report. The transfer of Bank of England gilt-coupon
income and the reclassification of Northern Rock and Bradford &
Bingley are expected to be included in early 2013, it said.  Net debt climbed to 1.04 trillion pounds last month, or
68.5 percent of gross domestic product, the highest since
records began in 1993, the statistics office said. The OBR
expects the ratio to reach 79.9 percent 2015-16 and begin
falling the following year, 12 months later than planned.  S&P said last week there is a one-in-three chance it will
cut its AAA rating in the next two years, although such move may
have little market impact.  French 10-year yields have fallen this year despite the
country losing its top rating with  Standard & Poor’s  in January
and with Moody’s Investors Service last month. The U.S.,
meanwhile, has been deemed more creditworthy by investors since
S&P stripped the nation of its AAA grade in 2011, with 10-year
note yields dropping to a record low this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  