-- U.K. Stocks Little Changed as Utilities Climb
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-11-21T17:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/u-k-stocks-little-changed-as-utilities-climb.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed,
after their biggest two-day advance since August, as a rally by
 utility companies  offset a failure by euro-area finance
ministers to agree on a debt package for  Greece .  United Utilities Group Plc (UU/)  gained 1.9 percent after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Ofwat, the water regulator, had
clarified proposed changes to companies’ licenses. British Land
Co. added 1.8 percent after Morgan Stanley upgraded the shares.
 Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT)  plunged 5.8 percent after the producer of a
third of the world’s autocatalysts reported net income that
missed analysts’ estimates.  The FTSE 100 Index climbed 3.93 points, or 0.1 percent, to
5,752.03 at the close in  London . The gauge rose 0.2 percent
yesterday, completing its biggest two-day rally since August, as
shareholders approved the $31 billion takeover of  Xstrata Plc (XTA) 
and ministers met to discuss Greece. The FTSE All-Share Index
and Ireland’s ISEQ Index were both little changed.  “Having stood their ground yesterday, markets are rather
shakier” today, said Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG in
London. “Euro-zone ministers once again failed to throw a deal
together, as talks over the latest rescue plan for Greece fell
apart. The next attempt begins in six days, so we will just have
to be patient for now.”  Greece’s Debt  After more than 11 hours of talks, the finance ministers of
the 17 countries that use the single currency broke up their
meeting early today in Brussels. With creditors led by  Germany 
refusing to contribute additional money or offer debt relief,
the finance chiefs failed to scrape together sufficient funds
from other sources to help alleviate Greece’s debt burden, which
will hit 190 percent of gross domestic product in 2014.  They declared that an agreement will not take place before
a ministerial meeting on Nov. 26. An aid payment delayed since
June remained frozen.  United Utilities gained 1.9 percent to 671.5 pence and
Severn Trent Plc increased 1.4 percent to 1,569 pence after
JPMorgan said the water regulator’s update on licenses should
reassure investors.  The “clarification of its license-modification proposals
after market close yesterday should help reassure the market
that U.K. water regulation remains sensible and proportionate,”
analyst Edmund Reid wrote in a note to clients dated today.
“The softening of Ofwat’s stance on a Competition Commission
referral reduces the near-term risk of negative newsflow.”  British Land  British Land (BLND)  rose 1.8 percent to 524 pence after Morgan
Stanley raised its recommendation for the U.K.’s second-largest
real estate investment trust to overweight, the equivalent of a
buy rating. British Land has gained 11 percent this year, while
Land Securities Group Plc has rallied 22 percent.  “We think the shares are now attractive to investors who
focus on net asset value as well as for those who prefer an
income approach,” wrote Bart Gysens in a note to clients dated
today. “The shares have traded off recently to a level from
where we expect around 16 percent total return -- share-price
performance plus dividend yield -- in the next 12 months.”  BG Group Plc (BG/)  climbed 2.8 percent to 1,060 pence, the
biggest advance on the FTSE 100, amid speculation the company
may become the target of a takeover.  The Independent reported that the oil and gas producer was
said to have hired Rothschild and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
help it manage any hostile takeover attempt, without saying
where it got the information. The newspaper cited speculation
that investors were about to put a bid to BG’s advisers.  Johnson Matthey  Johnson Matthey dropped 5.8 percent to 2,190 pence after
reporting a 2.2 percent decline in first-half profit to 145.7
million pounds ($232.3 million). That missed the  average analyst
estimate  of 149 million pounds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The shares fell as Chief Executive Officer Neil Carson said
in a statement that “the outlook in some of our other markets
has weakened and visibility remains limited.” He predicted that
the company’s performance in its second half will be little
changed from the first half of the year.  Compass Group Plc (CPG)  slipped 1.3 percent to 699.5 pence after
the world’s largest catering company reported  full-year revenue 
of 16.9 billion pounds, falling short of the  average analyst
estimate  of 17 billion pounds. The shares fell even as
underlying pretax and operating profit matched projections.  “We anticipate that economic conditions in  Europe  will
remain challenging, with like-for-like volume under ongoing
pressure,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Cousins said in a
statement. “Our core business remains solid and we are taking
action to re-base our business in Southern Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  