-- U.S. Leading Economic Indicators Rose 0.2% in October
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-11-21T15:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/u-s-leading-economic-indicators-rose-0-2-in-october.html
The index of U.S. leading economic
indicators rose at a slower pace in October as businesses held
back on  investment  in anticipation of domestic fiscal policy
changes set to take effect in January.  The  Conference Board ’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.2 percent after a revised 0.5
percent gain in September that was lower than initially
reported, the New York-based group said today. Economists
projected the October gauge would climb 0.1 percent, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The fiscal cliff of $607 billion in federal spending cuts
and tax increases has been a hurdle for companies even as
consumer sentiment has supported the household purchases that
account for about 70 percent of the economy. Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday said that a budget deal could
help make the coming year “a very good one” for the economy.  “If we look through this volatility, I think the recovery
is gaining momentum” boosted by housing gains and pent-up
demand in  capital expenditures , said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S.
economist at UniCredit Group in New York, who correctly
projected the 0.2 percent rise. “The outlook is better than it
has been over the last three or four years” even as the fiscal
cliff remains a near-term obstacle, he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell less than 0.1 percent
to 1,387.78 at 10:20 a.m. New York time, after the Conference
Board’s report was released.  Fiscal Cliff  Some businesses are pulling back on concern that hurtling
over the fiscal cliff will damage the economy. Spending on
equipment and software was little changed from June through
September, the weakest reading since the second quarter of 2009,
according to figures from the Commerce Department.  Estimates from 51 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a decrease of 0.1 percent to an increase of 0.6 percent in
the Conference Board’s leading index. The September figure was
revised from a previously reported 0.6 percent gain.  Four of the 10 indicators in the index of leading economic
indicators contributed to the increase, while two were
unchanged. The  interest-rate  spread between the federal funds
rate and the 10-year Treasury note and a credit gauge were among
the indicators leading to the advance.  Ataman Ozyildirim , an economist at the Conference Board,
said in a statement that the leading index “still points to
modestly expanding economic activity in the near term.”  Coincident Indicators  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, increased 0.1 percent in
October, after a 0.2 percent rise the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- measures used by the  National Bureau of Economic
Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S. recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators rose 0.3 percent in October
after decreasing 0.1 percent the previous month.  In a separate report, the Labor Department said today fewer
Americans filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week
as damage to the labor market caused by superstorm Sandy began
to subside. Jobless claims decreased by 41,000 to 410,000 in the
week ended Nov. 17, the department reported.  Building permits , a proxy for future construction, declined
2.7 percent in October to an 866,000 annual rate, reflecting
less demand for multifamily construction, Commerce Department
figures showed yesterday in  Washington . Permits for single-
family units rose to the highest since July 2008.  Housing starts  in the U.S. climbed 3.6 percent last month
to an 894,000 annual rate, exceeding the highest estimate in a
Bloomberg survey, the agency also said.  Housing Market  “Recently, the housing market has shown some clear signs
of improvement, as home sales, prices, and construction have all
moved up since early this year,” Bernanke said yesterday in a
speech in  New York . He said it’s likely that “residential
investment will be a source of economic growth and new jobs over
the next couple of years.”  Bernanke also said policy makers will “do what we can” to
support the recovery. The Fed is buying $40 billion a month of
mortgage-backed securities and has said its benchmark interest
 rate  is likely to stay near zero through the middle of 2015 as
it seeks to spur growth and reduce a 7.9 percent unemployment
rate.  Record-low  mortgage rates  and dwindling inventories are
boosting orders for homebuilders and sales for companies such as
 Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , the second-largest U.S. home-improvement retailer.  “Housing prices have bottomed now on a national basis, and
in some markets you are seeing some good appreciation,” Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Niblock  said in a Nov. 19 telephone
interview from the company’s headquarters in Mooresville,  North
Carolina . “People are going to feel better about spending on
their homes believing that in the future they’re going to be
worth the same or more than what they are today.”  Lowe’s that day reported fiscal third-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates, sending shares up by the most in
more than three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  