-- U.S. Cites Safety Lapses After Black Elk Gulf of Mexico Fire
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-11-21T21:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/u-s-cites-safety-lapses-after-black-elk-gulf-of-mexico-fire-2-.html
Federal regulators ordered Black Elk
Energy Offshore Operations LLC to improve its safety procedures
after a fatal Nov. 16 explosion and fire on an oil platform in
the Gulf of Mexico.  The  U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement 
said it sent a letter today to Black Elk alleging the Houston-
based company has “repeatedly failed to operate in a manner
that is consistent with federal regulations,” according to a
 statement . The bureau said the closely held company could lose
its privilege to operate in the U.S. outer continental shelf if
it does not “demonstrate improved performance.”  Black Elk must submit a performance improvement plan by
Dec. 15 to show how it will ensure compliance at its operations,
the bureau said. The  letter  precedes any possible enforcement
actions that may come after an investigation of the Nov. 16 fire
at a Black Elk platform in West Delta Block 32.  “We appreciate the perspective of the Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement,” Leslie Hoffman, a spokeswoman for
Black Elk, said in an e-mail today. “Safety is a high priority
for Black Elk Energy and we will continue to work cooperatively
with local and national federal agencies to understand exactly
what happened with the incident at our platform in the Gulf of
Mexico.”  Incident Breakdown  The company is a designated operator for 98 production
platforms in the Gulf, the bureau said. Black Elk was cited for
156 incidents of non-compliance this year, 99 last year and 60
in 2010, the bureau said. The U.S. has issued a $307,500 civil
penalty fine for an incident of non-compliance related to an
inspection.  The list of incidents of non-compliance for the company
included 158 warnings, 145 notices to shut a component and 12 to
shut a facility, the bureau said.  Black Elk said in a statement dated yesterday on its
 website  that was suspending the formal search for the remaining
worker who’s missing after the accident. The company previously
said it recovered the body of another worker who had been
missing. Workers from Grand Isle Shipyard had been on the
platform performing tasks, Black Elk Chief Executive Officer
John Hoffman said in an interview last week.  Also today, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said it
placed Black Elk’s ratings, including CCC+ long-term corporate
credit ratings, on credit watch with negative implications.  Black Elk holds stakes in more than 854 wells on 155
platforms off the coasts of Louisiana and  Texas  in the Gulf, in
water depths ranging from less than 10 feet to more than 6,000
feet, according to the company’s website. The company, formed in
2007, is about 75 percent-owned by Platinum Partners LLP, a New
York-based hedge fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  