-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Nov. 16 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-11-21T15:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-nov-16-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 14.9 million barrels per
day during the week ending November 16, 277 thousand barrels per
day above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at
87.5 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging 9.2 million barrels
per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging about 4.7 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 7.8 million barrels per
day last week, down by 102 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged 7.9 million barrels per day, 721 thousand barrels per
day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 616 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 176 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 1.5 million barrels
from the previous week. At 374.5 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are well above the upper limit of the average range
for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
decreased by 1.5 million barrels last week and are in the lower
half of the average range. Finished gasoline inventories
remained unchanged, while blending components inventories
decreased last week. Distillate fuel inventories decreased by
2.7 million barrels last week and are well below the lower limit
of the average range for this time of year. Propane/propylene
inventories decreased by 0.5 million barrels last week, but
remained well above the upper limit of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 6.2 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged about 18.9 million barrels per day, down by 1.4 percent
from the same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor
gasoline product supplied has averaged over 8.7 million barrels
per day, up by 1.6 percent from the same period last year.
Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged about 3.9 million
barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 9.2 percent
from the same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 6.9
percent lower over the last four weeks compared to the same
four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  