-- U.S. Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index Rises Less Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-11-21T15:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-rose-to-82-7-in-november.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
less than anticipated in November, indicating the impending
fiscal tightening may be starting to damp Americans’ moods.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of
consumer sentiment was little changed at 82.7, a five-year high,
from the prior month’s 82.6. The gauge was projected to rise to
84.5, according to the  median  forecast of 65 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. The preliminary reading was 84.9.  President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers have started
negotiations to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, more than $600
billion of tax increases and government cutbacks scheduled to
take effect next year. Less optimism among consumers threatens
to weigh on household purchases at the start of the  holiday
shopping season , which kicks off after Thanksgiving tomorrow.  “The fiscal cliff rhetoric has really picked up in the
mainstream media,” Jacob Oubina, senior U.S. economist at RBC
Capital Markets LLC in  New York , said before the report. “The
average person is probably paying more attention to the fiscal
cliff now. They’re concerned about the outlook for the economy
and for their own pocketbooks.”  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 79.5 to
86, according to the Bloomberg survey. The index averaged 64.2
during the last recession. It averaged 89 in the five years
before the 18-month economic slump that ended in June 2009.  Bloomberg Measure  The report compares with Bloomberg’s weekly Consumer
Comfort Index, which eased to minus 33.9 in the period ended
Nov. 18 from minus 33.1. At the same time, Bloomberg gauge of
consumer  expectations , which rose to 4 in November from minus 7
a month earlier. The monthly reading showed 37 percent of
households projected the economy will get better, the highest
share since March 2002.  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions , which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
climbed to 90.7 from 88.1 the prior month. The preliminary
reading was 91.3 for November.  The index of consumer  expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
dropped to 77.6 from 79 in October. The preliminary November
reading was 80.8.  Consumers are benefiting from rising house values as
record-low  mortgage rates  drive a recovery in housing. Sales of
previously owned homes unexpectedly climbed in October, and the
median price rose 11.1 percent from a year earlier, the National
Association of Realtors reported this week.  Business Sentiment  Before today’s report, data indicated consumer sentiment
was improving while business sentiment stagnated in the face of
the looming year-end deadline for automatic tax increases and
government spending cuts.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
that an agreement on ways to reduce long-term  federal budget 
deficits could remove an impediment to growth, while failure to
avoid the so-called fiscal cliff would pose a “substantial
threat” to the recovery.  Thanksgiving marks the unofficial start of the holiday
shopping season, the busiest time of the year for store-chains.
 Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, said
third-quarter profit increased 15 percent as its branded credit
cards boosted store sales.  “While consumers have increased confidence about their
near-term prospects and personal finances, they have a high
level of uncertainty about the longer term health of the
economy,” Kathryn Tesija, executive vice president of
merchandising, said on a Nov. 15 call with analysts.  Sales Projection  “For the holiday season, consumers anticipate spending
slightly more than last year, but indicate they’ll be focused on
value, pricing and promotions,” she said.  Cheaper fuel is one source of help for budget-conscious
households. The average cost of a gallon of regular  gasoline  at
the pump has fallen 11 percent in the two months ended Nov. 19,
when it reached $3.41, the lowest since mid-July, according to
AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  Pittsburgh-based  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ) , the world’s biggest
ketchup maker, is “encouraged” by progress in the U.S., Chief
Executive Officer  Bill Johnson  said yesterday.  “I have seen some signs of modest economic recovery and
improving  consumer confidence ,” Johnson, said on a conference
call with analysts. At the same time, “there is still great
uncertainty as the fiscal cliff looms.”  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.1 percent over the next  12 months , the same
as in October. Over the next five years, Americans expected a
2.8 percent rate of inflation, compared with 2.7 percent in the
previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  