-- U.S. 10-Year TIPS Yields Top Forecast as Demand Is Below Average
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-11-21T18:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/u-s-10-year-tips-yields-top-forecast-as-demand-is-below-average.html
The U.S. sold $13 billion in 10-year
inflation-indexed notes at a higher-than-forecast yield as
European officials appeared closer to reaching a debt-reduction
package for  Greece .  The Treasury Inflation Protected Securities sale drew a
negative 0.72 yield, versus a record low of negative 0.75
percent at the September auction and the average forecast of
negative 0.746 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight
primary dealers. It was first time since November 2011 that the
yield at the sale wasn’t a record low and the sixth consecutive
sale of the notes where investors were willing to pay the U.S.
to hold their principal.  “Inflation doesn’t seem to be a problem anytime soon,”
said Guy Haselmann, an interest-rate strategist at Bank of Nova
Scotia in New York, one of the 21 primary dealers that are
obligated to bid at government bond sales.  The gap in 10-year yields between Treasury Inflation-
Protected Securities and conventional U.S. government securities
was little changed at 2.40 percent. The gap, known as the
breakeven rate of inflation, indicates the pace of increases in
consumer prices traders expect during the life of the
securities.  Yield Shift  Yields on 10-year TIPS rose to negative 0.76 percent after
the auction from as low as negative 0.82 percent earlier today,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yields haven’t
closed above zero this year.  TIPS pay interest at lower rates than regular Treasuries on
a principal amount that’s adjusted based on the Labor
Department’s consumer price index.  The auction’s  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.52,
higher than the 2.36 at the Sept. 20 offering, while below the
2.72 average in the previous 10 sales.  Indirect bidders , a category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 48.3 percent of the notes,
compared to an average of 40 percent at the past 10 auctions.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 10.4 percent,
versus an average of 14 percent at the past 10 auctions.  European finance ministers said a further meeting on Greece
had been arranged for Nov. 26 and that only “technical problems”
are holding up a deal.  The U.S. first sold 10-year TIPS at a negative yield in
January. Since then, their yields have progressively grown more
negative.  U.S. inflation-linked debt maturing in 10 or more years has
returned 11.9 percent this year, compared with a 7.2 percent
gain in the broader TIPS market and a 2.4 percent advance in the
overall Treasury market, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  