-- UBS’s Orcel Says Investment Bank Revamp to Take 3-5 Years
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-11-21T23:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/ubs-s-orcel-says-investment-bank-revamp-will-take-up-to-5-years.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  will need three to five years
to fully transform its investment bank under a plan outlined
last month,  Andrea Orcel , who heads the unit, told staff at town
hall-style meetings over the past two weeks, according to two
people who heard him speak.  Anyone expecting the change to occur in the next couple of
quarters will be disappointed, Orcel said, according to the
people, who requested anonymity because the meetings were
private. The Zurich-based bank will need time to show progress
because it won’t be hiring expensive teams from rivals or using
its balance sheet to win more business, Orcel said. A UBS
official declined to comment.  UBS said last month it will exit most of the capital-
intensive fixed-income businesses at the investment bank to
boost pretax return on equity to more than 15 percent starting
next year. Orcel, 49, was named sole head of the unit, while his
former co-chief, Carsten Kengeter, 45, will wind down the debt
businesses.  The investment bank is “core” to UBS, Orcel said at the
meetings, adding that details of the strategy for each desk will
be ironed out over the next two to three months. He stressed
that the review of the investment bank is over and businesses
that are kept shouldn’t fear further cuts, although some job
reductions may be necessary depending on market conditions.  Retaining People  The success of delivering on the strategy and targets will
depend on the people UBS can attract and retain, Orcel said. He
didn’t rule out hiring individual bankers in certain areas to
help the company gain market share. The bank will focus on
client needs and won’t stop offering services overnight, even in
areas it’s winding down, he said.  UBS’s investment bank aims to be a market leader in  Europe ,
where it lost some share in recent years, Orcel said. The Asia-
Pacific region is being viewed as a “second home market,” and
UBS will defend its position there, he said.  Orcel also reaffirmed that UBS has no plans to exit the
Americas or  emerging markets . The firm will pursue a selective
strategy in the Americas rather than trying to compete in all
businesses with the U.S. banks. Emerging markets will be crucial
for UBS’s growth in the future, and the bank can be a top-3
investment bank there, he said.  Orcel this month named the heads of the business units at
the investment bank, which will be organized around two parts:
solutions for corporate clients and wealth-management clients.  Direction ‘Clear’  “Our course of direction is clear,” Orcel said in a Nov.
5 memo which was confirmed by a UBS official. “It is now time
to move forward with a future-focused investment bank that
responds to industry, regulatory and economic realities and fits
firmly with UBS’s ambitions.”  The corporate clients unit, which will contribute about a
third of total revenue for the investment bank, will be
organized regionally with David Soanes heading Europe, the
 Middle East  and  Africa , Steve Cummings in the Americas and
 Matthew Grounds  in the Asia-Pacific region, Orcel said in the
memo. Rajeev Misra, who co-headed fixed income, currencies and
commodities with Roberto Hoornweg, will become global head of
financial solutions, he said. Hoornweg is leaving the bank.  Investor client services, contributing two-thirds of
investment-bank revenue, will be led by  Mike Stewart  as global
head of equities, Chris Vogelgesang and George Athanasopoulos as
global co-heads of foreign exchange and precious metals and
Chris Murphy as global head of rates and credit, Orcel said.  There will be no changes in business areas that the bank is
keeping and reorganization will mostly affect the rates and
credit businesses, Orcel said at the town-hall meetings.  UBS is cutting risk-weighted assets at the fixed-income
unit by 80 billion francs ($85 billion) from 110 billion francs.
Of these, about 30 billion francs will come from credit
businesses and 40 billion francs from rates, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 