-- Muddy Waters Intensifies Olam Criticism as Shares Rebound
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-11-21T09:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/muddy-waters-ramps-up-criticism-of-olam-questions-borrowing.html
Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters LLC
intensified criticism of  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  as the
commodity trader rebounded in  Singapore  after it said questions
about its accounting methods were part of a concerted short-
selling attack.  “Olam’s disproportionate reaction is extraordinary in our
experience,” Muddy Waters said in an open letter posted on its
website to Olam. “Companies that attack criticism the way Olam
does fail to understand that raising money from the public is a
privilege.”  The letter escalates a war of words that began on Nov. 19
when Block accused the Singapore-based company of booking
 profits  on transactions before it’s clear how the deals will
work out over time. Olam Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese
said yesterday that Block’s statements were designed to panic
shareholders of the company, the world’s second-largest trader
of rice and one of the top three coffee traders.  “The allegations so far are very broad and subjective,”
said James Koh, an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings in
Singapore. “Investors are probably a bit relieved that the
report is still nowhere to be seen.”  Olam, whose  second-biggest shareholder  is Singapore’s
state-investment company Temasek Holdings Pte according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, advanced 5.3 percent, the most in three
months, to close at S$1.695 in Singapore. It was the  best
performing  stock today on the benchmark  Straits Times  index.  Volume Surge  About 112.6 million shares changed hands today, more than
nine times the average daily turnover in the past three months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The move came after the
 shares tumbled  7.5 percent yesterday.  Olam, also one of the world’s top six cotton traders, is
still waiting for Block to back up his assertions, Aditya
Renjen, the company’s general manager of  investor relations ,
said today by phone.  Short selling in Olam rose to a record on Nov. 15 before
Block made his initial comments at a conference in  London .
Block, 36, has successfully bet against Chinese companies that
trade in  North America  after questioning their accounting
methods. One target, tree-plantation operator Sino-Forest Corp.,
slumped 74 percent before eventually filing for  bankruptcy
protection  in March.  Create Panic  Olam, which accounts for 90 percent of the global trade in
peanuts and is the biggest trader of dehydrated onion and
garlic, anticipates holding a series of conference calls to
address questions raised by Block once  Muddy Waters  publishes a
report on the company, Verghese said yesterday. John Armitage,
co-founder of Egerton Capital Ltd., is also shorting Olam, he
said at the investment conference in London this week.  “We see a pattern in the way Muddy Waters and whoever they
are working in concert with have taken a view on Olam having
built a very significant short position and then coming up with
this kind of report and using very aggressive and very big
statements about Olam,” Verghese said on the conference call
yesterday. “It is quite apparent that the objective was to
create panic amongst our shareholders.”  The company has increased its debt load by about S$900
million ($734 million) since February 2011, Muddy Waters said in
the letter. It has also increased its cumulative investment cash
burn by about S$2 billion and cumulative operating cash burn by
about S$500 million, Muddy Waters said.  “We have not seen a response as defensive as yours - not
even from Sino-Forest,” Muddy Waters said in the letter. “Our
research into Olam has been exhaustive, and we plan to
resolutely stand by it regardless of any attempts you might make
to discredit it or us.”  Stephen Forshaw , a spokesman for Temasek, that holds about
16 percent of Olam according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
referred to the comments by the company when contacted today.  Bond Market  Olam’s $500 million of 5.75 percent  bonds  due September
2017 were quoted at 92.5 cents on the dollar as of 4:40 p.m. in
Singapore, up from a low of 85 cents yesterday, according to BNP
Paribas SA. The notes, which priced at par in September, were
quoted at 97 cents on Nov. 19, BNP Paribas prices show.  “We’re standing by and ready to intervene” in the  bond
market  as well as  buying back  shares, Verghese said, adding he
has never traded any of his 110.6 million shares in Olam, a 4.6
percent  stake , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This is not the first time concerns over Olam’s accounting
have been raised. CLSA Asia Pacific Markets queried the
commodity supplier’s accounting and its subsidies from  Nigeria 
in a February 2011 report, prompting a 9.3 percent slump in its
shares. Olam dismissed the brokerage report and denied the
discrepancies raised.  Debt Levels  The supplier of 21 goods from cocoa to rubber said its
financial statements have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP and
are in compliance with the Companies Act and Singapore Financial
Reporting Standards. The company “reserves the right to take
strong and appropriate action with regard to any unsubstantiated
or baseless assertions,” Verghese said yesterday in a separate
statement.  Olam is “heavily” indebted and aggressive in how it
reports what the company calls biological gains on investments,
Block told the Ira Sohn Investment Conference in London.  “We’ve been told several  hedge funds  had gone and talked
to our key investors about why they feel uncomfortable about the
company,” Verghese said yesterday on the conference call. Block
“is not acting alone” and the company believes he visited
Olam’s Singapore office on Nov. 1 in disguise, Verghese said.
“We had to extract his credentials after much frustration. He
gave us a false name.”  Olam will fail and recoveries for investors will be
“negligible,” Block said. “It’s a leap of faith to think the
company is being honest with its valuation” gains, he said.  Block profited from taking a short position in Hong Kong-
and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest by borrowing and
selling the stock, then repaying the borrowed shares at a lower
price. The timber company plunged in Toronto trading before
being suspended in August last year after Muddy Waters accused
it of fraud in a June 2011 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  