-- Mumbai Gunman Hanged Before Fourth Anniversary of Attack
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-11-21T09:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/mumbai-gunman-kasab-hanged-on-four-year-anniversary-of-attack.html
Pakistani militant Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the only gunman caught alive during the 2008 guerrilla
assault on Mumbai, was hanged early today in India, as the two
nations rebuild peace talks shattered by the attacks.  Days before the fourth anniversary of the three-day siege
of India’s financial capital, authorities executed Kasab at 7:30
a.m. local time at the Yerwada Jail in nearby Pune. President
 Pranab Mukherjee  rejected Kasab’s mercy petition on Nov. 5. The
hanging was the first time India has carried out the death
penalty in eight years.  “We have allowed the rule of law to prevail in our country
and similarly we hope and expect the rule of law will prevail in
Pakistan as well,” Foreign Minister Salman Khurshid said in
televised comments, a reference to pursuing those India blames
for orchestrating the strike.  Pakistani terrorists armed with assault weapons and
grenades stormed two luxury hotels, Mumbai’s main railway
station, a cafe and a Jewish center in the 60-hour rampage four
years ago that killed 166 people. Kasab was sentenced to hang by
a  Mumbai  court in 2010 after being found guilty of mass murder
and waging war on India. The other nine militants were killed by
Indian police.  The November 2008 commando-style assault collapsed a five-
year peace process between nuclear-armed India and Pakistan,
with talks resuming only in February last year. India said the
Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba militant group ordered the Nov.
26-29 attack, possibly with the aid of what it called Pakistani
“state actors.” Pakistan denies any official involvement.  Kashmir Struggle  In a shift in strategy for groups attacking India, Kasab
and his accomplices’ targeted business executives and tourists
as well as local commuters during the strike on Mumbai, which is
home to the country’s largest companies and its stock market.  India  has repeatedly stressed that a return to normal
relations with Pakistan depends on a thorough and successful
probe of those who plotted the Mumbai raid.  Lashkar, whose name means “Army of the Pure,” was formed
to fight Indian rule in the divided Himalayan territory of
Kashmir, a cause the Pakistani state has supported. India has
criticized Pakistan for failing to prosecute senior Lashkar
members, including founder Hafiz Saeed.  “The operatives have been caught or killed but the
masterminds of the attack are still at large and unfortunately
that means they will probably never be brought to justice,”
said Brahma Chellaney, an analyst at the Centre for Policy
Research in New Delhi.  Pakistan Informed  Pakistan condemns all terrorism and is willing to cooperate
with countries in its region to eradicate it, Moazzam Ali Khan,
a foreign office spokesman, told the state-run  Associated Press 
of Pakistan.  Shinde said Pakistan had been informed in advance of the
decision to hang Kasab, believed to be 24, and that his remains
would remain in India as Pakistan has not asked for his body.  The CNN-IBN television channel reported today that Kasab
was buried inside the jail grounds in Pune.  Security camera footage of Kasab strolling around Mumbai
with an automatic weapon and backpack became an abiding image of
the attacks which India refers to as 26/11. His trial was the
fastest in Indian history for a major terrorism case.  Not a ‘Hero’  In his initial confession, which was later retracted, Kasab
told how he and his accomplices had attended forest camps where
they were trained in handling AK-47s, rocket launchers and
grenades. He described how he and a fellow attacker, Abu Ismail,
were told to fire into crowds at Mumbai’s main railway station
before taking hostages and firing at arriving security forces.  After initial denials,  Pakistan  acknowledged the Mumbai
raid was planned on its soil and began a trial of some Lashkar
members. India has accused Pakistan of being half-hearted in its
pursuit of the perpetrators.  “I don’t think there will be any harsh reaction from any
religious or militant organizations in Pakistan over the
execution of Kasab,” said Muhammad Amir Rana, director of the
Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies in Islamabad and the author
of a book on Islamic militant organizations in Pakistan. “No
one is going to make him a hero in Pakistan, nobody can afford
to do that.”  Since peace talks between India and Pakistan resumed, the
countries that have fought three wars have made progress
normalizing their economic links and easing visa restrictions.
Resolving long standing territorial disputes such as Kashmir
remains hobbled by distrust.  India’s last execution was carried out in 2004 for the rape
and murder of a schoolgirl.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  