-- UN Says Growing Emissions Gap Threatens Global Temperature Goals
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-11-21T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/un-says-growing-emissions-gap-threatens-global-temperature-goals.html
The surfeit of greenhouse gases in
the atmosphere is growing, threatening a global goal to contain
temperature gains since the industrial revolution to 2 degrees
Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), the United Nations said.  At best, international pledges to reduce carbon dioxide
will cut predicted emissions in 2020 to 52 gigatons (52 billion
tons) from 58 gigatons, the UN Environment Program, or UNEP,
 said  today in an e-mailed report. That’s 8 gigatons, or 18
percent, higher than the 44 gigatons needed for a 2-degree
pathway, it said.  The prediction is 2 gigatons greater than last year’s
forecast, illustrating the task faced by envoys from 194 nations
who are due to gather next week in Doha for two weeks of climate
treaty talks. The UN said yesterday that the level in the
atmosphere of the three main greenhouse gases reached a record,
and a Nov. 19 World Bank  study  said the globe is heading for 4
degrees of warming and “cataclysmic changes.”  “While governments work to negotiate a new international
climate agreement to come into effect in 2020 they urgently need
to put their foot firmly on the action pedal,” UNEP Executive
Director Achim Steiner said in an e-mailed statement. “The
sobering fact remains that a transition to a low carbon,
inclusive green economy is happening far too slowly.”  Inaction could lead to costs that are 10 percent to 15
percent higher after 2020 if the needed emissions cuts are
delayed, UNEP said, citing “preliminary economic asessments.”  Closing the Gap  It’s still possible to close the so-called emissions gap by
improving the energy efficiency of industry and buildings,
encouraging the use of bicycles and public transport and
reducing deforestation rates, according to the study.  The increase on last year’s prediction came after the 55
scientists from 20 countries who helped prepare today’s report
projected greater growth in developing nations and accounted for
so-called double-counting of emissions offsets.  The study follows an assessment earlier this month by the
International Energy Agency that the world risks eliminating the
possibility of keeping to a 2-degree trajectory by 2017. By that
year, all the allowable emissions to keep within that pathway
will be locked in when taking account of future emissions from
existing infrastructure, the IEA said.  Nairobi-based UNEP prepared today’s study in conjunction
with the European Climate Foundation in The Hague.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  