-- Veolia Shortsellers See Hurdles to CEO’s Reorganization
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   N a d i n e   S k o c z y l a s
-- 2012-11-21T16:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/veolia-shortsellers-see-hurdles-to-ceo-s-reorganization.html
Investors are betting that  Veolia
Environnement (VIE)  SA’s stock, which hit a record low last week, will
drop further, demonstrating uncertainty about whether its chief
executive officer can turn around the French water utility.  The number of shares being shorted has more than tripled
since hitting the lowest this year in February, according to
data compiled by Markit, a London-based research firm. That
makes Veolia the second-most shorted stock in the Stoxx Europe
600 Utilities Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are some very serious headwinds,” Louis Boujard, a
utilities analyst at Banco BPI, said by telephone. CEO Antoine
“Frerot is trying to do the restructuring that needs to be
done. The question is whether he’s paddling fast enough against
a declining economy.”  Frerot is one year into what he pledged would be a two-year
“profound transformation” of the Paris-based  utility . He plans
to cut debt and costs, sell assets and scale back global
operations to boost profits. The Veolia chief has also changed
top management and shuffled the board.  The result so far is that Veolia  shares  slipped to 7.38
euros on Nov. 16 from 65.65 euros almost five years ago.  Veolia rose 1.3 percent today to 7.90 euros in Paris. The
gain followed Veolia’s confirmation that the sale for $1.91
billion of the U.S. solid waste business sale won regulatory
approval and would lower debt by around 1.44 billion euros ($1.9
billion).  Outstanding Shares  Short interest as a percentage of Veolia’s outstanding
shares reached 7.4 percent on Nov. 16, up from a low of 2
percent in February, according to data compiled by Markit.  Veolia spokeswoman Sandrine Guendoul declined to comment on
short interest in the company.  Italy’s  Terna Rete Elettrica Nazionale SpA (TRN) , which traded
without the right to the latest dividend on Nov. 19, has the
highest level of short-interest as a percentage of shares
outstanding in the index at 9.8 percent. Austria’s  Verbund AG (VER)  is
third-highest at 4.1 percent.  Two days ago Frerot named Francois Bertreau as chief
operating officer, charged with “accelerating the company’s
transformation” through cost-cutting and a reorganization.  Veolia’s management met last week with unions on a plan to
shed about 100 jobs at the French headquarters, a fifth of the
total, according to spokeswoman Marie-Claire Camus.  Slowing Economy  The challenge is the economy in  France , which accounted for
almost 40 percent of Veolia’s revenue last year, and has barely
grown since the first quarter of 2011.  “Veolia is very sensitive to the macroeconomic
environment,” Boujard said. “If that gets too bad, all the
restructuring efforts will be put toward compensating for the
economic decline.”  Frerot is working to roll back the legacy of former chief
 Henri Proglio , who resigned as chairman almost two years ago and
as a director last month. Proglio spent about 4 billion euros on
acquisitions in 2007-2008 amid an expansion that put the utility
in 77 countries from  Argentina  to  South Korea . Frerot has plans
to reduce that reach to about 40 countries.  “The majority of Veolia’s operating inefficiency relates
to the lack of integration of the multiple of acquisitions the
group made over the 2006 to 2009 period,”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said
in a Nov. 20 note.  The company plans to sell 5 billion euros of assets and cut
investments this year and next. It has sold its U.K. regulated-
water and U.S. waste-management businesses and plans to start
buying back bonds by the end of the year.  Lower Production  Boosting earnings on businesses that the company will
continue to operate will be difficult as European economies
slow, according to analysts including Barclays. Lower industrial
production has meant factory closures that reduced waste volumes
handled by Veolia and rival  Suez Environnement. (SEV)   “Earnings momentum remains an issue given the weak macro
economy,” Barclays analysts including Julie Arav and Peter Bisztyga wrote in a Nov. 20 note to investors.  This led  Fitch Ratings  to revise Veolia’s outlook to
negative from stable on Nov. 15. The service said cash-flow
generation and de-leveraging over the next year could be limited
by a combination of weak economic conditions and “operational
difficulties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  