-- Wall Street Banks Lose Out as More Companies Do Deals In-House
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-11-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/wall-street-banks-lose-out-as-more-companies-do-deals-in-house.html
When PPR SA, the French owner of
Gucci, sold a stake in its African distributor CFAO in August,
it didn’t use an investment bank to handle the transaction.  Instead, the company turned to an in-house mergers and
acquisitions team led by Charles de Fleurieu, 39, a former
France Telecom SA M&A executive. “When we can, we do it on our
own,” said group managing director Jean-Francois Palus, 51.  Banks have had a tough past few years. Financial companies
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  have cut
about 88,000 jobs in 2012 alone and global deal volume has
plunged 53 percent from 2007, a victim of the recession and
 European debt crisis ,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its Nov.
26 issue. Now, with the average size of deals shrinking, more
European companies such as BP Plc and  Siemens AG (SIE)  are eschewing
bulge-bracket banks for M&A advice in favor of using their own
employees for smaller deals, further hurting bank revenue.  “More than ever, companies are sophisticated about M&A and
want objectivity and an independent perspective around
transactions, which they feel more confident they can get
themselves,” said  Richard Jackson , 43, head of the  Europe ,
 Middle East  and Africa M&A practice for consulting firm Bain &
Co.  Almost a third of completed European and U.S. M&A
transactions this year were done in-house, according to data
provided by  Freeman  Consulting, a New York-based research firm.
For the U.S., that represents the largest adviser-free
proportion of deals since 2003; for Europe, it’s the most since
2004.  Revenue Falls  Big global investment banks have seen their revenue from
advisory work fall 48 percent, to $6.48 billion, in the first
nine months of 2012, compared with the same period in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Distrust may be a factor as companies grow increasingly
skeptical about banks, said John Longworth, director general of
the British Chambers of Commerce, which in an October  report 
found that half of U.K. companies are leery of doing business
with financial institutions.  “Financial institutions need to rebuild trust and repair
damaged relationships with businesses,” Longworth said, citing
the London interbank offered rate scandal as one such black
mark.  While advisory work accounts for just 4.7 percent of
overall revenue for banks, it’s crucial for firms’ reputations
and  earnings . It underscores their proximity to corporate
clients and often leads to other, more profitable business from
those customers, such as providing financing for the deal and
handling future debt and equity sales.  Siemens’s Team  Siemens,  Germany ’s most acquisitive company during the past
decade, used its own M&A staff for an agreement in July 2011 to
acquire NEM and Nem Energy Services, Dutch makers of gas and
steam power-plant parts, for 170 million euros ($218 million).  Banks might have earned almost 3 million euros in fees to
advise Siemens on the deal, estimates Freeman based on
transactions roughly that size. They may have missed out on as
much as $55.5 million when BP, Europe’s second-largest oil
company, used its 30-member in-house advisory team to sell Gulf
of Mexico oil and gas properties to Plains Exploration &
Production for $5.55 billion, announced in September.  “On acquisitions, we still prefer to do it without
banks,” BP spokesman  Robert Wine  said.  London-based BP still turns to banks for large deals, as
when it hired  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Goldman Sachs, and three
other firms for advice in the pending $26.8 billion sale of its
TNK-BP stake in  Russia . BP also seeks outside advice on deals in
unfamiliar markets or involving a capital market transaction,
Wine says.  Boutique Competition  And banks can help companies mitigate the risk of
litigation from shareholders if a deal turns sour by providing a
so-called fairness opinion. “It’s important to have a second
opinion,” said Jan Hagen, a faculty member at the European
School of Management and Technology in Berlin.  Large investment banks have also seen their market share
nibbled by boutique firms such as Rothschild, Evercore Partners
Inc. and Perella Weinberg Partners LP. The niche firms’ share of
M&A fees in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa rose to 8.5
percent this year from 6.9 percent in 2007, the Freeman data
show.  Still, a company’s best option is to use familiar advisers,
said Joseph Boutross, director of  investor relations  at  LKQ
Corp. (LKQ) , a Chicago-based provider of recycled and refurbished
motor vehicle parts with a market value of about $6.3 billion.
LKQ has done more than 140 M&A transactions since its founding
in 1998 and used an internal team of about 19 in October 2011
when it bought U.K. distributor Euro Car Parts for at least 225
million pounds ($362 million).  “We try to leverage our in-house resources,” said
Boutross, “because they have the knowledge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Reibstein at 
 lreibstein@bloomberg.net  