-- Watchdog Wants EPA Chief’s Use of Alias E-Mail Probed
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-11-21T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/watchdog-wants-epa-chief-s-use-of-alias-e-mail-probed.html
A Washington-based group that
promotes government transparency asked the Environmental
Protection Agency’s inspector general to investigate whether
administrator  Lisa Jackson  set up an e-mail alias to shield
official business from open records laws.  The EPA said administrators have used an e-mail account for
public correspondence and a separate one for internal
communications for more than a decade. The agency said it
complies with the Freedom of Information Act and the Federal
Records Act.  The Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington,
or CREW, said in a letter to EPA Inspector General Arthur Elkins
yesterday that private e-mail accounts set up by Jackson and
other EPA officials may be designed to evade transparency
requirements.  Anne Weismann, chief counsel for CREW, said Jackson’s
alleged use of the “Richard Windsor” alias would likely cause
confusion that may mean FOIA responses are incomplete or
important government records aren’t preserved.  “Someone just looking at this at first would have no idea
that the person was in fact the administrator of EPA,” Weismann
said. “The potential for confusion is great.”  The Federal Records Act of 1950 requires agencies to make
and preserve records of decisions, policies and essential
transactions. FOIA is designed to open up the process of
government to citizens.  Competitive Enterprise  The allegation about alias e-mail accounts at the agency
was first made by Chris Horner, a senior fellow at the
Competitive Enterprise Institute, a Washington-based group that
promotes smaller government and has criticized EPA regulations.  Horner said he uncovered EPA administrators’ use of alias
accounts while doing research for his book, “The Liberal War on
Transparency.” Writing on National Review Online on Nov. 12,  he
said  “two former fairly senior EPA officials” told him after
the book’s publication that Jackson also used e-mail aliases,
including Richard Windsor. He didn’t name the former officials.  Republicans on the House Science, Space and Technology
Committee wrote to Jackson on Nov. 15 asking for all records
relating to Richard Windsor and correspondence for other “dual,
secondary or non-public e-mail accounts” used by senior EPA
officials.  “The email address for the public account is posted on
EPA’s website and is used by hundreds of thousands of Americans
to send messages to the administrator,” the agency said in a
statement. “The internal account is an everyday, working email
account of the administrator to communicate with staff and other
government officials.”  The public account received more than 1.5 million e-mails
in fiscal year 2012, necessitating the need for the second
account for “effective management and communication” within
the agency, the EPA said.  The statement doesn’t address the specific allegation that
Jackson used an account through the Richard Windsor alias.
Alisha Johnson, an EPA spokeswoman, said the agency didn’t have
a comment on the request for the IG investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  