-- TMX Sees Dodd-Frank Pushing Debt to Exchanges
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-11-21T14:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/tmx-sees-dodd-frank-pushing-debt-to-exchanges.html
TMX Group Ltd. (X) , owner of Canada’s
equity and derivatives exchanges, will expand its offerings of
fixed-income products as regulations drive trading to public
markets, Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Kloet  said.  The new products are likely to be helped by the Dodd-Frank
law in the U.S. and other regulations designed to reduce risk
and increase trading transparency after the 2008 global
financial crisis, Kloet said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Toronto office. The regulations create “enormous potential”
for exchanges and clearing house operators, the 54-year-old CEO
said.  “It’s a fundamental sea change, bigger than I’ve ever seen
in the last 30 years,” Kloet said. “The fixed-income space is
a natural space for us to look at. We have a relatively modest
position in fixed income.”  The parent of the Toronto Stock Exchange, taken over by
Canadian banks and pension funds September, is integrating
businesses gained from the C$3.73 billion ($3.74 billion) deal.
The merger brought Canada’s main equity exchanges and clearing
services under one roof, adding stock exchange competitor Alpha
Group and the Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd. clearing
house.  TMX aims to attract more customers and accelerate fixed-
income electronic trading with the new products. The firm
already owns the Montreal derivatives exchange, as well as its
Shorcan Brokers inter-dealer bond broker and a 47 percent stake
in Candeal.ca Inc., the fixed-income venue for Canadian
 government bonds  and money market instruments.  ‘Logical Move’  “It seems to be, to me, an extremely logical move,”
 Michael Smedley , who helps manage about C$1 billion at Morgan
Meighen & Associates in Toronto including TMX shares. “It’s
probably a great advance forward.”  TMX Group rose 0.6 percent to C$50.29 at 9:46 a.m. trading
in Toronto. The stock has fallen 1.6 percent this month,
compared with the 0.5 percent decline of the 44-company S&P/TSX
Financials Index.  TMX received 43 percent of third-quarter revenue of C$171.5
million from trading and clearing of equities, fixed income,
derivatives and energy contracts, according to company filings.
Twenty-seven percent of revenue comes from providing market
data, while 26 percent is from listing fees.  “The strategy is also a way of capturing flow that’s
happening off the exchange, or over the counter,” said Shubha Khan, an analyst with National Bank Financial in Toronto. “That
seems to be what they’re trying to achieve with this fixed-
income push, and there’s a lot of upside there.”  Trading Slump  TMX has been hurt by a trading slump that has sapped
revenue. The number of shares changing hands on the Toronto
Stock Exchange dropped 21 percent for the first 10 months of the
year compared with the same period a year ago, according to
company statistics. Trading volume on the  TSX Venture Exchange 
plunged 35 percent. In comparison, the number of contracts
traded on Montreal Exchange rose 4.9 percent for the period.  Changing regulations may also create opportunities for
takeovers, Kloet said.  “When regulatory change happens, there’s a host of
opportunities that come out of that,” Kloet said. “That’s why
I’m not willing to close the door and lock it and say, ‘no
acquisitions for awhile -- small or large’.”  Kloet said his main focus is on integrating Alpha and the
CDS clearing house into the company’s operations, though he’s
not ruling out takeovers, whether they include smaller
acquisitions such as its March purchase of Razor Risk
Technologies Ltd., or more transformational deals.  “‘We are not going to put our head in the sand and ignore
what’s going to happen in the marketplace,” Kloet said.  ‘Strong Exchange’  Investors such as Smedley say TMX shouldn’t lose sight of
acquisition opportunities.  “They should be exploring as much as possible the
international opportunities because they are a very strong
exchange,” Smedley said. “In particular in the resources
sectors they have great global strength, possibly the best.”  Kloet cited  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) ’s bid to
buy London Metal Exchange as an acquisition he’s watching
closely. At $2.2 billion, TMX couldn’t afford it, he said.  “The Hong Kong Exchange acquisition of the London Metal
Exchange is a huge transaction,” Kloet said. “Don’t think for
a second that we wouldn’t have been interested in that.”  Other exchange deals this year include  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc’s (LSE)  plan to buy a majority stake in
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., Europe’s biggest clearinghouse, and
Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc.’s $1.6 billion takeover of Osaka
Securities Exchange Co.  “We’re in a period in history where things are moving very
fast and they’re not going to wait for us to finish our
integration,” Kloet said. “I feel a responsibility to the
shareholders and the marketplace to seize opportunities if
they’re out there.”  Primary Focus  TMX’s “primary focus” is enhancing Montreal Exchange’s
futures products around fixed income, including  Canada ’s key
interest-rate contract and Canadian government bond contract
notes, Kloet said. That involves creating a fixed-income market-
maker program where dealers offer firm bid and offer prices
within the Montreal Exchange.  “That will allow people who want to manage risk from fixed
income via our derivative markets to have an even more liquid
market,” Kloet said. “We’ve been in the process of developing
our marketplace there and it continues to grow.”  Montreal Exchange on Nov. 7 requested  proposals  from market
participants to provide market-making of the S&P/TSX 60 Index
Standard Futures contracts, starting in January, according to
company filings.  “This is really a broader push into derivatives,” said
Khan, who rates TMX a “sector perform.” “Given the regulatory
changes that are afoot, that’s probably a right strategy,
because derivatives are probably where the bulk of the growth
opportunities lie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  