-- Euro Strengthens on Optimism for Greece Agreement
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-11-21T22:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/yen-sinks-to-7-month-low-against-dollar-on-posting-trade-deficit.html
The euro rose against the majority
of its 16 most-traded peers on speculation European finance
ministers are close to finalizing a debt-reduction package for
 Greece .  The yen fell to a six-month low versus the euro after
 Japan ’s exports decreased for a fifth straight month,
undermining demand for the nation’s assets.  Europe ’s shared
currency rose to the highest level in almost two weeks versus
the greenback after falling earlier amid the ministers’ failure
to complete the Greek deal yesterday in Brussels. Sweden’s krona
advanced against all of its major peers.  “That European Union policy makers remain positive on the
prospects for a deal may have contributed modestly to the
improvements in the euro and risk appetite,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said
in a telephone interview.  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.2829 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time after gaining to $1.2833, the most since Nov. 7. The yen
declined 1 percent to 82.52 per dollar after reaching 82.55, the
weakest since April 6. The yen hadn’t weakened beyond 82 per
dollar since April. Japan’s currency dropped 1.1 percent to
105.86 per euro, after weakening to 105.89, the lowest level
since May 3.  Krona, Rand  Sweden’s krona rose after a survey of Swedish industrial
companies showed investments are expected to rise 9 percent this
year,  Statistics Sweden  said today. The report damped concern
over the economy amid reports of slumping exports and job cuts.  The currency advanced 0.7 percent to 6.7181 per dollar
after touching 6.7172, its strongest level since Nov. 9. The
krona appreciated 0.6 percent to 8.6190 per euro.  The South African rand fell versus all of its major peers
to its weakest level in more than three years as inflation
accelerated 5.6 percent in October from 5.5 percent a month
earlier. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 23
economists was 5.4 percent.  South Africa ’s currency slipped 1.2 percent to 8.9482 per
dollar after decreasing to 9.0092, its lowest level since April
2009. The rand depreciated 1.3 percent to 11.4850 per euro.  The Brazilian real fell to a three-year low after President
 Dilma Rousseff  told  Valor Economico  that the currency is
“overvalued,” spurring speculation that the government will
allow it to depreciate further.  Brazil ’s currency slid 0.9 percent to 2.0985 per dollar,
the lowest on a closing basis since May 2009.  Meeting Scheduled  Europe’s shared currency earlier erased losses against the
greenback after finance ministers said a further meeting on
Greece had been arranged for Nov. 26 and that only “technical
problems” are holding up a deal.  “We have a series of options on the table on how to close
the financing gap,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
told reporters in Brussels. “We discussed the issue very
intensively, but since the questions are so complicated we
didn’t come to a final agreement.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told lawmakers that there’s
a chance for a deal on Greek aid at next week’s meeting.  Schaeuble said the issue of the nation’s funding gap was
solvable and possible solutions include reducing interest
payments on its initial bailout loans, suspending payouts
through 2020 on its second rescue package, or having the
 European Central Bank  buy 9 billion euros ($11.5 billion) of the
country’s Treasury bills, according to four people who attended
the briefing.  ‘Yen Weakness’  The Japanese currency slid for a sixth day versus the
greenback after the Ministry of Finance said  exports  fell 6.5
percent in October from a year earlier, leaving a trade deficit
of 549 billion yen ($6.7 billion). The median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for a shortfall of 360
billion yen.  “The yen got an extra push because of the trade-balance
figures,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain
Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“It showed a deficit that was larger than expected, which is
putting pressure on the yen because Japan is an export-driven
economy.”  The 14-day relative strength index for the dollar against
the yen was above 70 for a fourth day today, the level that some
traders see as a sign an asset is about to change direction.  The yen has fallen against all but one of its major peers
this month as Shinzo Abe, leader of the  Liberal Democratic Party 
and favorite to topple Japan’s prime minister in Dec. 16
elections, advocated more aggressive measures to weaken it.  Worst Performer  Abe’s outlook “means they’re likely to be very, very
aggressive in terms of not just an asset-purchase program, but
likely for going after yen-weakening policies,”  Camilla Sutton ,
head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money”
with Sara Eisen. “If Japan implicitly goes after a weak yen
policy on various fronts, it brings into question how the U.S.
will react to that.”  Japan’s currency dropped 8.2 percent in the past 12 months,
the worst performer of the 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted indexes. The euro is the second-worst
performer, declining 6.4 percent, while the dollar fell 0.9
percent.  The Dollar Index rose earlier today after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the U.S. risked falling
back into recession unless lawmakers averted the so-called
fiscal cliff, spurring demand for the safety of the U.S.
currency.  Fiscal Cliff  An agreement on ways to reduce long-term  federal budget 
deficits could remove an impediment to growth, while failure to
avoid the fiscal cliff -- $607 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts scheduled to take effect at the
beginning of 2013 unless Congress acts -- would pose a
“substantial threat” to the recovery, Bernanke said in a
speech in New York.  The gauge , which is used to track the greenback versus the
currencies of six U.S. trading partners, was little changed at
80.917 after touching 81.265, almost the most since Sept. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  