-- Yoma to Ride on Obama’s Myanmar Visit for Growth: Southeast Asia
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-11-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/yoma-to-ride-on-obama-s-myanmar-visit-for-growth-southeast-asia.html
Yoma Strategic Holdings Ltd., (YOMA)  a
developer of properties in Myanmar, said its new real estate
projects will benefit from increased interest in the country
after U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s visit this week.  Obama hailed Myanmar’s shift to democracy and urged more
steps to increase freedom after a Nov. 19 meeting with
opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi during the first visit to the
former military-ruled country by a U.S. president.  “It will encourage some people sitting on the fence,
particularly the Europeans and Americans, to invest, and will
encourage them to think that now is the time to start engaging
with this country,” Andrew Rickards, chief executive officer of
Yoma, said in a phone interview from Singapore on Nov. 20. ‘That
was a landmark visit, a truly historical moment.’’  The Singapore-based company, which gets almost all of its
sales from Myanmar, is positioning itself to take advantage as
the natural gas-rich Southeast Asian nation the size of Texas
reconnects with the global economy after five decades of
isolation during military rule.  Yoma said earlier this week it plans to spend $81.3 million
on a controlling stake in a land project in Yangon, the
commercial center and former capital. The proposed $350 million,
2 million-square-foot development will consist of residential,
retail, hotel and commercial space on about 10 acres of land in
the country’s business center, the company said.  Yoma’s  shares  almost quadrupled this year, the second-best
performing stock on Singapore’s broader  FTSE Strait Times All
Share Index. (FSTAS)   Commercial Hub  The U.S. relaxed sanctions on Myanmar this year after
President Thein Sein engaged with political opponents and eased
media restrictions following his party’s victory in a 2010
election that ended five decades of direct military rule.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who accompanied
Obama during his Myanmar trip, said in a Nov. 17 speech that the
Southeast Asian country could be a “commercial hub” connecting
 India  and Bangladesh with the rest of the region.  It’s “striking how quickly the American attitude towards
Myanmar has changed,” Rickards said. It “resulted in a visit
that was unthinkable a year ago, unthinkable perhaps even six
months ago, so it’s hugely significant,” he said.  Yoma expects to generate an internal rate of return of as
much as 20 percent on its latest Yangon project, Rickards said.
The construction will start next year and will take four to five
years to complete, he said. The developer is also planning a
private placement of shares and rights offer to help fund the
project in the country formerly known as  Burma .  Encouraging Signs  “There are opportunities in Myanmar, there is political
will and willingness to open up Myanmar,” said  Vishnu Varathan ,
a Singapore-based economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. who
called Obama’s visit one of the “encouraging signs” for the
country. “One needs to recognize that Myanmar is an emerging
market and so it comes with the appropriate warning labels and
risk premiums.”  The internal rates of return for emerging-market
development deals are from about 20 percent to 25 percent, said
Priyaranjan Kumar, Singapore-based regional director of  capital
markets  at  Cushman & Wakefield , a property consulting company
and brokerage.  Growth Outlook  Situated next to the  Indian Ocean  between  China  and India,
Myanmar, with 64 million people, represents one of Asia’s last
untapped frontier markets. The  International Monetary Fund  said
in September that direct foreign investment will rise 40 percent
to a record $3.99 billion this year, and  said  last month the
economy may expand 6.2 percent. That compares with 5.1 percent
growth in  Vietnam , 4.8 percent in the Philippines and 6 percent
in Indonesia.  The outlook for economic growth is helping Yoma draw new
partners in a country where its projects include Star City,
which will comprise of 9,000 residential units as well as
shopping and commercial developments in Yangon.  “We are talking to a number of upmarket hotel operators,”
Rickards said. “Some are coming to the country for the first
time, some maybe coming back after a 20-, 25-year absence. This
country was a rich country up until the ’60s and some people
that remember the old grandeur might be looking to come back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  