-- YY Jumps After First IPO by Chinese Company in 7 Months
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-11-21T21:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-21/yy-jumps-after-first-ipo-by-chinese-company-in-7-months.html
YY Inc. (YY)  gained in New York trading
after the social network operator raised $81.9 million in the
first initial public offering in the U.S. by a Chinese company
in seven months.  American depositary receipts  of Guangzhou, China-based YY,
each representing 20 ordinary shares, climbed 7.7 percent to
$11.31 in New York, after the IPO priced the ADRs at $10.50, the
bottom of the company’s $10.50 to $12.50 target range. ADRs
surged as much as 12 percent to $11.75 earlier.  YY is the third Chinese company to complete a U.S. IPO this
year, down from 13 initial offerings in 2011 and 38 in 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Allegations by short sellers
such as Muddy Waters LLC against Chinese U.S.-listed firms over
accounting irregularities and misrepresentations of assets have
deterred companies from selling shares. YY also became the first
of the three Chinese companies that listed in  New York  this year
to rise on its first trading day.  “Good quality companies will still be accepted by the U.S.
capital market,” Xueling Li, YY’s chief executive officer and
co-founder said in a phone interview yesterday in New York.
“While we had some worries about our pricing previously, we
never considered a failure of the IPO. The company’s
fundamentals and scale is very attractive to investors.”  Established in 2005, YY had 400 million registered users of
its core software as of Sept. 30. The system provides real-time
access to user-created online groups. Compared with other social
media outlets which focus on one-on-one communication, YY is a
platform for voice and video interactions among groups that can
be as large as 1 million people, CEO Li said.  The company currently generates positive cash flow of about
$3 million every month, Chief Financial Officer Eric He said
yesterday. YY has been profitable since the second quarter of
2011 based on Non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or
non-GAAP, He said. The company’s GAAP loss in the first nine
months this year was mainly caused by share-based compensation
liabilities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  