-- ‘Haunted’ Topix Headed for Worst Losing Streak Since ’77: Resona
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-05-25T04:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/-haunted-topix-headed-for-worst-losing-streak-since-77-resona.html
Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at
Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, which oversees about $188 billion,
comments on Japan’s Topix Index. The measure has fallen 0.4
percent this week, headed for an eight-week loss, the longest
losing streak since 1977.  The index has fallen 17 percent from this year’s high on 
March 27 as investors worry that  Greece , stuck in a political 
gridlock, may renege on spending cuts required for it to stay 
in the euro.  On  market sentiment :  “The Lehman shock continues to haunt the market. Investors
are vulnerable to the unknown and they worry that if they
underestimate the Greek issue, things may fall apart. They
wouldn’t feel that way if they didn’t go through the Lehman
shock.  ‘‘In  Japan , few thought the earthquake and the nuclear
accident had been unimaginable, but they did happen. The market
has become sensitive to risk.  ‘‘People are headed in the same direction, as buyers have
stopped and sellers are dominating.’’  On Japanese corporate earnings and monetary policy:  ‘‘We’ve seen expectations turn into disappointments over
the past month or so. That’s weighing on Japan’s stocks.  ‘‘For one, earning forecasts make you think that they are
not only cautious, but also may actually deteriorate. It’s like
taking away the ladder from investors who expected a huge
rebound in earnings after the earthquake and Thai floods.  ‘‘Another reason is that people are losing faith in a shift
in the Bank of Japan’s policy. What they said in April gives an
impression they haven’t changed much. People are starting to
think this way: Japan hasn’t changed. It can’t beat deflation,
and monetary policy is behind the curve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  