-- ‘Men in Black III’; ‘Moonrise’; ‘Intouchables’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/-men-in-black-iii-moonrise-intouchables-movies.html
Flashing back to 1969, “ Men in Black
3 ” has some fun with  Andy Warhol ’s wig, Coney Island hippies
and the moon landing, yet can’t quite summon a time when this
sci-fi comedy franchise felt fresh.  The third in director Barry Sonnenfeld’s aliens-among-us
series reassembles most of the elements that made 1997’s
original a charmer.  Will Smith  and Tommy Lee Jones are back, if a bit
bedraggled, as the top-secret government agents battling all
variety (mostly gross) of space aliens. FX genius Rick Baker
populates the planet with fantastically realized visitors, and
the script (credited to Etan Cohen after years of rumored
rewrites by committee) taps some of the first installment’s
snappy cynicism.  The film gets off to an energetic start with the lunar
prison escape of one-armed Boris the Animal ( Jemaine Clement ,
the “Flight of the Conchords” funnyman, unrecognizable as a
Hells Angels-type villain).  Back to ’69  Once free, Boris heads back to 1969, determined to rewrite
history by killing Jones’s then-rookie Agent K.  Smith’s Agent J follows headlong in pursuit, and Sonnenfeld
demands we do the same -- pondering the film’s near-absent
internal logic is as pointless as the rules “MIB3” invents as
it goes.  Our payoff is  Josh Brolin  as the younger, slightly happier
version of Agent K. Brolin is a special effect in himself,
nailing Jones’ gruff mannerisms.  The film is best at its goofiest -- a fistfight atop Apollo
11, a free-fall plunge from the Chrysler Building and, loveliest
of all, a trip to an empty Shea Stadium, where an ethereal,
future-seeing alien (Michael Stuhlbarg, in Elmer Fudd drag)
explains all the necessary variables that will contribute to the
Miracle Mets’ unlikely World Series victory. That’s magic.  “Men in Black 3,” from  Columbia Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘Moonrise Kingdom’  Like one of the adolescent misfits in his defiantly quirky
“ Moonrise Kingdom ,” director Wes Anderson draws a line and
dares detractors to cross it.  Go ahead, cross over. “Moonrise Kingdom” is a gem, an
off-kilter fable of first love, awkward kids and Scouting
skills.  Set during late summer 1965 in an island community off the
coast of  New England , the bittersweet comedy follows two love-
blinded 12-year-old runaways as they traipse through a woods to
a beachside idyll they name Moonrise Kingdom.  Whip-smart “Khaki Scout” Sam (Jared Gilman) is a bullied
nerd in a Davy Crockett cap, an outsider even his foster parents
won’t love.  Suzy (Kara Hayward) is his dreamy, troubled girlfriend, her
caked-on eye shadow the most prominent sign that she’s ready to
leave her unhappy childhood behind.  Their sudden disappearance -- “Jiminy Cricket! He flew the
coop!,” says scoutmaster Ward ( Edward Norton ) -- leaves the
tiny community in a tizzy. Suzy’s lovelessly married parents
( Frances McDormand  and  Bill Murray ) join the scoutmaster and a
sad sack sheriff ( Bruce Willis ) in the hunt.  Special Place  Anderson and cowriter Roman Coppola fashion “Moonrise
Kingdom” as a sort of earnest, high-blown children’s adventure,
not mock-heroic exactly, because no one’s mocking anything. When
Suzy envies Sam’s “special” place as an orphan in the world,
he thinks for a moment before responding, “I love you, but you
don’t know what you’re talking about.”  Meticulously designed and photographed, “Moonrise
Kingdom” has a tender heart beneath the amped-up artificiality.
After a quarrel, Suzy’s mom apologizes to her husband.  “Which injuries are you apologizing for, specifically,”
he asks.  “Specifically, whichever ones still hurt,” comes the
answer.  “Moonrise Kingdom,” from  Focus Features , is playing in
New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: **** (Evans)  ‘The Intouchables’  At the beginning of the French feel-good drama “ The
Intouchables ,” a fabulously rich quadriplegic (Francois Cluzet)
follows a whim and hires a Senegalese thug from the banlieues
(Omar Sy) as his attendant.  Philippe, the cultured aristocrat, and Driss, the vivacious
lout, are both sick of the hand they’ve been dealt; each awakens
the other’s will to have fun.  They’re a 21st-century Henry Higgins and Eliza Doolittle,
and their bromance is safe from even a hint of gay panic, since
Philippe is numb from the neck down.  The set-up is maudlin by definition. But because Philippe’s
reason for wanting Driss around is that Driss is too insensitive
to pity him, it also has a gruff underside that allows you to
enjoy it without hating yourself. It’s not a tear-jerker.  In  France , “The Intouchables” (if the title is ever
explained, I missed it) was a success far beyond what its
writer-directors, Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano, or anybody
else could have predicted; it’s now the second-most-viewed
domestic movie in French history.  Its appeal is understandable: Everyone would like to think
that poor and rich, black and white can bridge their
differences. Besides, Cluzet and Sy have chemistry.  Sy has the more difficult role, since he has to make Driss
simultaneously loutish and attractive. I wasn’t as charmed by
Driss’s oafishness in the face of modern art, poetry and
classical music as I was clearly meant to be.  Earth, Wind, Fire  I was mortified when he shrugged off the early-music
orchestra hired to play at Philippe’s exceedingly dull birthday
party and put on Earth, Wind & Fire.  But as soon as he started to dance I sat up, and my mind
went straight to  John Travolta  in “ Saturday Night Fever ” --
which came out in 1977, the year before Sy was born. (“Boogie
Wonderland,” the song he dances to, was released when he was
one.) My biggest complaint about the movie is that he doesn’t
dance more.  Driss is supposed to have an infectious joie de vivre that
brings Philippe’s starchy household to life. That’s a concept
that could kill a movie. Instead, it won Sy the 2012 Cesar as
Best Actor.  “The Intouchables,” from the Weinstein Company, is
playing in  New York  and Los Angeles. Rating: *** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  weekend .  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 