-- Lacrosse Party-Boy Image Worries Coaches Who See Slower Growth
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-05-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/lacrosse-party-boy-image-worries-coaches-who-see-slower-growth.html
Duke University men’s lacrosse coach
John Danowski still talks to recruits’ parents about the
stripper party that led to false rape allegations six years ago.  University of Virginia  coach Dom Starsia won’t grant
interview requests about a former player who beat his girlfriend
to death two years ago. Johns Hopkins coach Dave Pietramala says
a survey that showed lacrosse players are the biggest users of
illicit drugs among college athletes was “deeply concerning.”  As the sport grows from pockets of devoted followers on the
East Coast to national prominence -- youth participation almost
tripled from 2001 to 2010 -- it is struggling to avoid
developing an image that could damage its future.  “It’s really important that the lacrosse world grows up a
little bit,” Danowski said from his office in Durham, North
Carolina. “We are getting more TV exposure; more people are
able to make a living through lacrosse. If we want to be
accepted in the mainstream, then it’s time for us to grow up.”  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN network is televising 61 regular-
season and postseason games this year including tomorrow’s
national semifinals -- Loyola University  Maryland  against  Notre
Dame , and Duke versus Maryland -- followed by the championship
contest two days later.  The semifinals and final, at Gillette Stadium in
Foxborough,  Massachusetts , are expected to draw more than
100,000 fans, according to the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  and have attracted nine corporate sponsors, up from
four in 2004, including companies such as  Capital One Financial
Corp. (COF) ,  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Allstate Corp. (ALL) ,  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  and  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)   Sales at lacrosse equipment maker STX in Baltimore have
quadrupled in the past five years as players bought $150 sticks,
$100 helmets, $150 gloves and $100 pads. Youth participation
reached 324,673 in 2010, according to Baltimore-based US
Lacrosse.  Bad Publicity  At the same time, lacrosse has been buffeted by bad
publicity. At Duke, three players were exonerated of raping a
stripper. At  Virginia , player George Huguely was found guilty of
second-degree murder in the beating death of his girlfriend. He
is awaiting sentencing.  Coaches and administrators say the NCAA survey that showed
men’s lacrosse players used illicit drugs the most among college
athletes has the potential to do even more damage. The survey
also showed that only ice hockey players drink alcohol more.  “I am very concerned about the perception of the sport,”
said  Richie Meade , a former Navy lacrosse coach who took his
team to the NCAA championship in 2004. He now coaches the U.S.
2014 men’s national team. “We need to look at some of the
things going on and evaluate the way we are doing business.”  ‘One Eye Open’  University of Denver coach  Bill Tierney , who guided
 Princeton University  to six NCAA titles before leaving for
Colorado in 2009, said the survey results might affect parents’
decisions to allow their children to play the game and gives
college athletic directors concerns about adding a lacrosse
program.  “This NCAA drinking and drugs thing, we’ve got to make a
decision in lacrosse about whether we want to accept that or do
something about it,” Tierney said in a telephone interview.
“It’s the same in hockey and in football. We all sleep with one
eye open on Saturday night, and we are all scared to death that
something crazy could happen.”  Pietramala said the sport is a victim of its own success.  “What’s happening to our sport is that we are just getting
to a point where we are newsworthy,” he said. “But the news
that appears to be most worthy is negative.”  Some universities also might be reluctant to start a
varsity lacrosse program because of Title IX, the 1972 law
requiring equal sports opportunities for men and women.  Schools that add a 45-member men’s lacrosse team with the
maximum 12.6 scholarships might be required to offer equal
opportunities for female athletes.  Unprofitable Sport  For most every school, lacrosse is a money loser.  At Virginia, which won its fifth NCAA championship last
year, the lacrosse program had an operating loss of $805,247 on
revenue of $638,827, according to a financial report filed with
the NCAA for the fiscal year ending June 2011.  Though the number of men’s Division I varsity teams has
grown to 153 in 2012 from 126 in 2001, costs have forced some
universities to satisfy student interest through club teams,
which don’t have full-time coaches or scholarships and have
limited travel.  In the Atlantic Coast Conference, only Maryland, Virginia,
Duke and  North Carolina  have varsity lacrosse teams. The  Big Ten
Conference  has three lacrosse teams:  Michigan ,  Penn State  and
Ohio State. The Big 12 and Southeastern conferences don’t have
any.  Even with the bad publicity, lacrosse coaches and
administrators see advantages in sponsoring the sport.  Graduation Rate  Division I lacrosse teams graduate 88 percent of their
athletes, exceeding the 73 percent average for all sports,
according to the NCAA.  At the  University of Pennsylvania , coach Mike Murphy has a
lacrosse board composed largely of business executives including
Barclay’s Managing Director of Municipal Finance  Peter Coleman ,
50, who reviews players’ resumes and helps them prepare for job
interviews.  Casey Carroll, a member of the 2006 Duke squad that had its
season canceled after the rape accusations, joined the U.S. Army
after graduation and became a member of the elite Rangers unit,
serving four deployments in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  Now he has returned to Duke to earn his master’s in
business administration and possibly complete his final year of
eligibility on the lacrosse team.  “It’s an exciting game to watch and play and it’s going to
continue to grow in all corners of this country,” Carroll said.
“But we need to trust one another, we need to grow the sport
with teamwork, and we have to make sure that we do it by holding
ourselves to the highest standards possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  