-- AirAsia’s Fernandes to Move to Jakarta as Airline Expands
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-05-25T10:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/airasia-s-fernandes-to-move-to-jakarta-as-airline-expands.html
AirAsia (AIRA)  Bhd. Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Fernandes , one of  Malaysia ’s most successful businessmen,
said he’s moving to live in Jakarta to help accelerate the
regional expansion of Asia’s biggest budget carrier.  Fernandes has steered AirAsia’s growth from a two-plane
operation to 110 aircraft in just over a decade, overtaking
 Malaysian Airline Systems Bhd. (MAS)  as the country’s largest carrier
by market value. He’ll move to live in the Indonesian capital in
about two weeks where the group is setting up a regional office,
while keeping Malaysia as its headquarters.  “Part of AirAsia’s success might require him to move away
from the epicenter in Malaysia so that he can see the woods
instead of the tree,” said Gerald Ambrose, who oversees 5.4
billion ringgit ($1.7 billion) in assets as managing director of
Aberdeen Asset Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur.  The carrier has grown from its Malaysian roots to establish
budget spin-offs in countries including  Indonesia , Thailand and
most recently the Philippines and  Japan . Fernandes wants to form
similar airline partnerships in South Korea, Vietnam and the
Middle East.  “I get over-involved in the Malaysian operation,”
Fernandes told reporters in Toulouse, southern France, where he
was taking delivery of the airline’s 100th Airbus SAS A320 plane.
“I should also be looking at Japan, Indonesia.”  About 20 AirAsia head office staff are moving to join him
and help with regional strategy, Fernandes said.  More Planes  The group placed an order last year for 200 advanced
A320neo planes to facilitate route expansion. It’s considering
additional orders for Airbus single-aisle jets, he said.  AirAsia rose 4.1 percent to close at 3.60 ringgit in  Kuala
Lumpur  today after news of its potential fleet expansion. The
 benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index gained 0.2 percent.  The parent of AirAsia’s Thai unit is slated to list shares
in Bangkok this month. The airline’s Indonesian venture is also
planning an initial public offering this year, it said last year.  Fernandes’s decision to move comes as AirAsia and Malaysian
Air’s biggest shareholders this month unwound a share swap
following protests by the national carrier’s biggest union.  He has had a “rough ride here in the past three months in
the uncertainty with Malaysian Air,” Ambrose said. “He might
think he wants to stand back and focus on the business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  