-- Airbus Pitches Wider Seats for Overweight Passengers in the U.S.
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-05-25T12:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/airbus-pitches-wider-seats-for-overweight-passengers-in-the-u-s-.html
Airbus SAS, seeking an edge over
 Boeing Co. (BA)  in the contest to supply single-aisle planes to U.S.
carriers, has begun pitching a version of its A320s with wider
aisle seats that airlines can market for additional revenue.  The planemaker has begun talking to several U.S. carriers
about the concept in recent weeks after getting B/E Aerospace
Inc. to design a prototype. The A320’s 7 1/2 inch advantage in
cabin width over the Boeing 737s would let Toulouse, France-
based Airbus offer 20-inch aisle seats by reducing the middle
and window seats to 17 inches, equivalent to the 737.  “Airlines are improving their margins by charging for
bags, window seats, and food,” said  John Leahy , chief operating
officer for customers at Airbus. “But what most people really
want is space, and that’s what we can offer. Every economy-class
aisle seat would be almost as wide as a first class seat on
competing aircraft.”  Adding two inches to one third of the seats in an A320
would hand U.S. airlines a marketing tool that they could target
at the obese population, which has swelled to more than one-
third of U.S. adults, according to Data from the National Health
and Nutrition Examination survey. Airbus has sought to win more
business with U.S. airlines and ween them off the 737, which
remains the world’s most widely flown commercial aircraft.  Overspill  Fare competition in the U.S. market has led many airlines
to seek additional revenue from ancillary services, including
seat selection and paying checked-bag fees. A $10 fee, a price
Leahy said is realistic for the privilege of a wider seat, would
bring in $500 extra on a flight with an A320, which typically
has about 50 aisle positions among its 150 seats.  U.S. carriers including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  have sought to
cope with the challenge of accommodating large passengers,
forcing some obese travelers to buy a second seat when flights
are full or other passengers complain about a circumferentially
challenged neighbor spilling into their space.  Airbus’s wider A320 cabin has allowed airlines to fit in
three, 18-inch seats on either side of the aisle. Boeing’s 737,
also with three plus three seating, offers 17 inch seats.  Leahy said the wide seat on the aisle might also attract
mothers traveling with small children, or anyone who wanted more
room. The concept could eventually be marketed outside the U.S.
as well, he said.  “This will become very popular soon in a very short
time,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  