-- Takeda to Buy Multilab to Gain Sales Network in Brazil
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-05-25T10:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/takeda-to-buy-multilab-to-gain-sales-network-in-brazil.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ,  Asia ’s
largest drugmaker, agreed to buy closely held  Multilab Industria
e Comercio de Productos Farmaceuticos Ltda.  for 500 million
reais ($246 million) to gain a sales network in  Brazil .  Multilab’s owners, Genesio Cervo and Rejane Gobbi, will get
as much as 40 million reais in additional milestone payments
later from Osaka, Japan-based Takeda, the two companies said in
a statement today, without disclosing more details. The purchase
by Takeda’s wholly owned Brazilian unit will put the Japanese
company among the top 10 drugmakers in South America’s biggest
economy, according to the statement.  Multilab, based in  Sao Paulo , has a well established
distribution network of regional wholesalers and small- to mid-
size independent pharmacies in emerging regions of the country,
according to the statement. This is the second acquisition
announced by Takeda this year after it agreed last month to buy
closely held URL Pharma Inc. to gain a new gout treatment.  “Takeda has ambitious plans for growth in  emerging
markets ,” Jostein Davidsen, who heads emerging markets
commercial operations at Takeda, said in the statement. “Brazil
is our second-largest emerging market after Russia/CIS in terms
of revenues and the acquisition of Multilab is a clear signal of
our intention to become a significant player both in Brazil and
other high-growth markets.”  Branded Drugs  The Brazilian drugmaker’s sales have risen more than 20
percent annually between 2009 and 2011 and posted revenue of 140
million reais last year, it said. The company sells branded
generic drugs and over-the-counter medicines such as Multligrip
cold remedy, the country’s best-selling product for treating
cold and influenza, according to the statement.  Takeda expects the transaction to be completed by the end
of September, according to the statement. Takeda had 455.6
billion yen ($5.7 billion) in cash and equivalents, and short-
term investments as of March 31, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shares of Takeda rose 2.3 percent to 3,300 yen in  Tokyo .
The announcement was made after the close of trading.  Takeda was advised by JP Morgan Chase & Co. and Multilab by
 Banco BTG Pactual SA. (BBTG11)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ; 