-- Alibaba Cleared to Privatize Unit After Shareholders Vote
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-05-25T03:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/alibaba-group-cleared-to-take-unit-private-after-hong-kong-vote.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. won
approval to take a Hong Kong-traded unit private, simplifying
its structure as it prepares to repurchase a $7.1 billion stake
from  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  before an eventual initial public offering.  More than 95 percent of votes cast by  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) 
shareholders at a ballot in Hong Kong today supported the $2.5
billion buyout offer from the parent, Company Secretary Elsa Wong said. That was more than the 75 percent required to approve
the transaction.  Alibaba Group,  China ’s biggest e-commerce company, said in
February it will offer as much as HK$19.6 billion ($2.5 billion)
for shares it didn’t own in Alibaba.com, after profit at the
unit declined. The closely held Chinese parent company this week
agreed to repurchase stock in itself from Yahoo in a deal that
billionaire Chairman Jack Ma said may facilitate an initial
public offering in the future.  “After the privatization, Alibaba.com’s business will
probably be integrated with some of the parent’s other
operations,” said Dundas Deng, an analyst at Guotai Junan
Securities in Shenzhen. The reorganization will help Alibaba
Group’s plans for an IPO, he said.  Premium Offer  Earlier today, Alibaba.com shares were suspended from
trading.  The shares  were unchanged at HK$13.42 in  Hong Kong 
trading yesterday. The HK$13.50 a share buyout bid by the parent
was 46 percent higher than Alibaba.com’s price when the stock
was suspended Feb. 9 pending the offer announcement.  Alibaba Group  controls  73 percent of the shares of
Alibaba.com, its e-commerce division that is focused on business
owners. The Hangzhou, China-based parent also operates online
shopping sites including Taobao and Tmall for consumers.  The Hong Kong-traded shares fell 42 percent last year, as
the company said it was changing its focus from adding customers
to improving service for users.  First-quarter profit  fell 25
percent, as fewer website subscriptions were sold to exporters,
the unit reported last month.  Ma, a former English teacher owns about 7.4 percent of
Alibaba Group, according to a Hong Kong stock exchange filing
last month, making his stake worth $2.6 billion.  Alibaba has been trying to buy back the stake from Yahoo
for more than a year and stepped up efforts in September because
of improving prospects for growth and expansion beyond China.
While the deal reduces Yahoo’s presence in China, the world’s
largest Internet market, it may aid turnaround efforts as the
portal competes with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. for users and
advertising dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  