-- Hammerson Said to Be in Talks With Berkeley on London Tower Sale
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-05-25T05:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/hammerson-said-to-be-in-talks-with-berkeley-on-london-tower-sale.html
Hammerson Plc (HMSO) , which is selling
assets to focus on shopping centers, is in advanced talks with
 Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG)  for the sale of a planned London
apartment tower, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Berkeley, the U.K.’s second-largest homebuilder by value,
is the lead bidder for the residential project to be built near
the City of London financial district and Liverpool Street rail
station, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the sale process is private. A spokesman for Berkeley declined
to comment. Hammerson declined to comment in an e-mailed
statement.  Hammerson, the U.K.’s third-largest real estate investment
trust, received planning permission in July 2011 for a 243-
apartment tower as part of its  Principal Place  project. It would
have an additional 56-units of affordable housing on the site
and be adjacent to a 16-story, 57,500 square meter (618,925
square foot) office tower designed by Foster + Partners Ltd.  Hammerson estimated the cost of the combined projects at 485
million pounds ($760 million), with the residential portion
estimated to cost 195 million pounds, according to an investor
presentation.  In January, Hammerson said talks to lease a third of the
office development to CMS Cameron McKenna LLP failed after the
 law firm  postponed its relocation. Hammerson Chief Executive
Officer David Atkins said in February the London-based company
would complete all its planned office projects before selling
them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Packard in London at 
 Packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 