-- Amnesty for Amazon Deforestation Remains After Rousseff Veto
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2012-05-25T19:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/amnesty-for-amazon-deforestation-remains-after-rousseff-veto-1-.html
Brazil’s President  Dilma Rousseff 
vetoed sections of a forestry bill under pressure from
environmentalists who say it forgives farmers for clearing land
illegally and could fuel more destruction in the Amazon.  The lower house of Brazil’s Congress on April 25 approved
the legislation in a 274-184 vote, a margin that would be too
small to overturn Rousseff’s veto.  While the line-item veto excised 12 provisions that
environmentalists criticized, the remaining amnesty for illegal
loggers represents a victory for the agricultural industry and
damages Rousseff’s green credentials as the country prepares to
host the United Nations Conference on  Sustainable Development ,
said Laura Antoniazzi, an agronomist at the Sao Paulo-based
Institute for International Trade Negotiations.  “The summit may be an embarrassing moment for her,”
Antoniazzi said in a phone interview, adding that Rousseff
“wouldn’t have been able to get the bill passed without the
amnesty” because of pressure from agricultural interests.  Brazil  is the world’s second most forested country after
 Russia , with 521.7 million hectares (1.3 billion acres) of
woodland covering 61 percent of its total area, according to the
UN Food and Agriculture Organization’s  website .  Size of Germany  While an area the size of  Germany  was cleared in the Amazon
between 1990 and 2010, Brazil has been making progress slowing
destruction of the world’s largest rainforest. The rate of
 deforestation  last year fell to an estimated 623,800 hectares
compared with 2.8 million hectares in 2004, according to the
state-run National Institute for Space Research.  Even after Rousseff’s veto, small farmers will still be
forgiven for cutting their share of a total  159.3 million 
hectares of environmentally sensitive areas that under the law
should have been left untouched.  More than half the 100 million hectares of forest bordering
rivers that’s protected under the previous code has to date been
cleared, Antoniazzi said.  From June 20-22, Brazil will host the Rio+20 conference
commemorating the landmark 1992 UN environmental summit also
held in Rio de Janeiro. More than 100 heads of state including
Russia’s  Vladimir Putin  and  France ’s Francois Hollande have
confirmed they’ll attend, though U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
Germany  Angela Merkel  are expected to skip it.  Greater Urgency  Brazil’s Congress has been laboring on revisions to the
Forestry Code, originally passed in 1965, for 11 years. The task
gained greater urgency in July 2008, when then-President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva issued a decree imposing fines on farmers
who had illegally cleared land. Implementation of the decree was
repeatedly postponed while Congress revamped the code.  Last May, at the urging of the so-called ruralista bloc
representing states where agro-industry is paramount, the lower
house passed a bill that granted amnesty for illegal
deforestation before July 2008. The Senate in December toughened
the bill’s environmental protections, requiring farmers to
replant next to rivers or face fines. Despite the large majority
held by Rousseff’s Workers’ Party and its allies, the lower
house last month watered down those protections.  Rousseff’s veto and accompanying decree restores parts of
the Senate version, including a requirement for farmers to
replant forest next to rivers more than 10 meters wide.  The new code reduces the amount of land farmers in the
Amazon must keep pristine by allowing them to count land they
own elsewhere to meet requirements for obligatory forest cover.  Welcome Relief  The legislation is a welcome relief for many farmers who
cut forests on land that only later became protected as
regulators ratcheted up environmental protections, Senator Katia Abreu, who also heads the National Confederation of Agriculture,
said in a telephone interview before Rousseff’s veto.  About 90 percent of producers have in some way breached
rules set by environmental regulators, often unintentionally,
which restricts their access to loans from state-run banks, she
said.  “We’re very happy with this code,” she said.  Despite the veto, green activists argue that the new forest
code weakens Brazil’s environmental credentials.  Reflecting popular anger the legislation has generated,
actress Camila Pitanga broke protocol at an event she was
emceeing this month and called on Rousseff, who was in
attendance, to veto the bill. A video of her comments quickly
spread on the Internet.  “This is the first time since 1934,” when Brazil passed
its first legislative measure to protect forests, “that we have
taken a step back,” said Tatiana de Carvalho, an Amazon
campaigner at Sao Paulo-based Greenpeace Brazil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  