-- AMR Judge Weighs Bid to Break Union Deals as Trial Ends
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/amr-judge-weighs-bid-to-break-union-deals-as-trial-ends.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s effort to reduce labor
costs is being considered by a judge after the airline and its
employees clashed in court over company claims that the cuts are
needed to exit bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  will decide
whether to allow American Airlines to tear up union contracts
after American and unions representing pilots, flight attendants
and mechanics made closing arguments yesterday on the airline’s
plans. Lane said he expects to rule by June 22.  A win for American would allow the carrier to pare labor
costs and make changes to operations to boost revenue, aiding
its effort to restructure and become profitable after losses and
failed labor negotiations drove the company into bankruptcy.  The trial over the contracts ends as  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
is pursuing a merger with  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR.  US
Airways  has reached agreements on contract terms with the three
unions, which say that they would be better off in a merged
company. A combination of the two carriers would surpass  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  as the world’s largest airline based
on passenger traffic.  During closing arguments yesterday, Jack Gallagher, an
attorney for American, called the possibility of a merger
between the companies speculation regardless of union support
for it. Only American’s business plan as a standalone company is
relevant to the judge’s decision on the contracts, he said.  ‘Wholly Speculative’  “The suggestion that there is a transaction likely with US
Airways is wholly speculative, wishful thinking,” he said.
“ American Airlines  is strong as a standalone company. American
Airlines doesn’t need a merger.”  Lane urged American and the unions to negotiate a deal as
he considers a ruling. Even if the judge lets the carrier tear
up its union contracts, the two sides will be “stuck with each
other” and have to negotiate new agreements, he said.  “I urge, and cannot urge any more strongly, that parties
resolve this dispute where it should be dealt with, at the
negotiating table,” Lane said. “That means people are going to
have to pocket some really hard feelings on both sides that go
back quite a ways.”  The unions already have agreed to take part in talks with
American that will be overseen by another U.S. bankruptcy judge.  Talks With Workers  The flight attendants have said they’ll meet with American
starting May 29 and the pilots, June 4. A date hasn’t been
disclosed for talks with mechanics and aircraft stock clerks,
the only Transport Workers Union bargaining units not to approve
American’s last contract offer on May 15.  American is seeking to lower costs by $2 billion a year,
including about $990 million from the unions, and boost revenue
by $1 billion annually. Key to that effort is overhauling
collective bargaining agreements that AMR says have saddled it
with restrictions on how it operates and the highest labor costs
in the industry.  The carrier warned in court papers that it “will have no
viable business enterprise” if it can’t void the agreements.  At the trial, which began in April, AMR witnesses,
including Chief Restructuring Officer Beverly Goulet, promoted
the business plan and explained the need to shrink labor costs.
Goulet defended the plan after criticism by unions and their
advisers, saying it ensures American will operate profitability
over the longterm. When asked if American has a future as a
standalone company, she said “absolutely.”  American’s plan calls for cutting as many as 13,000 jobs,
changing work rules and benefits it says it can no longer
afford, investing in its fleet, growing internationally and
making greater use of regional jets.  The unions contend American hasn’t made the case for
rejecting the contracts. American designed its business plan and
reductions in labor costs without considering a merger that
could lessen sacrifices sought from union workers, they argue.  “The company hasn’t shown need. The company hasn’t shown
good faith,” Sharon Levine, an attorney for the Transport
Workers said.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  