-- Amylin Said to Draw First-Round Bids From Sanofi, Merck
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/amylin-said-to-draw-first-round-bids-from-sanofi-merck.html
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) , the
diabetes drugmaker that has put itself up for sale, received
offers from  Sanofi (SAN)  and Merck & Co. in an initial round of
bidding, said three people familiar with the process.  The companies made bids of at least $25 a share, said the
people, who declined to be identified as the deliberations are
private. That would value Amylin at more than $4 billion, based
on its shares outstanding as of April 26. Offers were due
yesterday for the San Diego-based company, whose medicines
include Bydureon and Byetta, the people said.  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) 
indicated to Amylin they also would make bids, the people said.
Amylin began looking for suitors with Credit Suisse Group AG and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. after rejecting a $3.5 billion offer
from Bristol-Myers this year, people with knowledge of the
matter said last month.  “Diabetes is one of the last few monolithic market
opportunities,”  Michael King , an analyst with Rodman & Renshaw
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “All you have to do
is look at the statistics. The numbers are enormous and
growing.”  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  had
signed confidentiality agreements on Amylin’s sale process,
people familiar with the matter said this month. It wasn’t clear
whether they decided to move ahead with bids.  Spokesmen at Sanofi, Roche and AstraZeneca declined to
comment. Representatives at Merck, Amylin, Pfizer and Bristol-
Myers declined to comment. A U.S.-based spokeswoman for Takeda
declined to comment.  Amylin  rose  8.4 percent to $27.96 at the close yesterday in
New York, the biggest single-day gain in a month.  Bydureon Approval  Amylin received approval in January for Bydureon, a once-
weekly formulation of its earlier medicine Byetta, and the drugs
may draw $1.5 billion in annual revenue in the next few years,
said  Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York.  “For most of these companies, Amylin would be
complementary to what they have,” Nadeau said. “Each of these
has a diabetes franchise and sales force and has been successful
to some extent in the past. They could presumably make Bydureon
a bigger product than Amylin is making it.”  Amylin’s revenue topped $650 million last year and is
poised to increase about 5 percent in 2012, according to analyst
estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg. About 346 million people in the
world have diabetes, and the number of deaths from the chronic
disease may double from 2005 to 2030, according to the  World
Health Organization . Drugmakers are working to introduce new
therapies to the market, with mixed results.  Sanofi’s Drugs  Sanofi, based in Paris, is developing its diabetes business
and working on lixisenatide, a treatment belonging to the same
drug class as Byetta and Bydureon. Roche, based in  Basel ,
 Switzerland , returned rights to a similar experimental medicine,
known as taspoglutide, to developer Ipsen SA last year after
patients dropped out of trials because of side effects.  Bristol-Myers, based in New York, and London-based
AstraZeneca failed to win U.S. clearance this year to sell the
experimental diabetes treatment dapagliflozin as regulators
sought more safety data.  Merck, in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, sells the
diabetes drugs Januvia and Janumet, which drew $919 million and
$392 million in first-quarter  revenue , respectively. Purchasing
Amylin would make sense for the drugmaker because “they’ve got
a robust diabetes franchise already,” King said.  Amylin had been seeking a partner to help market Bydureon
outside the U.S. since November, when it ended a collaboration
with Eli Lilly & Co. The company rejected Bristol-Myers’s $22-a-
share bid in February, said people familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  