-- Marfrig Bonds Tumble on Debt Payment Report: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-05-25T21:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/marfrig-bonds-tumble-on-debt-payment-report-sao-paulo-mover.html
Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) ’s bonds slumped
the most since September as  Valor Economico  reported that the
beef producer is in talks to postpone an interest payment to
 Brazil ’s state-owned development bank.  Yields on the company’s dollar bonds due in 2018 jumped 120
basis points, or 1.2 percentage points, to 15 percent today in
New York. Shares fell as much as 4.5 percent today before
climbing 7.6 percent to 9.38  reais . The stock plunged 5.1
percent yesterday.  Sao Paulo-based Marfrig is seeking to delay a payment of as
much as 270 million reais ($134 million) due in July until 2015,
according to  Valor , which didn’t say where it got the
information. Ricardo Florence, a Marfrig investor relations
director, said on a May 15 conference call that the company was
seeking to renegotiate interest payments on convertible bonds
when asked whether there had been negotiations with the state
 development bank . A Marfrig official declined to comment today.  “Marfrig has significant debt and it’s causing concern
among investors,” said Flavio Combat, an economist at Concordia
Corretora in Rio de Janeiro. A possible debt payment
postponement “is a bad sign that confirms the perception that
the market had. What happens now depends on the government,” he
said.  The loan terms haven’t changed, BNDES, as the development
bank is known, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Marfrig, which is looking to shed assets to curtail surging
debt, last month completed the sale of U.S. and European
distribution units to Illinois-based Martin-Brower Co. for $400
million.  Debt Quadruples  Chief Executive Officer and founder Marcos Molina dos
Santos, who opened his first slaughterhouse in 2000, is using
acquisitions to transform Marfrig into a diversified food maker
as China-led demand for grains used to feed livestock increases
costs for meatpackers. The company spent $2 billion in 2010 to
buy Seara Alimentos from Cargill Inc. and McDonald’s Corp.
supplier Keystone Foods, causing debt to quadruple in two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Benson in  New York  at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  