-- Asia Stocks Fall as Economic Slowdown Cools China Lending
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-05-25T10:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/asia-stocks-snap-2-day-loss-as-greece-exit-concern-eases.html
Asian  stocks  fell, dragging the
regional benchmark index to its fourth weekly loss, on concern
China’s biggest banks may fall short of loan targets for the
first time in at least seven years as the economy slows.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988)  fell 1.8 percent, leading
banks lower in Hong Kong.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that
depends on Europe for 79 percent of its sales, lost 1.1 percent
in Hong Kong. Sims Metal Management Ltd. slid 6.1 percent in
Sydney as the processor of scrap metal forecast full-year
earnings will decline.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent to 111.72 as
of 7:14 p.m. in Tokyo, taking its decline this week to 0.8
percent. The gauge earlier rose 0.3 percent after Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  said Greece is likely to stay in the euro
and most of the region’s leaders supported issuing a joint bond.  “Definitely there’s poor appetite from industrial
companies, and there’s very little demand for borrowing because
you still have this restraint on property development and then
you have export sentiment going down,” said  Pauline Dan , chief
investment officer at Samsung Asset Management Co.’s  Hong Kong 
division. The firm oversees $100 billion globally. “There’s
continuous concern about what happens in the  euro zone , and this
is causing people to stay off the market.”  The Asia-Pacific  index  is headed for its longest weekly
losing streak since November, as Greece prepares for a second
election on June 17 following an inconclusive ballot this month.
European leaders urged Greece to stick with austerity measures
needed to stay in the euro at a European Union summit in
Brussels on May 23. They also debated joint bond sales to help
contain the debt crisis.  Japan Consumer Prices  Japan ’s broader Topix Index closed little changed with
volume 11 percent below the 30-day average after a report today
showed the nation’s consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in April
from a year earlier. The index capped an eighth straight weekly
decline, the longest losing streak since 1977.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index lost 0.3 percent in Wellington
as an earthquake hit the city of Christchurch on the nation’s
south island. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 slipped 0.7 percent, while
South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.5 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.3 percent, and the Hang
Seng  China  Enterprises Index of mainland stocks closed little
changed. The Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.7 percent.  A drop in lending in April and May means it’s likely
China’s biggest banks’ total new loans for 2012 will be about 7
trillion  yuan  ($1.1 trillion), less than the government goal of
8 trillion yuan to 8.5 trillion yuan, said a bank official,
declining to be identified because the person isn’t authorized
to speak publicly.  Lenders Fall  Chinese banks fell in Hong Kong. China Minsheng Banking
slid 1.8 percent to HK$7. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. lost
1.6 percent to HK$3.11.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  fell 0.3 percent
today. The index added 0.4 percent in  New York  yesterday,
reversing losses, after Monti said in an interview on Italian
television station La7 that “ Europe  can have euro bonds soon.”
Italy can help push  Germany  to support the idea of collective
debt and to embrace the “common good” of Europe, he said.  “Monti’s comments should provide some support to the
market, but in terms of a more sustained turnaround, we still
have to see more out of Europe,” said Matt Riordan, a portfolio
manager who helps manage about $6.5 billion in Sydney at
Paradice Investment Management Pty. “The next catalyst will be
the Greek election and things that come out of that. The market
is going to play a bit of a wait-and-see game on that front.”  Esprit, Nintendo  Companies that do business in Europe fell. Esprit lost 1.1
percent to HK$12.26. Nintendo Co., a maker of video-game players
that depends on Europe for a third of its sales, slid 1.3
percent to 8,870 yen in  Osaka .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 1.7 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 5 percent advance by the  S&P
500  and a 1.1 percent drop by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark were valued at 1.2 times book value,
compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for the
Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Among other stocks that fell, Sims Metal Management slid
6.1 percent to A$11.50 in Sydney after the processor of scrap
metal said full-year earnings will be materially less than 85
percent of a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 