-- U.S. Stocks Drop While Treasuries Gain as Euro Retreats
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-25T20:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/asian-stocks-rise-as-greece-concern-eases-oil-kiwi-gain.html
U.S. stocks retreated, trimming a
weekly rally, while Treasuries rose and the euro traded at a 22-
month low amid growing concern about Spain’s finances and plans
to force some investors to take losses on debt holdings at
failing European banks. Spanish and Italian bond yields rose.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2 percent to
1,317.82 at 4 p.m. in  New York , while  emerging market  equities
capped a 10th weekly slide in their longest slump since 1994.
Ten-year U.S. note yields lost four basis points to 1.74
percent. The euro slipped 0.1 percent to $1.2515 and dipped
below $1.25 for the first time since July 2010. Spain’s 10-year
yields added 15 basis points and Italy’s rose 10.  The Bankia group, the Spanish lender nationalized earlier
this month, will seek 19 billion euros ($23.8 billion) in
government money to restructure its business following loan
losses. Spain is analyzing requests from regional governments to
help them regain access to  capital markets , Deputy Prime
Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said today. Catalonia’s
government said it is complying “strictly” with its budget
program and will honor its commitments.  “People are wondering if there are other skeletons in
Spain’s regional government closets,” said  Russ Koesterich , the
San Francisco-based global chief investment strategist for the
IShares unit of BlackRock Inc. His firm oversees $3.68 trillion
as the world’s largest asset manager. “Greece is critical, but
still relatively small in the  euro zone . The same cannot be said
of Spain.”  Four Straight Gains  Fewer than 5 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges
today, the slowest trading day of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. markets are closed May 28 for the
Memorial Day holiday.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  retreated after gaining for four straight days,
leaving it up 1.7 percent in the week. This week’s rebound
followed an 8.7 percent slump from a four-year high in April
through May 18 that dragged the index’s price-to-earnings ratio
to as low as 13.1, the cheapest  valuation  using reported
earnings since November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Gauges of industrial, commodity and financial shares fell
at least 0.4 percent to lead losses among eight of the 10 main
industry groups in the  S&P 500 .  Boeing Co. (BA) , Caterpillar Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Chevron Corp. slid at least 1.2 percent
for the worst losses in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .
Facebook Inc. sank 3.4 percent, following a two-day gain.  Euro Bonds  U.S. stocks reversed losses  late yesterday  after Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said most of the region’s leaders
support sales of joint euro-area bonds to fight the debt crisis.  The majority of EU leaders at a Brussels meeting this week
backed joint euro-area  government bonds , Monti told  Italy ’s La7
television station yesterday. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
left the door open to a compromise on debt sharing in the
region.  “There’s an air of inevitability that we’ll get euro
bonds,” Donald Williams, chief investment officer at Platypus
Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney, which manages about $1 billion,
said in an interview with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s
“First Up.” “ Germany  is going to have to compromise more than
it was willing to a few months ago. Ultimately there will be
some resolution there and the markets will start to head higher
again.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index fell 0.2 percent today,
trimming this week’s gain to 0.7 percent. The index snapped a
string of three  weekly losses  that drove it to 12.9 times
reported earnings, the cheapest valuation this year. More than
$4 trillion was erased from the value of global equities in the
first three weeks of the month as concern deepened Greece will
abandon the euro. European leaders failed to come up with a plan
to resolve the debt crisis at a summit this week.  European Shares  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.2 percent and
increased 1.5 percent in the week, snapping a three-week drop.  Trading in  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the publicly traded banking business
of the nationalized Spanish lender, was suspended. The
unraveling of Bankia has deepened concern about the health of
Spain’s banks and increased the government’s financing costs as
it struggles with the debt crisis.  Bankia, Banco Popular Espanol SA and Bankinter SA had their
credit ratings cut to junk by S&P, which cited Spain’s weakening
economy. S&P cut Bankia to BB+ from BBB- and its parent BFA,
which was nationalized this month, was cut to B+ from BB-, the
company said in statement today. Popular and Bankinter were
reduced to BB+, and Banca Civica SA, set to merge with CaixaBank
SA, was cut to BB.  Bank Concern  Draft plans obtained by Bloomberg News showed the European
Union will seek to give regulators the power to impose
writedowns on senior unsecured creditors at failing banks as
part of measures to get taxpayers off the hook for saving
crisis-hit lenders.  The writedown powers would apply to senior unsecured debt
and derivatives, while some other claims, including secured debt
and deposits that are protected by government guarantee
programs, will be protected from losses, according to the
guidelines.  The euro weakened against 11 of 16 major peers, while the
dollar strengthened against 13.  “I would be very wary of calling the bottom for the euro
at this point,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for
the foreign-exchange group in Boston at Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. “Going into the long weekend there has been an
acceleration in U.S. Treasury inflows in a reaffirmation of the
resolutely negative sentiment that is in place for all European
assets.”  Real Rallies  Brazil’s real rose against all of its most-traded
counterparts, surging 2.1 percent to 50 U.S. cents, as the
central bank said it will offer currency-swap contracts at
auction.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the currency against six
major peers, increased 0.1 percent to the highest level since
September 2010.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities increased 0.3 percent,
rising for a second day as wheat, zinc and silver climbed more
than 1 percent to lead gains in 17 of 24 materials.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  was little changed and
poised for a 10th weekly decline, the longest string of losses
since 1994. The Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.7 percent today.
 China ’s largest banks may fall short of loan targets for the
first time in at least seven years as an economic slowdown
crimps demand for credit, three bank officials with knowledge of
the matter said. Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  sank 2.1
percent, the biggest loss since Nov. 1 and the most in Asia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  