-- Asian Currencies Drop as EU Crisis Hurts Exports
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-05-25T22:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/asian-currencies-drop-a-fourth-week-as-eu-crisis-hurts-exports.html
Asian currencies fell for a fourth
week, the longest stretch of losses this year, on speculation
 Europe ’s debt crisis will stall the global economic recovery and
hurt demand for the region’s exports.  Official reports this week showed  China ’s manufacturing
probably contracted for a seventh month in May, Taiwan’s
overseas shipments and factory output declined, and Malaysia
grew at the slowest pace last quarter since June. India’s rupee
reached a record low even after the central bank took measures
to boost dollar supply to alleviate pressure on the currency.  “You still have massive problems in Europe and there are a
lot of concerns about the slowdown in China,” said  Thomas Harr ,
the Singapore-based head of Asian foreign-exchange strategy at
Standard Chartered Plc. “There’s pressure on all Asian
currencies at the moment.”  India ’s rupee declined 1.7 percent this week to 55.3750 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Philippine peso weakened 1.2 percent to 43.755, Thailand’s baht
lost 1.1 percent to 31.69 and China’s yuan slipped 0.2 percent
to 6.3439.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, dropped
0.5 percent this week and touched 114.21 yesterday, the lowest
level since Dec. 15. Funds based abroad pulled $1.9 billion from
equity markets in Taiwan, South Korea, Indonesia and Thailand
this week, exchange data show.  China Lending  China’s biggest lenders may miss their loan targets for the
first time in at least seven years as the slowdown crimps
credit, according to three bank officials with knowledge of the
matter, who declined to be identified because they aren’t
permitted to speak publicly.  Banks’ total new loans for 2012 will be about 7 trillion
 yuan  ($1.1 trillion), less than the government goal of 8
trillion yuan to 8.5 trillion yuan, said one of the officials.  Greece is heading for a second election on June 17 after an
inconclusive vote this month ignited concern it may quit the
euro. European leaders urged Greece to stick with austerity
measures needed to stay in the single currency at a summit in
Brussels that ended May 24. They are also discussing issuing
euro-area bonds to contain the debt crisis, a plan that’s met
opposition from  Germany .  “The downside risks to China’s growth are greater now as
European leaders can’t make progress on solving their debt
problems,” said Stella Lee, president of Success Futures &
Foreign Exchange Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “The weak loan growth and
the uncertainty in Europe are going to put yuan appreciation to
a halt.”  India Currency Measures  The rupee fell to a record low of 56.3875 per dollar May
24, prompting central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao to say
policy makers will take the required steps to curb swings in the
 exchange rate .  The  Reserve Bank  of India curbed trading in currency
derivatives this month to rein in volatility. It also moved to
boost the supply of dollars by cutting the amount of overseas
earnings companies can hold in foreign currency to 50 percent
from 100 percent.  “Investors are risk-averse and stock markets and Asian
currencies can still test the weaker side,” said Nalin Chutchotitham, a Bangkok-based analyst at  Kasikornbank Pcl. (KBANK)   Elsewhere, South Korea’s won fell 1.1 percent this week to
1,185.43 per dollar. Malaysia’s ringgit dropped 0.6 percent to
3.1535 and earlier touched 3.1736, the lowest since Jan. 3.
Taiwan’s dollar weakened 0.1 percent to NT$29.650, while
Indonesia’s rupiah slid 1.3 percent to 9,474.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ven Ram at   vram1@bloomberg.net  