-- Astellas, Huawei, Formula One: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-05-25T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/astellas-huawei-formula-one-intellectual-property.html
A unit of  Japan ’s  Astellas Pharma
Inc. (4503)  sued  Hospira Inc. (HSP) , accusing the generic pharmaceutical
company of infringing a patent for the drug adenosine, used to
diagnose heart blockages.  Astellas contends Lake Forest, Illinois-based Hospira is
planning to market its own version of the drug before patent
5,731,296 expires in 2015, according to a complaint filed May 23
in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  Astellas “will be substantially and irreparably damaged
and harmed” if a judge doesn’t stop the infringement,
plaintiffs’ lawyers said in court papers.  Full-year profit for Astellas, Japan’s third-largest
drugmaker, will rise by 25 percent because of lower taxes and an
absence of costs related to last year’s earthquake and tsunami,
the company said May 10. Astellas reported about
$12 billion in revenue for the most recent fiscal year.  “As the world leader in generic injectable drugs, we
remain committed to bringing high-quality, low-price products to
market as soon as possible,”  Daniel Rosenberg , a Hospira
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement commenting on the
lawsuit.  Adenosine is injected to help diagnose coronary artery
disease in patients who can’t exercise adequately during cardiac
stress tests.  The case is Astellas v. Hospira, 12cv652, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Huawei Files Antitrust Complaint With EU Over InterDigital  Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s largest phone-equipment
maker, filed an antitrust complaint with European Union
regulators that accuses  InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  of refusing to license
key wireless patents.  Huawei alleges that InterDigital is abusing a dominant
position for 3G technology patents agreed as industry standards
and has made “unreasonable and discriminatory demands” on
license fees, said Roland Sladek, a spokesman for Huawei in
Shenzhen, China. Huawei filed the complaint May 23 because there
was “no foreseeable resolution” to talks on the fees, it said
in a statement.  “Such inflated demands from InterDigital could penalize
European consumers” if they had to pay more for mobile phones
and other products, Sladek said.  Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  are being probed by the European Commission over
whether they violated agreements to license standards-essential
patents to other mobile-phone manufacturers on fair terms. The
EU probe into Motorola Mobility followed complaints from
Microsoft Corp. and Apple Inc. this year.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, said regulators had received the complaint and
“will examine it.”  “InterDigital has not seen the complaint that was filed so
we can offer no specific response to whatever issues might be
raised,” Lawrence Shay, the president of the company’s digital
holding units, said in a statement. “We have in the past
licensed, and continue to license, technologies on the terms set
forth in our commitments” to standards organizations.  The owner of about 1,300 U.S. patents related to mobile
phones, InterDigital filed a case last year with the U.S.
International Trade Commission in  Washington , alleging that
Huawei, Nokia Oyj, ZTE Corp. and LG Electronics Inc. infringed
patents related to so-called third-generation wireless
technology. It has also sued the companies in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware, making the same allegations.  In January, InterDigital said it concluded a review on a
potential sale without finding a buyer for the company and has
instead decided to focus on patent sales and licensing. The
company has said its patents were deeper and stronger than those
that Nortel Networks Corp. auctioned for $4.5 billion.  Apple Reaches Settlement With SimpleAir Ending Patent Litigation  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  reached a patent-license agreement with
SimpleAir Inc., ending a lawsuit brought against the world’s
biggest technology company in 2009, according to a May 24 court
filing.  SimpleAir, based in Marshall, Texas, owns patents covering
areas including wireless content delivery, mobile applications
and so-called push-notification market spaces. Terms of the
settlement weren’t disclosed.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, was the sole
remaining defendant in a case that also accused  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  of patent
infringement.  The case is SimpleAir Inc., v. AWS Convergence Technologies
Inc., 2:09-cv-00289-MHS, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Texas (Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Ford Raised to Investment Grade Means Regaining Blue Oval  Ford Motor Co. (F)  was raised to investment grade by Moody’s
Investors Service, enabling Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally
to reclaim assets including its blue oval logo put up as
collateral to obtain $23.4 billion in loans in late 2006.  “When we pledged the Ford blue oval as part of the loan
package, we were not just pledging an asset, we pledged our
heritage,” Bill Ford, 55, the company’s executive chairman,
told reporters May 22 on a conference call. “To get that back
feels wonderful and this is one of the best days I can
remember.”  Moody’s boosted Ford’s senior unsecured ratings to Baa3
from Ba2 and raised its finance arm, Ford Motor Credit, to Baa3
from Ba1. Moody’s joined  Fitch Ratings  in assigning an
investment-grade rating, and with two such ratings, Ford regains
control of the logo and other assets, including factories, its
Dearborn, Michigan, headquarters and vehicle trademarks.  Moody’s had ranked the second-largest U.S. automaker’s debt
as junk since August 2005. Fitch returned Ford to investment
grade in April after assigning it junk status in December 2005.  “The upgrade of Ford recognizes the strength of the
company’s position in North America, its robust liquidity
position, and our expectation that the company will continue to
embrace sound operating and financial disciplines,” Moody’s
said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe that these strengths
will enable Ford to maintain an investment-grade profile in the
face of the sector’s ongoing cyclicality and weakness in the
European market.”  Moody’s said the outlook for Ford and Ford Credit is
stable.  Formula One Wins Court Challenge Overturning ‘F 1’ Mark  Formula One Licensing BV won a challenge that sought to
overturn another company’s European Union-wide trademark for the
term “F 1.”  The  European Court  of Justice, the 27-nation EU’s highest
tribunal, rejected earlier decisions to award the EU trademark
to Racing-Live, a motor sports website based in Montpellier,
France.  The EU’s trademark office and an EU appeals court “failed
to acknowledge, in relation to trademarks, the distinctive
character of the ‘F1’ sign” and shouldn’t challenge the
validity of trademarks awarded by the EU’s member states, the
Luxembourg-based tribunal said in a statement yesterday.  The group in charge of licensing for Formula One, the
world’s most-watched motor sport, in 2005 appealed the French
company’s application and had won the EU trademark agency’s
backing that such a trademark would be confused with the group’s
existing F1 trademarks. The agency overturned that ruling in
2008. Formula One lost an initial challenge to the EU’s General
Court last year.  Formula One Licensing didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Yesterday’s ruling asks the EU’s General Court to re-
examine the case.  The case is:  C-196/11 P  Formula One Licensing BV v Office
for the Harmonisation of the Internal Market.  Lindt Can’t Seek Trademark on Chocolate Bunnies, EU Court Says  Lindt & Spruengli AG (LISN) , the world’s largest maker of premium
chocolate, can’t seek a trademark for chocolate rabbits with a
red ribbon, according to a ruling from the EU’s top court.  The European Court of Justice backed an earlier refusal
from the EU trademark office that stopped Lindt from winning
trademark protection for a chocolate rabbit with a red band.  “The shape of a chocolate rabbit with a red ribbon cannot
be registered as a community trade mark,” according to a
statement from the Luxembourg-based tribunal. “The Court of
Justice confirms that this shape is devoid of any distinctive
character.”  Lindt, based in Kilchberg, Switzerland, has since 2004
failed to get EU-wide trademark protection for the shapes of a
plain chocolate bunny and chocolate bunnies and reindeer wrapped
in gold foil with red ribbon around their necks. It also failed
to get protection for the ribbon and attached bell. The EU
trademark agency based in Alicante, Spain, said in 2008 that the
shapes were too common.  Lindt didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The chocolate maker in 2001 gained a trademark valid across
the 27-nation EU for a chocolate Easter bunny wrapped in gold
foil emblazoned with the word “Lindt” and bearing a red
ribbon. In yesterday’s case, Lindt was seeking protection for
the same bunny, minus the name, which would have given it wider
rights.  Lindt already used its existing EU trademark to block an
Austrian chocolate maker from selling products similar to its
own Easter rabbit. This led to a dispute that resulted in a
ruling by the EU’s top court that the trademark can be
challenged if the Austrian chocolate maker proves Lindt
registered it in bad faith.  Yesterday’s ruling from the Luxembourg-based tribunal is
binding.  The case is:  C-98/11 P  Chocoladefabriken Lindt & Spruengli
v OHIM  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Says Microsoft Leads Requests to Take Content Off Search  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s most popular Internet
search engine, said a new report shows that Microsoft Corp.
makes the most requests among copyright owners to remove content
from Google’s search service.  Microsoft, or others on its behalf, has requested more than
2.5 million Web pages, or URLs, be removed because of copyright
infringement, while  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal was No. 2 with
almost 1 million, according to data released by Google that
measured all requests going back to 2011. Member companies of
the Recording Industry Association of America, including EMI
Music North America, were No. 3 with more than 400,000 requests.  “We’re providing information about who sends us copyright
removal notices, how often, on behalf of which copyright owners
and for which websites,” Fred von Lohmann, Google’s senior
copyright counsel, said in a blog post. “As policy makers and
Internet users around the world consider the pros and cons of
different proposals to address the problem of online copyright
infringement, we hope this data will contribute to the
discussion.”  Google is under scrutiny from companies and governments
around the world over what type of content it shows on its
services. The new data is a now part of Google’s Transparency
Report, which tracks traffic on its services, general user-data
requests and removal queries.  While scrutinizing copyright requests, the company also is
trying to improve the efficiency of the process. Last week, the
average turnaround time for a request was less than 11 hours.
Google said it has received 1.2 million requests on behalf of
more than 1,000 copyright owners to remove search results in the
past month.  The  Mountain View , California-based company rejects some
requests. For example, sometimes they’re used for
“anticompetitive purposes,” or to remove content that is
unfavorable toward a particular person or company yet doesn’t
infringe any copyrights, Google said.  Microsoft (MSFT) , the world’s largest software maker, competes
with Google in the market for Web search with its Bing service.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 