-- Australia, China to Back European Growth at G-20, Carr Tells WSJ
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-25T04:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/australia-china-to-back-european-growth-at-g-20-carr-tells-wsj.html
Australia  will support China in
pressing for Europe to focus on growth over austerity at next
month’s Group of 20 summit in Mexico, Foreign Minister Bob Carr
said in an interview with the Wall Street Journal.  China sees Australia as an ally in marshaling a G-20
position that global economies have to focus on growth, Carr was
cited as saying in Sydney. The minister said he would underline
the importance of a return to growth, on which Australia and
China are in agreement.  The Department of  Foreign Affairs  and Trade confirmed
Carr’s comments and pointed to similar remarks he made earlier
this month.  “We spoke about the next G-20 meeting and about our common
interest in having members of the G-20 commit themselves to
economic growth, and that followed a discussion about the
seeming fragility of the economic and political situation
in much of  Europe ,” Carr said May 14 in China, according to his
department. “And in that we were as one in wanting to see the
G20 commit itself as a forum to policies of sustainable
growth.”  The Australian dollar has declined 6.7 percent this month
on slower Chinese growth and as speculation mounts that Greece
will be forced to exit the euro, triggering a global economic
slump. That has intensified debate on whether spending cuts by
European nations to pay down debt should be curbed in favor of
policies designed to boost growth.  Carr returned from a visit to China, where he met with
Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  and Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi , the newspaper reported on its website. Greece faces a
big challenge in holding its society together while it scales
back the country’s social entitlements, Carr said, according to
the report.  Europe is China’s biggest export destination and China is
Australia’s biggest market for overseas shipments, threatening a
ripple effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  