-- Bankia Seeks 19 Billion Euros From Spain for Cleanup
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-26T13:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/bankia-said-to-need-eu19-billion-in-state-backing-to-restructure.html
The Bankia group, the lender  Spain 
nationalized this month, will seek 19 billion euros ($23.8
billion) of state funds, as it set aside provisions for
residential mortgages and lending to companies.  The group took provisions of 5.5 billion euros for non-real
estate lending after stress-testing the loans, including 2.2
billion euros to individuals, most of which is residential
mortgages, Director General Jose Sevilla told reporters in
Madrid today. It also reclassified 300 million euros of lending,
that had been booked as loans to small and medium-sized
companies, as lending to property developers, Chairman Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri said.  The unraveling of Bankia has deepened concern about the
health of Spain’s banks and the burden the industry risks
placing on public finances. The 19 billion-euro bailout for
 Bankia (BKIA)  already exceeds Economy Minister Luis de Guindos’s
estimate two weeks ago that 15 billion euros of state funds
would be enough for the whole industry.  “Bankia is the tip of an iceberg as we’ve been saying all
along,” Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets
in  London , said in a phone interview yesterday. “It’s a very
large institution, it’s systemically important and it needs to
be dealt with properly.”  10-Year Costs  Spain is seeking to bolster its banks and shore up cash-
strapped regional governments as its own access to markets has
narrowed and its 10-year borrowing costs approach the 7 percent
level that prompted bailouts in other euro nations. Spain’s
bank-rescue fund has 5 billion euros in cash, de Guindos said on
May 11, meaning the state-backed agency will have to tap markets
in order to finance the bailout.  The Spanish government, which has tightened provisioning
rules twice since coming to power in December, has focused its
cleanup efforts on lending to real estate companies. Bankia’s
decision to provision for residential mortgages goes beyond
those rules and comes as the economy ministry and lenders
including  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  say those loans aren’t a problem.  “Mortgages get paid in good times and in bad,” Santander
Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz said on April 27. “Anyone
raising this problem as one of the issues for the Spanish
financial system is saying something stupid.”  Bankia based the new provisions on an assumption that
mortgage defaults would rise to 8 percent to 10 percent,
compared with the current sector-wide rate of less than 3
percent. Sevilla said that assumption made the bank “calm” and
gave it a good margin to cope with future deterioration.  ‘Specific Case’  Bankia also increased provisions for lending to non-real
estate companies by an additional 3.3 billion euros, the
presentation showed. De Guindos told parliament on May 23 that
Bankia is a “specific case,” without any read-across for the
rest of the industry. Goirigolzarri echoed that view today.  The nationalization of the Bankia group, which comes on top
of a 4.5 billion-euro bailout in 2010, has helped increase
Spain’s financing costs as it struggles with the debt crisis.
The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond climbed to 6.31
percent yesterday from 5.73 percent on May 7, the day former
Chairman  Rodrigo Rato  announced his resignation.  Bankia, the commercial banking unit of the group that
listed on the stock market in July, said yesterday its restated
loss for 2011 was 2.98 billion euros. Shares in the lender,
which has a new board after the former directors collectively
resigned, have lost 58 percent since the initial public
offering.  Rights Offer  In a second phase of the restructuring plan, the listed
Bankia unit will carry out a rights offer for about 12 billion
euros. The 19 billion euros being requested from the government
includes the cost of the rights issue, even if no minority
investors take part, Goirigolzarri told reporters today.  The Bankia group will have a so-called principal capital
ratio, a measure of financial strength, of 9.8 percent and a
ratio of provisions to real-estate assets of 48.9 percent after
the cleanup, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid   at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  