-- Bankia, Popular, Bankinter Cut to Junk by Standard & Poor’s
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-25T17:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/bankia-popular-bankinter-cut-to-junk-by-standard-poor-s.html
Bankia SA (BKIA) ,  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) 
and  Bankinter SA (BKT)  had their credit ratings cut to junk by
 Standard & Poor’s , which cited Spain’s weakening economy.  S&P cut Bankia to BB+ from BBB- and its parent BFA, which
was nationalized this month, was cut to B+ from BB-, the company
said in statement today. Popular and Bankinter were reduced to
BB+, and  Banca Civica SA (BCIV) , set to merge with  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA, was
cut to BB.  On April 30, S&P cut its ratings on 11 Spanish banks
following a downgrade for the Spanish government, and said at
the time it would complete a review on the wider implications on
the financial industry by the end of May.  The moves also followed the downgrade by Moody’s Investors
Service of 16 Spanish banks on May 17, citing concerns about
souring loans, the recession, restricted access to funding and
the reduced ability of the government to back up lenders as its
own creditworthiness suffers. Doubts about the health of Spanish
lenders, including the Bankia group, have contributed to a surge
in the government’s financing costs.  The extra yield on Spanish 10-year bonds compared with
German bunds jumped to 494 points today from as low as 300 basis
points on March 1. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage
point.  The government said on May 11 it will hire two auditors to
value lenders’ assets and told banks to set aside about 30
billion euros ($38 billion) against healthy real estate loans as
it seeks to bolster confidence in the industry. That’s on top of
54 billion euros of charges and capital ordered in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  