-- Benchmark Joins Twitter in San Francisco’s Startup Zone
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-05-25T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/benchmark-joins-twitter-in-san-francisco-s-startup-zone.html
Twitter Inc. will be joined by one of
its biggest investors soon after the company moves to San
Francisco’s gritty Mid-Market neighborhood next month.  Benchmark Capital , which bought a stake in the micro-
blogging service three years ago, signed a lease this week for
more than 10,000 square feet of space on Market Street, a half
mile from Twitter’s new headquarters. The office is just above
the  Warfield Theater , a 90-year-old entertainment hall that’s
featured everyone from Louis Armstrong to  Bob Dylan .  While Benchmark is keeping its existing office in  Menlo
Park ,  California , the new urban outpost is the latest sign that
the startup hub has moved north from Silicon Valley. In addition
to Twitter, San Francisco is home to  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  as
well as fast-growing Web companies Dropbox Inc., Square Inc. and
Airbnb Inc. That’s pushed down vacancy rates and raised rents.  “The business moved and we’re all waking up to the fact
that this is a monumental shift,” Peter Fenton, a general
partner at Benchmark and board member at Twitter and Yelp, said
in an interview. “These forces are long-term and we’re making a
bet consistent with that.” Two-thirds of Benchmark’s deals
since 2009 have been in  San Francisco , he said.  Fenton and Matt Cohler are the only two of Benchmark’s six
investing partners who live in San Francisco, though all of them
will be using the space starting in the second half of this
year. They’ll occupy the seventh and eighth floors at the top of
the building on Market Street near the corner of 6th Street.
Fenton declined to provide terms of the lease.  SoMa Startups  Most of the startups are concentrated in the nearby South
of Market, or SoMa, district, where scores of social, mobile and
cloud-computing companies are emerging. The vacancy rate in SoMa
shrank by more than half in the first quarter to 3.8 percent,
the lowest since 2000, according to brokerage firm Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. That helped boost San Francisco office rents by 24
percent to an average $46.66 a square foot from a year earlier,
the brokerage said.  Twitter’s six-year lease on Market between 9th and 10th
streets gives the company three floors with 215,000 square feet
at an average annual rental rate of $30 a square foot. The
company opted to stay in San Francisco after Mayor Edwin M. Lee
supported a six-year payroll tax exclusion last year aimed at
keeping Twitter in town and building up Mid-Market.  Historically, it’s been a rough area, replete with crime
and homelessness. Fenton said the ground floor of their building
has a strip club on the right and a drug paraphernalia store on
the left. The firm wants to be part of the neighborhood revival
as well as enjoy the “romantic appeal” of being on top of a
music venue, Fenton said.  Vaudeville Hall  The Warfield opened on May 13, 1922, as a vaudeville and
movie theater and became primarily a  music hall  in 1979, when
Dylan played two weeks of concerts. The Jerry Garcia Band was a
house favorite until Garcia’s death in 1995.  “It speaks to a place that will be fun and appealing to
young entrepreneurs, not a stuffy financial-services kind of
presence,” Fenton said. “There’s always a risk. In three to
five years, people may laugh at this decision or say, ‘hey,
there was some foresight.”’  Lewis Cirne, founder of cloud-based business software maker
New Relic Inc., is working on his second startup backed by
Fenton. The first was on the Peninsula, south of San Francisco,
and when he started New Relic in 2008, all the momentum was
moving to the city, he said.  ‘Round Two’  “Round one for Peter and me was the Peninsula and round
two for both of us in San Francisco,” said Cirne. “Benchmark
is capitalizing on a trend and it signifies them being ahead of
the curve.”  Until now, Benchmark’s main office has been on Menlo Park’s
Sand Hill Road, surrounded by other high-profile firms such as
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,  Sequoia Capital  and, more
recently,  Greylock Partners . Venture firms in San Francisco
include Crosslink Capital and First Round Capital, and last year
 Europe ’s  Index Ventures  opened an office in the city, while
Trinity Ventures started a  co-working space  for portfolio
companies.  Benchmark was founded in 1995 and made its marquee
investment in  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  two years later, reeling in billions of
dollars after the auction site’s 1998 initial public offering.
More recently, Benchmark was the biggest outside investor in
photo-sharing app developer Instagram Inc., which was bought by
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  last month, and it backed five companies that sold
shares to the public in the past 14 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  