-- Blind Chinese Activist Says He Won’t Be Silenced After U.S. Move
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-25T03:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/blind-chinese-activist-says-he-won-t-be-silenced-after-u-s-move.html
Blind Chinese legal activist  Chen Guangcheng  said won’t be silenced from speaking out and has no
regrets after he fled extrajudicial house arrest and traveled to
New York to study, according to an interview with  CNN .  Chen, who escaped a cordon erected around his home in
 China ’s Shandong province and fled to the U.S. Embassy in April,
said yesterday on CNN’s Anderson Cooper 360 that he feared for
relatives who remained behind.  The case sparked a diplomatic standoff between China and
the U.S. that ended when he was allowed to travel to the U.S.
Chinese authorities have limited movement by his relatives and
arrested his nephew, Chen Kegui, who is accused of attempted
homicide after clashing with officials who raided Chen’s house
following his escape, according to the  Associated Press .  “You can see their retribution against my family since my
escape has continued and been intensified,” Chen said,
according to a CNN transcript of the interview. “I’ve only been
here for a short time.  If the pressure in Shandong couldn’t
silence me, I don’t think any other pressure will be able to
silence me.”  Chen’s brother, Chen Guangfu, fled his village yesterday to
seek legal advice in Beijing about how to help son Chen Kegui,
the AP reported. Police have refused family efforts to name a
lawyer for him, saying he will be represented by a lawyer chosen
by the government, the AP said.  Choose His Lawyer  “We will have and will continue to, as I’m doing today,
express our concern that these individuals be treated fairly in
accordance with human rights principles, in accordance with
Chinese law,”  Michael Posner , U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, told reporters yesterday.  Asked yesterday about the claim that Chen Kegui had not
been allowed to choose his own lawyer, Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei told reports that Chinese citizens are
protected by and should adhere to Chinese law and regulations.  The AP report cited human rights lawyer Jiang Tianyong as
saying security was tightened in the town since Chen Guangcheng
escaped.  Chen Guangcheng was imprisoned for four years in 2006 on
what his family argues were spurious charges after he challenged
forced abortions and sterilizations imposed under China’s one-
child policy. He traveled to the U.S. with his wife and two
children on May 19 and will study law at  New York  University.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  