-- Calpers Must Offer Same-Sex Couples Long-Term Care: Court
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-25T18:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/calpers-must-offer-same-sex-couples-long-term-care-court.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. pension fund, must offer
long-term care insurance to same-sex couples and domestic
partners, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken in Oakland, California,
ruling in a state workers’ lawsuit, said a federal statute
outlawing gay marriage is unconstitutional to the extent that it
bars same-sex spouses and domestic partners from enrolling in
 Calpers ’s plan.  The legislative record of the Defense of Marriage Act,
which bars federal benefits to same-sex couples, shows evidence
of anti-gay bias, and the act violates gay and lesbian couples’
constitutional right to equal protection of the law, Wilken said
yesterday in a ruling.  “We have been strongly advocating for the ability to
administer our program for same-sex spouses and domestic
partners, and we welcome the ability to extend important
benefits to all our members and their families,”  Anne Stausboll , chief executive officer of Calpers, said today in an
e-mailed statement.  Federal judges in Boston and  San Francisco  have also struck
down the Defense of Marriage Act. The rulings are being
appealed. A Republican-led congressional group is defending the
law after President  Barack Obama ’s administration said it
wouldn’t defend the measure in court.  The act, signed into law by President  Bill Clinton  in 1996,
defines marriage as being between one man and one woman, bars
the U.S. government from recognizing same-sex marriages, and
allows states to decline to do so as well.  Wilken said Calpers is permanently barred from denying
long-term care benefits to same-sex partners and spouses. She
said she will put her ruling on hold if Calpers appeals.  The case is Dragovich v. U.S. Treasury Department, 4:10-
01564, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(Oakland).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 