-- Cameron Urged to Prepare New Growth Push as Slump Deepens
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-05-25T05:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/cameron-urged-to-prepare-new-growth-push-as-slump-deepens-1-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  faced
renewed pressure to do more to spur the economy after figures
showed Britain is in a deeper recession than first estimated.  His political opponents said the slump is the result of too
much austerity, not the euro-region crisis. Business lobbies and
economists said the downturn bodes ill for investment and may
make it harder to cut the deficit as tax revenue weakens.  Cameron is losing voter support as Britain struggles to
emerge from what his spokesman called “the worst financial and
debt crisis of our lifetime.” The economy’s 0.3 percent
contraction in the first quarter -- more than the 0.2 percent
initially estimated -- means output has grown just 0.3 percent
since the Conservative-led government took office two years ago.  “Cameron is coming under pressure because his strategy
isn’t working,” said Patrick Dunleavy, a professor of politics
at the  London School of Economics .  Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  have
staked their reputations on creating jobs and investment in the
private sector to replace public spending. The Labour opposition 
said the policy has failed and urged the government to switch 
course.  “This is no-growth government with its head in the sand,”
Chuka Umunna, a Labour lawmaker who speaks on industrial policy,
told Parliament in London. “They blame businesses, they blame
the people who work in them and now they seek to blame the euro
zone, when countries like Germany and  France  are not in
recession and we are.”  Losing Support  Those attacks have begun resonating with voters, who
inflicted heavy losses on the Conservatives and their Liberal
Democrat coalition partners in local-authority elections earlier
this month.  Cameron has fallen behind Labour leader  Ed Miliband  in
public approval for the first time, a ComRes Ltd. poll published
on May 20 showed. Cameron and Osborne have also lost their
advantage on the question of who is most trusted to run the
economy. They are now neck-and-neck with Miliband and his
finance spokesman,  Ed Balls .  Budget cuts, a squeeze on households as inflation outpaces
wages and turmoil in the euro region -- the biggest market for
British goods -- are weighing on an economy that has recovered
barely half of the output lost in the recession of 2008-2009.  Yesterday’s figures underline the “very tough economic
situation” facing the U.K., Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field,
told reporters. “If  Europe  doesn’t grow, it’s hard to avoid
recession. We can’t be immune to what is happening on our
doorstep.”  IMF Report  The report capped a week of poor economic news for the
government. A jump in state borrowing in April raised doubts
that the government can meet its goal of cutting a deficit of
more than 8 percent of gross domestic product to below 6 percent
this year.  Both the Conservatives and Labour claim the support of the
 International Monetary Fund , which this week praised the
government for restoring credibility to the public finances with
its plan to erase the structural deficit by 2017 while warning
that tax cuts may be needed unless the economy strengthens.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  signaled a new emphasis on
growth by saying the government wanted to use its balance sheet
to underwrite a “massive” increase in housing and
infrastructure projects. He denied it amounted to a “Plan B”
for the economy.  Some economists said record-low government borrowing costs
reflect the search for relative safety amid the euro-region
crisis and mask the threat from weak growth. The 10-year gilt
yield yesterday tumbled as low as 1.738 percent, compared with
rates of 6.1 percent in  Spain  and 5.5 percent in  Italy .  ‘Rumbled’  “The persistence of above-target inflation will see the
U.K. rumbled and its safe-haven status recognized as not being
justified by actual facts.” said  Marc Ostwald , a bond
strategist at Monument Derivatives in  London .  Ostwald also pointed to the “whopping” 1.6 percent
increase in  government spending  in yesterday’s figures.  “It is very worrying,” Conservative lawmaker Douglas Carswell said in a telephone interview. “We are not cutting
public spending. We are not fixing the problem of unwinding a
30-year artificial credit bubble.”  A report by McKinsey Global Institute in January that
aggregated the debts of the household, government, financial and
corporate sectors in 10 major economies showed total
indebtedness in the U.K. is more than five times GDP, above
Spain and the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  