-- Cameron Defends Hunt Over News Corp. as Aide Blamed Over Links
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-25T17:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/cameron-defends-decision-to-name-hunt-to-rule-on-news-corp-bid.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  defended
his December 2010 decision to put Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt
in charge of reviewing  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , rejecting accusations of partiality.  The U.K.’s media-ethics inquiry heard in London yesterday
that Hunt had written Cameron a memo a month earlier arguing
that if the deal was blocked, “our media sector will suffer for
years.” The prime minister said today that  Gus O’Donnell , then
his top civil servant, hadn’t been aware of the memo when he
judged that Hunt could adjudicate fairly on the deal.  “He didn’t know about that e-mail, but he was in
possession of what Jeremy Hunt had said publicly, which was more
effusive, more powerful” in support of the offer, Cameron told
ITV television. “The really crucial point is: did  Jeremy Hunt 
carry out his role properly with respect to BSkyB, and I believe
that he did.”  Hunt, whose future in the Cabinet hangs on arguing
successfully that he behaved appropriately, will testify at the
inquiry headed by Judge Brian Leveson next week. The opposition
 Labour Party  has repeated calls for his resignation. The top
official in Hunt’s department told the probe today the minister
aimed to be fair and unbiased, though his special adviser, Adam
Smith, grew too close to a News Corp. lobbyist.  Next week’s hearings will also see the appearance of  Tony Blair , who courted the support of News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  in the 1990s in his bid to become prime minister.  Witness Schedule  The inquiry, set up last year in the wake of the phone-
hacking scandal at News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid, is
hearing from politicians about their dealings with the media.
Blair will testify on May 28 and Hunt on May 31, according to a
 schedule posted on the inquiry’s website .  Home Secretary Theresa May will testify at the inquiry on
May 29 and Business Secretary Vince Cable on May 30. Cable
originally had responsibility for the BSkyB bid before Hunt.
Cameron stripped him of that task after he was recorded by
undercover reporters saying he’d “declared war” on Murdoch.  Hunt’s former aide,  Adam Smith , was asked to resign last
month for passing information to News Corp. on the culture
secretary’s thinking while he was deciding on the 7.8 billion-
pound ($12.2 billion) bid, which the New York-based company
abandoned in July last year to help contain the phone-hacking
scandal at its News of the World tabloid.  ‘Have to Go’  “Everyone here thinks you have to go,” Smith said Hunt
told him after his e-mail exchanges with News Corp. lobbyist
Fred Michel became public as part of the Leveson inquiry’s
questioning of Murdoch and his son James.  Smith said that while he didn’t disclose anything
inappropriate to Michel, he regretted the casual tone of the
communications and appearing to sympathize with the lobbyist.  Jonathan Stephens, the senior civil servant in the
Department of Culture, Media and Sport, said he thought Smith,
whom he described as “the best and the straightest of all the
special advisers” had been made aware on several occasions of
the rules that limited contact between the government and News
Corp. during the takeover review.  The extent of communication between Michel and Smith “was
far beyond what would be considered appropriate,” Stephens told
the inquiry. “There was an undisputed degree of contact that
hugely surprised me.”  Smith told the inquiry yesterday that Hunt and other
officials in the department had been aware that he was in
contact with Michel though “I don’t think they knew the volume
or the extent.”  No ‘Specific Instruction’  He said in a written statement that “I had not received
any specific instruction as to how I should deal with the
contact I received from News Corp.”  Michel told the inquiry yesterday he’d been under the
impression that Smith was acting on Hunt’s behalf. “For me it’s
self-evident that a special adviser is someone who represents
the secretary of state,” he said. “There are two or three
events when I had the impression that some of the feedback I was
given had been discussed with the secretary of state before it
was given to me.”  In messages released as part of Michel’s testimony, Hunt
told the lobbyist repeatedly to go to Smith with questions.
Smith told the inquiry it was his job to screen questions and
information from Michel for Hunt.  Hunt and Michel also sent messages back and forth in 2010,
according to transcripts released today. In July 2010, Hunt
texted Michel “Merci, papa,” after the two men had children
born on the same night in the same hospital. In October, Michel
wrote to Hunt, “You have stamina, daddy!”  ‘Discreet’ Location  The  text messages  also show that on July 6, 2011, two days
after the news broke that the News of the World had hacked the
phone of a murdered schoolgirl, Cameron’s director of
communications, Craig Oliver, had dinner with Michel. Oliver,
who had returned the previous evening from a visit to
 Afghanistan  with the prime minister, requested a “discreet”
location. What they discussed isn’t recorded.  They also show Michel trying to get government aides to
attend a concert by the band Take That with him two days
earlier. Oliver and Rupert Harrison, adviser to Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne , were both invited.  Smith’s correspondence showed he and Hunt used Google
Inc.’s webmail service to correspond about the News Corp. bid.
In September last year, officials at the Department for
Education tried unsuccessfully to argue that such communications
by ministers and their aides were exempt from freedom-of-
information legislation.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 