-- Canada Plans to Raise Foreign Takeover Review Threshold
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-05-25T15:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/canada-to-raise-foreign-takeover-review-threshold-to-c-1-billion.html
The Canadian government is moving
ahead with plans to increase the threshold for foreign takeover
reviews, Industry Minister Christian Paradis said.  The federal reviews will only be done when the target
companies have an enterprise value of at least C$1 billion ($972
million), and the new system will be phased in in three steps
over the next four years. That’s up from businesses with an
asset value of C$330 million currently.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  is seeking to assure foreign
companies the country is open to investment amid criticism the
system is upredictable. Harper in 2010 rejected a hostile
takeover bid for  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan Inc. by  BHP
Billiton Ltd (BHP)  in 2010.  “Canada has a strong investment climate, and these
targeted changes will ensure that our foreign investment review
process continues to encourage investment and spur economic
growth,” Paradis said in a statement. “Foreign investment is
vital to the Canadian economy.”  Canada’s system for weighing takeovers is “highly
subjective and unpredictable,” the Toronto-based  C.D. Howe
Institute  said in a study released in December. The rules may
have contributed to the decline in Canada’s share of global
foreign-direct investment, it said.  While Harper pledged to raise the threshold during an
election campaign in 2008, and formally announced his plans in a
January 2009 budget, final regulations have yet to be introduced
to implement the changes.  Enterprise Value  The threshold immediately will increase to an enterprise
value of C$600 million following a 30-day public consultation
and the final publication of the regulations, according to
today’s statement. That threshold will increase to C$800 million
in two years, and to C$1 billion in four years.  The government will also change the way it appraises
companies, using enterprise value instead of asset value, it
said. Enterprise value is measured by subtracting a company’s
cash from market capitalization plus debt.  The government will also begin offering formal mediation
procedures to resolve disputes over whether a company has
undertaken commitments made during a purchase in the review
process, Paradis said in the statement.  In April,  Canada  announced changes to make the reviews more
transparent by allowing the industry minister to publicly
explain why an acquisition has been blocked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  