-- Canada Bank Earnings May Be ‘as Good as it Gets’
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-05-25T20:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/canada-bank-earnings-may-be-as-good-as-it-gets-.html
For Canadian banks, ranked the
world’s soundest, it may not get any better than this.  Domestic banking profit growth will slow in the second half
of the year as  household debt  rises and concerns about a crisis
in  Europe  curb demand for loans, even as some of the lenders
report better-than-expected second-quarter earnings.  “It’s pretty much as good as it gets when it comes to the
Canadian banking segment,” said  Tom Lewandowski , a bank analyst
at  Edward Jones  & Co. in  St. Louis . “I don’t think that’s going
to continue where consumer debt levels are.”  Canadians may slow their borrowing with household debt at
record highs and as the Bank of  Canada  signals it may raise
 interest rates  to curb inflation. Domestic consumer banking is
the largest single profit segment at most of Canada’s six main
banks.  Royal Bank of Canada  fell 2 percent to C$50.35 at the close
in Toronto, leading the decline of Canada’s six-biggest banks.
The country’s largest lender by assets had its biggest drop in
almost seven months yesterday after reporting profit that missed
analysts’ estimates by a penny.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  slipped 1
percent to C$78.22, a day after the No. 2 bank posted earnings
that topped estimates. Bank of Montreal fell 1.1 percent to
C$54.50.  Toronto-Dominion Chief Financial Officer Colleen Johnston
said slowing loan growth, margin pressure and “regulatory
headwinds” may mean the bank will reach the “lower end” of
its 7 percent to 10 percent profit growth forecast this year.
The bank reported that second-quarter profit climbed 21 percent
to C$1.69 billion ($1.64 billion), or C$1.78 a share.  ‘Work Hard’  “Our current view is that we’re going to continue to work
hard to get in the 7 to 10 percent range,” Johnston said in a
telephone interview. “We expect to be at the lower end of the 7
to 10 percent on a full-year basis.”  A residential real estate boom in the world’s 10th-largest
economy has prompted  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  to warn
that high levels of household debt are the biggest domestic risk
to Canada’s economy. The central bank may increase its key
lending rate in the first quarter next year, according to a
survey of analysts’ forecasts, after keeping it unchanged at 1
percent since September 2010.  “The Canadian market is pretty saturated with the six big
banks and with interest rates so low their margins are getting
squeezed,” said  John Kinsey , who helps manage about C$1 billion
at Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto, including bank shares.
“It’s kind of ’What do we do, where do we go?’”  Margins Narrow  Domestic banking net interest margin at Royal Bank narrowed
to 2.72 percent in the second quarter, from 2.79 percent a year
earlier. Toronto-Dominion’s overall net interest margin narrowed
to 2.25 percent from 2.3 percent. Net interest margin is the
difference between what a bank charges for loans and pays in
deposits.  “We believe household demand for credit will slow
materially over the coming years,” National Bank Financial
analyst  Peter Routledge  said yesterday in a note to clients. He
said that a 15-year expansion of Canadian household leverage
“would come to an end in the near term.”  Royal Bank reported yesterday that profit from continuing
operations, excluding a loss tied to its RBC Dexia Investor
Services purchase, increased 4.9 percent to C$1.77 billion, or
C$1.15 a share. Domestic  consumer banking  will provide the
Toronto-based bank with more than 50 percent of its profit over
the next year, Routledge said.  “The most significant long-term risk facing (Royal Bank),
in our view, is its reliance on the Canadian banking segment,”
Routledge said in the note.  ‘Taking Away Share’  Royal Bank Chief Financial Officer Janice Fukakusa said the
lender will expand at home by increasing market share and
cutting expenses.  “Our strategy is growing at a premium to the market growth
by taking away share,” Fukakusa said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “In addition to that, ensuring that we operate at a
very tight cost base.”  Bank of Montreal , which reported a 27 percent increase in
profit on May 23, said increased competition for deposits is
hurting bank margins.  “The real issue with deposits is the low interest rate
environment and that’s just putting continued pressure on our
spreads, as we earn less on those deposits,” said Frank Techar,
head of Canadian  consumer lending  at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , the
country’s fourth-biggest bank. “And we expect that to continue
for at least two or three more quarters.”  Canadian banks will have other “levers” to expand profit
over the coming years, including operations in the U.S. and
asset-management businesses, said Edward Jones’s Lewandowski.  “Looking at this more broadly, I think there are still
some good underlying positive trends,” the analyst said.  Bank of Nova Scotia , Canada’s third-largest bank, is
scheduled to release second-quarter results on May 29.  Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce  and  National Bank of Canada (NA) ,
respectively the No. 5 and 6 banks, report results May 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  