-- Cargill’s Former Head of Sugar Drake Joining RCMA in Singapore
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-25T00:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/cargill-s-former-head-of-sugar-drake-joining-rcma-in-singapore.html
Jonathan Drake, former head of the
sugar business at Cargill Inc., will join RCMA Commodities Asia
Pte Ltd. in  Singapore  as chief operating officer.  Drake, 50, will work from Singapore and  Europe  as RCMA
expands its trading from rubber and coffee to sugar, according
to  Doug King , majority owner. He will also be head of sugar and
starts June 1. Drake left Cargill, the largest closely held U.S.
company, in December after 26 years.  “I have known Jonathan for over 20 years as we both
started our careers at Cargill in Liverpool trading non-grain
feed ingredients,” King said in Singapore on May 22.  Cargill, based in  Minneapolis , said in January that its
profit for the three months through November fell 88 percent
because of commodity market “challenges” and lower sugar
prices. The sweetener fell 27 percent last year, the most in a
decade, on speculation supplies would exceed demand. Futures
traded in  New York  are down 16 percent this year.  “The sugar market today is in an oversupply of between 5
and 7 million tons,” Drake said in an interview May 22.  King and  Michael Coleman , owners of RCMA, founded the
Merchant Commodity Fund which has $550 million in assets, and
they are both former Cargill employees. Drake’s information on
the sugar market will help the Merchant Commodity Fund decide
about its investments and “especially sugar,” King said.  The Merchant Commodity Fund, which is managed by Aisling
Analytics Pte Ltd. in Singapore, lost 30 percent in 2011 with
sugar as the biggest losing bet, Coleman said earlier this year.
It’s gained about 11 percent in the first four months, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the fund, who declined to
be identified because the information isn’t public.  White Sugar  RCMA will start trading white sugar and will expand its
staff to as many as 20 people in 18 months, said Drake, who has
spent 21 years in the sugar industry. While at Cargill, he
helped expand the sugar business from 22 employees to 425
workers globally, he said. Drake correctly forecast in February
2009 that a shortage would drive prices higher. Raw sugar prices
more than doubled that year.  “Drake transformed Cargill into one of the world’s largest
sugar trading companies,” said Plinio Nastari, president of
Datagro Ltd., a sugar consulting company in Barueri,  Brazil ,
which has counted Cargill as a customer since 1984. “He has
always influenced the market and will continue to do so.”  Net profit at RCMA Commodities rose to $32 million last
year from $19 million in 2010. It employs about 100 people, up
from 67 in the past two years, King said. Chief Executive
Officer Chris Pardey and Drake also have stakes in the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at   cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net  or;
sis Almeida in  London  at 
 almeida3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 