-- China’s Stocks Drop to 6-Week Low on Lending Slowdown Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-25T07:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/china-s-stocks-drop-to-5-week-low-on-lending-slowdown-concerns.html
China’s stocks  fell to a six-week low
on concern bank lending is slumping and business conditions are
deteriorating, adding pressure on the government to ease
monetary policy to avert a deeper economic slowdown.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (600016)  and  Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank (600000)  Co. paced declines for lenders after three bank
officials with knowledge of the matter said China’s biggest
banks may fall short of loan targets for the first time in at
least seven years.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , China’s largest carmaker,
dropped 3.3 percent on the prospect auto financing may be more
difficult as banks curtail loans.  “The economy hasn’t hit bottom yet,” said  Zhang Ling ,
general manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co. “Though
we’ve seen a series of policy relaxation moves, the market will
still face challenges as investors are worried about the
magnitude of the slowdown.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 17.42 points, or 0.7
percent to 2,333.55 at the close, the lowest since April 11. It
lost 0.5 percent this week, a third week of declines. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  fell 0.9 percent to 2,573.10. The  Bloomberg China-US
55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, slid 1.3 percent at the close in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai index has fallen 5.2 percent from this year’s
high on March 2 on concern the slowdown in the world’s second-
largest economy is deepening. Thirty-day  volatility  in the gauge
was at 14.29 today, the lowest in a year. About 8 billion shares
changed hands yesterday, 11 percent lower than the daily average
this year.  Bank Loans  China’s biggest banks may fall short of loan targets for
the first time in at least seven years as an economic slowdown
crimps demand for credit, three bank officials with knowledge of
the matter said. A decline in lending in April and May means
it’s likely the banks’ total new loans for 2012 will be about 7
trillion  yuan  ($1.1 trillion), less than the government goal of
8 trillion yuan to 8.5 trillion yuan, said one of the officials.  Lending may be about 550 billion yuan this month, down from
681.8 billion yuan in April, the Securities Daily reported
today, citing an unidentified person.  Minsheng Banking, the nation’s first privately owned bank,
lost 1.1 percent to 6.33 yuan. Pudong Bank dropped 0.7 percent
to 8.79 yuan.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the
biggest listed lender, slipped 0.2 percent to 4.18 yuan.  SAIC led declines for automakers, falling 3.3 percent to
14.77 yuan. Jiangling Motors Corp., the Chinese commercial
vehicle partner with Ford Motor Co., retreated 2.5 percent to
22.62 yuan.  Great Wall Motor Co. (601633) , China’s biggest pickup truck
maker, slid 1.6 percent to 15.85 yuan.  Business Sentiment  China’s MNI business sentiment survey fell to 54.40 in May,
the lowest level since December. It was down from April’s 56.04
and indicated overall conditions have worsened, according to a
survey released by Market News International. The survey
includes 182 manufacturing and non-manufacturing companies
listed in China and  Hong Kong .  Domestic economic growth faces downward pressure as
consumer prices may grow “slightly” this year, according to a
2011 annual report from the People’s Bank of  China  posted on its
website today. China may lower the benchmark lending rate in the
short term, the Financial News, a publication of the central
bank, reported on its website today.  The Shanghai Composite has climbed 6.1 percent this year on
expectations the central bank will ease monetary policies to
spur growth. The People’s Bank of China has cut the reserve-
requirement ratio three times since November amid signs of a
slowdown including a report showing industrial output growing
the least in three years in April.  Stocks in the gauge are valued at 10.1 times estimated
earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6,
according to  weekly data  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘At Bottom’  “The stock market is at the bottom now and may rise with
monetary policies being eased,” Wang Qi, a  fund manager  at
Yinhua Fund Management Co., said in an e-mailed interview from
Beijing yesterday. “We have turned optimistic about the A-share
market this year because valuations are already at relatively
low levels and the government has the ability to deliver steady
economic growth and maintain economic stability.”  Railway-related stocks rose after the China Business News
said the railway ministry may be permitted to sell more debt.  China Railway Erju Co. jumped by the 10 percent daily limit
to 7.34 yuan, capping a 27 percent gain this week.  Gem-Year
Industrial Co. (601002) , a manufacturer of carriage bolts, surged 8
percent to 13.43 yuan.  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390)  added 1.8
percent to 2.79 yuan.  The State Council may allow the railway ministry to bypass
rules that cap the total value of its outstanding bonds at 40
percent of net assets, the China Business News reported today,
citing an unidentified person close the ministry.  U.S.-Traded Stocks  Yinhua’s Wang, China’s best-performing fund manager this
year, said a government pledge to compel state-owned companies
to increase dividend yields will boost the nation’s  stocks  in
the second half of the year. His fund has returned 36 percent
this year, ranking first among 693 mutual funds in its peer
group, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The nation’s corporate dividends are the lowest among the
world’s 10 largest markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The dividend yield on the Shanghai Composite, or cash
companies pay to shareholders as a percentage of stock prices,
is 2.03 percent, Bloomberg data showed.  Chinese equities dropped in the U.S., led by solar
companies, as data signaled manufacturing in  Asia ’s biggest
economy may contract for a seventh month in May.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-largest maker of wafers,
tumbled to a record low and  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
biggest solar-panel maker, sank to the weakest level since
October.  China’s purchasing managers’ index shrank to a preliminary
reading of 48.7 in May, compared with a final 49.3 for April,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said yesterday. A number
below 50 shows contraction.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  