-- China’s Cotton Planting Drops 10% as Labor Costs Increase
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-25T07:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/china-cotton-planting-may-fall-by-10-on-increasing-labor-costs.html
Cotton planting in  China , the biggest
producer and consumer, has dropped about 10 percent in major
growing regions as labor costs increased, cutting profits,
according to an industry association.  Spring planting is largely finished, with the  Yangtze River 
and the Yellow River areas, which account for more than 60
percent of the country’s output, falling the most, Lu Huaiyu,
president of the farmer cooperation branch at the China Cotton
Association, said by phone from Hubei on May 23.  Futures in New York have slumped 19 percent this year amid
concern global supply will exceed demand. Planting in China may
drop by 9.2 percent in 2012 as high costs and falling prices cut
its appeal, Gao Fang, executive vice president of the China
Cotton Association, said May 18. The government has pledged to
buy new-crop cotton at above-market prices to boost planting.  “These policies were not attractive enough to boost inland
farmer interest to plant more cotton,” Lu said. “The crop
needs a lot of attention during the growing period and more
labor to manage compared with grains, while the harvest is a
very lengthy process involving labor throughout.”  The government said it will continue to stockpile locally
produced cotton to stem the decline in prices and protect farmer
interests. It will buy new-crop cotton at 20,400  yuan  ($3,215) a
ton, Zhang Xianbin, director at the economic and trade
department under the National Development and Reform Commission,
said May 17. Cotton for January delivery fell 0.2 percent to
close at 19,545 a ton on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange today.  High Costs  Cotton farming costs rose 17 percent in the 2011 season,
including a 13 percent rise in the cost of materials and a 20
percent rise in labor costs, the cotton association’s Gao said.
Labor costs account for 58 percent of the total, Gao said.  Still, Xinjiang, the biggest growing area, will see its
acreage fall by as much as 1.9 percent from a year ago, Sun
Xuan, an analyst at Jinshi Futures Co., said by phone from
 Shanghai  yesterday. Acreage hasn’t fallen as much as in the rest
of China because the land is more suitable to growing cotton,
she said.  Cotton for July delivery climed 1 percent to 74.65 cents a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . The contract fell to
70.53 cents a pound May 23, the lowest for a most-active
contract since February 2010.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  