-- Christie Scales Back Road Bonding Cuts After Revenue Miss
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-05-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/christie-scales-back-road-bonding-cuts-after-revenue-miss.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a
first-term Republican who ran on a campaign to “tear up the
state’s credit card,” now plans to close his revenue shortfall
in part by borrowing more.  Christie, who gained a national profile with his push for
smaller government, will take $260 million of cash funding for
transportation out of his proposed fiscal 2013 budget to make up
for $362 million less revenue than he projected in February,
Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said on May 23. The state will
issue more bonds to meet its goal of $1.6 billion in road work
for the fiscal year that begins July 1, he said.  “This is a one-year initiative, and we do not make this
recommendation casually,” Sidamon-Eristoff told lawmakers.  The move was an about-face for Christie, 49, who last year
announced an $8 billion, five-year transportation-funding plan
that would rely on less debt and more cash. Issuing more bonds
means Christie may not have to abandon his plan to cut income
taxes by 10 percent for every state resident over three years.  New Jersey’s revenue may trail Christie’s projections by as
much as $1.3 billion through June 2013,  David Rosen , the
Legislature’s chief budget analyst, said May 23. Sidamon-
Eristoff says that shortfall is $676 million.  Closing the Gap  In addition to reducing cash spending on transportation,
Christie plans to divert $279 million over two years from a fund
that invests in renewable energy and efficiency programs.  Democrats, who control both houses of the Legislature,
opposed Christie’s plans to cover his shortfall. Assembly Budget
Committee Vice Chairman Gary Schaer said the governor’s  tax-cut 
plan favors the wealthy and he should reconsider it.  “How do we explain to the public that we’re borrowing
money to provide income-tax relief that mostly benefits the
rich?” said Schaer, a Passaic Democrat. “It’s the equivalent
of going to your bank and borrowing money to deposit into your
checking account that you later repay with interest.”  New Jersey , the most densely populated U.S. state, pays for
road and bridge work from a 10.5 cents-per-gallon gasoline tax
and other transportation fees collected in its Transportation
Trust Fund. All of that revenue is consumed by debt service on
more than $13 billion of authority bonds outstanding, leaving no
money for new projects.  Gas Tax  Christie, the first Republican elected New Jersey governor
since 1997, has pledged not to raise the gas tax to replenish
the transportation fund. Sidamon-Eristoff said in March that the
administration would seek legislative approval to borrow $1.1
billion in fiscal 2013 for the fund.  Legislation is being drafted that would raise the fund’s
debt ceiling by $260 million, the treasurer said yesterday.  Christie told reporters yesterday in  Atlantic City  that
borrowing for road work isn’t the same as borrowing for the tax
cut. The state needs to compensate for an unexpected dip in
energy-tax revenue after the warmest 12-month period on record,
and is still committed to stepping up cash payments for
roadwork, he said.  “We’re making a change in one year in order to make sure
we keep our promises to the people of this state that it’s time
for them to have their taxes cut,” Christie said. “I’m not
going to allow a one-time occurrence like a warm winter prevent
our ability to cut taxes”  Debt Ratio  New Jersey’s debt rose 3.1 percent to $38.1 billion in the
year ended June 30, the slowest growth in four years, as
Christie’s administration reduced the pace of borrowing. Debt
had more than doubled over a decade, from $14.5 billion in 2001.  The state has the third-highest net tax-supported debt per
person and the fourth-highest net tax-supported debt as a
percentage of 2011 personal income, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. New Jersey is the second-wealthiest state,
with per-capita personal income of $51,358 in 2008, according to
the U.S. Census Bureau.  Moody’s, in a May 22 report, cited New Jersey as an example
of U.S. states that are moving to reduce new borrowing and
increase “pay-as-you-go” funding amid “fiscal stress and
anti-debt sentiment.”  At a hearing yesterday on Christie’s spending plan, Senate
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo , a Wood-Ridge Democrat,
said the governor cannot borrow to balance the budget. The state
 Supreme Court  banned the practice of selling bonds to finance
operating expenses in 2004.  Apples, Oranges  The treasurer said the administration’s plan is not to
increase borrowing to balance the budget, but to  “scale back a
planned program” of cash funding over the five-year program to
33 percent from 38 percent. That’s triple the amount under the
previous five-year plan, he said.  Sidamon-Eristoff said borrowing for the transportation fund
and the state budget are “apples and oranges.” Senator Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat from Teaneck, told the treasurer “we’re
borrowing from the apples and we’re calling them oranges.”  “It’s simply not true to try to say that we’re bonding out
operating expenses to save New Jersey,” Sidamon-Eristoff said.
“That’s not what’s happening.”  Assembly Budget Committee Chairman Vincent Prieto said the
plan is a reversal of Christie’s position to reduce reliance on
debt to finance road work. It’s “troubling” Christie would
boost borrowing “just to plug a gap,” he said.  “Everything needs to be on the table” to balance the
budget, Prieto, a Democrat from Secaucus, told reporters in
Trenton on May 23.  Transport Bonds  New Jersey’s Transportation Trust Fund Authority sold $1.3
billion of debt in November. The bonds were rated A1 by Moody’s
and A+ by  Standard & Poor’s , one step below New Jersey’s
general-obligation debt. Those bonds have outperformed top-grade
municipal debt, signaling Christie may find ready demand for the
securities.  June 2042 trust fund bonds traded May 17 for an average
yield of 3.74 percent, down from 5.05 percent at the time of the
November sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Buyers
demanded about 0.6 percentage point of extra yield above 30-year
general-obligations rated AAA, compared with a gap of 1.22
points at issue, according to Bloomberg BVAL data.  Christie, speaking to a business group in Trenton on May
23, urged the audience to press lawmakers for approval of a bond
measure to finance transportation work, saying the state would
“grind to a halt” without it.  “This is our investment in New Jersey’s infrastructure, in
New Jersey’s businesses,” Christie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  