-- Clemens’s DNA Was on Needle, Cotton Balls, Witness Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/clemens-s-dna-was-on-syringe-cotton-balls-witness-says.html
Former  New York  Yankees pitcher  Roger Clemens ’s genetic material was found on medical waste that his
ex-trainer turned over to federal investigators, a DNA analyst
testified at the perjury trial of the baseball player.  Alan Keel  of  Forensic Science Associates , a California
consulting firm, told federal court jurors yesterday in
 Washington  that he found Clemens’s DNA on two cotton balls and a
needle. The former trainer,  Brian McNamee , left blood on a piece
of gauze and pus on a piece of tissue, Keel said. McNamee said
earlier he might have cut himself breaking the top of an ampul.  The amount of Clemens’s DNA found on the needle was about
six to 12 cells, Keel said.  “A very small amount of biological material was
recovered,” he said.  Keel, a prosecution witness, agreed with Assistant U.S.
Attorney Courtney Saleski that a small amount isn’t unusual for
an intramuscular injection.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  ended the trial for the
day about 30 minutes early, saying a juror had learned that her
mother just died and was “distraught.” He said he would know
before the trial resumes on May 29 whether the juror would be
able to continue.  If that juror is released, one alternate remains. Two
jurors were dismissed earlier for falling asleep during the
trial, which just finished its sixth week.  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating the use of performance-enhancing drugs including
steroids and human growth hormone.  Possible Sentence  The ballplayer faces as long as 21 months in prison if
convicted. He denies having used the drugs. The government is
trying to prove he used them and lied about it to Congress.  The prosecution’s evidence includes the needle and cotton
with Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for anabolic steroids,
prosecutors said. The material came from McNamee, who said he
saved needles, gauze and vials from one of the injections in
2001. He told jurors he kept some of the items in a  Miller Lite 
beer can that he took from the recycling bin in Clemens’s
apartment.  McNamee has testified that he gave the ballplayer
injections of steroids and HGH during the 1998, 2000 and 2001
baseball seasons while both men worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays 
and the Yankees.  Keel, who said he received the material in 2008, said two
cotton balls that he was told by the government came from inside
the Miller Lite contained Clemens’s DNA. He said one cotton ball
had a blood stain, the other was a pus-type material. Keel said
his tests showed only one in 15.4 trillion people would match
the blood sample.  Smaller Probability  The needle, one used for intramuscular injections, was
among the items not found in the beer can, also contained
Clemens’s DNA, though on a much smaller probability range. Keel
said that test was one out of about 450 Caucasians.  Clemens’s lawyer, Michael Attanasio, questioned whether the
blood on the cotton ball could have come from a source other
than an injection site.  “You know it’s not uncommon for a pitcher to have a blood
blister on top of his finger after pitching,” Attanasio asked.  “Of course,” Keen answered.  Yankees Trainer  Two days earlier, Eugene Monahan, who was the athletic
trainer for the Yankees from 1973 until last year, told jurors
that he would routinely use diabetic needles to puncture blood
blisters on players hands.  Jurors, who are able to submit questions for witnesses
through Walton, asked more than 30 questions of Keel. Many of
the questions echoed those asked earlier by Attanasio, such as
who paid for the testing, why Keel didn’t test all of the
medical waste he received, and whether Keel tested the beer can
itself for biological material.  Walton said one of the questions the jury wanted to ask
was, “what is the significance of a witness being an expert
witness.”  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 