-- Climate Deadlock Breaks as Slow UN Talks Frustrate U.S., EU
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-05-25T14:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/climate-deadlock-breaks-as-slow-un-talks-frustrate-u-s-eu.html
Climate change  envoys broke a
deadlock at United Nations talks in  Germany , with European, U.S.
and island nations warning the slow pace of negotiations
threatens the chance of reaching a deal at the end of the year.  After a week of wrangling about the structure of the agenda
that will guide talks leading to a new climate deal in 2015,
delegates at the discussions in Bonn today bridged a divide that
pitted about 36 nations including China and  India  against the
European Union, U.S. and blocs of island and developing nations.  “We’re basically going around in circles,” Colin Beck,
the lead negotiator for the  Solomon Islands , said in an
interview in Bonn. “We virtually have postponed action. Every
year we do not take action, the cost in lives and the cost to
the health of the environment continues to increase.”  Negotiators are trying to set new emissions targets under
the existing  Kyoto Protocol  treaty, define what countries
without Kyoto targets will do to cut their greenhouse gas
output, and devise a new climate deal by 2015 that will take
effect by 2020.  “We were disappointed and frustrated that the discussions
at this meeting focused largely on procedural issues,”  Jonathan Pershing , the U.S. delegation chief, told reporters today in the
German city, where two weeks of negotiations end today.
“Parties must not renegotiate agreements we have already
reached.”  Debate on Agenda  The agenda agreed today will guide negotiations known as
the Durban Platform through 2015 for a deal that will bind all
nations to curtail greenhouse gas emissions, replacing the
existing Kyoto Protocol, which imposed legally-binding targets
only on developed nations.  The work program allows for countries to discuss ways to
increase the ambition of emissions pledges that environmental
groups and island nations say are insufficient to contain the
rise in global temperatures since industrialization to the 2
degree-Celsius (3.6 degree-Fahrenheit) goal that envoys have set
themselves.  “The biggest concern we have is countries are simply not
responding fast enough,” Nira Amerasinghe, an attorney at the
Center for International Environmental Law in  Washington , said
to reporters in Bonn. “We’re facing runaway climate change, and
even today people are facing the devastating impacts.”  Three Tracks  The talks have three tracks: one, to define what nations
with targets under the Kyoto Protocol will do when they expire
at year end; another, called the the Long-Term Cooperative
Action, or LCA track, which aims to define what those without
targets will do, including the biggest emitters, the U.S. and
China; and a third, known as the Durban Platform, which was
agreed on in  South Africa ’s third-biggest city in December after
talks overran by a day and a half.  “The spirit of cooperation that prevailed in Durban has
not really carried fully over into this session,” Denmark’s
Christian Pilgaard Zinglersen, who speaks for the 27-nation EU,
said today in Bonn. Progress “was repeatedly impeded through
procedural challenges. This means we have gotten far less out of
Bonn that we had hoped.”  Even so, progress was made in Bonn on “work that doesn’t
make the headlines but is essential,” Pershing said, citing
discussions on forests, helping  developing countries  adapt to
the effects of climate change and sharing technology.  ‘Right Direction’  “We’re moving in the right direction, but it clearly needs
to be increased in speed and scale,” said  Christiana Figueres ,
executive secretary of the UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change, which guides the negotiations. She was referring to
efforts to slash  greenhouse gases .  Figueres said the UN body still hasn’t raised the 4.8
million euros ($6 million) needed to stage another round of
interim discussions in Bangkok in August. That would help shape
an agreement for ministers to consider at the year-end
conference starting Nov. 26 in Doha, Qatar.  The time spent on debating the agenda in Bonn wasn’t wasted
because it allowed countries to understand each other’s
positions, Figueres said. That view was backed by Seyni Nafo, an
envoy from  Mali .  “It’s very healthy for the process as a whole to have such
a discussion at the beginning,” Nafo, who speaks for the bloc
of African nations, said in an interview. “We need to have a
common understanding of the terms of reference. It hasn’t been
wasted time.”  Kyoto Commitments  Negotiators this year still have to agree to a new round of
commitments for developed countries under Kyoto to replace ones
that expire at the end of 2012. The U.S. never ratified the
treaty,  Canada  has withdrawn, and Japan and  Russia  have said
they won’t take a second round of targets.  Australia ,  New
Zealand  and Ukraine have yet to make their positions clear.  Envoys are working to establish what climate aid will be
made available to developing countries from 2013 onwards, and
define the length of the second commitment period of Kyoto. The
EU wants that part of the plan to last eight years, while island
nations say it should be five so that low ambitions aren’t
locked in for a longer period.  Finding a middle ground that accommodates the U.S.,  China ,
Arab states and islands “is a very difficult job and becomes
only more complicated as we get into real issues that have more
and more effect on economies,” Pershing said. “My sense is
we’ll conclude this agreement in the next four years, and we
will have an outcome, but that it will be quite difficult along
the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  