-- Clinton Raps Pakistan for Sentencing Doctor Who Aided CIA
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-05-25T03:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/clinton-raps-pakistan-for-sentencing-doctor-who-aided-cia.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  sharply criticized Pakistan in her first remarks about
the 33-year sentence given to the doctor who helped the CIA
locate Osama bin Laden in a military town near Islamabad.  Shakil Afridi was found guilty of treason by a Pakistani
tribal court May 23 for running an immunization program for the
CIA as a pretext to collect DNA samples to confirm bin Laden was
living within a large walled compound in Abbottabad.  “We think his treatment is unjust and unwarranted,”
Clinton said of Afridi in remarks yesterday at the State
Department. She said the conviction and jail sentence had “no
basis” and the doctor’s fate was among “the many issues
important to the United States and the international community”
that the U.S. is discussing with  Pakistan ’s leaders.  The sentencing has strained already fraught U.S.-Pakistan
ties, with resentment and anger on both sides. Pakistan has yet
to act on the U.S. request to crack down on militants that
attack NATO troops or to re-open the NATO supply routes into
 Afghanistan  that were closed to protest U.S. airstrikes.  The raid that killed bin Laden and led to Afridi’s sentence
raised hackles on both sides, as Pakistan protested the
infringement on its sovereignty and Americans questioned how the
master terrorist’s presence could have gone undetected by
Pakistani authorities.  U.S. lawmakers registered their own displeasure over
Afridi’s sentencing, moving yesterday to cut military aid to the
government in Islamabad.  Senate Rebuke  The Senate Appropriations Committee unanimously voted to
include an amendment reducing military aid to Pakistan by $33
million -- $1 million for every year of the doctor’s sentence.
The measure was sponsored by the committee chairman Senator
Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, and Senator Lindsay Graham, a
South Carolina Republican.  The money “shall be withheld from obligation until the
secretary of state reports to the Committees on Appropriations
that Dr. Shakil Afridi has been released from prison and cleared
of all charges relating to the assistance provided to the United
States in locating  Osama Bin Laden ,” says the amendment.  While Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari was invited to
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s summit in  Chicago  on
May 20, where he met with Clinton, the U.S. and Pakistan still
haven’t reached an agreement on re-opening supply lines into
Afghanistan that Pakistan closed after U.S. airstrikes in
November accidentally killed 24 Pakistani troops. Pakistan is
seeking higher transit fees.  ‘Divergent’ Interests  U.S. lawmakers and officials have complained about
Pakistan’s protection of an insurgent sanctuary in North
Waziristan, a base from which militants from the Taliban and the
Haqqani network have staged attacks on NATO troops and Afghans.  A U.S. Defense Department report issued April 30 outlined
several attempts at meetings to improve relations, concluding
that the U.S. and Pakistan have “divergent strategic
interests” that “continue to make genuine cooperation
difficult.”  Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who chairs
the Senate Foreign Relations committee, said in a statement
about Afridi’s sentencing that “I believe in the importance of
the U.S.-Pakistan strategic relationship, but realities like
these make that effort more difficult.”  Lawmakers have already scaled back aid to Pakistan as part
of larger cuts in the foreign aid budget, including the special
Overseas Contingency Operations fund that is used for Iraq,
Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Senate Appropriations Committee
has requested $1 billion in aid for Pakistan for fiscal year
2013, down from about $1.5 billion.  Kerry said Afridi’s sentencing will be hard for people in
the U.S. to understand or bear. “Americans will have great
difficulty knowing that one year after the  United States  found
and killed the most notorious terrorist in modern history hiding
on Pakistani soil, the most visible action being taken to find
out how he came to be in Pakistan is the conviction in a
Pakistani court of the physician who helped the United States
identify Osama bin Laden,” Kerry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  