-- Colombia to Keep Rate at Three-Year High, Survey Shows
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-05-25T20:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/colombian-traders-back-analysts-on-call-for-5-25-benchmark-rate.html
Colombian traders and economists
predict the central bank will hold borrowing costs at a three-
year high for a third month even after policy makers warned a
surge in credit risks fanning inflation.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
will keep the  overnight lending rate  at 5.25 percent when it
next meets May 28, according to all 25 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Trading in three-month interest-rate swaps, which are
little changed at 5.10 percent, indicate investors aren’t
expecting a move in the next three meetings.  Colombia has defied a global trend for lower rates as
domestic demand and record foreign investment helped power the
fastest  economic growth  since 2007. As policy makers warn of the
risks of an increase in consumer loans, which grew 22 percent in
March, economists are sticking with forecasts for higher
 interest rates  later this year, setting themselves apart from
traders betting on no change after inflation slowed to within
the central bank’s target.  “Most signs point to growth moderating this year, allowing
the central bank to leave rates on hold for now,” said  Andres Pardo , the Bogota-based head analyst at financial services
holding company Corp. Financiera Colombiana. “Inflation is
under control and inflation expectations have eased. The only
factor that worries the central bank and points to an increase
is consumer demand.”  Policy Makers Divided  Uribe urged Colombians last week to avoid taking on too
much debt, citing  Greece  as an example.  “There is still room for at least one more hike,” said
Brian Lesmes, a senior economist in Bogota at  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO) ,
the nation’s biggest bank. “The central bank doesn’t feel
comfortable with the pace of  consumer lending .”  Banco de la Republica has raised the key rate nine times
since February 2011, bringing it up from a record low 3 percent
as  inflation  accelerated to as fast as 4.02 percent in October.
Policy makers kept borrowing costs on hold at their March and
April meetings, voting unanimously last month.  Still,  minutes  of the April 30 monetary policy meeting
showed that central bankers were divided on the outlook for
inflation, with some concerned that growing domestic demand may
lead to price increases, while others saw no such risk.  Colombia’s interest-rate increases have helped make the
peso the world’s second-best performing currency this year as
investors seek out higher yielding assets amid record-low
borrowing costs in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan . The peso has
climbed 5.8 percent this year, trailing only Madagascar’s ariary
among the currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide.  Avoiding ‘Future Problems’  Trading in six-month and one-year  interest-rate swaps 
reflect bets that rates won’t change through the rest of the
year. Six-month swaps were little changed at 5.12 percent today
from a record-high 5.48 percent Feb. 22, two days before policy
makers raised borrowing costs. One-year swaps rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.2 percent today.  The median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Citigroup
Inc. points to a 25 basis point increase to the key rate by
year-end, according to a report published May 23. That’s in line
with a May 11 central bank report showing most economists expect
policy makers to raise the key lending rate 25 basis points to
5.5 percent in September.  The South American nation moved to slow the pace of
consumer credit growth last week by increasing  reserve
requirements  for lenders that have seen a rise in delinquent
loans. Forcing banks to set more money aside will help avoid
“future problems,” Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said
in a May 18 statement.  Macro-Prudential Measures  Policy makers may adopt additional measures to curb credit
growth without raising the benchmark rate,  Francisco Rodriguez ,
a New York-based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
wrote in a report yesterday.  “Authorities will continue to consider macro-prudential
measures of this type and shy away from further rate
increases,” Rodriguez wrote.  Consumer borrowing is increasing after the economy grew 5.9
percent last year, the most since gross domestic product jumped
6.9 percent in 2007. The economy will grow about 5 percent in
2012, Uribe said last week. That compares with International
Monetary Fund forecasts for expansion of 5.5 percent this year
in  Peru , 2.1 percent in the U.S. and 3 percent in  Brazil .  Rate Horizon  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
expectations for annual consumer price increases, fell to 2.35
percentage points, from an 11-month high of 4.07 on Feb. 17.  Colombia ’s industrial production fell 0.9 percent in March
from a year earlier, the first annual decline since October
2009. Retail sales rose 5.1 percent in the same month, the 30th
consecutive month of increases.  Annual inflation was 3.43 percent in April, within the
central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range. Inflation
this year and next will be close to 3 percent, while consumer-
price increases in 2014 will be “slightly” below that level,
Uribe said in a presentation last week.  Banco de la Republica “will remain on hold for the rest of
the year,” said Bret Rosen, a Latin America strategist at
Standard Chartered Bank in  New York .  “Inflation expectations have come down, and the central
bank isn’t expressing much worry,” Rosen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 