-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Climbs to Highest Since 2007
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-25T20:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-climbs-to-highest-since-2007.html
Consumer confidence  rose in May to
the highest level since October 2007 as Americans became more
upbeat about the prospects for employment.  The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan  final index of
 sentiment  climbed to 79.3, the ninth straight increase, from
76.4 the prior month. The gauge was projected to hold at the
preliminary reading of 77.8, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  A record number of households said they’d heard better news
on the jobs outlook, which combined with cheaper gasoline and an
improving housing market may help sustain  consumer spending  and
shield the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis. The figures also
showed 63 percent of Americans, the most in more than a year,
had a favorable view of buying conditions for big-ticket items.  “This is telling us the consumer is feeling OK,” said
 Robert Brusca , president of Fact & Opinion Economics in New
York, who projected a final reading of 78.5 in May. “There
seems to be enough real improvement in the job market for
confidence to be increasing. When confidence readings increase,
you can be pretty sure  consumer spending  numbers will go up.”  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 76 to 79,
according to the Bloomberg survey of 60 economists. The index
averaged 64.2 during the last recession and 89 in the five years
before the 18-month economic slump that ended in June 2009.  Stocks Decline  Stocks fell as concern about  Spain ’s finances tempered
optimism with the Michigan figures. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 0.2 percent to 1,317.82 at the close in  New York .
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note decreased to
1.74 percent from 1.78 percent late yesterday.  Michigan’s reading for May contrasts with the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, which has lost ground after reaching a
four-year high a month ago.  Today’s figures also indicated Europe’s financial crisis
was not high on the list of Americans’ concerns. Reports today
showed it’s also having limited impact on sentiment in Europe.  German consumer confidence will be steady in June,
according to GfK SE. The group’s consumer-sentiment index will
hold at 5.7 next month, the Nuremberg-based market research
company said today.  A separate report showed confidence in  France  increased in
May to the highest since November 2010.  Current Conditions  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions , which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether they consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars, rose to 87.2, the strongest since January 2008, from
82.9 the prior month.  The index of  consumer expectations  six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of consumer spending,
increased to 74.3, the highest since July 2007, from 72.3 in
April.  The  unemployment rate  slid to 8.1 percent in April, the
lowest level since January 2009, Labor Department figures showed
this month. Employers added 115,000 workers to payrolls, the
fewest since October, according to the data.  “The most likely prospect is that job growth resumes at a
modest pace and that confidence remains largely unchanged until
after the November election and decisions about  tax policy  are
made,”  Richard Curtin , head of the University of Michigan’s
consumer survey, said in a statement.  Jobs Forecast  Economists project payroll growth expanded by about 150,000
this month, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. The Labor Department will issue its May employment
report on June 1.  Labor market progress would help rouse confidence after
concerns about Europe’s debt crisis weighed on the U.S. stock
market. The  S&P 500  was down 7 percent from an almost four-year-
high in early April through yesterday.  “The economy and consumer sentiment remains fragile and we
can foresee the possibility of more turbulence from outside
events as we move through the year,” Stuart Brown, vice
president and chief financial officer of  Red Robin Gourmet
Burgers Inc. (RRGB) , said during a May 16 earnings call. Shares of the
 Greenwood Village , Colorado-based restaurant chain dropped last
week by the most in two years after it said same-store sales
will rise 1 percent this year.  PetSmart Inc. (PETM)  is among companies that are more upbeat. The
Phoenix-based retailer of pet food, supplies and services said
on May 22 that its first-quarter same-store sales climbed 7.4
percent.  ‘Cautiously Optimistic’  “Although the macroeconomic environment still holds some
uncertainty, we remain cautiously optimistic about the outlook
for 2012,” Lawrence Molloy, chief financial officer, said on
the company’s earnings call.  A saving grace could also come from less expensive prices
at the pump. The average price of a gallon of gasoline fell to
$3.67 yesterday from a peak this year of $3.94 in early April,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest automobile organization.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3 percent over the next  12 months , compared
with 3.2 percent in the prior survey. Over the next five years,
Americans expected a 2.7 percent rate of inflation, compared
with a previously reported 2.9 percent in the previous report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  