-- Corn, Soy Prices After Harvest Rise; Wheat Futures Gain
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-05-25T15:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/corn-soy-prices-after-harvest-rise-wheat-futures-gain.html
The price of corn and soybeans after
this year’s harvest rose on speculation that hot, dry weather
will increase stress on crops in the U.S., the world’s biggest
producer. Wheat advanced on signs of improving export demand.  The lack of rain will deplete soil moisture for most fields
from  Arkansas  to  Ohio  during the next five days before cooler
weather and light showers return by May 30, Global Weather
Monitoring said in a report. Rainfall will be restricted by low
humidity and dry subsoil, increasing potential crop stress, the
private forecaster said.  “The forecasts are still saying it will be warmer and
drier than normal, and that reduces selling interest,” Jason Roose, a broker and market analyst for U.S. Commodities Inc. in
 West Des Moines ,  Iowa , said in a telephone interview. “Weather
will be the main focus for the next several months.”  Corn futures for delivery in December, after the harvest,
rose 1.2 percent to $5.21 a bushel at 10:51 a.m. on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade. The contract for July delivery, the most
actively-traded and widely-held, advanced 0.2 percent to
$5.7975, after gaining as much as 1.9 percent.  For the week, the most-active futures are down 8.8 percent
on concern that the  European debt crisis  will slow the global
economy and curb commodity demand.  Soybean futures for July delivery rose 0.5 percent to
$13.83 a bushel in Chicago. Soybeans for delivery in November,
after the harvest, rose 0.9 percent at $12.8775.  Wheat Rallies  Wheat futures rose on speculation that a drop in global
production will boost demand from supplies from the U.S., the
biggest exporter, Roose said. U.S. exporters are winning
business from Russian suppliers whose domestic prices are too
high, Arkady Zlochevsky,  Russia ’s grain union president, said in
Moscow today.  World wheat production will fall 3.5 percent to 670.5
million metric tons in the year that begins June 1, down from a
record 694.8 million harvested a year earlier, the International
Grain Council said in a report. U.S.  exporters  sold 754,599 tons
of wheat for delivery after June in the week ended May 17, up
from 389,616 a week earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said yesterday.  “The market is looking for a rebound in export sales,”
Roose said. “Wheat yields have been reduced and may get a
little smaller.”  Wheat futures for July delivery jumped 2.8 percent to
$6.815 a bushel in Chicago, after falling 5.8 percent the past
three sessions on speculation that rains may revive crops in
Russia and Ukraine.  Corn is the most valuable U.S. crop, followed by soybeans,
hay and wheat, USDA data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  