-- Corzine’s Hoboken Penthouse Sells at a 14% Loss for $2.8 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-05-25T18:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/corzine-s-hoboken-penthouse-sells-at-a-14-loss-for-2-8-million.html
A Hoboken,  New Jersey , penthouse
belonging to  Jon Corzine , the former chairman of bankrupt  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , sold for $2.8 million, 14 percent less
than what he paid for it in 2008.  The buyer of the 2,400-square-foot (223-square-meter), two-
bedroom apartment is listed as POJ Holdings LLC, which paid in
cash, according to  Kevin Dowd , a broker with Prudential Castle
Point Realty in Hoboken, citing the multiple listing service.
Dowd wasn’t involved in the deal, which was completed on May 7.  Corzine, a former governor of New Jersey and co-chairman of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , bought the apartment in November 2008
for $3.26 million, according to property records. He sought $2.9
million when he put it on the market in January. The penthouse,
in  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) ’s  Maxwell Place  complex, has has floor-to-
ceiling windows with views of the Hudson River and the Manhattan
skyline, according to the  listing  by Jessica O’Connor Williams,
a broker with Prime Real Estate Group in Hoboken.  “At the time that Corzine purchased the property it was
clearly the No. 1 luxury property in Hoboken,” Dowd said. “Top
floor, direct, smack-you-in-the-face views of the city. You
really can’t beat that.”  The apartment, which includes Viking kitchen appliances and
a Jacuzzi in the master bathroom, has a $1,700 monthly
maintenance fee. Property taxes in 2011 were $38,003, according
to the listing. That bill made Corzine one of Hoboken’s top 10
taxpayers, Dowd said.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, declined to
comment. O’Connor Williams said she couldn’t immediately
comment.  MF Global, a New York-based futures broker, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after making bets on
European sovereign debt and getting margin calls. Corzine
testified before Congress in December about MF Global’s failure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  