-- Croatia, Hungary Discuss Cooperation in Energy, LNG Krk Terminal
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-05-25T11:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/croatia-hungary-discuss-cooperation-in-energy-lng-krk-terminal.html
Croatia and  Hungary  may cooperate in
several energy projects, including an LNG terminal on the
Croatian island of Krk and investing in wind power plants in
next European Union member, Economy Minister Radimir Cacic said.  “Hungary has shown a great interest in participating in
the building of a liquefied natural gas terminal on the island
of Krk, which for us is also very important,” Cacic said in a
phone interview, after meeting with Pal Kovacs, Hungary’s state
secretary for national development, earlier this week in Zagreb.  “It would be a win-win project, as through interconnectors
in Hungary we could supply Slovakia and Poland on one side and
Romania on the other,” Cacic said. He also said  Croatia  would
aim “at a starting position of holding a 25 percent plus one
share package” in the project.  Cacic said on April 18 Croatia will build a liquefied
natural-gas terminal on Krk by 2016 to supply countries in the
region, taking over a previous plan backed by international
partners.  The project would connect to the proposed Trans Adriatic
Pipeline, a regional natural-gas project.  Adria LNG , with
partners  E.ON AG (EOAN) ,  OMV AG (OMV) , Geoplin d.d. and  Total SA (FP) , originally
considered building a terminal on Krk, near Italy, before its
licenses for the project expired.  “Other investors are welcome as well,” Cacic said.
Qatar’s state oil company,  Qatar Petroleum , is “also
interested,” he said.  Macquarie Interest  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s largest investment bank,
is also interested in the Croatian government’s plan to build an
LNG terminal, Mark Dooley, the  executive director  for Macquarie
Capital Europe in  London , said by phone on May 18.  Natural-gas consumption in the former Yugoslav region and
Albania will double by 2020 to 11 billion cubic meters (385
billion cubic feet) of gas a year, according to a study released
in October by  Plinacro d.o.o. , a state-owned gas pipeline
operator. Croatia intends to meet the increased demand, spurred
by economic growth and rising environmental concerns, by
building the terminal.  Hungary has also shown interest in investing into wind
power plants in Croatia and leasing them from Croatia, Cacic
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  