-- Dallara Says Greek Euro Exit May Exceed 1 Trillion Euros
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-05-26T08:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/dallara-says-greek-euro-exit-may-exceeed-1-trillion-euros.html
The cost of  Greece  exiting the euro
would be unmanageable and probably exceed the 1 trillion euros
($1.25 trillion) previously estimated by the  Institute of
International Finance , the group’s managing director said.  The Washington-based IIF’s projection from earlier this
year is “a bit dated now” and “probably on the low side,”
 Charles Dallara  said in an interview in  Rome  yesterday. “Those
who think that Europe, and more broadly the global economy, are
really prepared for a Greek exit should think again.”  The  European Central Bank ’s exposure to Greek liabilities
is more than twice as big as the ECB’s capital, said Dallara,
who represented banks in their negotiations with the Greek
government on its debt restructuring. As a result, he predicted
the bank would be unable to provide liquidity and stabilize the
euro-area financial sector.  “The ECB will be insolvent” if Greece were to exit the
euro, Dallara said. “ Europe  would have to first and foremost
recapitalize its central bank.”  Concern about Europe’s crisis has erased about $4 trillion
from global equity values, as policy makers continue to argue
over how to stabilize the 17-nation euro area and limit regional
contagion. European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said
yesterday that contingency planning for Greece leaving the euro
“isn’t a priority,” while Morgan Stanley economist  Elga Bartsch  has said Greece has a 1-in-3 chance of a euro exit.  Previous Estimate  In February, the IIF estimated that Greece’s liabilities,
in the event of a euro exit, could be crippling. “It is hard to
see how they would not exceed 1 trillion euros,” the group said
in an internal Feb. 18 report that hasn’t been made public.  Spain,  Italy  and the already-bailed out Ireland and
 Portugal  “remain quite vulnerable to changes in  market
sentiment ” as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis continues, Dallara
said. He urged policy makers to remember the shockwave caused by
the failure of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc., and that what
appears to be a “containable event” may in fact bring on
financial meltdown.  For Greece, in its fifth year of  recession , it may be more
effective to offer extra money to help its battered economy
recover, Dallara said. Because Greece’s economy has shrunk so
much faster than expected, it may need more time to meet its
budget targets and repay its international loans, he said.  Aiding Economy  Greece’s shrinking economy could be aided “at a cost” of
an additional 10 billion euros. “We’re talking about very
modest sums compared to what’s already on the table,” he said.  “A small olive branch here carefully defined, nuanced in
its presentation, not as an alternative to fundamental reform
but a recognition that some elements of this program were not
that well designed, would be a wise thing and I would do it
sooner rather than later,” Dallara said.  It’s not clear whether  Spain  will need a bailout as it
seeks to help its banks weather the euro crisis, he said. A
planned audit of bank loan books is likely to show that the
Spanish banking sector’s woes are “manageable” overall,
Dallara predicted.  Spain is grappling with how to handle Bankia SA, which was
nationalized earlier this month, and other problems in the
savings-bank sector. Dallara said the systemic risk posed by
Bankia “has been somewhat exaggerated” and that independent
inquiries will provide an outside assessment of Spain’s
financial condition.  ‘Substantial Headway’  “If it is of manageable proportions, then I think it is
the decision of the Spanish government to decide” whether to
pursue outside aid, Dallara said.  “The magnitude remains to be determined and I think we
should exercise a bit of patience and allow this process to run
its course and realize that as it is, Spain is making
substantial headway in budget reduction,” Dallara said.  In the long run, the euro area will need to address the
“fundamental structural flaw” of sharing a currency while
allowing national governments to control fiscal policy, he said.
He urged  Germany  to drop its opposition to shared debt and
instead seek a system where joint euro bonds could be an
“incentive” to fiscal restraint and structural reform.  “The only way to help markets see past that obscurity is
to remove the cloud of uncertainties of national fiscal position
and move toward unification,” Dallara said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  