-- De Beers Expects to Find More Dead in Illegally Dug Tunnels
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-05-25T16:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/de-beers-expects-to-find-about-10-more-dead-underground-2-.html
De Beers  said rescue teams located
four more bodies in illegally dug tunnels that collapsed at its
Namaqualand diamond concession on  South Africa ’s western coast,
where 17 of the miners are now thought to have died.  “We don’t think there are any more alive underground,”
Sakhile Ngcobo, an executive committee member at Johannesburg-
based De Beers South Africa, said by phone today. De Beers is
the world’s largest diamond producer by sales.  Rescuers expect to find about 11 more bodies after
retrieving two earlier, De Beers said in a statement. Three
people who escaped the tunnels as they collapsed helped
reconstruct the layout.  Illegal mining is rife in South Africa, where about one in
every four people is unemployed. Diggers often break seals to
enter miles of disused underground tunnels to extract mainly
gold. In April 2010, Citigroup Inc. valued the nation’s mineral
resources at about $2.5 trillion, the most of any country.  About 700 miles northeast of the Namaqualand site, 22
people were rescued from a disused  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  shaft
near Welkom in the Free State province after a rockfall, and
arrested for trespassing, the South African Police Service said
in an e-mailed statement today. Police didn’t find any evidence
of fatalities in the mine.  “It’s a very complex and a very dangerous situation,”
Ngcobo said of the Namaqualand rescue process today. The ground
at the site is unstable, De Beers spokesman Innocent Mabusela
said yesterday.  Gold Arrests  South African police said they arrested five people
suspected of involvement in illegal gold buying in the Welkom
area, southwest of Johannesburg. They may have been involved in
hiring illegal miners, the police said in an e-mailed statement.  “Illegal mining is starting to rear its ugly head again as
illicit activities have recently been reported in the Northern
Cape, Free State and Gauteng in the Ekurhuleni area,” Mineral
Resources Minister Susan Shabangu said in a speech yesterday.
“This happens after remarkable improvement has been achieved in
the Free State and Mpumalanga provinces.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  