-- Dell Said to Mull Buying Quest for Computer-Management Tools
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-05-25T13:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/dell-said-to-discuss-buying-quest-to-add-business-software-1-.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  is in discussions to
acquire  Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , a maker of tools that help
companies manage their computer systems, according to people
with knowledge of the matter.  Dell is among several companies that made offers for Quest
Software after it agreed in March to be bought by private-equity
and venture-capital firm Insight Venture Partners for about $2
billion, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the discussions are private.  Quest, based in  Aliso Viejo ,  California , makes software
that helps companies manage databases and servers, as well as
back up information and recover lost data. Dell, the third-
largest maker of personal computers, is using deals to help it
cater to business customers and lessen its reliance on PCs.  Quest, which had a market value of $2.12 billion at
yesterday’s close, also helps customers monitor the performance
of applications that run businesses. The stock gained 4.6
percent to $26.33 at 9:35 a.m. in  New York . Before today, it had
surged 35 percent this year amid speculation that another
company would top Insight Venture Partners’ $23-a-share bid.  Dell, based in  Round Rock ,  Texas , has been making  purchases 
-- including five announced this year -- to add software,
computer storage and networking gear to its lineup of PCs, which
 account  for 52 percent of its sales.  Dell’s Stock Slump  Dell on May 22 reported fiscal first-quarter sales fell 4
percent and forecast second-quarter revenue for the period
ending in July that missed analysts’ estimates. The shares had
their worst performance in more than a decade the following day.  Tracy Benelli, a spokeswoman for Quest, didn’t return
messages seeking comment outside regular business hours.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment, as did David Satterfield, a spokesman for Insight Venture Partners.  Quest said earlier this month that it received offers
during a so-called “go-shop” period that followed the
agreement to be acquired by Insight Venture Partners. Many of
the options are “reasonably expected to lead to a superior
proposal,” the company said at the time.  Quest had said on March 9 that it agreed to be taken
private for $23 a share, in a deal valued at about $2 billion.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. has said Quest is worth about $28,
based on the software provider’s sales and cash flow, and could
attract bids from International Business Machines Corp., Dell or
private-equity firms.  Quest Sales Gains  Quest may report sales rose 11 percent in the second
quarter, according to analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
The company’s revenue rose 13 percent in the first quarter.  Dell shares have  declined  19 percent in the past year as an
effort by Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  to annex new
parts of the computer market has met with uneven results. Sales
in the current fiscal year may drop 3 percent to $60.1 billion,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Dell had $13.7 billion in cash and short-term investments
on its  balance sheet  at the end of the fiscal first quarter.  Quest Software is being advised by New York-based  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  