-- Dell Said Close to Buying Quest for Computer-Management
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-05-25T20:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/dell-said-close-to-buying-quest-for-computer-management.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  is in advanced discussions
to acquire  Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , a maker of tools that help
companies manage their computer systems, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  An agreement could be announced as soon as this weekend,
said the person, who declined to be named because the talks are
private. Talks could still fall apart, the person said.  Quest, which agreed in March to be bought by private-equity
firm Insight Venture Partners for about $2 billion, has said it
received other offers. The company makes software to help
businesses manage databases and servers, as well as back up
information and recover lost data. Dell, the third-largest maker
of personal computers, is using deals to help it cater to
corporate customers and lessen its reliance on PCs.  Quest, with a market value of about $2.12 billion, also 
helps customers monitor the performance of applications that run
businesses. The stock lost 0.1 percent to $25.15 at the close in
 New York  after earlier rising as much as 6 percent to $26.73.
Before today, it had surged 35 percent this year amid speculation
that another buyer would top Insight’s $23-a-share bid.  Dell, based in  Round Rock ,  Texas , has been making  purchases 
-- including five announced this year -- to add software,
computer storage and networking gear to its lineup of PCs, which
 account  for 52 percent of its sales.  Dell’s Stock Slump  Dell on May 22 reported fiscal first-quarter sales fell 4
percent and forecast second-quarter revenue for the period
ending in July that missed analysts’ estimates. The shares had
their worst performance in more than a decade the following day.  Tracy Benelli, a spokeswoman for Quest, didn’t return
messages seeking comment.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell,
declined to comment, as did David Satterfield, a spokesman for
Insight Venture Partners.  Quest said on March 9 that it agreed to be taken private by
Insight. Two months later, the  Aliso Viejo , California-based
company said it received several other offers during a so-called
“go-shop” period that are “reasonably expected to lead to a
superior proposal.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. has said Quest is worth about $28 a
share, based on the software provider’s sales and cash flow, and
could attract bids from International Business Machines Corp.,
Dell or private-equity firms.  Quest Sales Gains  Quest may report sales rose 11 percent in the second
quarter, according to analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
The company’s revenue rose 13 percent in the first quarter.  Dell shares have  declined  19 percent in the past year as an
effort by Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  to annex new
parts of the computer market has met with uneven results. Sales
in the current fiscal year may drop 3 percent to $60.1 billion,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Dell had $13.7 billion in cash and short-term investments
on its  balance sheet  at the end of the fiscal first quarter.  Quest Software is being advised by New York-based  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  