-- Deutsche Bank’s Fitschen Says Failed Greece Lacks Leaders
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-05-25T16:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/deutsche-bank-s-fitschen-says-failed-greek-state-lacks-leaders.html
Greece  is a “failed state” and the
population and business community don’t see a path out of the
crisis, said  Juergen Fitschen , who takes over as  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ’s co-chief executive officer next week.  “Greece is the only country, I feel, where we can say
‘it’s a failed state,’ it is a corrupt state, corrupt as far as
its political leadership is concerned and obviously other people
had to be willing to support this,” Fitschen said in a speech
at a conference in Berlin today.  Fitschen travelled to  Athens  yesterday to meet executives
from the banking, shipping and industrial sectors.  “I asked my counterparts, ‘where are the people that you
would trust to lead the country into a new era where you have
open confidence that it can be a valued member of the euro
zone?’” Fitschen said. “Unfortunately, the number of names was
very limited, you wouldn’t find even a handful of names that are
trusted political leadership candidates today.”  The prospect of Greece leaving the 17-nation euro region
increased after parties opposed to the terms of the country’s
second bailout by the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  won most of the votes in May 6 elections. A fresh
round of voting will be held June 17 after politicians failed to
form a government. For the first time since the crisis began in
November 2009, European leaders and central bankers are speaking
openly of Greece abandoning the currency union.  ‘High Price’  “It is very unfortunate and the country has paid a very
high price,” said Fitschen. “The political elite is totally
isolated from the rest of the country. No country can be
governed properly if there is no dialogue between the business
elite and the social elite and the political elite.”  Fitschen’s comments contrast with a statement the bank’s
CEO,  Josef Ackermann , made in June 2010. Ackermann said at the
time that he was confident Greece could repay its debt because
the nation was committed to reform. Greece has since
restructured its debt, asking private investors to take losses
on their bonds.  Deutsche Bank reduced its net risks related to Greek
sovereign bonds to 94 million euros ($118 million) at the end of
March from 1.6 billion euros at the end of 2010 by taking part
in Greece’s debt swap and allowing notes to mature, according to
company presentations on the Frankfurt-based bank’s website.  Exit ‘Dangerous’  The foregone conclusion that Greece will leave the euro
area made by some leaders and market participants is
“dangerous,” said Fitschen, who takes over as Deutsche Bank
co-CEO with investment bank chief Anshu Jain at the end of the
month. “We should not talk so much about the exit, but we
should talk more about how we can make sure that this event
comes to an end and we focus all our attention, all our interest
on how to maintain Greece as a member of the  euro zone  because,
I believe, that would change the whole debate very
fundamentally,” he said.  Each country is different and there is no “one size fits
all” approach to the sovereign-debt crisis, Fitschen said at
the conference hosted by the American Chamber of Commerce in
Berlin.  “People are just not seeing the light at the end of the
tunnel,” said Fitschen. “They accept that they have to go
through painful adjustment processes, but where’s the carrot
that can guide them to accept it and cheerfully wait for better
times to come? The moment that the public would feel that the
momentum has returned, it becomes much easier.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  said May 15 that they would consider measures
to spur economic growth in Greece as long as voters there
committed to the austerity demanded to stay in the euro.  Europe  should consider how to provide Greeks with that
perspective, “while not giving up on the austerity program,
which is the German position, to ask for a necessary
discipline,” Fitschen said.  Representatives of governments and the European Parliament
agreed on a pilot phase this week for bonds that would back
private infrastructure construction. Such financing “can be
part of the answer, but it is not without danger” and these
programs have to be commercially-viable “in the long run,”
said Fitschen.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Nicholas Comfort at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  