-- Dutch Lenders Get Respite for Safety Fund to Ease Bank Levy
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-05-25T15:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/dutch-lenders-get-respite-for-safety-fund-to-ease-bank-levy.html
Dutch banks, including  ING Groep NV (INGA) 
and Rabobank Groep, gained a year of respite from contributing
to a fund that reimburses depositors when a lender fails after
the government proposed a bank levy.  The additional time will “mitigate the cumulative effect
for the banks somewhat” Dutch Finance state secretary Frans Weekers said in a letter sent to parliament today. Banks will
start paying for it in July 2013, Weekers said.  The Dutch caretaker government said in April it would
introduce a separate 600 million-euro ($751 million) bank tax in
the middle of this year as part of an emergency austerity deal
reached with opposition parties. That was was double the level
of an earlier proposal, designed to require lenders to take on
some of the costs of ensuring financial stability.  In a worst-case outlook total outstanding bank credit could
be cut by 20 billion euros a year and house prices could drop by
19 percent over 10 years, the country’s central bank said in a
letter to Weekers published today. The levy is “incompatible
with maintaining household and commercial credit at desirable
levels,” it said.  The Dutch government in March submitted draft legislation
to make each lender pay a percentage of deposits into a fund
annually. The fund should reach 1 percent of banks’ total
deposits within 15 years. At the end of September 2009 about 390
billion euros in savings were covered by the current deposit
guarantee plan.  Under the current system no such depositor fund exists,
though deposits of as much as 100,000 euros are guaranteed.
Dutch banks such as Rabobank and ING paid hundreds of millions
of euros to compensate clients of DSB Bank NV after the regional
lender collapsed in October 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  