-- Ecopetrol’s Peruvian Unit to Complete Natural Gas Project
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-05-26T00:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/ecopetrol-s-peruvian-unit-to-complete-natural-gas-project.html
Savia Peru, a joint venture between
Colombia’s  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  and Korea National Oil Corp., expects to
complete a $55 million natural-gas project in Peru this year,
part of a plan to triple its oil and gas output in Peru.  The Punta Lagunas project, which will supply north coastal
industries such as  Vale SA (VALE3) ’s Bayovar phosphate mine via a 25-
kilometer (16-mile) pipeline, is pending environmental approval
from Peru’s Energy Ministry, Vice President Nelson Castaneda
said today in an interview at his office in Lima.  The project’s output has 15 potential buyers, Castaneda
said. “With 1 trillion cubic feet found so far, this could
supply a fertilizer industry, generate electricity and supply
cars and homes.”  Ecopetrol, based in Bogota, is investing $2.5 billion to
increase production in Peru to 50,000 barrels a day by 2016,
which would make it the nation’s largest crude producer ahead of
Pluspetrol SA of  Argentina  and  Brazil ’s Petroleo Brasileiro SA.
Peru has attracted $16 billion in energy investments over the
next decade, according the Energy & Mines Ministry.  Savia, which has invested $500 million in Peru since it
took over Lima-based Petro-tech Peruana SA in 2009, is spending
$219 million this year including an exploratory well in Block Z-
33 off Peru’s south coast, one of the Lima-based company’s 10
coastal exploration blocks. Ecopetrol is exploring five areas in
the Amazon jungle with other partners.  Colombian investments  The company may sell crude production from Block Z-2B and
other fields to state  oil company   Petroleos del Peru SA , which
is expanding its 62,000 barrel-a-day Talara refinery, Castaneda
said. Savia will boost output at Block Z-2B by 20 percent to
17,000 barrels per day this year by drilling 13 development
wells and four exploration wells, he said.  Ecopetrol is participating in a drive by Colombia-based
energy and mining companies to expand into the region, including
 Interconexion Electrica SA (ISA) ,  Empresa de Energia de Bogota SA  and
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp.  Ecopetrol rose 0.8 percent to 5,300 pesos in Bogota
trading. The stock has climbed 26 percent this year, compared
with a 14 percent gain by Colombia’s  IGBC (IGBC)  Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  