-- Hedge Fund Got Most South Carolina Fees While Lagging on Returns
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-05-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/hedge-fund-got-most-south-carolina-fees-while-lagging-on-returns.html
Mariner Investment Group LLC, a hedge
fund founded by a former Bear Stearns Cos. fixed-income
executive, charged  South Carolina’s pension fund  more than any
other manager while delivering returns that trailed competitors.  Mariner, started by William Michaelcheck, 65, got $38
million in fees from the  South Carolina  Retirement Systems in
fiscal 2011, or 16 percent of all the compensation paid to the
fund’s money managers, which totaled $239 million, according to
pension officials.  The performance of Mariner’s investments for South Carolina
lagged behind those of managers such as Bridgewater Associates
LP, the world’s biggest hedge fund by assets. Mariner funds
returned from 2 percent to 13 percent last year, while
Bridgewater’s delivered 17 percent to 24 percent. Bridgewater
collected $25 million in fees, or 34 percent less than Mariner,
while managing $1.3 billion in assets compared with Mariner’s
$930 million.  “We take the risk and we pay the fees, but we don’t get
the reward,” said South Carolina Treasurer Curtis Loftis, a
Republican who was elected in 2010 with Tea Party endorsements
and owns a pest control company. “I think it’s systemic. I
think it’s happening all across the country.”  Public pensions, seeking to boost returns and reduce
volatility after a financial crisis decimated global stock
markets, have increased assets allocated to alternative
investments such as  hedge funds  and private equity. Fees for
those investments are higher than for traditional stock and bond
funds, and returns sometimes trail the 8 percent average yearly
gains officials set as their benchmark to pay the rising costs
of pensions for public employees.  Alternative Assets Rise  The $26.2 billion South Carolina pension fund, which raised
its holdings of alternative assets to about 40 percent of its
portfolio in fiscal 2011 from nothing in 2007, is reevaluating
the costs it incurs and demanding a better accounting of
expenses, Loftis said.  Mariner’s contracts with the South Carolina pension “have
recently been renegotiated to ensure alignments of interest and
a fee structure commensurate with the desired risk and return
profile of the investments,” Adam Jordan, chief of staff for
the state’s investment commission, said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Texas’s Permanent School Fund, an endowment established in
1854 to benefit public education, may hire in-house money
managers because returns are being “eaten alive” by hedge-fund
fees, its chief investment officer said in January.  Beat the Market  Earlier this month, Joseph Dear, the investment chief of
the $227.2 billion  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , the biggest U.S. pension, said he wasn’t willing to pay
hedge-fund managers the standard 2 percent fee, plus 20 percent
of profits, if they don’t beat the market.  “Hedge funds, given their poor performance over the past
few years, the fee structures are being called into question,”
said Andrew McCollum, a consultant with Greenwich Associates
based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Over time, we will achieve
equilibrium. I don’t think we’re there yet.”  While total fees have tripled in the past three years,
South Carolina’s pension returns have sometimes been lower than
those for funds of comparable size.  For the three years ended June 30, 2011, South Carolina’s
pension returned 3.1 percent, not including fees, compared with
about 3.9 percent for public funds with assets greater than $5
billion, according to the Wilshire Trust Universe Comparison
Service.  Hedge Funds  South Carolina’s pension jumped into hedge funds, private
equity and other alternative investment strategies under its
former chief investment officer, Robert Borden.  Borden said cutting the fund’s allocation to stocks to
about 30 percent from about 60 percent made it less risky. On a
risk-adjusted basis, South Carolina’s was the best-returning
pension fund, he said in a telephone interview.  It’s not fair to judge the pension’s performance based on
one snapshot, he said. For the three years ended Dec. 31, 2011,
South Carolina’s pension returned 12.1 percent compared with
about 10.4 percent for similar public funds, according to
Wilshire TUCS.  “When you have periods where the equity market rallies up
sharply, anybody who’s got that long exposure experiences good
performance,” Borden said. “The portfolio is positioned to be
very defensive against equity-market selloffs.”  Multistrategy Approach  Mariner, based in Harrison,  New York , about 20 miles
northeast of  Manhattan , manages $4.7 billion and has a
multistrategy approach focused on fixed income and credit
arbitrage. The firm, which also manages money for  New Mexico’s
state investment council , has 180 employees. Michaelcheck didn’t
return telephone calls seeking comment.  A lack of transparency regarding the underlying assets held
by alternative mangers, and fee arrangements hidden from the
public eye, present a danger to retirees and taxpayers, Loftis
said. The treasurer said the investment commission has denied
requests for records, including a detailed accounting of
expenses.  Mariner’s $38 million in fees are equivalent to the average
annual pension benefit paid to 2,000 of the South Carolina
pension’s retirees.  “You can’t explain this to a non-Wall Street person,”
said Loftis, who serves as the state chairman of  Mitt Romney ’s
presidential campaign. “If I’m going to pay a bill, I want to
know what I’m paying.”  South Carolina’s financial well-being trails by other
measures as well. Compared with a year ago, the state ranked
14th worst in economic health at the end of the fourth quarter
among U.S. states and the  District of Columbia , according to
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States data.  Louisiana Chief  Borden, who joined the South Carolina fund in 2006 after
serving as the investment chief of the Louisiana State
Employees’ Retirement System, was charged with diversifying the
Palmetto State’s pension following a November 2006 legal change
allowing it to invest in assets other than domestic stocks and
bonds.  South Carolina was among the first to set up “strategic
partnerships” of $750 million to $1.5 billion with  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley, TCW Group Inc., and Mariner to
deploy capital across asset classes.  The state benefits from the breadth of strategies offered
by the firms and the ability to move faster on deals, Borden
said. It was also less costly than hiring scores of managers, he
said.  Borden resigned in December and now works for Delegate
Advisors LLC, a financial adviser based in  Chapel Hill ,  North
Carolina .  Strategic Partnerships  South Carolina’s pension has strategic partnerships with a
total of seven firms that manage about $6 billion.  In October 2008, South Carolina committed $750 million to
Mariner, establishing Mariner/Palmetto State Partners LP. The
money was split between strategies such as government bond and
mortgage-backed security arbitrage or distressed debt trading.  Each of the underlying hedge funds charges a management fee
and a performance fee, according to Mariner’s investment adviser
registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  For fiscal 2011, South Carolina’s hedge fund investments
with Mariner returned 2.3 percent, including fees, or 2
percentage points less than the HFRX index. Pension money
allocated to Mariner high-yield debt funds returned 13 percent,
lagging behind similar investments with TCW and  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  by 0.8 percentage point and 0.7 percentage point
respectively.  South Carolina’s real estate investment with Mariner was
behind its benchmark by 6.6 percentage points.  Pays Traders  In addition to management and incentive fees, South
Carolina pays Mariner’s traders. In a year in which some traders
make money and others lose, the pension still has to pay the
winning traders a certain percentage, which isn’t offset by the
losing traders, said Allen Gillespie, chairman of the South
Carolina Investment Commission.  “Say one guy loses $5 million, so he doesn’t make any
performance fee and the other guy makes $5 million, you haven’t
made any money but you just had a bunch of fees paid,”
Gillespie said. “That’s different from a lot of other firms.”  South Carolina’s investment commission didn’t disclose the
fees paid to each of its more than 60 managers in its annual
report. A separate comprehensive annual financial report filed
by the pension only discloses $69 million in fees paid to 25
funds.  Public Records  Bloomberg News obtained a list of fees paid to mangers
under a public records request. The pension denied requests for
documents showing the terms of the strategic partnership with
Mariner or its gross returns.  Seven firms -- Apollo, Bridgewater, D.E. Shaw & Co.,
Goldman Sachs, Mariner,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Selene Investment
Partners -- collected $137.6 million, or 58 percent of total
fees paid in fiscal 2011, records show.  Borden, the South Carolina fund’s former investment chief,
said benefits of the pension’s alternative investments justify
the expense. Alternative-asset managers generated $1 billion
above benchmarks over three years, he said.  “We paid more, but we got more,” Borden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  