-- Medicis Sued by Revance Therapeutics Over Wrinkle-Gel Pact
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-25T21:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/medicis-sued-by-revance-therapeutics-over-wrinkle-gel-pact-1-.html
Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX) , a maker
of wrinkle treatments and acne drugs, was sued by Revance
Therapeutics Inc. for reneging on a buyout agreement tied to
development of a wrinkle-reducing gel.  Revance officials contend in a  Delaware Chancery Court 
lawsuit that Medicis executives refused to acknowledge the
 Newark , California-based drugmaker has hit development targets
on its gel that is based on the active ingredient in the Botox
wrinkle treatment. Medicis is required to choose whether to
acquire Revance or pay licensing fees for the gel after the
targets were met under a 2007 agreement, according to the suit.  “By disputing that it now has the obligation to either
exercise its option or lose it, Medicis is effectively
preventing Revance from raising critical investment funds” or
finding other partners, Revance’s lawyers said in the suit,
filed yesterday in Wilmington, Delaware.  Revance’s suit comes after Scottsdale, Arizona-based
Medicis was named one of the world’s most ethical companies
earlier this year by the  Ethisphere Institute , a New York-based
think tank that focuses on business ethics and corporate social-
responsibility issues.  Kara Stancell, a Medicis spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment today on Revance’s suit.  Medicis, which makes the acne therapy Solodyn and wrinkle
fighter Dysport, made a push to diversify its product lines last
year by acquiring Graceway Pharmaceuticals LLC, which makes skin
treatments and asthma medicine, in November as part of
Graceway’s bankruptcy liquidation.  RT001 Agreement  Graceway filed for bankruptcy in September 2011 after the
loss of patent protection on its top-selling product, the skin
cream Aldara, led to a decline in sales. The cream is designed
to treat precancerous skin growths and genital warts.  Revance officials said that Medicis executives agreed in
December 2007 to a $20 million partnership agreement over the
wrinkle gel, known as  RT001 . The gel, which is still in
development, will allow consumers to treat wrinkles without
getting injections.  After years of tests, Revance submitted RT001 to the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  for review to see if the drugmaker
could move into the third stage of testing, according to the
suit. Earlier this month, FDA officials concluded Revance
completed Phase 2 of testing on RT001 and could proceed to Phase
3 trials, the suit said.  ‘Regulatory Activities’  That clearance triggered Medicis’ obligations under the
2007 agreement to decide whether it wanted to buy Revance, pay
for an exclusive license to RT001 or allow Revance to seek out
other partners, the drugmaker’s lawyers said in the suit.  Medicis officials have refused to make that call, demanding
instead that Revance “engage in additional lengthy Phase 22
regulatory activities,” according to the suit.  Revance executives contend that Medicis officials are
dragging their feet in honoring the agreement “in an attempt to
starve Revance to the point that Medicis can obtain Revance’s
technology for a bargain price,” the lawyers said in the suit.  The case is Revance Therapeutics Inc. v. Medicis
Pharmaceutical Corp., 7549,  Delaware  Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  