-- Medtronic Hypertension Burning Seen as Spurring Industry
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/medtronic-hypertension-burning-seen-as-spurring-industry.html
For three decades Gael Lander fought
for her life against the same  high blood pressure  that
contributed to her father’s fatal heart attack and caused a
series of debilitating strokes in her mother.  Now Lander’s hard-to-treat hypertension is under control,
the result of an experimental 20-minute procedure that
cauterized  nerves  near her kidneys that control blood pressure.
The nerves were seared using a catheter made by  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ,
the leader among dozens of companies developing similar products
that may help re-energize the medical devices industry with a
potentially multi-billion dollar new market.  Lander, a 68-year-old retired teacher from  Melbourne , was
the first person to undergo the operation in 2007. “I was a
walking time bomb” before it, she said in a telephone
interview. “I now have peace of mind.”  Since Lander’s operation, 4,000 more patients with
hypertension that drugs failed to control have also had the
surgery, the vast majority with positive results.  Though the surgery hasn’t been approved for use in the
U.S., its introduction in  Europe  and  Asia  is promising news for
the more than 1 in 3 adults in the U.S., or 76.4 million  people ,
and 1.2 billion worldwide, who suffer from hypertension. About
one-third of those with the condition, like Lander, don’t
respond to drug therapy, putting them at risk of crippling
ailments and early death. And even those who are helped by drug
treatment may eventually benefit from the procedure.  Market Size  Medtronic, based in  Minneapolis , and its rivals may
generate $1.5 billion to $4.4 billion annually depending on the
medical conditions the devices successfully treat, Ian Swanson,
an analyst with the Millennium Research Group in Toronto, said.  “The treatment-resistant population alone is a lucrative
one,” Swanson said. “But the real excitement is in the fact
that it’s a much larger group if you can get to patients” with
common hypertension.  The procedure could also pare down expenditures for
hypertensions drugs, led by Novartis AG’s Diovan, which totaled
$13.9 billion globally in 2011, according to  IMS Health , a
Norwalk, Connecticut-based health-care information and services
company. More than 42 million people take drugs to curb
hypertension in the U.S. alone, underscoring the potential size
of the market.  Medtronic is leading the way with its purchase of closely
held Ardian Inc. for $800 million in January 2011. Competitors
have also targeted the opportunity, with nearly every medical
device company and numerous startups developing their own
products.  Competitors’ Efforts  Covidien Plc (COV) , based in Dublin, St. Jude Medical Inc., based
in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , and closely held Vessix Vascular Inc.,
based in Laguna Hills,  California , announced European approvals
of their entries in May. Raj Denhoy, a Jefferies & Co. analyst
in  New York , found 62 devices in development at a meeting in
Paris, a “staggering” number that will crowd the small,
emerging market for the therapy.  Still, Medtronic and a handful of others will probably end
up as the dominant players based on their progress and the type
of devices they are offering, Denhoy said.  In Lander’s procedure, known as renal denervation, doctors
slid Medtronic’s catheter into an artery connected to the
kidney, and then seared the  nerves  in the artery wall with
radio-frequency energy. This quelled production of hormones that
raise  blood pressure  by contracting blood vessels and promoting
fluid retention.  Uncontrolled Response  In 10 percent of hypertension patients, including Lander,
the response that can trigger  high blood pressure  is
uncontrolled, leading to a condition that isn’t easily treated
using drugs, said  Murray Esler , associate director of the Baker
IDI Heart and Diabetes Institute of Melbourne.  Medtronic is studying its device in the U.S. market for
people in this group, with  approval  expected in 2015. Additional
studies will examine if the approach is viable for a wider
segment of hypertension sufferers as well as whether it may
lower blood sugar, control sleep apnea and ease heart failure
and  kidney disease , Esler said.  Success would be a welcome respite for the medical
technology industry, which has struggled for the past four years
with falling prices, troublesome equipment, allegations of
device overuse and lawsuits. Medtronic has  fallen  9.3 percent in
the past 12 months, outpacing the 7 percent decline in the
 Standard & Poor’s Health Care Equipment Index. (S5HCEP)   Key Study  Key to gaining entry to the U.S. will be the results of a
study led by  George Bakris , director of the hypertension center
at the  University of Chicago . It will look at the experiences of
532 patients, half of whom will undergo renal denervation while
the others have a sham surgery that mimics it. The results are
expected to be released next year, Bakris said.  Previous studies in Australia and Europe point to strong
benefits. The initial Medtronic trial found 71 percent were
helped by the treatment within six months. The first two dozen
patients, including Lander, have been followed for three years,
and all eventually responded to the treatment, gaining normal or
near-normal blood pressure readings with less medication.  “The improvement was much more pronounced than we have
seen with any anti-hypertensive drug so far, and these patients
were already being treated,” Felix Mahfoud, an interventional
cardiologist at Saarland University Medical Center in Homburg,
 Germany , said by telephone. The hospital has treated more than
450 patients, making it one of the most experienced centers for
the technique in the world.  Skeptical Insurers  Still, the surgery isn’t risk free. Doctors don’t know if
the nerves will grow back with time. Blood pressure reductions
are less dramatic when patients undergo 24-hour monitoring,
rather than a single test in a doctor’s office. Many insurers
remain skeptical and don’t regularly cover the procedure.  Researchers, moreover, are concerned about doctors touting
a surgical and not fully proven “cure” for hypertension,
particularly when drug therapy has been effective  treating  many
forms of the illness.  The surgery “is not a panacea,” Bakris said. “You don’t
have this done to get out of taking the drugs. You do this when
no drug can control the hypertension and you don’t want to have
a stroke,  kidney failure  or heart failure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  