-- Teenagers Watch Family Explode After Parents Botch Heist: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/teenagers-watch-family-explode-after-parents-botch-heist-books.html
Richard Ford  opens “ Canada ” with a
spoiler: “First, I’ll tell about the robbery our parents
committed. Then about the murders, which happened later.”  Those sentences immediately signal that, whatever its
subject, this isn’t going to be a suspense novel.  The first section of “Canada” unfolds in Great Falls,
 Montana , in the late spring and summer of 1960. Sputnik is in
the skies, the Kennedy-Nixon face-off is shaping up and Dell
Parsons, the narrator, and his twin sister, Berner --“she was
six minutes older” -- are 15.  For 200 pages, Dell meticulously reconstructs the small-
potatoes bank heist that blew apart his family when it led to
the jailing of his parents: Bev, his father, an ex-Air Force
good ole boy from  Alabama ; and Neeva, his mother, the bookish
daughter of Polish-Jewish immigrants who settled in Tacoma,
 Washington .  “They were in no way exceptional or significant” --
except, of course, for their crime. “I’m intrigued,” Dell
writes, “by how ordinary behavior exists so close beside its
opposite.”  He lays out the petty stolen-beef scheme that goes south
and lands Bev in financial trouble; the planning for the bank
job he thinks is going to get him out of it; the robbery and its
tense, bleak aftermath.  Since he fills us in beforehand on everything that’s going
to happen, the suspense a reader would normally feel is replaced
by dread -- but not for Dell, who’s looking back from a distance
of half a century. Dell is serene and accepting, and  readers of
Ford  will recognize acceptance as one of his recurrent themes.  No Hidden Meanings  It goes hand and hand with a suspicion of revelation, which
in Ford’s last novel, “ The Lay of the Land ” (2006), he
dismissed as a lie because its effect is “to distract us from
the more precious here and now.”  He writes something very similar at the end of “ Canada .”
The now-growing-old Dell advises us “not to hunt too hard for
hidden or opposite meanings -- even in the books you read -- but
to look as much as possible straight at the things you can see
in broad daylight.  “In the process of articulating to yourself the things you
see, you’ll always pretty well make sense and learn to accept
the world.” Ford may be the most down-to-earth major novelist
America has ever produced.  Here and Now  His attachment to the here and now is what leads him to
layer such a heavy impasto of detail over everything he writes
about, and to give the big stuff away in advance so that it
won’t strike with the shock of revelation.  But since I love plot myself, I’m going to reveal as little
as I can about Part Two of “Canada” -- the part that explains
the title. I will say, though, that Ford’s description of the
lonely five weeks Dell spends following the robbery are the
finest part of the book.  “Nothing later in life,” he realizes, “could be as
completely normal as it had been for me living in Great Falls.”
Or, really, normal at all.  Part Three is a beautiful and melancholy epilogue in which
Dell reflects on how those long-ago events formed him and led
him to the calm acceptance -- hardly joyful but far from unhappy
-- that blows like a breeze through this surprisingly tranquil
book.  Sometimes “Canada” is low-key to the point of
stupefaction; reading it requires patience. I’ll admit I did
some complaining along the way. But Ford makes you care about
lonely Dell; he makes you like him. When I got to the end of
this long novel, I closed it with regret.  “Canada” is published by Ecco in the U.S. and will be
published by Bloomsbury in the U.K. in June (420 pages, $27.99).
To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  James Pressley 
on business books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 