-- Egypt Islamist, Mubarak Aide Lead Vote Count for Presidency
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y ,   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-05-25T12:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/egypt-s-muslim-brotherhood-claims-lead-in-presidential-election.html
The Muslim Brotherhood’s candidate is
set to win the first round of Egypt’s presidential election and
enter a run-off next month where his likeliest opponent will be
a former aide to  Hosni Mubarak , according to early results.  The Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi has 28 percent of the vote
based on counts from 86 percent of polling stations, followed by
Ahmed Shafik, who served as premier under Mubarak before last
year’s revolt, with 25 percent, the independent  Rasd News
Network  said on its website. The top two candidates will qualify
for a second-round vote starting on June 16.  The state-run  Ahram Gate  news website showed the same
candidates running first and second. The Brotherhood said on its
 website  that Mursi leads with 90 percent of ballots counted and
is “certain” to contest the run-off with Shafik. Official
figures haven’t been announced by the election commission, and
the partial results are based on final tallies handed to
representatives of the candidates at polling stations.  The vote’s outcome may determine how quickly  Egypt  emerges
from the turmoil of the past 15 months, when the transition
toward democracy was overshadowed by violence and the economy
slumped. The generals who took over after the popular uprising
against Mubarak say they will cede power by the end of June.  ‘Organized Campaigns’  “It appears to be a victory for organized campaigns,
namely the Muslim Brotherhood’s backing of Mursi and Shafik’s
backing by the military and Mubarak’s dissolved  National
Democratic Party ,” Samer Sulaiman, professor of political
economy at the American University in Cairo, said by phone.
“The pro-revolution candidates failed to unite and it showed.”  The presidential election was billed as the freest and
fairest that Egypt has had, offering 50 million eligible voters
a choice among 13 candidates. All the country’s leaders over the
past 60 years were drawn from the ranks of the military and re-
elected through rigged ballots.  Islamist candidates such as Mursi and Abdel-Moneim Aboul- Fotouh were opposed by secularists who included Shafik and Amre
Moussa, both ministers under Mubarak, and Hamdeen Sabahi, who
espouses the nationalism of former President Gamal Abdel Nasser.
Sabahi and Aboul-Fotouh, who emphasized their support for last
year’s revolution, were competing for third place, both around
18 percent, according to the Rasd figures. Moussa, who headed
most opinion polls, trailed in fifth.  Mubarak ‘Leftovers’  The Brotherhood has run on a social justice platform that
advocates a stronger role for Islam in the Arab world’s most
populous country. Its Freedom and Justice Party, headed by
Mursi, already controls almost half of the parliament’s lower
house, and a win in the presidential election would consolidate
its power.  That prospect has worried secularists and the country’s
Christian minority, who see the once-banned Brotherhood as
trying to monopolize power. Supporters of last year’s
revolution, on the other hand, have attacked Shafik and Moussa
as “feloul,” or leftovers of the ousted regime, and accused
them of trying to recreate the system against which Egyptians
rebelled.  “Having someone like Shafik is provocative, and means that
he’s mocking the revolution,” said  Ahmed Maher , a founder of
the April 6 youth movement that helped organize last year’s
anti-Mubarak protests. “Even if the president is affiliated
with the revolution, pressure will continue so that he doesn’t
turn into a new pharaoh.”  Law and Order  Shafik ran on pledges of restoring law and order, playing
to Egyptian concerns about a deterioration in security, and
accused the Islamist candidates of seeking to drag the country
back into the past. On his campaign’s Facebook page, he promised
to “implement an environment of freedom” if elected.  The winner will face the task of ending the instability
that has stalled efforts to revive the economy.  The central bank has spent almost 60 percent of Egypt’s
 international reserves  since the uprising began in January last
year, helping to cap the pound’s losses in the period at 4
percent. Forward contracts show investors expect the currency to
lose about 20 percent over the next year.  Borrowing costs have risen to record highs and the
government has applied to the  International Monetary Fund  for a
$3.2 billion loan. Talks with the fund are on hold until after
the elections.  Markets Rise  Egypt’s benchmark  share index  gained 2.2 percent over the
two days of voting, which was broadly peaceful. The country’s
5.75 percent dollar bonds due in 2020 advanced for a second day
today, pushing the yield down six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 6.77 percent at 2:40 p.m. in Cairo,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest
level on a closing basis in seven weeks.  Restoring stability will mean reaching an accommodation
with the ruling military, which has warned that Egyptians should
not expect the incoming president to hold a “magic wand.”  In the run-up to the vote, candidates also focused on
foreign policy, often appealing to Egyptians unhappy with the
country’s peace treaty with neighboring  Israel .  “Whoever is elected Egyptian president is under immense
popular pressure to take a tougher stance toward Israel,”
Egyptian Nobel laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, who decided against
running for the presidency, said in an interview with Vienna,
Austria-based Profil magazine to be published today. “At the
moment there is just chaos” and it is “unclear who rules the
country,” ElBaradei said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia in Cairo at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 