-- Egypt Presidential Contenders Vie for Support Before Run-Off
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-05-26T12:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/egypt-faces-polarizing-presidential-runoff-as-vote-count-ends.html
Muslim Brotherhood candidate Mohamed
Mursi and  Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier looked to expand their
support base as the two most divisive contenders in Egypt’s
presidential election headed for a June run-off.  Mursi, head of the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party,
and Ahmed Shafik, who also served as civil aviation minister
under Mubarak, emerged as the top two out of a field of 13
candidates running in the first presidential ballot since
Mubarak was ousted last year. Preliminary figures show Mursi
secured 24.8 percent of the vote against Shafik’s 23.9 percent,
according to the state-run  Ahram Gate  news website. Others,
including the state-run Middle East  News Agency , put the
candidates in the same order. Final results are due on May 29.  The margin separating the two candidates, along with the
third-place finish by Hamdeen Sabahi, reflects the divisions
that persist in the country more than 15 months after the
January 2011 revolution. Sabahi, a socialist favored by many of
the revolutionary youth and other secularists, secured about
20.5 percent of the vote.  “It was the blood of the martyrs and the wounded that
ignited and fueled the flames of the revolution and gave it
energy, self-confidence and unity to advance this homeland and
elevate this nation,” Mursi’s campaign said today in a
 statement  on its website. “Today, we need to close ranks once
again, so the revolution would not be hijacked from us all.”  Skeptical Voters  Mursi and Shafik face the task of trying to win over voters
skeptical that either candidate represents the spirit of the
uprising. For many, the Brotherhood is seen as attempting to
Islamicize the country, while Shafik is regarded as one of the
“feloul,” or remnants, of an ousted regime seeking to re-
invent itself. The outcome of the elections may determine how
quickly Egypt emerges from the turmoil of the past 15 months,
when the transition toward democracy was overshadowed by
violence and the economy slumped.  Freedom and Justice Party deputy chief Essam el-Erian said
Mursi has begun inviting some of the presidential candidates and
the heads of political parties to meet today.  The election was billed as the freest and fairest  Egypt  has
had, offering more than 50 million voters a rare choice of
candidates after nearly 60 years of having the president drawn
from the ranks of the military and re-elected through rigged
ballots. The turnout was estimated at about 45 percent,
according to Ahram Gate. In contrast, 62 percent of voters cast
their ballots in last year’s parliamentary race that led to the
Islamists securing a majority.  Conservative Support  The results show that Mursi lost to both Shafik and Sabahi
in Cairo, while finding stronger support in more conservative
areas in southern Egypt. Sabahi won in Alexandria, an area seen
as an Islamist stronghold.  Islamist candidates such as Mursi and Abdel-Moneim Aboul- Fotouh were opposed by secularists who included Shafik and
former Arab League chief Amre Moussa, and Sabahi. Aboul-Fotouh
garnered 17.4 percent of the vote, according to Ahram Gate
figures, while Moussa secured 11.2 percent.  “The key to the second round is turnout, and the key to
turnout is whether these guys can appeal to the messy coalitions
that were behind the Sabahi and Aboul-Fotouh candidacies,”  Jon Alterman , head of the Middle East program at the Washington-
based Center for Strategic and International Studies, said in a
phone interview. “A lot will depend on whether Mursi and Shafik
can extend beyond their bases and reassure others.”  Security Situation  Shafik ran on a law and order platform, capitalizing on
Egyptians’ frustration with the deterioration in the security
situation since the uprising. He also argued that the Islamists
were seeking to drag the country back into the past -- messages
that may resonate with the country’s secularists and Coptic
Christian minority. On his  campaign’s Facebook page , he promised
to “implement an environment of freedom” if elected.  The former air force pilot said in an al-Hayat television
interview yesterday he would support the Brotherhood’s Freedom
and Justice Party leading the next government if he wins the
presidential post.  “I see nothing wrong that the man who has the
parliamentary majority should run the show,” Shafik said.  The Alliance of the Youths’ Revolution, a collation of
youth groups, blamed what it said was the Brotherhood’s
“monopoly of everything” and divisions among the
revolutionaries for Shafik’s advancing to the second round.  ‘Worst Outcome’  “From a political stability perspective, it is the worst
possible outcome,” Hani Sabra and Ayham Kamel, Middle East
analysts at Eurasia Group, said in an e-mailed report that
argued both candidates face strong opposition among many in the
country.  While the military and the Brotherhood may reach a “new
accord that would cool tensions, that remains unlikely, and
Egypt will likely enter a period of rising tension and
uncertainty,” the analysts said. The military has vowed to hand
over power to an elected president by the end of June.  Aboul Fotouh,  in a statement  on his campaign’s website
yesterday, called on political groups to form a  united front 
against “the corrupt regime” in the run-off round, without
specifically declaring support for Mursi.  The race was seen as key in helping Egypt restore stability
in the country and reviving an economy battered in the wake of
the uprising.  The central bank has spent almost 60 percent of Egypt’s
 international reserves  since the uprising began in January last
year, helping to cap the pound’s losses in the period at 4
percent. Forward contracts show investors expect the currency to
lose about 21 percent over the next year.  Borrowing costs have risen to record highs and the
government has applied to the  International Monetary Fund  for a
$3.2 billion loan. Talks with the fund are on hold until after
the elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  