-- Lehman to Pay Banks $1.6 Billion for Rest of Archstone
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-05-25T12:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/lehman-said-to-agree-to-buy-rest-of-archstone-from-banks.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. reached
a deal to buy the rest of apartment owner Archstone for almost
$1.6 billion from  Bank of America Corp.  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , ending
a dispute with the banks over the price.  The defunct investment bank also agreed that  Sam Zell ’s
Equity Residential, which had an option to buy the remaining
half of the banks’ stake, will get $150 million, including an
$80 million breakup fee from the banks and $70 million from
Lehman, according to a statement by Lehman today.  Lehman, which is starting to pay creditors after officially
exiting bankruptcy court protection, had tried to stop the banks
from concluding the option deal with Zell, saying he had bid up
the price -- Lehman paid just $1.3 billion for the first half of
the banks’ stake -- and the banks would be unjustly enriched. A
judge earlier this year told Lehman, which had more than $20
billion of cash at the time, it could afford to pay more for the
remaining 26.5 percent of Archstone.  This month, Lehman amended a lawsuit against the banks,
threatening to strip them of their  voting rights  in Archstone if
they didn’t honor what the company alleged were the original
agreements to sell their stakes to it. The current deal will end
all disputes, according to the statement.  ‘Gives Us Control’  “With full ownership of Archstone, we will now be able to
move forward and pursue monetization opportunities for the
company,”  Owen Thomas , chairman of Lehman’s new board of
directors, said in the statement. “This transaction protects
Lehman’s substantial investment, provides stability and gives us
control of Archstone’s future.”  Lehman has said it plans later to sell Archstone, its
biggest real estate asset, to help pay creditors.  The banks have said they didn’t engage in any conduct that
was illegal or harmed Lehman. They were entitled to get the best
price they could for their shareholders, they told the
bankruptcy judge.  If the deal isn’t completed, the option for Zell’s  Equity
Residential (EQR)  to buy 26.5 percent of Archstone will remain in
force, that company said today in a statement. Lehman’s purchase
is set to be completed in about 15 days, it said.  The Zell company, once a bidder for Archstone, said it
might renew talks with Lehman about buying the company later. If
Equity Residential does acquire all or most of Archstone in 120
days, it might have to return some of the fees earned in the
deal, it said.  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments in cities
including  Washington , New York and  San Francisco . Lehman and the
banks made loans, which they later converted to equity after
Archstone faltered in the 2008 credit crisis.  Lehman previously owned 47 percent of Archstone, before
agreeing to pay $1.3 billion for the first half of the banks’
stake.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, and the Archstone case is Archstone LB Syndication
Partner LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  