-- Embraer Bets Asia Sales Offset Europe Decline: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-05-25T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/embraer-looks-past-europe-as-slump-damps-sales-corporate-brazil.html
Embraer SA (ERJ) , the world’s fourth-
biggest planemaker, is boosting efforts to sell more jets in
 Asia , the Middle East and  Africa  as the European debt crisis
saps demand in the manufacturer’s biggest market.  European revenue made up 35 percent of Embraer’s first-
quarter total, the most of any company in  Brazil ’s benchmark
Bovespa stock index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Embraer’s regional-jet orders in  Europe  dwindled to five in the
period, down from 20 a year earlier.  “Last year the crisis was a financial one,” Commercial
Aircraft Vice President Paulo Cesar Silva said in a May 17
interview in  Sao Paulo . “Now it has reached the real economy,
and there’s no doubt it can impact our sales.”  European buyers account for 27 percent of Embraer’s
backlog, putting its order book at risk. While the Sao Jose dos
Campos, Brazil-based company hasn’t had any Europe
cancellations, airline seating capacity there is growing more
slowly than in every other region outside  North America , raising
the prospect of deferred deliveries in case air travel declines.  “This year might be a little rocky because of the
continued issues with Europe, as small-cabin business-jet sales
remain soft and regional jet orders might come down,” Rama Bondada, an RBC Capital Markets LLC analyst in  New York , said in
a telephone interview.  Embraer rose 24 percent this year before today in Sao
Paulo, closing at 14.61 reais, for the  fourth-best return  among
68 companies in the Bovespa index.  Beating Bombardier  The shares are outpacing the index, which fell 4.7 percent,
as well as  Canada ’s Bombardier Inc., the third-biggest
planemaker. European sales accounted for 46 percent of the total
in the last fiscal year for train- and aircraft-maker
 Bombardier (BBD/B) , whose shares dropped 7.9 percent this year.  Drumming up more customers in Asia, Africa and eastern
Europe is part of the effort to insulate Embraer from western
Europe’s turmoil, Silva said. The Middle East and Africa ranked
first and second in 2012 airline capacity growth through March,
according to the  International Air Transport Association .  “What we’ve done recently was to create a director
position to deal with sales in the Middle East and Africa,”
Silva said. “We’re currently implementing our business plan for
the Middle East and the next step will be to place staff in the
region.”  African Military Sales  Militaries in  Angola ,  Burkina Faso  and Mauritania are
buying Super Tucano light-attack and training aircraft, a boost
for Embraer’s defense business after losing a U.S. Air Force
contract to buy those planes earlier this year.  On May 30-31, eastern European carriers will be among
participants at an Embraer airline seminar in Istanbul, with
similar regional events planned for Africa, the  Middle East  and
Asia-Pacific in 2012’s second half, the planemaker said.  “Worst-case scenario, what’s at risk for them is a year’s
worth of revenue,” Leonardo Zanfelicio, a Concordia SA analyst
in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “Chances are small
they suffer such a blow, but undoubtedly even the European
carriers’ fleet renovation pace will slow down significantly.”  Adjusted net income may be 926.2 million reais ($456.4
million) in 2012, rising to 1.16 billion reais in 2013,
according to the average of 13  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Embraer reported adjusted 2011 net income of $196.6 million, or
329.3 million reais based on the year’s average exchange rate.  ‘Take Notice’  RBC Capital’s Bondada said the two commercial-airplane
categories and defense are all shaping up to be strong in 2013,
and “people are starting to take notice.” He recommends
Embraer’s  American depositary receipts  as buy, while Zanfelicio
has a maintain rating on the Brazilian shares.  Deliveries in 2012 probably will total 215 regional and
business aircraft, while Montreal-based Bombardier will hand
over 235 such planes, according to forecasts from the companies.
That compares with 204 and 239 respectively in 2011.  European carriers’ business has helped push Embraer to the
brink of overtaking Bombardier in the ranking of commercial-
plane makers, trailing only Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) , just as
Brazil has emerged as a global economic powerhouse.  The country cut inflation to 6.5 percent in 2011 from
almost 2,500 percent in 1993, the year before Embraer left state
control. Brazil passed the U.K. as the world’s sixth-largest
economy last year while Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
accelerated.  European Slack  For Embraer, the challenge will be finding markets big
enough to take up any European slack.  The five regional jets ordered by European customers last
quarter had a $213 million list value, 76 percent less than
orders a year earlier. Airlines typically buy at a discount to
retail prices.  Kenya Airways Ltd. (KNAL)  had 10 E190 jets on order and Air
Nigeria Ltd. had eight as of March 31. By comparison, U.K.
discount carrier  Flybe Group Plc (FLYB)  had 31 E175s ordered but not
delivered. That was Embraer’s second-biggest backlog, behind 33
E190s on the books for  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , according to the
planemaker’s order summary. Of 50 E190s bought by  China ’s  Hainan
Airlines Co. (600221) , all but six have been handed over.  Embraer’s Silva said a lack of confidence grips European
airline management teams because of the debt emergency and
anemic economic growth.  “No one will decide on a significant investment in a
scenario such as the present one in Europe,” Silva said.
“Europe is not ’business as usual’ anymore.”  Financial pressure on some European airlines may benefit
Embraer by spurring the carriers to park older, less-efficient
planes in favor of newer models, Silva said. Alitalia SpA is
“adding pressure” on Embraer to assure on-time delivery of 10
E175s, said Silva, who didn’t give a timetable.  Raymond Neidl, a Maxim Group LLC analyst in New York, said
Embraer’s reach probably is broad enough to weather the tumult
in Europe.  “Some airlines that are ordering Embraers will fail and
not only in Europe, but others will start up to make the
difference and more,” Neidl, who recommends buying the ADRs,
said in an e-mailed answer to questions. “Diversifying is
good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  