-- EMC Mortgage Sued by Securitization Trust in New York
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-25T21:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/emc-mortgage-sued-by-securitization-trust-in-new-york-2-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s (JPM)  EMC Mortgage
unit was sued for breach of contract by a trust that financed
the purchase of residential  mortgage loans .  EMC Mortgage sold a pool of residential mortgage loans to
the trust, SACO I Trust 2006-5, which was formed under an April
2006 pooling and servicing agreement, according to a filing
today in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  The trust financed the purchase of residential mortgages by
issuing certificates that were to be repaid with interest from
revenue generated from the loans, according to the court
document.  “The plaintiff has been informed by certain investors who
are owners of certificates of numerous breaches of
representations and warranties made by EMC that relate to the
quality of the loans,” lawyers for the trust said in the court
filing. “EMC has filed to cure those breaches or repurchase the
loans, as it is obligated to do pursuant to terms of” the
agreement.  The trust owned 13,156 loans as of April 2006, issued about
$667.3 million in certificates, and has suffered losses of about
$356 million to date, according to the filing. The trust is
seeking damages of at least $293 million plus interest.  EMC Mortgage was a unit of Bear Stearns Cos. until the
investment bank was bought by JPMorgan in 2008.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment on
the lawsuit.  The case is SACO I Trust 2006-5 v. EMC Mortgage LLC,
651820/2012,  New York  State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 