-- Emerging Stock Funds Post $1.5 Billion Outflows on Greece, China
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-05-25T04:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/emerging-stock-funds-post-1-5-billion-outflows-on-greece-china.html
Emerging-market equity fund outflows
slowed this week amid signs of an escalation in  Europe ’s debt
crisis and weaker economic growth in China, Citigroup Inc. said.  Developing nations had $1.5 billion of outflows in the week
ended May 23, according to Citigroup and Morgan Stanley reports
today, citing data from fund researcher EPFR Global. There were
net sales of $2.3 billion the previous week, Citigroup reported
on May 18. Funds in  Asia  excluding  Japan  had the biggest
redemptions of the year with outflows of $768 million in the
most recent week, Citigroup said today.  It was too early to draw any conclusions from the slowdown
in emerging-market equity fund outflows, “given that flows of
individual regions worsened,” Kelly Kwok, one of the Citigroup
analysts named in the bank’s report, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions. “With no clear solution to the Greek
problems and more data pointing to weaker growth in  China , there
should be no surprise that EM equity fund flows continued for
another week.”  MSCI’s developing-nation index  has fallen 0.9 percent this
week, poised for 10 straight weeks of declines, which would be
the longest string of weekly losses since 1994. Stocks have
fallen in that time as speculation mounted that Greece may exit
the euro group, while China reported April  industrial production 
grew the least since 2009 and foreign direct investment sank for
a sixth month.  The emerging-market measure fell 0.4 percent to 898.97 at
12:32 p.m. in Hong Kong. The gauge trades at 9.6 times estimated
earnings, compared with 11.7 for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
advanced nations.  Bond Fund Outflows  Greece  is preparing for a second election on June 17
following an inconclusive ballot this month.  Fitch Ratings  cut
Greece’s credit rating by one level on May 17, citing concerns
the country won’t be able to muster the support needed to
sustain its membership in the euro area. Italian Prime Minister
Mario Monti said yesterday Greece will probably stay in the euro
and that a majority of the region’s leaders support issuing a
joint bond to fight the debt crisis.  Funds dedicated to emerging-market bonds had $478 million
of outflows in the week ended May 23, marking the first weekly
withdrawal since Jan. 11, according to a Barclays Plc report
today that cited EPFR data.  Brazil  had the largest outflow among  emerging markets  in
the latest week, with withdrawals of $380 million,  Jonathan Garner , Morgan Stanley’s Hong Kong-based emerging-market
strategist, wrote in a report today. China was second largest
with redemptions of $320 million, according to the report.  Garner said he’s looking for a longer trend of outflows to
indicate a market bottom and that interest-rate cuts in China
could be the potential catalyst for a turnaround in emerging
markets. Morgan Stanley foresees two interest-rate reductions in
China this year, with one as early as June, Garner said in an
interview in Bloomberg’s  Hong Kong  office today.  “To get global money reenergized, there needs to be
evidence that China will engage in self-help in terms of
reviving its economy,” Garner said. “The thing for those
bullish about emerging markets is to understand that China has
more policy options available than other economies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  