-- Emerging Stocks Post Longest Weekly Losing Streak Since 1994
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-05-25T22:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/emerging-stocks-head-for-longest-weekly-losing-streak-since-1994.html
Most emerging stocks fell, posting
their longest weekly losing streak since 1994, as  utilities  and
telephone companies slid and concern China’s biggest banks may
miss lending plans offset gains for commodity producers.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined 0.5 percent to
902.13 this week, extending the rout to the longest in 18 years.
 Utility companies  tumbled for an eighth week as Federal Grid Co.
fell for a 12th week.  Telephone companies  retreated to the
lowest level in 2012, led by declines in Indonesian
communication providers.  Russia ’s Micex Index added 0.8 percent
in five days while  Brazil ’s Bovespa slipped 0.1 percent.  China’s biggest banks may fall short of loan targets for
the first time in at least seven years as an economic slowdown
crimps demand for credit, three bank officials with knowledge of
the matter said today. Copper and crude oil gained today after
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  told Italian television station La7
yesterday the majority of European Union leaders at a Brussels
meeting this week backed joint euro-area bonds.  “European leaders are trying to instill order into chaos,
they’re doing everything to prevent another crisis from
happening,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc. “There has to be a clearer
picture on  China ’s slowdown and some resolution must be reached
in  Europe  to reverse this sentiment.”  Outflows Slowing  Emerging-market equity fund outflows slowed this week,
Citigroup Inc. said. Developing nations had $1.5 billion of
outflows in the week ended May 23, according to Citigroup and
Morgan Stanley reports today, citing data from fund researcher
EPFR Global.  There were net sales of $2.3 billion the previous week,
Citigroup reported on May 18. Funds in  Asia  excluding  Japan  had
the biggest redemptions of the year with outflows of $768
million in the most recent week, Citigroup said today.  The  MSCI gauge  of 21 developing nations, down 1.6 percent
this year, trades at 9.7 times estimated earnings, compared with
11.7 for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of advanced nations, which has
added 0.5 percent in 2012.  Brazil’s Bovespa retreated 0.1 percent this week as
Centrais Electricas Brasileiras SA plunged 17 percent. Clothing
retailer B2W Cia Global do Varejo declined 13 percent in  Sao
Paulo .  Russia’s Micex index added 0.8 percent, snapping a four-
week decline. OAO Tatneft, an oil producer, led advances for the
index after it rose 8.3 percent, the biggest weekly gain in
2012.  Utility, Phone  Federal Grid, Russia’s monopoly for high-voltage power
transmission lines, slipped 16 percent in Moscow to fall for a
12th week, the longest losing streak since 2008.  Federal Grid was among leading decliners for utility
companies this week, which have retreated 2.1 percent.  Telephone companies had a weekly slide of 1.6 percent after
 PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia (TLKM) , the nation’s biggest telephone
company, plunged 8.2 percent.  Indonesia ’s  Jakarta Composite
Index (JCI)  sank 2 percent as a weakening rupiah raised concerns
investors are reducing holdings of the nation’s assets amid
Europe’s debt crisis.  The rupiah fell 1.1 percent against the dollar to the
weakest level since December 2009.  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  slumped 8.8 percent amid concern
Bank Indonesia’s plan to tighten a bank-ownership regulation
will prevent DBS Group Holdings Ltd. from buying Danamon shares
through a tender offer, according to Arief Fahruri, an analyst
at PT Mega Capital Indonesia in Jakarta.  Commodity Producers  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  sank 0.5 percent in
Johannesburg, while the  BUX Index (BUX)  declined 0.4 percent in
Budapest. The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  fell 1.2 percent in Warsaw. The
Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.5 percent.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore crude producer, rose
0.7 percent in  Hong Kong .  KGHM Polska Miedz (KGH) , the copper miner
with the biggest European mine output, fell 1 percent this week.  Crude for July delivery rose 20 cents to settle at $90.86 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
today.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 407 today, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  