-- Tempur-Pedic and Select Comfort Gain on Mattress Growth
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-05-25T20:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/tempur-pedic-and-select-comfort-gain-on-mattress-growth.html
Mattress makers  Tempur-Pedic
International Inc. (TPX)  and  Select Comfort Corp. (SCSS)  gained after an
analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. said sales advanced in April.  Tempur-Pedic, a luxury mattress maker based in Lexington,
 Kentucky ,  rose  4 percent to $48.97 at the close in New York.
Select Comfort, the maker of Sleep Number beds,  advanced  5.5
percent to $28.04, the biggest gain since Dec. 20.  Wholesale mattress sales rose 15 percent in April from a
year earlier, compared with a 4 percent gain in March, Peter Keith, an analyst with Piper Jaffray in New York, wrote in a
note to investors today, citing data from the  International
Sleep Products Association .  “The strong April number validates that industry sales
trends continue to be strong,” Keith said. “The mattress
industry cycle remains intact and this implies strong results
early in the quarter.”  Keith has an overweight recommendation on Minneapolis-based
Select Comfort and Tempur-Pedic, the equivalent of a buy rating.  Both companies have been increasing revenue as the U.S.
housing market recovers. Tempur-Pedic boosted  sales  28 percent
to $1.4 billion last year while Select Comfort’s  revenue  rose 23
percent to $743.2 million.  Mattress sales gained as the U.S. housing market improved
last month. Housing starts rose 2.6 percent to a 717,000 annual
rate from March’s revised 699,000 pace, the Commerce Department
said last week. Construction of single-family houses climbed 2.3
percent in April to a three-month high while work on multifamily
homes, such as townhouses and apartment buildings, increased 3.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  