-- Eric Holder’s Gavel, Ed Whitfield, Austin Kiplinger: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-25T15:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/eric-holder-s-gavel-ed-whitfield-austin-kiplinger-d-c-.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder was
at the Superior Court of the  District of Columbia  yesterday to
offer his congratulations and encouragement to graduates of the
Washington Adult Drug Court.  He had a gavel given to him by West Huddleston, chief
executive officer of the  National Association of Drug Court
Professionals , who had carried it on his World War II-era BMW
motorcycle for the last leg of the cross-country All Rise
America! National Motorcycle Relay for Recovery.  Since 1994, the  Department of Justice  has supported drug
courts, which now number 2,600 nationwide, as a way to get
treatment rather than jail time for convicted addicts.  The gavel relay began in California on the first of May,
which is National Drug Court Month, with about 1,200 concerned
citizens, many of them drug-court graduates and judges, hopping
on motorcycles in  California  for the first leg.  Holder told the graduates that their ceremony was just as
inspiring as the Harvard Law School graduation where he was the
commencement speaker this week.  Huddleston explained that the relay is meant to “raise
awareness and make noise. What makes more noise than a
motorcycle?”  Hats All, Folks  Being from  Kentucky , home to the Derby and its annual hat
extravaganza, Republican Congressman Ed Whitfield knows good
headgear when he sees it.  He and Finnish Ambassador Ritva Koukku-Ronde were at the
Tudor Place Historic House and Garden 20th Annual Spring Garden
Party Wednesday, where they surveyed hats ranging from classic
straw boaters to elaborate confections with fake birds and
feathers.  “I had to wear a hat to cover my frizzy hair,” lamented
Christina Griffin, a Tudor Place patron who braved muggy weather
to pay tribute to this year’s honoree, journalist Austin
Kiplinger, a president emeritus at Tudor House. The Georgetown
gem was built in 1805 for Thomas Peter and Martha Parke Custis
Peter, Martha  Washington ’s granddaughter.  Guests sipped specialty cocktails called the “Bee’s Buzz”
(vodka and lemonade) and the “Tangerine Twist” (a fruity
concoction with apricot brandy).  The decor under a garden tent included bouquets, sofas and
tables dressed with fans and bug spray.  ‘Mad Men’ Martini  The cocktails were also flowing in Georgetown Wednesday
night at Peacock Cafe, where a “Mad Men” dinner was held to
benefit the  Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis School  at the American
Ballet Theatre.  The menu featured 1960s favorites such as Beef Wellington
and Oysters Rockefeller, and guests downed the television show’s
signature martini while Frank Sinatra tunes filled the air.  The event was organized by  Peacock Cafe  owners Micky
and Shahab Farivar and photographer Walter Grio, who took photos
of the guests in their best Don Draper and Joan Holloway looks.
Maziar Farivar, co-owner and chef, came up with the ’60s-themed
menu.  Twenty percent of the evening’s proceeds went to a
scholarship fund to send students to the Jacqueline Kennedy
Onassis School at the American Ballet Theatre.  Grio said his philanthropy  Shoot for Change , which donates
the sales of his photos to nonprofits, has already raised enough
to send one student to the school this autumn.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  New
York   weekend .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 