-- Merkel May Be Persuaded on Euro Debt-Sharing Compromise
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-05-25T11:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/merkel-may-be-persuaded-on-euro-debt-sharing-compromise.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  left the
door open to a compromise on debt sharing in the euro area as
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said he can help bring
Germany around to acting in Europe’s “common good.”  Merkel’s veto on allowing Germany to underwrite joint debt
issuance in the 17-nation euro region is under fire from her
international partners as well as the domestic opposition. While
she refused to back joint euro-area bonds at a Brussels summit
on May 23, Germany’s opposition parties wrung a concession from
the chancellor on her return to Berlin yesterday to reconsider a
separate proposal on common liability for sovereign debt.  The blueprint , published in November by Merkel’s council of
economic advisers, involves a so-called European redemption fund
that would help governments scale back outstanding debt to below
60 percent of economic output in return for constitutional
commitments on economic reform. The government and opposition
agreed to study the fund and discuss it further on June 13.  “The concept amounts to a third way to tackle the euro
area’s debt mountain,”  Peter Bofinger , a professor of economics
at the University of Wuerzburg and one of the proposed fund’s
architects, said today by phone. “Euro bonds have a dreadful
press and are evidently unacceptable to Germany. What’s
overlooked by the fund’s critics is that it is temporary and has
built-in inducements on states to run sound budgets. I don’t
know right now whether the concept will be adopted, but it
deserves earnest consideration.”  Euro, Stocks  Stocks fluctuated as the euro rose from a 22-month low
against the dollar. The  Stoxx 600 (SX7P)  Index dropped 0.1 percent to
241.75 as of 1:42 p.m. in Berlin, after earlier rising as much
as 0.8 percent. The euro was up 0.3 percent at $1.2572.  Merkel called the Berlin meeting in a bid to secure passage
of Europe’s budget enforcement treaty and associated legislation
setting up the permanent rescue fund before parliament’s summer
recess on July 6. She needs to assuage opposition anger over her
austerity-first stance during the debt crisis to win the two-
thirds majority needed to pass the bills in both houses of
parliament.  The talks took place after Merkel clashed with fellow
European Union leaders at the Brussels summit over her refusal
to consider euro bonds. Merkel was in the minority in rejecting
them, according to Monti.  ‘Anything Can Happen’  “ Europe  can have euro bonds soon,” Monti said in an
interview on Italian television station La7 yesterday. Germany
has an economic interest in ensuring no country leaves the euro,
while  Greece  will probably remain in the currency region even as
“anything can happen,” he said.  “A united Europe is in Germany’s interest,” Monti said.
“We’ll have euro bonds if the euro area, and therefore Germany,
will want them.”  Monti’s account of the meeting contrasted with that of
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who told
reporters in Brussels that joint debt sales “didn’t find much
support,” particularly in the German-speaking area, while the
French-speaking area was more enthusiastic.  Back in Berlin 15 hours later, Merkel’s coalition and the
opposition Social Democrats and Greens agreed that euro bonds
“are not up for discussion,”  Volker Kauder , the floor leader
of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , told reporters. At the
same time, the two sides agreed to “exchange studies” on the
redemption fund before next month’s meeting.  The government has “legal reservations” about whether
joint liability for national debts “is in line with European
treaties” and is examining the matter, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said today.  Gold Reserves  The fund, backed by euro member states’ gold reserves,
would be worth 2.3 trillion euros ($2.9 trillion). Under the
system, participating countries would be able to transfer debt
exceeding the 60 percent threshold into the fund for which
participating member countries are “jointly and severally
liable,” according to the council’s paper. Limited to 25 years,
it would be accompanied by a pledge by states to anchor debt
limits in their constitutions and commit to economic reforms.  Michael Meister, the CDU’s deputy floor leader, said in an
interview that joint liability “runs counter to European law”
and  Germany ’s constitution.  “European treaties as well as the constitution would have
to be changed, and I don’t see a chance for either,” he said.  Public opinion is with the government. Seventy-nine percent
of Germans back Merkel’s rejection of euro bonds, with little
difference between government and opposition supporters, a Feb.
22-24 FG Wahlen poll for ZDF television showed today.  No Big Bang  Merkel, who poured cold water on the redemption fund when
it was unveiled last year, again doused joint debt liability in
a speech yesterday, saying that the causes of the debt crisis
“can’t be redressed with one big bang.”  “This means very hard work for Europe,” Merkel told an
electrical industry conference in Berlin. “It makes no sense to
paper over everything with euro bonds or other instruments that
ostensibly show solidarity, only to find Europe in even more
difficult straits than we are in today.”  Sigmar Gabriel, chairman of the main opposition  Social
Democrats , told reporters after yesterday’s meeting with the
Merkel that he had the impression “the government’s blockade on
growth has been broken.” Even so, thus far the government is
“being extremely reticent” with regard to the redemption fund
proposal, “even if they’re not rejecting it.”  Whatever the fund’s merits, Merkel needs the fiscal pact to
pass in parliament,  Jan Techau , director of the European Center
of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Brussels,
said by phone. If she wavers, “it would be political suicide
and the markets would go crazy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  