-- Europe Stocks Post First Weekly Gain in a Month on Values
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-25T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/european-stocks-post-first-weekly-gain-in-may-on-values.html
European stocks  posted their first
weekly advance in a month as  China  pledged to bolster growth and
a three-week selloff left the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index at its
cheapest level since January.  A  gauge of lenders  rallied the most in two months even as
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded some of the region’s banks.
Construction companies rebounded on speculation the Chinese
government will accelerate its infrastructure projects. Vodafone
Group Plc climbed as revenue topped estimates.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  rose 1.5 percent to 242.49 this week as 18 of
19 industry groups gained. The gauge has still lost 11 percent
since this year’s high on March 16 amid mounting concern Greece
will fail to implement budget measures required to stay in the
euro. The selloff has left the gauge’s valuation at 10.1 times
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is still debatable whether or not one buys into equity
markets at these levels because uncertainties are profound, but
value is starting to be seen,” said  Andrew Milligan , head of
global strategy at Standard Life Investments Ltd in Edinburgh.
“All we can say is a lot of bad news has been priced in.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  this week said the nation should
put “stabilizing growth in a more important position.” In
comments posted on the government’s website, he called for an
increase in lending to support construction, spurring
expectations that the government will step up stimulus measures.  Greek Risk  The Stoxx 600 still sank 2.1 percent on May 23, as former
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told the Wall Street
Journal that while it is unlikely the nation will leave the
euro, it’s still a risk.  European Union leaders met in Brussels on May 23 to discuss
the region’s debt crisis. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
told Italian television station La7 that the majority of EU
leaders at the meeting backed joint euro-area bonds and that
Italy can help persuade  Germany  to support Europe’s “common
good.”  National benchmark indexes advanced in all the 18 western
European markets this week, except Greece, Spain and Portugal.
The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  rose 1.6 percent, France’s CAC 40 gained 1.3
percent and Germany’s DAX rose 1.1 percent.  A gauge of banks rallied 2.2 percent, the biggest advance
since March. KBC Groep NV, Belgium’s largest bank and insurer,
jumped 10 percent, while Sweden’s Nordea Bank AB gained 5.7
percent and UBS AG increased 4.3 percent.  Banco Popolare SC surged 8.9 percent as Bank of America
Corp. and Exane BNP Paribas upgraded the shares after Italy’s
fourth-biggest bank said regulatory approval to use internal
risk models boosted its  Tier 1 capital .  Moody’s Downgrades  Moody’s this week downgraded Dexia Bank Belgium, Sweden’s
Nordea and Svenska Handelsbanken AB, and Norway’s DNB Bank ASA.
The rating company downgraded 16 Spanish banks last week.  Lafarge SA, the world’s largest cement maker, rose 4.4
percent, Eiffage SA increased 8.7 percent and CRH Plc, the
world’s second-biggest building-materials maker, rose 3 percent.  A gauge of construction-related companies climbed 2.3
percent, paring some of last week’s 6.5 percent selloff. The
shares climbed as the China Securities Journal reported the
country is planning to speed up the approval of infrastructure
projects.  Vodafone Group Plc gained 5.4 percent after Europe’s
largest mobile phone company posted quarterly service revenue
that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc surged 8.6 percent
after reporting earnings that beat estimates.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  sank 11 percent before regulators suspended
trading on May 25. The company’s board was due to meet to
approve a recapitalization plan and vote on restated accounts.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc fell 2.8 percent after
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s biggest banks,
sold an 11.5 percent stake in Europe’s oldest independent
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  