-- European Union Challenges Argentina’s Import Curbs at WTO
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-05-25T11:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/european-union-challenges-argentina-s-import-curbs-at-wto.html
The European Union challenged
Argentine import restrictions at the  World Trade Organization ,
highlighting EU anger over Argentina’s takeover of a unit of
Spanish oil company  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   The legal challenge against Argentine curbs on foreign
goods ranging from glassware and irons to food processors and
kitty litter reflect growing EU concerns about protectionist
policies enacted President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner . Those
worries came to a head in April when Argentina seized Repsol’s
YPF unit. That act can’t be challenged under WTO rules.  The curbs are among what EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht today called “unfair and protectionist trade practices
that are simply there to prop up the Argentine economy at the
expense of  Europe  and other economies.” De Gucht has also
censured  Argentina  for seizing the YPF unit.  “While the EU’s WTO action on import measures is separate
from and independent to Argentina’s Repsol case, the EU is
responding to Argentina’s broader and systematic economic
restrictions,” the EU said in a statement. “The Repsol case,
like the trade restrictive import measures the EU challenges
today, is rather to be seen as an expression of the same
worrying policy pursued by Argentina.”  Today is an Argentine national holiday and no one was
available at the country’s mission to the WTO in Geneva to
comment on the EU complaint.  Exports, Jobs  Argentina has subjected an increasing number of imports to
licensing regulations since 2008. Some governments and
businesses say the import-substitution rules, which require
foreign companies to produce goods in Argentina or lose  market
access , are protectionist.  “Argentina’s trade policy has become rooted in unfair
trade practices,”  De Gucht  told journalists in Brussels.
“These restrictive measures by Argentina are illegal under WTO
rules. They harm our exports, they hurt our exporters and they
cost us jobs.”  Fernandez’s April 16 expropriation of YPF, Argentina’s
biggest crude producer, is emboldening the EU to act over the
separate question of the country’s import curbs. Together, the
issues highlight growing concerns about protectionism in
Argentina, whose $448 billion economy is  South America ’s second
largest after  Brazil .  Pre-Approval Regime  The 27-nation EU is Argentina’s No. 2 export market and its
top foreign investor, accounting for more than half of foreign
direct investment in the country. The EU shipped 8.3 billion
euros ($10.5 billion) of goods such as machinery, chemicals and
transport equipment to Argentina last year and bought 10.7
billion euros of Argentine products, mainly agricultural goods
and raw materials.  The EU is challenging Argentina’s decision to subject all
imported goods to a pre-registration and pre-approval regime and
its requirement that all importers balance imports with exports,
increase the local content of the products they manufacture
domestically or not transfer revenue abroad. The bloc also says
hundreds of goods need import licenses, resulting in systematic
delays or rejection.  Argentina “tightened the screws again” in February by
requiring pre-approval to cover all imports, making it
“urgent” for the EU to turn to the WTO, said De Gucht, who
held out the possibility that other governments will make
similar challenges. At least 19 WTO members including the U.S.,
 Australia ,  South Korea ,  Switzerland  and Taiwan have endorsed a
statement urging Argentina to remove the curbs.  Today’s request for consultations is the first step in WTO
dispute proceedings and means the two governments must now hold
talks for at least two months in a bid to resolve the dispute.
If the talks fail, the EU can ask WTO judges to rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  