-- European Stocks Climb on Monti; Nexans Shares Advance
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-25T16:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/european-stock-futures-erase-drop-bankia-might-be-active.html
European stocks climbed, extending
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s first weekly advance in May, as
 Italy ’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said that most European Union
leaders support joint bonds for the euro area.  Nexans SA added 4.6 percent after a brokerage recommended
buying the company’s shares. Mining companies dropped, with
 Lonmin Plc (LMI)  and Fresnillo Plc falling more than 1.5 percent.
 Mobistar SA (MOBB)  led a gauge of telecommunications companies lower,
sliding 3.4 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.2 percent to 242.49 at
the close, after earlier climbing as much as 0.8 percent and
dropping as much as 0.5 percent. The gauge has rallied 1.5
percent this week, its first gain this month, amid speculation
that  China  and the euro area will take steps to bolster economic
growth.  “Monti’s comments on euro bonds support the markets as
many investors see them as a good solution that would act as a
firewall to a Greek exit from the  euro zone ,” said John Plassard, director at Louis  Capital Markets  LP in Geneva.  The Stoxx 600 surged 1 percent yesterday as investors
speculated that the previous three straight weeks of losses for
the benchmark measure were overdone considering the outlook for
company earnings.  Spain ’s central government will analyze “with all
caution” requests from regional governments to help them regain
access to capital markets, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said today after a cabinet meeting.  Catalonia will comply with its budget program and will
honor its commitments, the regional government said today.  Euro-Area Bonds  Monti told Italian television station La7 yesterday that
the majority of EU leaders at a Brussels meeting this week
backed joint euro-area bonds. He added that Italy can help
persuade  Germany  to support  Europe ’s “common good” as well.  “Europe can have euro bonds soon,” Monti said. Germany
has an interest in ensuring no country leaves the euro, while
 Greece  will probably remain in the single currency, he said in
the interview. Euro-area bonds lower borrowing costs for the
currency’s most debt-stricken members by making repayment the
responsibility of all 17 countries.  In the U.S., the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
 final index of consumer sentiment  for May rose to 79.3.
Economists had projected the gauge would stay at the preliminary
reading for the month of 77.8, according to the  median estimate 
in a Bloomberg News survey.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 13 of the 18 western-
 European (SXXP)  markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 added less than 0.1
percent. Germany’s DAX increased 0.4 percent and  France ’s CAC 40
climbed 0.3 percent. Greece’s ASE sank 3.5 percent.  Chinese Banks’ Lending  China’s biggest banks may miss their loan targets for the
first time in at least seven years as an economic slowdown
crimps demand for credit, three bank officials with knowledge of
the matter said. A decline in lending in April and May means
that the banks’ total  new loans  for 2012 will probably be about
7 trillion  yuan  ($1.1 trillion), less than an estimated
government goal of 8 trillion yuan to 8.5 trillion yuan, said
one of the officials, declining to be identified because the
person isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Banks have turned to small- and mid-sized companies for
loan growth after demand from the biggest state-owned borrowers
dropped, the people said.  Nexans, Alcatel-Lucent  Nexans (NEX)  gained 4.6 percent to 30.77 euros after Kepler
Capital Markets raised the the world’s second-biggest maker of
cables to buy from reduce.  Alcatel-Lucent jumped 4.5 percent to 1.32 euros after  Les
Echos  reported that the company seeks at least $1 billion of
core router sales. The newspaper cited an interview with Chief
Technology Officer Marcus Weldon. The company aims to take at
least a third of the market, which it estimates at $3 billion to
$4 billion a year, Weldon said.  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was 13
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lonmin and Fresnillo retreated 1.6 percent to 729 pence and
2.2 percent to 1,317 pence, respectively.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) 
declined 3.3 percent to 966.5 pence. A gauge of mining companies
posted the biggest decline on the Stoxx 600.  Mobistar,  Belgium’s second-biggest mobile-phone company ,
slid 3.4 percent to 25.45 euros and Telecom Italia SpA lost 2
percent to 69.5 euro cents.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  and Banca Monte dei Paschi SpA
decreased 2.2 percent to 1.85 euros and 2 percent to 21 euro
cents.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  declined 1.9 percent to 181.7 pence.  Accor SA (AC)  retreated 2.7 percent to 24.68 euros after the
company said it plans to appeal a court decision that confirmed
BHG SA - Brazil Hospitality Group’s acquisition of Hotel Rio
Palace. Accor operates the hotel as Sofitel Rio de Janeiro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  