-- Euro Sinking on Spain, Brown Brothers’ Chandler Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-05-25T18:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/euro-sinking-on-spain-brown-brothers-chandler-says-tom-keene.html
The euro may fall below $1.20 for the
first time in almost two years as concern that  Spain  is
struggling with its finances adds to bets  Europe ’s debt crisis
will worsen, Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.’s  Marc Chandler  said.  The currency may sink to the “high teens” by September,
Chandler, New York-based global head of currency strategy at the
bank, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. The euro, which traded at
$1.4940 in May 2011,  fell  today to $1.2516 in New York trading
as Spain weighed helping Catalonia with debt financing and
recapitalizing BFA-Bankia, which it nationalized two weeks ago.  “The risk is that Spain, we’d say in the U.S., the banks
are too big to fail, and it’s questionable whether the euro zone
has already committed resources that are sufficient to bail out
Spain should it need it,” Chandler said.  The Catalonia region needs Spanish central-government help
to access funding, Catalan President Artur Mas said. The region
is complying “strictly” with its budget program and will honor
its commitments, according to a statement.  The Catalan news is “the key factor pushing the euro back
down to those lows,” Chandler said.  The euro has “optionality and barriers” at about $1.25,
Chandler said. It briefly slipped below that level today to
$1.2496, the lowest since July 2010. It last traded below $1.20
in June 2010.  “If we go through there, we go through there hard,” said
Chandler, who has taught classes on international political
economy at  New York  University since the 1990s and wrote the
book “Making Sense of the Dollar.”  ‘All Caution’  The Spanish government is analyzing “with all caution”
requests from regional governments to help them regain access to
 capital markets , Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de
Santamaria said today. The nation will also recapitalize BFA-
Bankia with as much public money as necessary, as the group
needs at least 9 billion euros ($11 billion) to comply with
banking rules, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said this week.  Yields on Spanish government 10-year notes climbed 15 basis
points today, or 0.15 percentage point, to 6.31 percent. They
touched 6.51 percent on May 16, the highest since November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  