-- Evonik Braves Stock Market Debut After Pulling Back Twice
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-25T08:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/evonik-planning-stock-market-debut-before-summer-break-1-.html
Evonik Industries AG,  Europe ’s
biggest unlisted specialty chemical maker, said it plans to make
its debut on  Frankfurt ’s bourse in coming weeks, shrugging off
“challenging conditions” on financial markets.  The planned initial public offering by owners RAG-Stiftung
and  CVC Capital Partners  is the “logical next step” for the
Essen, Germany-based company after generating “sustained”
value for its owners, said Steve Koltes, a partner at private
equity firm CVC, which owns 25 percent of Evonik.  RAG, which oversees Germany’s coal-mining industry, and CVC
are attempting the nation’s biggest IPO in more than a decade in
the midst of Europe’s debt crisis. Evonik will benefit from
incumbent chemical stock  BASF SE (BAS) , which has gained the top
weighting in the DAX benchmark index. The maker of additives for
plastics, glass and cosmetics has a bigger proportion of its
products supplying  consumer goods  and other higher-margin items,
making its earnings less susceptible to the demand swings of
commodity chemicals than BASF.  “The listing creates a new rival with an allocation battle
for the money and the attention of investors,” said Oliver Schwarz, an analyst at MM Warburg. “Investors have a certain
amount of money available and probably only want to put a
limited amount in the chemical sector. Now BASF will have to
tussle with another listed company.”  Earnings Growth  Evonik Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Engel  said he’s
approaching the forthcoming transaction with “great
confidence.” Evonik’s adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization this year may top the 2.8 billion
euros ($3.5 billion) reported in 2011, and sales are expected to
be slightly higher than last year’s 14.5 billion euros,
according to a statement.  “Despite the challenging conditions on the financial
markets, we are entering the intensive phase of preparations,”
Engel said in the statement. “A stock exchange listing will
make Evonik even more attractive.”  The company had twice attempted to list its shares since
2007, and Evonik pulled back each time as market conditions
deteriorated.  RAG and CVC will be selling shares at a ratio of 2 to 1,
they said. Private and institutional investors in  Germany  and
Luxembourg will be offered a stake in the company, and funds
outside those countries will have the option of taking up
private placements, according to the statement.  Benchmark Candidate  While Evonik is a candidate to join Germany’s benchmark DAX
Index, the maker of specialty plastics and cosmetic ingredients
may first list in the mid-cap MDAX index because of its initial
smaller free float, Schwarz said. The company is seeking to
raise 3.5 billion euros to 4.5 billion euros, Reuters reported
yesterday.  Evonik has refocused on chemicals with emphasis on health,
nutrition and resource efficiency, after selling majority stakes
in its real-estate and energy divisions.  “Evonik is perhaps more attractive than BASF because it
doesn’t have oil, gas trading or agro chemicals,” said Peter Spengler, an analyst at DZ Bank AG. “It comes down to whether
investors think they can make money.” Spengler, who recommends
buying BASF stock, said while he can’t comment on Evonik’s
valuation, the company will benefit from shedding its real-
estate and energy assets.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group (GS)  are acting as
global coordinators and joint bookrunners, assisted by  Bank of
America  Merrill Lynch,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  Lilja & Co. is an adviser to RAG and CVC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  