-- Ex-General Re, AIG Executives Discuss Settling Criminal Case
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/ex-general-re-aig-executives-in-talks-to-resolve-criminal-case.html
Four former General Reinsurance Corp.
executives and one at  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  are in
talks with prosecutors to resolve criminal charges that they
defrauded investors, according to a court filing.  General Re  Chief Executive Officer Ronald Ferguson, ex-
Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth Monrad, ex-Senior Vice
President Christopher Garand and ex-Assistant General Counsel
Robert Graham and former AIG Vice President Christian Milton
were convicted in 2008 by a federal jury in Hartford,
 Connecticut .  A federal appeals court in  New York  reversed the
convictions in August, and the former executives were scheduled
to be retried on the charges in January. In documents filed May
24 in federal court in Connecticut, prosecutors and defense
attorneys asked to delay pretrial proceedings in the case by two
weeks.  “The parties have been, and continue to be, engaged in
discussions concerning a potential global resolution of this
matter,” the defense attorneys said in the court document. “If
such discussions result in such a resolution, that would obviate
the need for the filing of the pretrial motions as well as any
other pre-trial and trial proceedings in the case.”  Three Charts  Prosecutors said the fraud involved a sham transaction in
2000 and 2001 to inflate AIG’s loss reserves by $500 million. It
preceded the financial crisis of New York-based AIG, which got a
bailout of $182.3 billion from U.S. taxpayers. The appeals court
said the trial judge at the time, Christopher Droney,
erroneously let prosecutors show jurors three charts with AIG
stock-price data. Droney has since joined the appeals court.  Droney also erred by improperly instructing the jury on
causation, according to the appeals court opinion.  He sentenced Milton to four years in prison, Ferguson to
two years, Monrad to 18 months, and Garand and Graham each to
one year. They are free on bail pending appeal. Two General Re
executives who pleaded guilty testified as prosecution witnesses
and were sentenced to probation.  General Re, a unit of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , is based in
 Stamford , Connecticut.  The case is U.S. v. Ferguson, 08-6211,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 