-- Facebook IPO Seen Deepening Investor Distrust of Stocks
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/facebook-ipo-fallout-deepens-investor-distrust-of-stocks.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering, plagued by trading errors and a 16 percent drop in the
share price, will push more individual investors out of a stock
market they already distrust after the financial crisis.  “This is clearly the latest in a long string of events
that is eviscerating the confidence investors have in the
market,” said  Andrew Stoltmann , a Chicago attorney who
represents retail investors. “The perception is  Wall Street 
jiggered this IPO so the underwriters made money, Facebook
executives made money and the small investor got left holding
the bag.”  Individual buyers’ willingness to venture into stocks was
undercut by difficulties in executing trades on the first day of
trading on May 18, Facebook’s subsequent decline and questions
over whether the firm and underwriters selectively disclosed
material, nonpublic information.  “If you have a lot of angry people out there, they’re
going to express their anger in different ways,” said Steve Sosnick, equity risk manager for Timber Hill LLC, the market-
making unit of Greenwich, Connecticut-based  Interactive Brokers
Group Inc. (IBKR)  “One of them may be with their feet.”  The IPO produced the worst five-day return among the
largest U.S. deals of the past decade. The 13 percent decline
through May 24 exceeded the 10 percent drop by MF Global
Holdings Inc. in its first five sessions. Visa Inc. did best
among the biggest deals, rising 45 percent.  Lost Decade  Some retail investors still haven’t moved off the sidelines
after pulling out of the market during the 2008-09 financial
crisis. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has made no progress in
more than a decade, currently trading at levels first seen in
1999 following two bear markets that wiped out about 50 percent
from the index. The May 6, 2010, rout known as the flash crash
erased $862 billion in less than 20 minutes, undermining
confidence in the structure of equity markets.  Investors have withdrawn money from mutual funds that
invest in U.S. stocks for five straight years as of December,
according to the  Investment Company Institute , a Washington-
based trade group. U.S. households held about $8.1 trillion in
corporate equities at the end of 2011, about 16 percent less
than the $9.6 trillion they held in 2007, according to Federal
Reserve data released in March.  Increased volatility, high correlation among stocks and the
flash crash are among a “whole basket-load of things” that
have caused retail investors to be skeptical for several years,
said Ron Sloan, who oversees about $11 billion as chief
investment officer of the U.S. core equity team for Atlanta-
based fund manager  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  “This is just the icing on the
cake.”  Lowered Estimates  Patricia Arroyo, 53, a psychologist and executive coach in
Boston who manages her own investments, said, “What shakes my
investor confidence more than the glitches is to see all the
institutional investors, insiders and favored clients get all
the advantages in these situations.”  After Facebook said on May 9 that growth in advertising had
failed to keep up with user gains, analysts at some banks
underwriting the deal cut their earnings estimates, said people
familiar with the process. The new estimates were relayed to
institutional investors.  Arroyo had avoided Facebook and instead purchased about 50
shares of social-gaming company  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , speculating that a
pop in Facebook’s price would benefit the stock of the San
Francisco-based company. Trading of Zynga was halted twice
because of volatility on the day Facebook started trading.
Zynga’s stock has fallen 20 percent in the past week.  Federal Review  Federal securities regulators and the U.S. Senate’s banking
committee have said they will or may review the Facebook
offering. Buyers of the stock have sued Facebook, the sale’s
underwriters and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the exchange handling
the listing. New York-based  Nasdaq  was overwhelmed by order
cancellations and trade confirmations were delayed on the first
day of trading.  Brokerages whose customers had trouble executing Facebook
trades, including Boston-based Fidelity Investments and  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , said they are trying to resolve complaints.  “Fidelity senior management has been working with
regulators, market makers and Nasdaq to represent all of our
customers’ trading issues from May 18 and we will continue to do
so in order to persuade Nasdaq to mitigate the impact on our
customers,” Stephen Austin, a spokesman at Fidelity, said in a
phone interview. Schwab also is continuing to address any
concerns that remain for its customers, Michael Cianfrocca, a
spokesman for the San Francisco-based brokerage, said in an e-
mail.  Missed Opportunity  The Facebook fallout has eroded hopes that the debut would
revive the appetite for stocks among individuals. Trading in
Facebook accounted for about 20 percent to 30 percent of
revenue-generating trades at online brokers on May 18,  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New
York, said in an e-mailed report on May 23. Retail buying and
selling on the day a company debuts is usually 2 percent to 5
percent, he wrote.  The social network accounted for 22 percent of equities
volume on May 18 at online brokerage  TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp. (AMTD) , according to Steve Quirk, a senior vice president at the
Omaha, Nebraska-based company. The firm had almost 60,000 orders
to trade Facebook shares before the stock opened, he said.  “For now, it appears like a missed opportunity to build
sustainable retail momentum,” Repetto wrote. The technical
glitches and price decline in the stock have “driven retail
trading back to earth.”  Knight Capital  Retail investors weren’t the only ones who lost money as
Facebook shares declined this week.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) 
estimated that it lost about $30 million to $35 million trading
Facebook because of technical problems at Nasdaq, the firm said
in a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on
May 23. The brokerage and market maker is based in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey .  Citadel Securities, the Chicago-based broker run by hedge-
fund manager  Ken Griffin , lost as much as $35 million, according
to a person with knowledge of the firm.  Despite trading problems and losses, many investors who
have already purchased the stock are continuing to hold on, said
John Dominic, vice president of trading for TradeKing, an online
broker based in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida .  “Most are probably taking a wait-and-see approach,”
Dominic said.  ‘Slow Motion’ Wreck  IPOs are often risky and expensive for investors, said Zack
Shepard, managing director for Mason, Ohio-based Matson Money
Inc., which manages about $3.1 billion on behalf of individual
investors. He said his firm generally waits about one year
before it considers investing in newly public companies.  The Facebook mess and concerns about whether the rules of
the game are fair will get resolved, said Invesco’s Sloan. A
lasting effect may be that individuals focus more on company
fundamentals and invest in equities for the long-term, he said.  “Watching this fiasco was like watching a car wreck in
slow motion,” Andrew T. Gardener, president of Tanglewood
Legacy Advisors LLC, based in Houston, said in e-mailed
comments. “Only a small number of investors were directly
involved. The rest of us will soon get out the keys and go for a
drive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in  New York  at 
 eody@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net  