-- FDA Is Appealing Court Bar to Drug Used in Executions
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-25T18:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/fda-to-appeal-court-ruling-banning-drug-used-in-execution.html
The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
is appealing a federal judge’s order that banned the importation
of sodium thiopental and its use in executions.  The FDA, which filed a notice of appeal today in the
federal court in Washington, is seeking to overturn a ruling in
March favoring 21 death row inmates who challenged the agency’s
use of sodium thiopental, an imported drug given as anesthesia
before a lethal injection is administered.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon held that the agency
violated its own rules by allowing the drug into the country
without first ensuring its effectiveness. Leon said the agency
created “an unnecessary risk” that prisoners “will not be
anesthetized properly prior to execution.”  Leon said the agency had created a “slippery slope” for
the entry of other unapproved drugs.  The judge banned the import of thiopental, calling it a
misbranded and unapproved drug, and directed  Arizona ,
 California ,  Georgia ,  South Carolina  and Tennessee and any others
with stocks of the barbiturate to send them to the FDA.  On May 21, 15 state attorneys general sent U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder a letter urging the department to appeal
Leon’s ruling. The legal officers said the case was wrongly
decided and might impair states’ ability to execute prisoners.  No U.S. Production  In a lawsuit filed in February 2011, the inmates said the
FDA allowed states to import “bulk amounts” of thiopental. The
drug hasn’t been sold in the U.S. since 2009, when the sole U.S.
manufacturer,  Hospira Inc. (HSP) , stopped producing it.  Shelly L. Burgess, a spokeswoman for the FDA, declined to
comment on the agency’s plan to appeal.  “The D.C. Circuit should be no more inclined than the
district court to allow FDA to permit unapproved, illegal drug
products into the  United States  where Congress has expressly
said it can’t,” a lawyer for the inmates, Bradford Berenson of
Sidley Austin LLP in Washington, said in an e-mail.  The shipments of thiopental entering the U.S. originated
from an Austrian facility owned by Sandoz International GmbH, a
German company, according to the complaint. The drug was shipped
to the U.S. from a London wholesaler, Dream Pharma Ltd., the
inmates said.  Dream Pharma bought the drug from a unit of Archimedes
Pharma Ltd., a closely held company based in Reading, U.K.,
according to the complaint.  Justice Department  Allowing thiopental into the U.S. conforms with the FDA’s
public-health mission, enforcement priorities and “deference to
 law enforcement ” on capital punishment matters, the  Justice
Department  said in a filing before Leon’s ruling.  The FDA said the release of the imported drug within the
U.S. was an act of enforcement discretion, and that “reviewing
substances imported or used for the purpose of state-authorized
lethal injection clearly falls outside of FDA’s public health
role,” according to Leon’s ruling.  The judge heard arguments from both sides on Feb. 9.  Leon said there was no dispute that the FDA hadn’t reviewed
foreign or domestic thiopental for safety and effectiveness.
Because it was unapproved, the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act required the agency to bar its import, he said.  The case is Beaty v. Food and Drug Administration, 1:11-cv-
00289, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 