-- Fed’s Plosser Says Economists Should Design Crisis Lending Rules
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-25T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/fed-s-plosser-says-economists-should-design-crisis-lending-rules.html
Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank
President  Charles Plosser  said central bankers should consider
how to design rules guiding their emergency lending during
crises.  “Monetary theory has given a great deal of thought to
rules and credibility in the design of monetary policy, but the
recent crisis suggests that we need to think more about the
design of lender-of-last-resort policy,” Plosser said in
prepared remarks for a speech today in Eltville, Germany.  Plosser has advocated that the Fed and other central banks
make  interest rate  decisions based on a rule, increase
transparency and demonstrate to markets how policy would respond
to changes in the economy.  Plosser didn’t provide today his outlook for the economy or
monetary policy. Instead, he outlined topics for economic
research, such as incorporating the institutional design of
central banks and moral hazard into macroeconomic models.  Plosser, 63, became Philadelphia Fed President in 2006
following a career in academia. He was formerly dean of the
University of Rochester’s graduate school of business and co-
editor of the Journal of Monetary Economics.  While arguing for the importance of rules, Plosser said
that from his experience as a central banker he believes they’re
not flawless.  “From a policy perspective, the assumption that a central
bank can always and everywhere credibly commit to its policy
rule is, I believe, also questionable,” Plosser said at a
conference sponsored by  Germany ’s Bundesbank and the
Philadelphia Fed.  “In practice, I seek ways to make policy more systematic
and more credible,” Plosser said. Still, “commitment is a
luxury few central bankers ever actually have, and fewer still
faithfully follow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  