-- Ferrari Deaths Fuel Anti-Foreigner Anger as Singapore Votes
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-05-25T04:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/ferrari-deaths-fuel-anti-foreigner-anger-before-singapore-poll.html
At 4:09 a.m. on May 12, Chinese
national Ma Chi sped through a  Singapore  stop light in his $1.4
million Ferrari 599 GTO and slammed into a taxi, killing himself
and two others and sparking a wave of anti-foreigner sentiment.  The crash, caught on camera by another cab and viewed more
than 7 million times on the Internet, prompted ministers to try
to defuse public anger over immigration policies and the rising
wealth gap that caused the ruling party’s worst performance
since independence in last year’s general election. Within days
of the crash, Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean urged people
on his Facebook page not to “blame all foreigners.”  With 3.3 million citizens and 1.9 million foreign residents,
the government is under pressure to placate voters without
disrupting the influx of talent and labor that helped forge the
only advanced economy in  Southeast Asia . Tomorrow, the first by-
election since last year’s national poll will test whether Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s efforts to win back support are
succeeding.  “The mood in the country a year after the elections is not
good,” said Bridget Welsh, a political science professor at the
 Singapore Management University . “It’s a barometer of how the
government has performed in the past year. The foreigners are
becoming the punching bag.”  More Millionaires  Government policies to attract wealth and boost  economic
growth  gave Singapore the world’s fastest-rising number of
millionaires in 2010, while adding about 1 million foreigners
since 2005. Public discontent surfaced when the strain on the
rail system caused its worst breakdown in December, while a tax
on  car ownership  linked to demand rose to S$92,050 ($72,083)
this month and increasing property prices boosted inflation.  Tomorrow’s poll is for the Hougang district that the
opposition  Workers’ Party  has held for 20 years. After Lee’s
People’s Action Party won the general election last year with
the smallest-ever margin of popular votes, he introduced
stricter immigration policies and cut ministerial pay. Lee said
in December that tighter limits on immigration will mean
forgoing business opportunities and accepting slower growth.  About 23,000 people are eligible to vote tomorrow, 1
percent of the island’s electorate. The seat is vacant after Yaw
Shin Leong, who won 64.8 percent of votes last year, was
expelled from his party in February for “indiscretions in his
private life,” said the Workers’ Party, which nominated 50-
year-old businessman Png Eng Huat.  National Issues  The candidate for the People’s  Action Party , co-founded by
the prime minister’s father,  Lee Kuan Yew , is Desmond Choo, 34,
a trade union official and former police officer. While he has
campaigned on local issues such as upgrading public housing, a
survey of 50 residents carried out by Today newspaper this month
showed a majority of residents are looking at national policies
including the cost of living and the influx of foreigners.  The island is ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place
to do business, attracting the likes of Facebook Inc. co-founder
Eduardo Saverin, who renounced U.S. citizenship in 2011 to work
and live in the Southeast Asian nation. Foreigners are in every
industry, from construction workers to hedge-fund managers.  The  Boston Consulting Group  said in a May 2011 report that
Singapore’s millionaire population expanded the fastest globally,
rising by almost 33 percent. The city had the highest proportion
of millionaire households at 15.5 percent.  ‘So Welcoming’  “These rich foreigners have come in, and driven up our
property prices, especially the Chinese,” said Sebastian Tan, a
Singaporean salesman in the  construction industry . “Just see
how our property prices have shot up in the last few years since
the government became so welcoming towards foreigners.”  An index of private residential  home prices  in the city has
risen 80 percent in the past seven years.  Ma, 30, from  China ’s Sichuan province, paid S$3 million for
his two-story, sea-view penthouse, his wife He Ting Ting was
cited as saying in the Chinese language Lianhe Wanbao newspaper.
She said Ma was a “self-made tycoon” who bought the Ferrari
for S$1.8 million for his 30th birthday last year and also owned
a S$400,000 BMW. She did not want to answer questions, according
to a person at the apartment who wouldn’t give his name.  Income inequality  in Singapore has risen since 2000. The
average monthly wage for the poorest 10 percent of households
increased by S$250 to S$1,581 in the decade to 2011, compared
with a S$10,400 jump to S$27,867 for the top 10 percent.  Wage Rise  This week, the government-appointed  National Wages Council 
recommended a salary increase for low-wage workers of at least
S$50 a month. The increase amounts to 5 percent for workers
earning S$1,000 a month, less than the 5.4 percent inflation
 rate  in April. Price gains are forecast by the central bank to
average 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent in 2012.  In the past year, the government raised property taxes for
non-Singaporeans and speeded up construction of public housing.
Lee also made permanent a program to provide cash, utility
rebates and medical funds for the elderly and low-income
households. The government is subsidizing bus companies’
purchases of new vehicles to reduce crowding on public transport
and adding hospital beds.  Still, efforts to reduce the inflow of workers since 2010
have had little effect. The foreign workforce has grown 7.5
percent annually over the last two years, Finance Minister
 Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in February as he imposed new rules
on the percentage of overseas labor that companies are allowed.  ‘Blamed for Everything’  “If Singapore decides to offer opportunities to foreigners,
I don’t think foreigners should be blamed for everything that
goes wrong,” said Justin Li, a store manager at a Hush Puppies
shoe outlet in Singapore, who comes from China’s Hubei province.  SMRT Corp. (MRT) , named the world’s best metro operator in 2009,
has attracted 50 percent more customers in the past five years
as  population growth  accelerated and tourism increased. The
company promised to spend S$900 million to upgrade its network
and signaling after the December breakdowns.  While tomorrow’s poll will be a barometer of support for
government policies, it won’t alter the balance in  parliament ,
where the People’s Action Party has 81 of the 87 seats. The PAP
has governed the country since 1959.  Of the 122,600  jobs  created in Singapore last year, about
70 percent, or 84,800 positions, went to foreigners.  “Maybe some lower-income earners feel resentment to
foreigners because they may feel that their jobs have been taken
away,” said Loh Wai Meng, a Singaporean sales manager at IPG
Photonics Corp. “Foreigners are an easy target to blame when
something goes wrong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  