-- FIFA Shouldn’t ‘Cherry Pick’ Reform Measures, Adviser Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-25T13:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/fifa-shouldn-t-cherry-pick-reform-measures-adviser-says.html
Soccer ruling body FIFA shouldn’t
“cherry pick” the easiest reform measures as it responds to
criticism from sponsors about bribery allegations, its anti-
corruption adviser said today.  Swiss law professor  Mark Pieth , addressing the authority’s
annual congress in Budapest, said officials should tackle issues
including the creation of a public hotline for reporting
wrongdoing, the declaration of executive pay and integrity
checks for board members.  “I encourage you to make use of this singular chance you
have to go down the reform route,” Pieth, who was appointed by
FIFA president Sepp Blatter to head a group to suggest changes
to the 108-year-old body. “Do something really courageous and
generations of footballers, fans and stakeholders will remember
you for it.”  FIFA’s  208 members approved changes to its ethics
committee, dividing it into a body responsible for investigation
and a group prosecuting violations. They also voted to establish
an audit and compliance body overseeing the millions of dollars
that the Zurich-based authority spends on soccer development.
Pieth has proposed that the body should set executive pay and
publish their salaries.  “We cannot take all the package now: this is impossible,”
Blatter said meeting, adding members would need to discuss
changes first. “Even if Professor Pieth says we shall cherry
pick, we cannot take the whole tree. It’s impossible to take the
tree and have all the cherries down.”  Next Meeting  He said the reform program will be completed at the next
meeting in Mauritius.  Blatter, 76, last year sealed a fourth four-year term as
the head of the organization that oversees the $5 billion  World
Cup . He promised action after criticism from sponsors, fans and
governments following bribery allegations.  His only challenger, former Asian soccer head Mohamed Bin
Hammam of Qatar, stood down a day before FIFA opened a probe
into claims he paid $1 million in bribes to Caribbean voters. He
denied the allegations.  Six months earlier, the selection of the 2018 and 2022
World Cup hosts was overshadowed by the removal of members of
the executive board for allegedly offering to sell their votes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Budapest via the London newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  