-- Fugard’s ‘Children’ of Africa; Gray’s ‘Pursuit’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/fugard-s-children-of-africa-gray-s-pursuit-review.html
Thami Mbikwana, the young man at the
center of Athol Fugard’s “My Children! My Africa!” bristles
with cocky, engaging intelligence.  Before the evening’s end, we will witness the burial of
that intelligence as it ineffably transmutes into seething rage.  A debate over equality versus the traditional role of women
in African society gets matters going.  The competition has been initiated by Thami’s mentor at a
township school, Mr. M, a classic type, the teacher who cares,
who sees in his prize student the reason for having stuck it out
in a shabby, underfunded, race-driven school. He knows how risky
the opening of young minds can be.  Hope, Mr. M tells Isabel, the privileged white student from
a nearby school imported for the debate, “is a dangerous animal
for a black man to have prowling around in his heart.”  Pleased with the chemistry between his unlikely
combatants, he convinces Thami and Isabel to join forces as a
team in an upcoming national literary competition.  This gives them ample opportunity during practice to recite
the poetry of Wadsworth, Keats and Coleridge. At the same time,
however, Thami is being pulled away from school by a growing
populist insurgency that challenges his good nature, his
patience and ultimately his devotion to his mentor. The
consequences are devastating.  Hello, Mr. Chips  This 1989 play gets a powerful revival at the Signature
Theater. The director, Ruben Santiago-Hudson, and a trio of
actors are so keened to Fugard’s deceptively simple plot that we
barely see what’s coming. James A. Williams plays Mr. M in
classic Mr. Chips fashion, finding virtue in conservatism and
trusting in slow but inexorable change.  Allie Gallerani, in a role originated by Fugard’s daughter,
Lisa, is touching as a third-generation citizen of a country
whose white minority rules a black majority with the conviction
of God’s will.  Best of all is Stephen Tyrone Williams as Thami, breathing
truth into a gentle soul set ablaze by the poverty, starvation
and humiliation all around him.  Neil Patel’s corrugated tin set and Marcus Doshi’s lighting
set the bleak tone for this sad dance, given a lift by Bobby
McFerrin’s subtle incidental music.  Through June 10 at 480 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-244-
7529;  http://www.signaturetheatre.org . Rating: ***  ‘The Common Pursuit’  A different kind of heartbreak suffuses Simon Gray’s 1989
play, “The Common Pursuit,” being revived by the  Roundabout  in
a production deftly staged by Moises Kaufman.  The play begins in the 1960s at Cambridge, where six
friends -- five male, one female -- are starting a literary
review named for the book by their famed professor, F.R. Leavis.  The action covers the next 15 years or so as their leader,
Stuart Thorne (Josh Cooke), and his girlfriend (later wife)
Marigold (Kristen Bush), struggle to keep the journal alive
before settling into a middle-class life of compromised ideals
and disappointments.  This is also a play in which a key character meets a
violent death before the final curtain.  There will be strategically placed revelations involving
infidelities, infertility, mendacity and other unsurprising plot
twists, mostly ennobled by Gray’s surgical yet compassionate wit
and a fine ensemble that includes Jacob Fishel, Tim McGeever,
Lucas Near-Verbrugghe and Kieran Campion.  The playwright, who by this time already had written
“Butley” and “Quartermaine’s Terms,” knew better than to
tack on a sentimental ending. But he went ahead and did so
anyway, taking us back to the story’s idealistic beginning. It’s
devastating.  Through July 29 at the Laura Pels Theatre, 111 W. 46th St.
Information: +1-212-719-1300;  http://www.roundabouttheatre.org 
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  New York weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 