-- Gazprom May Invite Shell to Shtokman Group, Focus on LNG
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-05-25T16:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/gazprom-may-invite-shell-to-shtokman-group-focus-on-lng.html
OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural gas
exporter, may seek to include  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in its
project to tap the Arctic Shtokman deposit as it focuses on
plans to produce liquefied natural gas for tanker transit
instead of using pipelines.  “We are considering adding new partners to the project,”
Gazprom Chief Executive Officer Alexei Miller said outside
Moscow after a meeting today at Russian President  Vladimir
Putin ’s residence. “We already work with Shell on a different
LNG project.”  Gazprom favors changing the project plans so that it mainly
produces LNG instead of gas for delivery by pipeline, Miller
said. The sole exception would be providing 1.7 billion cubic
meters a year to the local Murmansk region, he said.  The Shtokman gas development, a venture between  Statoil
ASA (STL) , Moscow-based Gazprom and  France ’s  Total SA (FP) , has stalled as
the partners repeatedly postpone a final  investment decision 
amid rising costs and waning demand. Putin, meeting with Statoil
CEO Helge Lund today, pressed the Norwegian company to move
ahead with an investment decision.  Statoil may exit the project because of development terms
and be replaced by Shell, the Russian newspaper Kommersant
reported today, citing people familiar with the talks.  By entering Shtokman, Shell would boost its presence in
Russia, where it’s already a partner with Gazprom at the
 Sakhalin Energy  liquefied natural gas development in the  Far
East . State-run oil company OAO Rosneft has agreed on alliances
with Exxon Mobil Corp., Eni SpA and Statoil the past two months.  A ‘Super-Giant’  “Shell is successfully cooperating with Gazprom in the
LNG sector on Sakhalin-2, and we have always welcomed an
opportunity to broaden this cooperation to other projects,” a
London-based Shell spokesman who declined to be identified said.
“We cannot comment further at this stage.”  Statoil said today that it wouldn’t comment on reports it
may be replaced by Shell in the project.  Dubbed a “super-giant” by one of the scientists who found
it, Shtokman challenges development. It is almost 600 kilometers
(370 miles) from shore in the Barents Sea, where icebergs make
the waters treacherous and temperatures fall as low as minus 50
degrees Celsius (minus 58 Fahrenheit). Its 3.9 trillion cubic
meters of gas reserves are enough to supply the world for more
than a year.  Putin pledged to provide the project additional tax
incentives, if needed, Miller told reporters. The project
partners have pushed for tax breaks before they can commit to
the investment decision.  Economic Forum  Statoil will seek to make progress with Gazprom by next
month, when Russia holds its economic forum in  St. Petersburg ,
on work to development ideas for LNG, Lund said at the meeting
with Putin.  “We are working hard to optimize the development concept
and have a good dialogue with Gazprom on that,” Lund said.  Gazprom targets to sign an agreement on new terms for
Shtokman, such as a focus on LNG, at the  St. Petersburg
International Economic Forum  next month, Miller told reporters.  Gazprom signed agreements on the development with Total and
Statoil in 2007 and created the Shtokman Development AG
operating company in 2008, most recently intending to start
piped gas shipments from Shtokman in 2016, and LNG exports a
year later. Amendments to the accords have since been proposed,
including liquefying all the gas extracted, Total Chief
Financial Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere said on April 27.  The partnership must cut costs by at least 10 percent to
make the project feasible, Statoil Executive Vice President
 Peter Mellbye  this month told the Russian state television
channel RT. The partners haven’t disclosed current project cost
estimates, previously given as $20 billion to $40 billion.  Shtokman Development is 51 percent owned by Gazprom, while
Total owns 25 percent and Statoil 24 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  