-- German Stocks Advance on Consumer Confidence Reports
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-05-25T15:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/german-stocks-climb-as-dax-heads-for-weekly-gain.html
German stocks  advanced as reports
showed  consumer confidence  is recovering in Europe and the U.S.
and as Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said most European
Union leaders support collective debt sales.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  climbed at least 1.5 percent after
Financial Times Deutschland reported that the nation’s biggest
utilities are in talks with the Chinese to sell their U.K.
nuclear power project.  Siemens AG (SIE)  advanced after Deutsche Bank
AG advised investors to buy the stock.  The DAX rose 0.4 percent to 6,339.94 at the close in
Frankfurt. The benchmark gauge increased 1.1 percent this week,
bringing the 2012 rally to 7.5 percent, amid speculation that
China and the euro area will take measures to boost economic
growth. The broader HDAX Index added 0.3 percent today.  “Comments from Monti on euro bonds were helpful, but it is
easier said than done to persuade  Germany ,” said Kenneth Wattret, chief euro-zone economist at BNP Paribas SA in London.
“The Chinese authorities seem more willing to stimulate the
economy, which is good for global trade and German exports.”  GfK SE’s German consumer-sentiment  index will remain at 5.7
next month, the Nuremberg-based market research company said
today. Economists predicted the indicator would stay at May’s
initial reading of 5.6, the median of 26 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey shows.  A separate report showed consumer confidence in France
increased in May to the highest since November 2010.  U.S. Economy  U.S. consumer sentiment  rose in May to the highest level
since October 2007 as prices at the gas pump became less of a
drag on household budgets.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment climbed to 79.3 from 76.4 the prior month.
The gauge was projected to hold at the preliminary reading of
77.8, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Most European Union leaders at a Brussels meeting this week
backed joint euro-area bonds, Monti said. Italy can help push
Germany to embrace the “common good” of  Europe , he said.  EON and RWE rallied 1.5 percent to 15.54 euros and 1.6
percent to 30.45 euros, respectively. Financial Times
Deutschland reported that the two utilities are in talks with
the Chinese to sell their joint nuclear project in the U.K.  The companies dropped plans for a nuclear plant in the U.K.
in March, saying they couldn’t justify the  capital spending . The
venture has sites in  Wales  and the west of England and had
planned to start building the first reactor by 2015.  Siemens, Germany’s biggest engineering company, rose 2.3
percent to 68.58 euros after it was upgraded to buy from hold by
Deutsche Bank.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  was the biggest drag on the  DAX (DAX)  Index
today, as the shares traded without the right to the latest
dividend. The  shares lost  8 percent to 8.16 euros, when not
adjusted for the lost rights. Accounting for the change, the
shares lost 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  