-- German, French Consumers Resist Crisis Pressure: Economy
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-25T09:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/german-consumer-confidence-will-hold-steady-in-june-gfk-says.html
German  consumer confidence  will hold
steady in June, indicating some resistance among households to
the region’s debt crisis that may help sustain growth after a
first-quarter surge.  GfK SE (GFK) ’s consumer-sentiment index will hold at 5.7 next
month, the Nuremberg-based market research company said today.
Economists predicted the indicator would stay at May’s initial
reading of 5.6, the median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey shows. A separate report showed consumer confidence in
France increased in May to the highest since November 2010.  Germany’s economy grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
helping the euro-area avoid a recession, and falling
unemployment may help support  consumer spending  through the
year. Still,  business confidence  dropped in May as the euro-area
fiscal crisis worsened and inconclusive elections in Greece
fueled concerns about a breakup of the currency bloc.  “Despite the current very high uncertainty in respect to
the euro debt crisis, fundamentals bode well for an ongoing
private consumption recovery,” said  Alexander Koch , an
economist at UniCredit in Munich. “Moreover, the latest strong
correction in the oil price is positive for purchasing power,
especially as costs for household energy -- as a frequently
consumed good -- have a strong impact on perceived inflation.”  Greek Risks  GfK’s gauge of economic expectations jumped to 19.6 in May
from 8.5 in April and an index of consumers’ willingness to
spend rose to 32 from 27.6. A measure of income expectations
eased 1 point to 32, today’s report showed.  “Despite recessionary trends in  Europe  and rising
uncertainty as a consequence of the debt crisis, Germans feel
that the national economy is continuing its upswing,” GfK said.
Still, “if events in  Greece  and other euro-zone countries
intensify or even escalate further, the favorable buying mood
could very quickly be brought to a standstill.”  Germany’s state of Saxony said today that its inflation
rate fell to 1.9 percent in May from 2 percent in the previous
month. The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden will release
German inflation data on May 29.  In France,  consumer confidence  unexpectedly climbed for a
third month as the election of President  Francois Hollande 
buoyed households that expect less austerity. Sentiment rose to
90 from a revised 89 in April, above the 88 level that was the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. Confidence  Hollande won office this month promising more  government
spending  than predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy, including the hiring
of 60,000 teachers. He also pledged to tax annual incomes of
over 1 million euros ($1.26 million) at a rate of 75 percent.  In the U.S., a report due later today may show the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan  consumer confidence  gauge rose to
77.8 in May, the highest since January 2008, from 76.4 the prior
month. That would match a preliminary reading published on May
11.  The relatively upbeat consumer reports compare with surveys
yesterday showing the slump in euro-area manufacturing and
services deepened in May. A  composite index  of both industries
dropped to 45.9, the lowest in almost three years, from 46.7 in
April. Separately,  Germany ’s Ifo institute said its business
climate index fell to 106.9 from 109.9, the lowest since
November.  The poor economic data and concerns that Greece may leave
the 17-nation currency bloc are weighing on the euro, which is
headed for a fourth straight weekly decline against the dollar.  ‘Common Good’  The euro rose from a 22-month low today after  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  left open a potential compromise on debt sharing
in the euro area as Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti said he
can help bring Germany round to acting in Europe’s “common
good.” It traded at to $1.2583 as of 10:29 a.m. in  London , up
0.4 percent from yesterday.  In Asia,  India ’s central bank chief pledged to take steps
as needed to curb swings in the rupee as the currency’s slump
threatens to stoke inflation and limit scope for interest-rate
cuts.  “We will do whatever is necessary, consistent with our
policy,” Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said. “We have taken action
to improve the current flows, encourage inflows and also to curb
speculation.”  The rupee’s 19 percent drop against the dollar in the past
year adds pressures to an inflation rate already the highest
among BRIC nations. The  Reserve Bank  of India will probably be
unable to lower borrowing costs until October-to-December,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said today as it downgraded its growth
forecast for the country.  Elsewhere, Japan today reported that  core consumer prices ,
which exclude fresh food, rose 0.2 percent in April from a year
earlier, showing the  Bank of Japan (8301)  remains distant from its 1
percent inflation target after years of falling prices.
Singapore’s  industrial production  unexpectedly fell in April as
manufacturers cut output of electronics and pharmaceuticals.
Manufacturing dropped 0.3 percent from a year ago after a
revised 3.1 percent decline in March, the Economic Development
Board said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  