-- Global CO2 Price of $50 May Avert Climate Catastrophe, MIT Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-05-25T10:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/global-co2-price-of-50-may-avert-climate-catastrophe-mit-says.html
A global carbon price of $50 a metric
ton may be enough to limit catastrophic  climate change ,
according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  China, the world’s biggest emitter, is crucial to curbing
emissions to limit temperature rises to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6
Fahrenheit), according to a  study published  in the Energy
Economics journal. Emissions reductions elsewhere will be more
expensive without having China’s participation in a global
climate treaty, according to the research.  Climate talks end today in Bonn, Germany after
international negotiators spent two weeks discussing rules for a
climate agreement to succeed the  Kyoto Protocol . The
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says that temperature
rises above 2 degrees may cause catastrophic climate change,
unleashing heatwaves, rising sea levels, floods and droughts
across the world.  “Not only will it be close to impossible to achieve the 2
degrees mark without  China ’s participation, but emissions
reductions will also be more expensive,” according to an e-
mailed statement today from the MIT’s Joint Program on Global
Change. “Substantial costs would shift to only some
countries.” The Institute said a global deal on  greenhouse
gases  is needed to spread the burden of costs.  Without an international policy temperatures will probably
rise by 5.5 degrees Celsius, according to the study. MIT found
that a global carbon price of $50 a ton was needed to keep
temperature rises below 2 degrees. Temperatures may rise by 3.5
degrees with a carbon price of $10 and by 2.4 degrees with a
price of $30, according to the study.  China is planning to start pilot carbon-trading systems
across seven regions next year. It’s joining  New Zealand ,
Australia, California, South Korea and  Europe  in encouraging
polluters to buy and sell rights to emit greenhouse gases. The
idea of cap-and-trade came from the U.S., which in 1995
established a trading system to curb gases causing acid rain.
The U.S. hasn’t agreed on adopting a similar system for carbon
emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  