-- Globalization Plays a Bit Part in Environmental Issues
-- B y
-- 2012-05-25T19:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/globalization-plays-a-bit-part-in-environmental-issues.html
By Pankaj Ghemawat  It is inevitable that prices don't always account for all
the costs and benefits for all the people touched by a
transaction. Externalities can come in good forms and bad. But
the most frequently discussed externalities are those
associated with harms to the environment.  Of course, globalization has an impact on the
environment, but it is a mixed one and generally far less
scary than many people
think. Most ecological problems are still local as opposed to global, and
while cross-border integration can make the environment
dirtier in some places, it can also help with cleaning it up.  As pressure mounts to reduce carbon emissions, the
logistics involved with cross-border trade are often cited as
an unnecessary cause. With dark-green-tinted spectacles, many
call for a return to only locally grown or manufactured
products. But let's face it: Consumer demand and expectations
have changed a lot since the days of zero cross-border trade.
Since a collective global vow of poverty seems unlikely to be
taken soon, keeping up with modern demands without
cross-border trade would actually do more harm to the
environment than good. For example, in 2007, the U.K.-based
supermarket chain Tesco decided to ban rose imports from Kenya
in a bid to save on emissions. But research revealed that the
Dutch roses it relied on instead generated six times as much
in the way of greenhouse gases, largely because they were
literally grown in greenhouses.  And how much of energy-related greenhouse gas emissions do
you think international transport really produces? Since the
bulk of internationally-traded merchandise travels by
sea, shipping should be the first port of
call. Estimates indicate (PDF) that international shipping
causes 2-3% of energy-related CO2 emissions (PDF). This may
come as a surprise when you think about the long distances
ships travel to transport cargo. But on a per-ton-kilometer
basis, a cargo
ship emits just 15-21g of CO2, as compared to a truck's equivalent 50g (PDF).
So carrying something a long distance across the ocean can
actually work out to be less harmful than transporting goods a
shorter distance over land.  Of course, goods (and people) often travel by
plane, too, so we should add the estimated 1-2% of
energy-related CO2 emissions caused by international air
transportation to the mix (part of its
estimated 3% contribution to human-induced climate change (PDF)).
This is a fraction of the 20%+ the general public tends to
guess, and transport-related emissions from international aviation are one-tenth as much as those from (mostly domestic) driving.
Transport used to facilitate international trade does cause
some harm to the environment, but it pales in comparison with
the domestically-caused damage.  So far I have focused on the direct effects on the
environment caused by increased cross-border flows, but what
about possible indirect effects? Again, while these effects do
exist, they are a mixture of positive and negative, and need
to be balanced for a realistic perspective. An example of an
indirect composition effect that economists tend to worry
about is dirtier industries migrating to (generally) less
developed countries with laxer regulations.
A recent study (PDF) found that in low-income countries, more
trade is associated with higher per capita energy
consumption, while the opposite applies to high-income
countries. This fits with the idea
that imports into rich countries are more pollution-heavy than their exports.
But such broad analysis fails to take details into account.  With different countries implementing different rules of
varying severity, some differences in energy consumption are
to be expected. But there is also evidence that Foreign Direct
Investment (FDI) can actually help to spur adoption of cleaner
production methods. To maintain consistency across plants (and
avoid negative publicity), foreign companies often bring in
new technologies and implement higher environmental standards
than local firms. More specifically, Germany's high green
standards have actually spilled over in some instances to
China, where some exporting companies have started to match
German requirements even in their domestic products.  The direct and indirect effects of globalization on the
environment are less pronounced than many think, but that does
not mean that globalization can be ignored in the search for
solutions to real environmental problems. The attention to
distance sensitivity that is crucial to properly understanding
levels and patterns of globalization provides a useful guide
as to how to scope environmental solutions. For
distance-sensitive pollutants that stay more or less within
borders, local solutions are appropriate. But for pollutants
that span regions, cross-border cooperation can be crucial for
any attempts at a cleanup. For example, cooperation between
the U.S. and Canada (most notably
the 1991 U.S.-Canada Air Quality Agreement) has helped to
reduce North American sulfur dioxide emissions by roughly
two-thirds since 1980, going a long way toward addressing the
problem of acid rain in that region.  Climate change is by far the most difficult environmental
externality of all to combat because of its (unusual)
distance-insensitivity. Therefore, in order to tackle it we
need more, rather than less, international cooperation. Of
course, with the variety of cross-country distances and
differences between all the nations that make up the
world, such cooperation will need to be both complex and
innovative. The failure of
the 2009 Copenhagen Conference of the Parties to reach a
binding accord on targets for reduction of greenhouse gases
shows how it is not as simple as putting a bunch of leaders in
a room and getting them to come up with a plan.  Unlike many supposed failures and fears associated with
increased global integration, in the case of the
environment, globalization has had a part to play. However, it
has been a bit part, as opposed to a starring role. And it
should be weighed up
with gains from cross-border integration, for a more balanced
view. Of course, this is not to say that global strategy
should ignore environmental externalities. Quite the
opposite, integration should be used as a tool for addressing
externalities that affect more than one country and for
sharing knowledge on greener techniques where effects are
localized. And given limited capacity for truly global
action, it is useful to recognize that only the most
distance-insensitive environmental externalities, such as
climate change, require completely global coordination.  Ghemawat is the Anselmo Rubiralta Professor of Global
Strategy at IESE Business School in Barcelona, and the author
of World 3.0: Global Prosperity and How to Achieve It.  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest from
Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business. 