-- GM Reports CFO’s Wife in 2011 Related-Party Transaction
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-25T20:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/gm-reports-cfo-s-wife-in-2011-related-party-transaction.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said Pernilla
Ammann, the wife of Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann, is an
officer and a partner in an  advertising agency  that received
about $600,000 for services last year to a GM subsidiary.  The transaction was “properly ratified” under the
Detroit-based company’s policy covering related-party
transactions, GM said today in a regulatory filing. Not all
required procedures were followed, according to the company,
headed by Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson.  “‘Properly ratified’ means our CEO and general counsel
approved the transaction as being appropriate and in the
company’s interest,” Dave Roman, a spokesman for GM, the
world’s largest automaker, said in an e-mail. “In this
instance, it was ratified after the fact.”  Pernilla Ammann is a partner at Mother  New York , which
worked on a project related to the centennial of the Chevrolet
brand, Roman said. GM said it “recently learned about” the
transaction, which wasn’t disclosed in the original proxy for
GM’s annual meeting on June 12, according to today’s filing.  “They are not doing any work for us at this time,” Roman
said.  The automaker spent about $1.8 billion on advertising in
the U.S. in 2011, trailing only AT&T Inc. and  Procter & Gamble
Co ., Jon Swallen, head of research at Kantar Media, has said.  GM’s marketing department is changing as Chief Marketing
Officer  Joel Ewanick  looks for efficiencies and strives to make
Chevrolet and Cadillac global brands. GM picked Aegis Group
Plc’s Carat as the automaker’s agency for media planning and
buying, and consolidated  Chevrolet ’s ad business under one newly
formed company, Commonwealth. Chevrolet previously used 70 ad
agencies around the world, the company has said.  GM rose 1.8 percent to $22.44 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 11 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  