-- Goldman Board Met Daily in Weeks Before Alleged Gupta Tip
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-26T16:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/godlman-board-met-daily-during-collapse-jury-told.html
At Raj Rajaratnam’s  insider-trading 
trial one year ago,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  told jurors he makes unscheduled calls
to the bank’s board members at times of market “uncertainty.”  Yesterday, at Rajat Gupta’s insider-trading trial, William George, an independent Goldman Sachs director, explained just
how often those calls came during the 2008 market collapse,
including one discussion at the heart of the Gupta prosecution.  “There were a very large number of meetings called on very
short notice,” typically by telephone, George, a management
professor at  Harvard Business School , told jurors in Manhattan
federal court. “They included a range of things.”  His testimony focused on Blankfein’s briefings, including
their secrecy and last-minute nature, in September 2008 as
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed. Gupta, 63, who was a
Goldman Sachs director at the time, is accused of leaking
Rajaratnam information from those meetings, and from those of
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s board, of which Gupta was also a member.  One of Gupta’s alleged tips to the hedge fund manager was
about a $5 billion investment in New York-based Goldman Sachs by
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  Prosecutors said Gupta
leaked the news on Sept. 23, 2008, within minutes of learning
about it in a hastily scheduled Goldman Sachs board discussion.  Gupta, who ran consulting firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to
2003, denies passing illegal tips to Rajaratnam, the co-founder
of hedge fund Galleon Group LLC who is serving an 11-year prison
term for insider trading. Gupta is accused of conspiracy and
securities fraud, which carries a maximum 20-year sentence.  Nationwide Probe  The two men are the biggest figures charged as part of a
nationwide U.S. insider trading investigation that has involved
 hedge funds , banks, technology and consulting firms. Sixty-six
people have been charged since August 2009 in the U.S. crackdown
on illegal tipping, and 59 have pleaded guilty or been convicted
at a trial. No one has won a not-guilty verdict.  George told jurors that Blankfein’s board briefings, or
“posting calls,” came midweek and on weekends in September
2008, and sometimes twice on a Sunday. Directors had barely two
hours’ notice before they had to dial in, according to e-mails
prosecutors introduced into evidence.  As early as Sept. 14, Blankfein told his board about the
 Federal Reserve ’s talks about Lehman, the risk that  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  might fail and Goldman Sachs’s own
liquidity. For reasons that weren’t explained, Gupta wasn’t
present for some of the briefings.  Of AIG, Blankfein told directors at an afternoon meeting on
Sept. 14 that the insurer “was experiencing severe liquidity
stress, and it wasn’t clear how long it could continue,” George
recalled. It was the second discussion on that Sunday.  Updated Directors  The board talked again Sept. 15, when Blankfein updated the
independent directors about Lehman’s bankruptcy and  Bank of
America  Corp.’s acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co., George said.
There were discussions on Sept. 16 about Goldman Sachs’s third-
quarter results -- diluted earnings per common share of $1.81 --
and talks again on Sept. 17, he said.  On that day, the board weighed whether Goldman Sachs might
raise money in the  capital markets  -- “at that time, it seemed
not possible,” George testified -- and whether the bank should
turn to sovereign wealth funds for cash.  “There was not a favorable view of these,” George said.  Directors were more receptive to an outsider like Buffett
investing. “The board seemed very open to that,” he said.  Meetings via telephone followed on Sept. 19 and Sept. 21,
when directors approved a plan for Goldman Sachs to become a
 bank holding company . On Sept. 22, Blankfein told his board that
the bank had had a relatively good day -- shares were down 6.9
percent -- compared to its peers, George said.  Critical Meeting  For prosecutors, the critical meeting came at 3:15 p.m. on
Sept. 23, 2008, when Blankfein and his top aides told directors
including George and Gupta about Buffett’s investment and a plan
to sell an additional $2.5 billion in shares to the public,
George said.  “There was a discussion of whether this would open the
markets and Goldman Sachs could go into the market” to raise
funds, George said of Buffett’s investment.  Gupta called Rajaratnam at 3:55 p.m., prosecutors claimed.  George recounted a call on Oct. 23, 2008, when Goldman
Sachs was about to report a loss for the first time in its
history and board members were hastily summoned to dial in.
Prosecutors said Gupta tipped Rajaratnam about this, too.  George said he left the classroom where he was teaching and
walked outside to take the call via mobile phone.  Leaving Classroom  “I can remember walking out of the classroom, not stopping
to talk to my students, and going to a secure place,” George
said. “I went to a courtyard outside, concerned I’d miss more
of the meeting because I’d already missed 30 minutes.”  George’s testimony wasn’t the first to take jurors inside
Goldman Sachs. Earlier this week,  Byron Trott , then vice
chairman of  investment banking  at the firm, testified about his
efforts to put together the Buffett investment.  Trott told jurors how critical he considered the deal with
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire after he received a phone call
on Sept. 22, 2008, from Jon Winkelreid, then the co-president of
Goldman Sachs.  Winkelreid “explained to me that the firm was getting
ready to launch a $5 billion to $10 billion common stock
offering in the next few days to raise the capital that the firm
needed, it felt it needed to de-lever and continue to exist,”
Trott testified May 23.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the trial. Winkelreid didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  