-- Goldman Said to Plan Private REIT to Buy Japan Properties
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-05-25T03:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/goldman-said-to-plan-private-reit-to-invest-in-japan-properties.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plans to
start a private real estate investment trust with as much as 50
billion yen ($628 million) that will invest in Japan’s property
market, two people familiar with the situation said.  The asset management arm of Goldman Sachs in Japan will
begin the REIT as early as July and plans to expand the fund to
100 billion yen in two years, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private. The REIT will
invest in office buildings and some residential and retail
properties mainly in the Tokyo metropolitan area, they said.  Goldman Sachs’s entry into Japan’s real estate market
follows efforts by Mitsubishi Estate Co., Mitsui Fudosan Co. and
Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc. to expand private REITs as they
seek to offer new types of assets for investors in the world’s
second-largest pension fund pool. The move comes at a time when
Japan’s market is set for a turnaround.  “Japanese property values are really near the bottom
now,” said Kayoko Hirao, associate director of consulting and
research at DTZ Research in  Tokyo . “The market may turn around
soon. Now is the time to invest.”  Hiroko Matsumoto, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in Tokyo,
declined to comment.  Property Recovery  Private REITs own buildings and pay investors dividends
from rental income. Private REITs are not traded on exchanges so
don’t have daily price fluctuations that listed REITs have. That
matches the need of pension funds seeking stable income.  The capitalization rate, a measure of investment yield in
properties, has declined to 5.57 percent in the first three
months this year from an average of 5.74 percent in the past 12
months, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a research and
consulting company. A drop in the cap rate, a property’s net
income divided by the purchase price, usually signals an
increase in property prices.  Japanese pensions have been trying to diversify their
investments beyond traditional assets such as bonds and equities
to boost returns in a country with the world’s lowest bond
yields and two decades of slumping stocks.  Goldman Sachs plans to attract pension funds and
institutional investors and targets a 5 percent annual return,
the people said. That compares with a compound annual growth
rate of 0.2 percent that Japanese pensions, with total assets at
$3.47 trillion, had achieved over the past 10 years, according
to Towers Watson & Co.  The Nikkei newspaper earlier reported Goldman Sachs’s plan
to start investing in  Japan ’s real estate market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  