-- Goldman to JPMorgan Swap Trades Soar on Risks
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-05-25T09:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/goldman-to-jpmorgan-swap-trades-soar-on-risks.html
Investors are buying more credit-
default swaps on Wall Street banks than any other companies as
they seek insurance against the prospects for diminished revenue
amid tighter regulations, downgrades and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Contracts tied to the debt of  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp.
were the most traded among companies last week, with a combined
gross notional amount of $7.45 billion, according to the latest
data from the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. , which runs a
central registry for the market. Swaps on New York-based Goldman
Sachs were the most active, up from 13th the previous week.  Calls for tighter regulation are intensifying as JPMorgan
grapples with $2 billion of losses on derivative bets and Morgan
Stanley faces an inquiry by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission over Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering. Global
investment bank revenue will fall 24 percent in the second
quarter,  JPMorgan (JPM)  analysts wrote in a May 18 note.  “People are worried about the regulatory scrutiny these
banks will face,” said Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based
hedge fund TF Market Advisors. “People now fully believe
regulators are in charge and will get to push things through,
and there’s a real risk they overregulate.”  Moody’s Review  Swaps insuring an average $470 million of Goldman Sachs’s
debt were traded each day last week, double the past month’s
average of $230 million. They were the seventh most traded of
1,000 entities tracked by the DTCC, following Italy, France,
Brazil, Spain, Turkey and Portugal.  Contracts on JPMorgan were the second-most traded, up from
ninth and the eighth highest overall, followed by Russia and
Mexico. Morgan Stanley jumped three levels to third among
companies and Bank of America advanced to fourth from 19th.  Moody’s Investors Service is in the process of reviewing
its credit ratings for banks, and may downgrade 26 lenders,
according to a May 22 report from JPMorgan.  “Moody’s remains the largest overhang for the sector,”
strategist at the New York-based bank wrote in the report.  Elsewhere in credit markets,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) 
raised $9.8 billion in the largest U.S. corporate bond sale in
more than three years to help finance its $16.5 billion
acquisition of  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  Vanguard Group Inc., the world’s
biggest mutual-fund provider, closed its $16.9 billion  High
Yield Corporate Fund (VWEHX)  to most new investors. Cheniere Energy
Partners LP is seeking $2.05 billion of loans.  Swap Spreads Fall  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, declined 0.4 basis point to 34.4 basis
points. The gauge, which has dropped from a four-month high of
39.13 on May 15, narrows when investors favor assets such as
corporate bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety
of  government securities .  The cost of protecting corporate debt from default in the
U.S. declined for a second day, with the Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index of credit-default swaps, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, falling 1.03 basis point to a
mid-price of 117.24 basis points, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. The index has dropped from a five-month high of
123.4 on May 18.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings was unchanged at 175 basis points at
10:40 a.m. in  London . The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan declined 2 to 196,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.  United Technologies Bonds  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Hartford, Connecticut-based United Technologies
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers, with 304 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  United Technologies bond sale was the largest in dollars
since March 2009, when  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  sold $13.5 billion of bonds
in a five-part offering, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The maker of Sikorsky helicopters and Pratt & Whitney
engines, with investment-grade  ratings  from Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s , is seeking to lure bond buyers as
turmoil in Europe sends them to safer assets. While speculative-
grade bonds in the U.S. have declined 1.3 percent this month,
investment grade is unchanged, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  Vanguard Funds  In its previous sale in February 2010, the Hartford,
Connecticut-based company sold $2.25 billion of debt split
between 10- and 30-year maturities, Bloomberg-compiled data
show.  Vanguard restricted access to its fund after clients poured
$2 billion into it over the past six months. The fund, managed
by Boston-based Wellington Management Co. since 1978, remains
open to existing shareholders and some Vanguard clients, the
Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based company said yesterday in a
statement. The fund has gained 4.2 percent this year, trailing
61 percent of rivals, Bloomberg data show.  “We are taking these proactive steps to preserve the
ability of the advisor to manage the fund effectively and
protect the interests of existing shareholders,” William McNabb, Vanguard’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement.  Investors have poured money into funds that invest in
higher-yielding securities as the  Federal Reserve  has kept rates
near zero since December 2008. U.S. high-yield mutual funds
attracted $16.6 billion in deposits this year through April,
second-highest among all categories tracked by Morningstar Inc.  Loan Prices Fall  The  S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index  fell for a
second day by 0.05 cent to 92.79 cents on the dollar. The
measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, has declined from 94.56 cents on May 14,
the highest since July 28.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Cheniere Energy’s debt is intended to help fund the
expansion of a liquefied natural gas facility in Louisiana. The
energy company is seeking a 6.5 year $750 million  term loan  with
proceeds being used to finance the acquisition of the Creole
Trail Pipeline, said a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private.  Credit Suisse Group AG is arranging the financing and will
host a lender meeting May 29 at 2 p.m. in  New York , said the
person.  Volker Rule  In  emerging markets , relative yields fell 4 basis points to
404 basis points or 4.04 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index . The measure has
averaged 372.5 this year.  Banks are under pressure as Europe’s debt crisis causes
lenders to retrench and fire thousands. In the U.S., the so-
called Volcker rule, the provision in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , will set
limits on risk-taking by depositories with government backing.  JPMorgan’s  losses , which Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  called “egregious,” self-inflicted mistakes that he said
could increase by $1 billion, came at a key point in the almost
two-year-old debate over  Wall Street  regulation. The 2010 Dodd-
Frank Act, which includes a ban on proprietary trading by banks,
is being decided by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Bank Revenue Falls  “Lessons will have to be learned and heads may have to
roll,” said Georg Grodzki, who helps manage $515 billion as
head of credit research at Legal & General Investment Management
in London. “I hope it stops there and regulators resist the
habitual urge to throw more regulation at banks.”  While global investment bank revenue will fall 24 percent
this quarter, fixed income, currencies and commodities will be
the worst hit, dropping 32 percent from the previous quarter,
JPMorgan analysts led by  Kian Abouhossein  wrote in a May 18
note.  JPMorgan ‘s announcement May 10 that the biggest  U.S. bank 
by assets had lost $2 billion on corporate credit indexes fueled
a surge in the cost of insuring debt across Wall Street. Default
swaps on the bank jumped as high as 154 basis points this week
from 90 in March.  Swaps on Goldman Sachs soared to a 5 1/2-month high of 348
basis points May 21 from 200 in March. Morgan Stanley climbed to
453 this week from 278 in March and Bank of America rose to 306
from 200 in March. Swaps on Citigroup Inc. rose as high as 271
this week, from 183 in March while Wells Fargo & Co. got as high
as 126 from 80 in March.  ‘Regulatory Requirements’  Their bonds have also suffered. The extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of banks worldwide instead of benchmark
government securities increased 47 basis points to 294 basis
points as of March 23 from the low this year of 247 on March 21,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Corporates,
Banking index. Investors in the bonds have lost 0.45 percent
this month, heading for the first monthly decline since
November.  The combination of deteriorating market conditions and
“increased regulatory requirements and restrictions has
diminished longer-term profitability and growth prospects,”
according to Tony Smith, a senior banking analyst at Moody’s
Analytics in New York.  Default swaps on Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley imply
credit ratings that are six levels lower than their actual
grades, according to Moody’s Analytics, while JPMorgan’s signal
the bank should be rated five levels lower.  Further deterioration in the perceived credit quality of
banks may spark the Federal Reserve to provide more assistance
to the financial system, according to TF’s Tchir.  Wall Street Reputation  With bank swaps rising “I’ve got to believe the Fed is
watching that as much as any other economic data,” Tchir said.
“Their biggest fear is getting back to where people don’t trust
the banks and stop trading with each other.”  The reputation of Wall Street banks took a hit as the IPO
of  Facebook (FB)  turned into a quagmire of blame as the company’s
shares tumbled. Buyers of the stock sued the company, Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. and the underwriters, claiming they were misled. The
SEC and the brokerage industry’s watchdog both said they may
review the offering, and the scrutiny prompted Morgan Stanley,
the lead underwriter, to defend its handling of the IPO in a
statement.  Bank risk is also rising as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
deepens, with investors concerned that a Greek exit from the
euro area may trigger a banking crisis. Loan and currency losses
in the event of a euro breakup may reach $1.1 trillion across
German, French, U.K., U.S., Swedish, Swiss, Dutch, Austrian and
Belgian banking systems, analysts at Paris-based Societe
Generale SA estimated in a note last week.  “The market is more correlated now than it was two to
three weeks ago,” said Graham Neilson, who helps manage about
$20 billion as chief investment strategist at Cairn Capital Ltd.
in London. “The losses have clearly impacted JPMorgan’s bottom
line and there’s stuff going on in Greece and Europe that
impacts everyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  