-- Greenberg’s Starr to Seek Outside Money for Buyout Deals
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-05-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/greenberg-s-starr-to-seek-outside-money-for-buyout-deals.html
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the 87-
year-old former head of American International Group Inc., plans
to seek outside investors to help him fund private-equity deals
lasting a decade or more.  Starr Cos., a New York-based group of insurance and
financial-services companies Greenberg oversees, placed one of
its private-equity businesses in a subsidiary that registered
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission last month,
 filings show . The unit, Starr Principal Holdings LLC, said it
plans to raise money as needed from institutional investors such
as sovereign-wealth funds and ultra-high-net-worth family
offices, without specifying how much.  AIG (AIG)  began investing insurance assets in private equity
during the 1980s and ramped up the activities in the mid-1990s,
in part by taking a stake in a fund run by a former interim
prime minister of  Pakistan . Greenberg started building a new
private-equity business after leaving AIG in 2005, with plans to
hold some investments at least 10 years and to give clients the
right to choose which deals they participate in.  “Hank has always been a smart buyer and builder of
companies,” said Peter Yu, the former president of AIG Capital
Partners Inc., set up by the insurer to make private-equity
investments in  emerging markets . “People tend to think of
private equity in the narrow buyout-related terms of a  Henry
Kravis  or  Mitt Romney , but more generally it’s simply about
building businesses.”  Kravis is co-founder of KKR & Co. and Romney, the
Republican presidential candidate, helped start Bain Capital
LLC. Yu is now managing partner of Cartesian Capital Group LLC
in New York.  Executive Team  Starr Principal is run by Hank’s youngest son, Scott Greenberg, who began his career at Bankers Trust Co. and has
more than 20 years of private equity experience, according to
the parent company’s website. Starr Principal’s merchant banking
operations are headed by Geoffrey Clark, a former partner at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. who co-founded the private-equity
operations within the bank’s asset-management arm.  Greenberg has been building up Starr’s investment and
insurance operations since he resigned from AIG in March 2005,
ending an almost four-decade reign at the helm of what was then
the world’s largest  insurance  company. The SEC and former  New
York  Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  were investigating AIG’s
accounting practices at the time, and four years later,
Greenberg agreed to pay $15 million to settle SEC accounting
allegations without admitting or denying guilt.  Stake in AIG  While at AIG, Greenberg also served as chairman and CEO of
both C.V. Starr & Co., founded in 1919 by Cornelius Vander Starr
as an insurance agency in  Shanghai , and its affiliate, Starr
International Co., which held a 12 percent stake in AIG valued
at about $21 billion as of March 2006. Both are now part of the
Starr Cos. group, which sold most of its AIG shares after the
federal government took an 80 percent stake in the insurer
during the 2008 financial crisis.  At the end of last year, Starr Principal managed about
$2.35 billion of private-equity assets for the Starr Cos., whose
operations also include underwriting and placing insurance and
investing in public as well as private companies. Starr Cos.,
having made private-equity investments ranging from $10 million
to more than $200 million on its own, wants to bring in outside
capital for some transactions because it’s finding larger deals
that are attractive, Clark said.  ‘High-Quality Businesses’  While private-equity funds typically hold investments for
three to five years, Starr Principal intends to hang on to some
acquisitions for at least 10 years, he said. Starr will provide
25 percent to 50 percent of the equity financing for each
transaction that involves outside partners, compared with the
commitments of 1 percent to 5 percent that buyout firms usually
make to their funds.  “It’s the ability to hold a high-quality business for long
periods of time” that will compound returns, Clark said. “Our
goal is to bring in the optimal investors alongside our own
capital for larger deals.”  Under Greenberg, AIG in the mid-1990s invested in Emerging
Markets Partnership, now known as EMP Global LLC, a private-
equity firm co-founded by Donald Roth, the former chairman of
Merrill Lynch Europe Ltd., and Moeen Qureshi, an ex-vice
president at the  World Bank  who served as Pakistan’s interim
prime minister in 1993. That led AIG to form two of its own
private-equity units, including AIG Highstar Capital LP and AIG
Capital Partners, according to Robert Percopo, who previously
served as the partner in charge of originations at AIG Highstar.  “Greenberg saw what kind of carry these guys were making
and what kind of management fees so he set up a couple of
different entities,” Percopo said.  Carry refers to carried interest, the 15 percent to 20
percent of investment gains kept by private-equity firms, which
also typically collect 1.5 percent to 2 percent of assets as
management fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  