-- Groupon Said to Test Card Reader Challenging EBay’s PayPal
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-05-25T20:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/groupon-said-to-test-credit-card-reader-rivaling-ebay-s-paypal.html
Groupon Inc. , the largest daily
coupon website, is testing a credit card-reader for merchants
that could vie with similar devices offered by Square Inc. and
EBay’s PayPal Inc., a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The reader, manufactured by Infinite Peripherals Inc., is
designed for the businesses that rely on  Groupon (GRPN)  to market their
wares, said the person, who requested anonymity because the test
hasn’t been made public. The device plugs into the headphone
jack of a smartphone, and it’s being tested by dozens of
merchants in the San Francisco Bay Area, this person said.  Groupon collects a fee of less than 3 percent on each
transaction through the readers, the person said. The device is
part of the company’s efforts to increase revenue from the local
shops and restaurants that use its online coupons. The company
last year introduced Groupon Now, a  service  that lets users
download coupons instantly to mobile phones.  “Groupon has a number of trials in markets that are
designed to help merchants and small businesses,” said Paul
Taaffe, a spokesman for Chicago-based Groupon. He declined to
comment specifically on a credit-card reader trial.  By entering the mobile-payment processing market, Groupon
pits itself against Square,  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ,  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY) 
and PayPal, which introduced a credit-card reader in March.  Groupon climbed 1.4 percent to $12.05 at the close in  New
York . It dropped 42 percent this year before today.  Grappling With Square  Groupon hasn’t made a final decision on the fee it will
charge merchants, the person said. Readers offered by Square
Inc. charge 2.75 percent per transaction, while PayPal recently
introduced a tool that carries a 2.7 percent fee.  The readers tested by Groupon work with Apple Inc. iPhones
and iPod Touches and connect to software partly designed by
FeeFighters,  acquired  by Groupon this year, the person said.  Representatives of Infinite Peripherals, which has offices
in Arlington Heights,  Illinois , and  Irvine ,  California , didn’t
immediately respond to messages after regular business hours.  Groupon now generates most of its sales by selling
discounts known as  Groupons  from businesses such as restaurants
and nail salons. It splits the revenue with the businesses.  The technology blog VentureBeat  reported  yesterday that
Groupon was testing a credit-card reader for merchants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  