-- Li Ka-shing Says He’ll Back Son Richard’s Acquisition Plans
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-05-25T19:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/li-ka-shing-says-he-ll-back-his-son-richard-s-acquisition-plans.html
Li Ka-shing ,  Hong Kong ’s richest man,
said he will offer financial support to allow his younger son
 Richard Li  to build businesses outside of the family’s  Cheung
Kong  Group of companies.  Richard Li is in talks with “several sizeable
enterprises” for possible acquisitions, the 83-year-old
billionaire told reporters in Hong Kong yesterday, without
identifying the targets. Li Ka-shing said he has set aside
funding for Richard Li that is “multiple times” the son’s
current assets.  Li, 19th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  with a net
worth of $21.7 billion, has been nicknamed “Superman” by the
local media after expanding Cheung Kong Group in industries
including property, ports and energy in more than 50 countries.
Richard Li acquired a fund management firm from  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2010 and has pursued an independent
business career since quitting as a director at his father’s
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  in 2000.  Richard Li’s target companies are in “traditional, long-
term” industries, Li Ka-shing said yesterday. The elder Li,
chairman of  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  and Hutchison, said he
doesn’t expect he will be competing directly against his son in
the future.  Father’s Support  Richard Li’s  PCCW Ltd. (8) , Hong Kong’s biggest phone company,
rose in afternoon trading on the city’s stock exchange after Li
Ka-shing’s comments, closing up 2.2 percent at HK$2.82, compared
with a 0.3 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Joseph Lo, who represents Richard Li at the Brunswick Group
public relations company, declined to comment.  “I will fully support him,” Li Ka-shing said after the
shareholders meetings of Cheung Kong and Hutchison yesterday.  Li Ka-shing’s Cheung Kong Group includes Hong Kong-listed
Cheung Kong Holdings, the city’s second-biggest property
developer, and Hutchison, which is in industries spanning ports,
energy, property, retail and telecommunications in 53 countries.  Elder son Victor Li will be running Cheung Kong Holdings
and Hutchison in the future, Li Ka-shing said. He said he has no
immediate plans to retire.  PineBridge  In March 2010, Richard Li’s Pacific Century Group paid an
initial $277 million for PineBridge Investments LLC as AIG sold
assets to repay a $182.3 billion U.S. government bailout. As
chairman and biggest shareholder at PCCW, he also controls HKT
Trust and HKT Ltd., and  Pacific Century Premium Developments
Ltd. (432)   In 2006, an investment group that included Li Ka-shing
failed to buy control of PCCW after Richard Li learned of his
father’s involvement in the bid.  Li Ka-shing said yesterday he sees “no big problem” in
Europe, and expects his companies to sustain their earnings from
the region this year.  Hutchison owns retailers Superdrug and Marionnaud, and its
3 Group unit offers mobile-phone services in seven markets in
Europe and Australia.  China is expected to post annual economic growth of 7.5
percent this year, Li said. The country is “in control” of its
macroeconomic policies, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Taipei at 
 slee650@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  