-- Trainer’s Suspension Won’t Interfere With Quest for Triple Crown
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/i-ll-have-another-s-trainer-suspended-by-california-racing-board.html
Doug O’Neill, the trainer of  Kentucky
Derby  and Preakness Stakes winner I’ll Have Another, was
suspended 45 days for a  California  racing violation, a penalty
that won’t interfere with his colt’s quest for Triple Crown.  The suspension won’t start until July 1 at the earliest,
according to the California Horse Racing Board, which met
yesterday in Inglewood, California. The seven-member board also
levied a $15,000 fine. An additional 135 days of suspensions
were stayed for 18 months, provided O’Neill commits no further
Class 1, 2, or 3 violations, regardless of jurisdiction.  I’ll Have Another is at Belmont Park in  New York  prepping
for the June 9 Belmont Stakes, the final leg of the Triple Crown.
There hasn’t been a Triple Crown winner since Affirmed in 1978.  “I plan on examining and reviewing all of my options
following the Belmont Stakes, but right now I plan on staying
focused on preparing for and winning the Triple Crown,” O’Neill
said in an e-mailed statement.  O’Neill, 44, was sanctioned after excessive levels of total
carbon dioxide were found in a sample from Argenta, a filly who
finished eighth in the sixth race at Del Mar Racetrack on Aug.
25, 2010. Under California rules, the trainer is accountable for
ensuring a horse’s condition.  An elevated level of carbon dioxide sometimes indicates the
horse was given a “milkshake,” a performance-enhancing mixture
of baking soda, sugar and electrolytes delivered through a tube
down a horse’s nose to fight fatigue.  O’Neill denied he gave a milkshake to the horse. A hearing
officer agreed with the trainer that there was no evidence he
gave the horse the cocktail. The officer also said there were no
suspicious betting patterns on the race and no evidence of
intentional acts by O’Neill.  O’Neill twice has been found guilty of administering a
milkshake at a California racetrack, the  New York Times (NYT)  said
yesterday. He also was suspended and fined for a similar act in
 Illinois  in 2010, the Times said.  CHRB Executive Director Kirk Breed will determine when the
45-day suspension will begin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  