-- Icahn Buys Stake in Chesapeake, Seeks Board Replacements
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-05-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/icahn-buys-stake-in-chesapeake-seeks-board-replacements.html
Billionaire investor Carl Icahn
bought a 7.56 percent stake in  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and
demanded new directors amid growing shareholder concern about
management of the second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer.  Four of Chesapeake’s nine directors should be replaced by
candidates nominated by Icahn and other major investors, the 76-
year-old hedge fund manager said yesterday in a letter to the
Oklahoma City-based company’s board that was included in a U.S.
Securities & Exchange Commission filing. The current board has
failed to rein in overspending and a chief executive officer
with an appetite for too much risk, he wrote.  “Corporate governance reforms cannot, in our view, be led
by directors whose irresponsible actions have brought this
company to the edge of the proverbial cliff,” Icahn wrote.
“Having the current board select a new chairman without
shareholder approval and without allowing for shareholder
representation is akin to asking the fox, who has plundered the
hen house, to choose another fox to assist it in standing guard
over the remaining hens.”  Chesapeake lost almost half of its market value in the past
year as the impact of plummeting gas prices was compounded by
revelations that Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  used
personal stakes in the company’s wells to obtain more than $800
million in private loans. The board said May 1 it will replace
McClendon with an independent chairman and halt the perk that
allowed him to amass personal stakes in Chesapeake property.  Careful Review Later  Chesapeake’s immediate priority is finding a new chairman,
the company said in a statement yesterday responding to Icahn’s
letter.  “After an independent chairman is named, the board’s
nominating committee will consult with shareholders and
carefully review Mr. Icahn’s request for board representation,”
the company said.  The company outspent  cash flow  in 19 of the past 21 years
and warned this month that it may run out of money next year.
Chesapeake is facing a $22 billion shortfall between cash flow
and spending by the end of 2013, said  James Sullivan , an analyst
at Alembic Global Advisors in  New York .  “Rather than act as a source of stability and provide
assurance to shareholders, this board has led the company
through a highly publicized spate of corporate governance
breakdowns while amassing an astounding” funding gap, Icahn
wrote in yesterday’s letter.  Risk Taker  Icahn accused McClendon of “unchecked risk taking” and
criticized the board for “half-hearted” efforts to improve
governance that he said were intended to let it “skate by for
one more year.”  Chesapeake  shares rose  1.6 percent to $16.06 at 4:35 p.m.
yesterday after the close of regular U.S. stock trading. The
stock has declined 29 percent this year after a 14 percent fall
in 2011.  A 7.56 percent stake would make Icahn the second-largest
investor in Chesapeake, after Southeastern Asset Management
Inc., the Memphis-based  investment company  run by Mason Hawkins
that owns 13.2 percent.  Icahn said in his letter he recently asked McClendon over
dinner to consider allowing direct shareholder representation on
the board. The idea was rejected the next day, a move Icahn
described as “completely disingenuous and illogical.”  Simpson Can Stay  Icahn recommended in his letter replacing four of the
current directors with two of his nominees and two to be named
by another big holder such as Southeastern. Icahn noted that
director Louis Simpson, a former  Warren Buffett  protégé, should
not be one of the four directors dismissed.  Simpson is a member of the nominating and corporate
governance committee handling the search for a new chairman. The
other member of that committee, and its chairman, is former U.S.
Senator Don Nickles.  A representative from Southeastern Asset Management did not
immediately return a phone message seeking comment.  “This club needs to be broken up. Nobody has been on the
side of shareholders,” said  Fadel Gheit , a New York-based
analyst for Oppenheimer & Co., who rates the stock
“outperform” and owns none. “ Carl Icahn  is an opportunistic
guy. He’s seen an opening and he’s not going to let it go.”  Icahn said this is his second attempt to reform
Chesapeake’s board in as many years. In late 2010, he said, he
acquired a “substantial position in the company” and used that
leverage to cajole management into selling assets, closing a
funding shortfall and slowing land purchases.  Previous Rebuff  At the time, his requests for shareholder representation on
the board were rebuffed and management soon reverted to its
former strategy of large land acquisitions and costly drilling
programs, Icahn said in the letter. Frustrated, he sold his
Chesapeake stock.  “It’s too early to tell what he can really accomplish.”
 Philip Weiss , a New York-based analyst for Argus Research Corp.
who rates Chesapeake shares “sell,” said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “This can hardly be bad for
shareholders.”  Icahn said he expects the board to answer his demands
before the annual  shareholders’ meeting  scheduled for June 8,
according to the letter.  “Chesapeake shareholders will benefit neither from a
constant stream of negative news reflecting upon the companies
troubled past, nor from a half-hearted attempt by the board to
make the minimum possible number of changes to skate by for one
more year,” Icahn wrote. “The board must not only find a way
to eliminate the enormous funding gap, but also the more
substantial credibility gap.” 