-- Tiffany Cuts Full-Year Profit Forecast
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-05-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/tiffany-cuts-full-year-profit-forecast.html
The U.S. luxury sector, a bright spot
in U.S. retailing for the past two years, is struggling to
maintain momentum as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis sends
shockwaves across the Atlantic.  U.S. luxury sales, excluding jewelry, climbed 1.8 percent
in April from a year earlier, after gaining 6.7 percent in the
first quarter and 13 percent in the fourth quarter, according to
MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, which tracks retail sales in
all payment forms.  The pullback by well-heeled consumers has already slammed
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry
retailer, which yesterday cut its profit and sales forecasts.
The question is whether the pain will deepen in other parts of
the luxury sector, putting pressure on the bag and shoe sellers
such as  Saks Inc. (SKS) , Neiman Marcus Group Inc. and  Coach Inc. (COH)   “For the luxury industry, ’08 and ’09 were the years of
the crash, ’10 and ’11 were the years of the recovery, and ’12
is the year that may give luxury consumers pause,” said  David Schick , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.
“Luxury doesn’t outperform the broader economy forever. It
never has.”  Tiffany fell 6.8 percent to $57.59 in  New York  yesterday,
the biggest decline in more than four months. Coach climbed 0.3
percent to $69.27, and Saks retreated 0.8 percent to $10.26.
Tiffany has slid 13 percent this year and Coach and Saks have
advanced 13 percent and 5.2 percent, respectively.  Wealth Effect  Since 2010, wealthy shoppers have continued to buy luxury
merchandise even as the  U.S. economy  limped along. Rising stock
markets made such consumers feel comfortable splurging -- the
so-called wealth effect -- and many were eager to treat
themselves after a period of frugality. In the past two years,
sales at Coach grew at a 12 percent to 15 percent clip; Saks at
a 6 percent to 8 percent pace.  Ground zero for Tiffany’s woes: the 175-year-old jeweler’s
New York flagship on Fifth Avenue, where Wall Streeters and
wealthy European tourists have been known to drop as much as
$32,100 on yellow diamond rings. The store accounts for 8
percent of Tiffany’s worldwide sales and about 40 percent of
that comes from visiting foreigners, Mark Aaron, a Tiffany
spokesman, said at an investors conference last month.  When Tiffany announced its first-quarter earnings
yesterday, it became clear that all was not well at the
flagship, where sales fell 4 percent from a year earlier. Two
factors were largely to blame. Wall Street firms cut bonuses and
delayed payments after  investment banking  and trading revenue
dropped in 2011. And European tourists, burdened by economic
woes at home and a stronger dollar, became less willing to
spend.  U.S. jewelry sales fell 3.7 percent in April, according to
SpendingPulse, which is based in Purchase, New York.  Slowing Demand  “Is demand slowing considering everything that is
happening in the U.S. and Europe?” said Hana Ben-Shabat, a New
York-based partner in the retail practice at  A.T. Kearney , a
management consulting firm. “I think yes there is some slowing
in demand in those regions.”  Stock market gains simply aren’t sufficiently robust to
offset the “economic headwinds,” according to  Michael
McNamara , a SpendingPulse vice president.  “The environment is getting more difficult,” he said.  For the moment, affluent shoppers are still inclined to
open their wallets for shoes and handbags, said  Matt Arnold , an
analyst for Edward Jones & Co.  “It comes down to where the consumer sees the best bang
for the buck,” Arnold, who is based in  Des Peres ,  Missouri ,
said in an interview.  Spending Shift  Leather goods may dodge the bullet as the rich shift
spending from jewelry priced in the tens of thousands to other
 luxury goods  costing thousands, according to Ben-Shabat.  New York-based Coach said April 24 that its North American
sales at stores open at least a year will be at least as high as
6.7 percent. They climbed 10 percent in the year-ago fourth
quarter. Saks, also based in New York, is forecasting a mid-
single digit range comparable sales gain in percentage terms
versus a 16 percent jump a year earlier.  All eyes will be on the seesawing news in  Europe  and the
 U.S. presidential election , Stifel’s Schick said.  “How will the luxury consumer feel after politicians start
talking about taxes?” he asked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  