-- High Court Shouldn’t Hear Madoff Investor Appeal, SEC Say
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-05-25T16:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/high-court-shouldn-t-hear-madoff-investor-appeal-sec-say.html
Bernard Madoff ’s investors shouldn’t
be allowed to appeal a court ruling denying them payment for
fake Ponzi profits on their account statements, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said.  The investors asked the U.S. Supreme Court to hear their
case after a federal appeals court in  New York  said in August it
would be “absurd” to treat fictitious paper profits as real,
upholding a lower court ruling. The Supreme Court justices asked
the SEC to file papers by today if they should take the appeal
on whether the liquidator of the con man’s brokerage is using
the right formula to compensate investors.  The issue of how Madoff Ponzi investors should be
compensated is “extraordinary,” and doesn’t justify attention
from the nation’s top court, the SEC said. In the past 18 years,
only seven Ponzi schemes have been liquidated, it said.  “Petitioners thus do not present an issue of recurring
significance warranting this court’s review,” the SEC said in
the filing, made on its behalf today by the U.S. Solicitor
General, who supervises government cases before the  high court .  If the justices decline to hear the case after conferring
on the SEC brief, Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  could begin to
tap into the $9 billion he says he has raised for Ponzi victims,
starting with some of the $2.3 billion already set aside for
customers. He could share the money among investors who lost
around $17 billion in principal, instead of a wider circle owed
$57 billion, including profits, according to his latest
calculations.  Picard’s Formula  Picard’s formula for compensating victims is to figure
their net losses -- money they put in, minus money they took out
of Madoff’s defunct brokerage. He allots the net losers a share
of the available money. Investors with net gains, who took out
more money than they put in, have to wait until net losers get
paid in full.  The investors appealing said customers’ last account
statement from the brokerage should be the measure of what
they’ve lost. The choice between the two methods “turns on the
details of a particular fraudulent scheme,” with little
application for the majority of investors, the SEC said.  “Purported increases in the value of customers’ accounts,
moreover, were entirely fictitious,” validating the lower court
rulings, it said.  Asked if he was disappointed, Lawrence Velvel, one of the
appellants, said he expected the SEC to oppose the appeal. Many
of its arguments were similar to Picard’s, he said.  $330 Million Paid  More than three years after Madoff’s epic swindle
collapsed, Picard has paid investors about $330 million, because
most of the $9 billion his website says he has raised -- largely
from settlements with former Madoff investors or their estates,
such as Jeffry Picower’s -- is tied up in court challenges. The
appeal over his formula is partly tying up $2.3 billion in
customer accounts, while another $6.5 billion won in settlements
is separately being challenged in courts.  Reflecting poor payment prospects, larger claims on the
Madoff brokerage’s estate have fallen from about 70 cents on the
dollar last year, to about 58 to 62 cents, said Joseph Sarachek,
managing director of claims trading at CRT Capital Group LLC,
which buys and sells distressed debt.  Picard and his  law firm  have charged $273 million for their
Madoff work so far. Madoff is in jail, serving a 150-year
sentence for fraud.  The brokerage liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC,
08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ). One of the investors’ appeals on Picard’s formula
is Velvel v. Picard, 11-00986, U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  