-- India Stock Futures Swing Between Gains, Losses
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-05-25T10:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/india-stock-futures-swing-between-gains-losses.html
Most Indian stocks advanced as the
rupee strengthened and gains in European equities eased concern
on the region’s debt crisis.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s biggest lender, climbed
to a two-week high.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , the largest producer, paced
advances among its peers. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.1
percent to 16,230.32, according to preliminary closing prices in
Mumbai. Three stocks rose for every two that dropped.  The Sensex jumped 1.7 percent yesterday, the most since
March 30, on speculation the government will take more steps to
narrow its  budget deficit  after allowing the first increase in
gasoline prices in seven months. European stocks climbed today
after Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said most European
Union leaders support joint bonds for the euro area.  “We had a big rally yesterday and a further up move from
here will depend on government policies and news from Europe,”
Gajendra Nagpal, chief executive officer at Unicon Financial
Intermediaries in  New Delhi , said by phone. “If the government
increases diesel prices, it may spark a rally.”  The rupee strengthened 0.3 percent to 55.5013 a dollar at
3:32 p.m. after falling 0.8 percent intraday.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee has pledged to restrict
the subsidy program that spans diesel to fertilizers to less
than 2 percent of gross domestic product this fiscal year as he
tackles a gap in finances. State refiners sell diesel, cooking
gas and kerosene at below market rates to help curb inflation.
Diesel prices have remained unchanged since July 1. A group of
ministers will meet today to discuss raising diesel and cooking
gas prices, the CNN-IBN channel reported May 23, citing no one.  Foreign  funds  sold a net $57.2 million of Indian stocks on
May 23, paring their investment in equities this year to $8.6
billion, data from the regulator show. They withdrew a net $168
million from shares this month, after turning net sellers in
April for the first time in 2012, data from the regulator show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in  Mumbai  at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  