-- IOI Plans Palm Oil Refinery in Indonesia as Production Expands
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-05-25T12:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/ioi-plans-palm-oil-refinery-in-indonesia-as-production-expands.html
IOI Corp. (IOI) ,  Malaysia ’s second-biggest
 palm oil  producer by market value, plans to set up a refinery in
 Indonesia  as it boosts output in the world’s biggest grower of
the tropical oil used in food and fuel.  The company expects to produce about 500,000 metric tons of
palm oil from plantations in Indonesia in about three years,
Executive Director Lee Yeow Chor told reporters in Johor state
today. IOI is also seeking to acquire plantations to increase
output, he said.  Expanding output in Indonesia may help IOI hedge against
stagnation in Malaysia, where companies are hampered by limited
availability of land suited to plant oil palm. Malaysian
production may be flat in 2012 between 18.6 million and 19
million tons, while output in Indonesia may reach 26.5 million
tons,  Dorab Mistry , director at Godrej International Ltd., who’s
traded palm oil for more than three decades, said in March.  “In three years time, we expect that our own-produced palm
oil will be about 500,000 tons, so that’s about the time we can
set up the refinery,” Lee said. IOI has planted oil palm in
about 12,000 hectares in Indonesia, and expects to seed 10,000
hectares each over the next four years, he said.  IOI’s fresh fruit bunches output may grow at a slower pace
of about 5 percent in the year ending June compared with 10
percent a year earlier as the lagged effects of a drought
affected yields, Lee said.  The  Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil , or RSPO, lifted a
suspension of the Putrajaya-based company’s certification
process of its plantation in Sarawak for six months, he said.  Certification Process  The RSPO suspended IOI’s sustainability certification
process last year after “several non-governmental
organizations, namely Migros, Friends of the Earth and
Grassroots, as well as the local community of Long Teran Kanan
in Sarawak” made allegations including endangering wildlife and
illegal deforestation against the company.  Palm oil futures in Malaysia may rebound to 3,200 ringgit a
ton in the next one to two months on rising demand during the
festival of Eid and the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan which
precedes it, Lee said.  “This year, Hari Raya is coming early, so we’ll see the
Ramadan-induced demand in June,” said Lee. Consumption of
staples and cooking oils climbs during the fasting month of
Ramadan, which starts in July, as followers break daylong fasts
with communal meals.  The August-delivery contract climbed 2 percent to 3,130
ringgit a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange in  Kuala
Lumpur  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  