-- Iran Doubles Enriched-Uranium Stockpile, Goes Beyond 20%
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-29T09:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/iran-doubles-enriched-uranium-stockpile-goes-beyond-20-.html
(Corrects enrichment increase in the headline and third
paragraph of story published May 25.)  Iran  increased its output of enriched
uranium that world powers are concerned may eventually be used
for a nuclear weapon, according to International Atomic Energy
Agency inspectors.  While the United Nations agency verified that Iran hasn’t
diverted its declared nuclear material for weapons use, the
inspectors reiterated past statements that they can’t give
assurances that Iran isn’t concealing nuclear activities.  Iran increased its stockpile of 20 percent medium-enriched
uranium by a third, to 145 kilograms (320 pounds), from 109
kilograms in February, the IAEA said today in an 11-page report.
Iran had tripled its production of the material in the three
months ending Feb. 24 from 73.7 kilograms in November.  IAEA inspectors reported they found the presence of
particles of 27 percent-enriched uranium at Iran’s Fordo
facility. The particles were a result of “technical reasons
beyond the operator’s control,” Iran told the Vienna-based
agency, which is looking into the matter. Uranium enriched over
20 percent is considered highly enriched, though most nuclear
bombs use the heavy metal purified to 90 percent levels.  The report is the first since IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano returned from Iran on May 21 with a commitment from the
Islamic republic’s government to improve cooperation with
inspectors. While the Persian Gulf nation insists that its
atomic work is peaceful, it has been under IAEA scrutiny since
2003 over evidence that it seeks nuclear-weapon capabilities.  ‘A Glitch’  The uranium particles enriched to 27 percent could be the
result of a transient condition that can occur when the material
is fed into centrifuges, according to two senior international
officials familiar with the investigation. The officials spoke
on condition of anonymity because of the issue’s sensitivity.  David Albright , a physicist and former weapons inspector,
said the presence of the 27 percent particles is probably a
glitch that resulted from Iran using a more efficient enrichment
process.  The IAEA has previously found uranium particles enriched to
even higher levels at Iran’s Natanz facility. Those samples were
the result of outside contamination, according to the agency.  Still, Iran’s use of better processes to amass larger
quantities of both low- and medium-enriched uranium is
troubling, according to Albright, who is founder of the
Institute for Science and International Security in  Washington .
Iran now has 146 kilograms of 20 percent uranium, sufficient to
produce many years of fuel for its medical-research reactor, he
said.  Breakout Capability  “Ultimately, that will give them a greater capability to
break out quickly and produce weapons-grade uranium if they
decided to do so,” Albright said in an interview today. He
estimates that by early next year, Iran may have enough 20
percent uranium to convert into weapons-grade uranium for one
bomb.  Albright said the differences that remain to be resolved
before implementing an agreement between Iran and the IAEA’s
Amano over greater access to sites in Iran are “not small,”
and he’s not optimistic that expanded inspections will start
soon.  Even if the IAEA is granted wider inspections under the
agreement it intends to sign with Iran, clearing the country’s
program will take years, according to the officials. The top
priority continues to be winning access to Iran’s Parchin
military complex, where satellite photos have shown images of
possible attempts to sanitize a suspected facility, they said.  “Actions speak louder than the words, and you have to
worry that this country is intent on getting nuclear weapons
despite what the Supreme Leader may say,” Albright said,
referring to  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei ’s religious edict that
nuclear weapons are against Islam.  ‘Credible Assurance’  In its report, the IAEA said while the agency continued to
verify over the last three months that Iran hadn’t diverted its
declared nuclear material for use in weapons, it was “unable to
provide credible assurance about the absence of undeclared
nuclear material and activities in Iran.”  The agency said it couldn’t therefore definitively
“conclude that all nuclear material in Iran is in peaceful
activities.”  The report will be released formally on June 4 when the
IAEA’s 35-member board of governors convenes in Vienna.  The IAEA found Iran’s stockpile of uranium enriched to less
than 5 percent grew to 6,232 kilograms from 5,451 kilograms
reported in February.  Expanding Centrifuges  The number of centrifuges, fast-spinning machines that
purify the heavy metal, installed at Iran’s fuel-fabrication
plant in Natanz, about 300 kilometers (186 miles) south of
Tehran, rose to 9,330 compared with 9,156 in February.  Machines at the Fordo facility, which was built
clandestinely into the side of a mountain, rose to more than 500
from 300 in the previous report. That enrichment facility has
drawn particular attention from  Israel  because it would be
difficult to destroy with an airstrike.  Iran has already used one third of its 20 percent stockpile
to make fuel plates for its Tehran research reactor, which is
used to produce medical isotopes for cancer treatment. Turning
the uranium into metal renders it more difficult to enrich it
into weapons material, according to the officials.  About 630 kilograms of low-enriched uranium, if further
purified, could yield the 15 to 22 kilograms of weapons-grade
uranium an expert needs to produce a bomb, according to the
London-based Verification Research, Training and Information
Center, a non-governmental observer to the IAEA that’s funded by
European governments.  Iran and six world powers agreed yesterday to hold a new
round of talks about the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program
next month in Moscow, after failing to bridge differences during
two days of negotiations in  Baghdad . It will mark the third
attempt in three months to answer international worries that
Iran’s atomic energy program may be a cover for secret weapons
work, and to address Iran’s concerns about sanctions and
diplomatic isolation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  