-- Lithuania’s Economy, Budget, Vulnerable to Germany, Banker Says
-- B y   H e l l m u t h   T r o m m   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-05-25T09:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/lithuania-s-economy-budget-vulnerable-to-germany-banker-says.html
Lithuania ’s dependence on exports to
 Germany  leaves its economy and state budget vulnerable to a
slowdown in  Europe ’s largest economy, central bank Governor
Vitas Vasiliauskas said.  German  business confidence  fell in May to 106.9 from 109.9
in April, the steepest decline since August, and manufacturing
contracted at the fastest pace in almost three years, clouding
the economic outlook for the second quarter. Lithuania ships 8.5
percent of its exports to Germany.  “If one of the most important markets, Germany, will slow
down, it’ll have a big impact on our export figures,”
Vasiliauskas said in an interview in Vilnius, the capital,
yesterday. “It’ll have an impact on our budget figures too.”  The Baltic nation’s  economy  advanced at a faster rate than
forecast in the first quarter, expanding a preliminary 3.9
percent, as domestic demand strengthened and the country’s main
export markets of  Russia , Germany,  Latvia  and  Estonia , posted
quicker economic growth than economists predicted.  The  central bank  estimates growth may slow to 3 percent
this year after output rose 5.9 percent in 2011, the second-
fastest pace in the 27-member European Union behind Estonia.  Lithuania will probably meet targets for euro adoption by
the end of the year, Vasiliauskas said. Better-than-projected
budget revenue is helping the government narrow the deficit to
the planned 3 percent of gross domestic product from 5.5 percent
in 2011, he said.  Inflation Goal  Inflation, the key obstacle to Lithuania’s euro adoption
plans, will also slow this year to within limits required for
the currency switch, the governor said.  “We see the possibility to reach the inflation criteria
this year,” Vasiliauskas said. “Everything depends on external
factors.”  To join the euro area, inflation must be within 1.5
percentage points of the average in the three EU countries with
the lowest rates. Countries must also meet fiscal, debt,
interest-rate and exchange-rate targets.  The central bank is diversifying its  foreign-currency
reserves , invested in euro-denominated securities, as sovereign-
debt downgrades narrow investment options in the euro area,
Vasiliauskas said.  The bank is disposing some of its investment in the euro
region by adding bonds from outside the monetary union and debt
securities of German regions that offer “better
profitability,” he said. The regulator has become stricter in
executing its own investment rules as concern over southern
European debt soars, he said.  The sovereign credit grades of euro members are under
pressure as policy makers struggle to rein in government debt
levels while growth slows and joblessness mounts.  Seven of the 17 countries using the euro saw their credit
assessment fall below A, the sixth-highest investment grade, at
 Standard & Poor’s , which also rates Cyprus, Greece and Portugal
non-investment grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net ;
Hellmuth Tromm in Berlin at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  