-- Ivory Coast to Get $5 Billion in Debt Relief on IMF Plan
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-05-25T11:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/ivory-coast-to-get-5-billion-in-debt-relief-on-imf-plan.html
Ivory Coast , the world’s biggest
cocoa producer, will get $5 billion in debt relief when it
completes the International Monetary Fund’s program for indebted
poor nations, expected next month.  The West African country’s total debt is $12.5 billion,
Wayne Camard, a representative for the IMF, told reporters
yesterday in Abidjan, the commercial capital. The relief will
reduce it to 30 percent of gross domestic product, said Roger Nord, deputy director of the IMF’s Africa department.  The country is recovering from a five-month post-election
crisis that led to the economy contracting 4.7 percent in 2011,
according to the IMF. The economy is expected to expand by about
8 percent this year, the Washington-based lender said in March.  Debt servicing will probably rise to 200 billion  CFA francs 
($381 million) in 2013 from 60 billion francs last year, Camard
said.  “If the economy is well-run, and if economic growth
settles in the country, it won’t have bad consequences on the
Ivorian economy,” he said. Completing of the program will be a
“strong sign of the end of the crisis,” Camard said.  Last year, President  Alassane Ouattara  introduced reforms
in the cocoa industry, including a plan to pre-sell beans and
guarantee farmers at least 60 percent of world prices, as part
of the requirements of the relief program. Earlier, the IMF
projected the eligible debt relief at around $3 billion.  Eurobond Default  Ivory Coast’s $2.3 billion of defaulted Eurobonds due 2032
rose for a second day, climbing 0.7 percent to 68.135 cents on
the dollar as of 11:49 a.m. in  London , the highest since May 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The country stopped paying interest on its international
bonds in January last year during the election stand-off. The
government said in a Jan. 23 statement it plans to restart
payments in June.  The debt relief will also make it easier for Ivory Coast to
access the international market, Camard said.  The country may sell debt abroad within the next two years
to help fund investment in development, Aurelien Mali, a
sovereign credit analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a
May 16 interview in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  