-- Japan Tobacco Buys Belgium’s Gryson for $597 Million
-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 2012-05-25T00:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/japan-tobacco-buys-belgium-s-gryson-for-597-million.html
Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  climbed the most
in a month in Tokyo trading after the maker of Camel and Mild
Seven cigarettes agreed to pay 475 million euros ($596 million)
for Gryson NV to boost growth in  Europe ’s roll-your-own market.  Asia ’s largest cigarette maker by market value  climbed  3.4
percent to 440,000 yen as of 9:27 a.m. in Tokyo, heading for the
biggest advance since March 27. Japan Tobacco will pay 12.3
times estimated 2012 earnings for all outstanding shares of
Gryson, the Tokyo-based company said in a  statement  yesterday
after market hours.  The purchase gives Japan Tobacco control of Gryson’s Fleur
du Pays brand,  France ’s largest selling roll-your-own
cigarettes, according to the statement. Japan Tobacco President
Hiroshi Kimura has agreed to buy rivals in the U.K.,  South Sudan 
and  Belgium  since 2006 as sales volumes decline in Japan, where
tax increases and an aging population damp demand.  “They paid a little bit towards the top end, but it’s
reasonable,” Erik Bloomquist, an analyst in  London  at Berenberg
Bank, said in a phone interview yesterday. “The business is
growing volumes by about 4 percent. The brands are ones that
Japan Tobacco International is pleased to have and they are
going to invest more in the business. So for a growing business,
that’s a reasonable multiple.”  Japan Tobacco is getting growth at a reasonable price,
Satsuki Kawasaki, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo,
said in a note to clients. He rates the shares outperform.  Roll-Your-Own Growth  The global roll-your-own and make-your-own market grew 3.9
percent on average between 2000 and 2011, Japan Tobacco
spokeswoman Mahoko Tsuchiya said by telephone yesterday. Western
Europe accounts for about 75 percent of global demand for the
cigarettes, which smokers make from paper and loose tobacco, she
said.  Bloomquist said the deal moves Japan Tobacco from the
fourth-biggest seller of fine-cut tobacco in Europe to number
three, behind  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc. (IMT)  and  British American
Tobacco Plc. (BATS)   The deal gives a “very clear read” that Japan Tobacco  is
not interested in buying Imperial, Bloomquist said. “Why do the
deal to move to number three if you are going to go for number
one?”  The cigarette maker’s  market value  has climbed 22 percent
this year, compared with a 0.6 percent drop for the broader
Topix index.  The purchase of Gryson, which also owns the Orlando and
Domingo brands and has operations in Luxembourg, Spain and
 Portugal , will be financed from cash and borrowing from banks
and will have a “minor effect” on earnings this fiscal year,
according to the statement. The transaction is set for
completion this year, according to the statement.  Comparable Deals  Japan  Tobacco had  cash  and near-cash items of 405 billion
yen as of March 31, compared with a five-year average of 237
billion yen, according to data  compiled by Bloomberg .  Japan Tobacco is paying 15.96 times earnings before
interest and taxes, compared with a median of 14.29 times for
nine similar deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The deal is the largest acquisition by a tobacco company
since British American Tobacco’s $644 million purchase of
Bentoel Internasional Investama Tbk in June 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan Tobacco’s domestic market share fell to 55 percent in
the year ended March 2012 from 64 percent a year earlier after
the March 11, 2011, earthquake triggered reduction of tobacco
shipments.  Net income will probably drop 1 percent to 318 billion yen
($4 billion) for the year ending in March 2013, while sales are
expected to rise 4 percent to 2.12 trillion yen, the company
said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave McCombs in  Tokyo  at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  