-- JPMorgan Investment Office Invested in Ebony, Technicolor
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-05-25T20:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/jpmorgan-cio-office-invested-in-ebony-technicolor.html
The  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  office that
lost $2 billion on flawed derivatives trades also owns stakes in
the publisher of Ebony, the magazine for black Americans led by
a former White House social secretary, and Technicolor SA, the
money-losing French maker of film technologies.  The Special Investments Group, part of JPMorgan’s chief
investment office, took the minority stake in Johnson Publishing
Co., according to a July  press release  from the Chicago-based
publisher. The size of the investment wasn’t disclosed.  Desiree Rogers, 52, was named chief executive officer of
the family-controlled firm in August 2010, six months after
leaving President  Barack Obama ’s White House. She stepped down
after criticism for her handling of a state dinner that was
crashed by a Virginia couple, Tareq and Michaele Salahi.  JPMorgan’s losses sparked criticism of the New York-based
bank’s investment office for taking too much risk with the
company’s idle cash. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  on May
14 accepted the resignation of the office’s head, Ina Drew,
after wrong-way bets on  credit derivatives . Dimon has said the
positions can’t be quickly unwound and that the losses may
expand at JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender.  The bank also invested about $150 million last year in
LightSquared Inc., the failed wireless venture backed by hedge-
fund manager  Philip Falcone  that filed for bankruptcy on May 14,
a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Technicolor (TCH) ’s
unprofitable set-top box factor in Angers,  France  filed for
insolvency today.  Family Enterprise  Johnson Publishing is majority-owned by the family of
founder John Johnson, according to a video by his daughter,
company Chairman Linda Johnson Rice, which was posted on the
firm’s  website  when JPMorgan’s investment was announced.  Ebony is the No. 1 magazine focused on black Americans,
reaching almost 11 million readers, according to the monthly
magazine’s  website . Circulation dropped 27 percent from 2007
through 2010 before rebounding 8 percent last year to 1.13
million, according to The Association of Magazine Media. Johnson
also owns Jet magazine and Fashion Fair Cosmetics.  Rogers, a longtime friend of the president and first lady
 Michelle Obama , was White House social secretary from January
2009 through February 2010. She had been the Illinois lottery
director and later served as a natural-gas utility executive,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Getting the Picture  JPMorgan plans to invest as much as 158 million euros ($197
million) in Paris-based Technicolor, according to an
announcement from the company on May 3 -- one week before Dimon
disclosed the derivatives-trading losses. Technicolor’s  shares 
tumbled 68 percent in the preceding year and have fallen another
19 percent since the announcement to 1.37 euros. The firm posted
losses for the past five years, according to a  notice  on the
company’s website, and its debt is rated as junk by Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  JPMorgan holds a 1 percent equity stake and could wind up
with as much as 30 percent, according to Technicolor. The funds
came from JPMorgan and its private-investment arm, One Equity
Partners, according to the Technicolor news release. The Special
Investments Group is one of the shareholders in a fund that
would provide the Technicolor capital injection, said Benedicte
Hautefort, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan.  Norma Corio, a former JPMorgan treasurer and restructuring
head who now oversees the Special Investments Group, has been
nominated to become a director of the Technicolor board at a
shareholder meeting scheduled for June 20, according
Technicolor. Also listed among nominees is David Walsh, a
partner and managing director at One Equity.  Corio, 51, Walsh, 50, and Rogers at Johnson Publishing
didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment. The stakes
in Ebony and Technicolor were reported yesterday on the Wall
Street Journal’s  website .  “These activities are done out of the holding company, not
the bank,” said  Kristin Lemkau , a JPMorgan spokeswoman. “They
are funded with company-issued debt and equity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  