-- JPMorgan’s Prime Brokerage Head Lebedin Said to Leave
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-25T22:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/jpmorgan-s-prime-brokerage-head-lebedin-said-to-leave.html
Lou Lebedin, a former Bear Stearns
Cos. executive who had become  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s global head
of prime brokerage, is being replaced in that role, according to
three people familiar with the situation.  Teresa Heitsenrether, 47, based in London, will take over
for Lebedin, 54, said two of the people, who declined to be
identified because the changes aren’t public. Heitsenrether, who
worked at JPMorgan before the New York-based bank bought Bear
Stearns, was named co-head of fixed-income prime brokerage in
2008 when Lebedin took charge of the equity side.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, had the sixth-
biggest prime brokerage, according to a ranking by client assets
in Global Custodian magazine’s 2011 survey. The bank expanded its
prime brokerage in  Europe  last year and plans a similar move in
Asia this year, Jes Staley, chief executive officer of JPMorgan’s
investment bank, said in a February presentation.  Prime brokerages provide financing and administrative
services such as lending, clearing trades and record-keeping that
help managers run their  hedge funds .  The changes are taking place more than two months after
Sandie O’Connor was promoted to treasurer. O’Connor previously
oversaw prime brokerage, futures and options, over-the-counter
derivatives clearing and broker-dealer services. Two of those
units, prime brokerage and broker-dealer services, now report to
 John Horner .  Lebedin was tapped to run JPMorgan’s equity prime brokerage
in 2008 when JPMorgan bought Bear Stearns, where he held the same
role. In March he was named sole head of global prime brokerage
when his co-head, London-based Andrea Angelone, was moved to run
the bank’s equity treasury business, the Wall Street Journal
 reported  on March 23.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a bank spokeswoman, declined to
comment, and Lebedin didn’t return a phone message.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at +1-212-617-2358 or  dscheer@bloomberg.net . 