-- JPMorgan Gave Risk Oversight to Museum Head With AIG Role
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2012-05-25T23:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/jpmorgan-gave-risk-oversight-to-museum-head-who-sat-on-aig-board.html
(Corrects ending year of director’s tenure in penultimate
paragraph of story originally published May 25, 2012.)  The three directors who oversee risk
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  include a museum head who sat on
American International Group Inc.’s governance committee in
2008, the grandson of a billionaire and the chief executive
officer of a company that makes flight controls and work boots.  What the risk committee of the biggest U.S. lender lacks,
and what the five next largest competitors have, are directors
who worked at a bank or as financial risk managers. The only
member with any Wall Street experience, James Crown, hasn’t been
employed in the industry for more than 25 years.  “It seems hard to believe that this is good enough,” said
Anat Admati, a professor of finance at Stanford University who
studies corporate governance. “It’s a massive task to watch the
risk of JPMorgan.”  The bank has been under siege since CEO Jamie Dimon said
May 10 that the firm’s chief investment office suffered a $2
billion loss trading credit derivatives. He later called it “a
Risk 101 mistake.” Shares of the New York-based company have
fallen about 18 percent since, and at least half a dozen
agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice and the
Securities and Exchange Commission, are investigating.  The probes began after traders in the London office, which
manages the bank’s excess cash, made wrong-way bets on illiquid
credit derivatives, some of them so large they distorted market
prices. Dimon transformed the division under Ina Drew, who
resigned over the losses, from a sleepy haven for traders of
U.S. Treasuries into a profit center with an increasing appetite
for exotic wagers.  Futter, Cote  Crown, 58, who is president of Chicago-based Henry Crown &
Co. and lead director of defense contractor  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD) , sits on the risk committee with Ellen Futter and David Cote. Futter, 62, is president of the American Museum of Natural
History in New York, and Cote, 59, is CEO of  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)   The committee, which met seven times last year and hasn’t
changed its composition since 2008, approves the bank’s risk-appetite policy and oversees the chief risk officer, according
to the company’s April 4 proxy statement.  The Wall Street Journal  reported  after this story was first
published that the panel may add current directors with risk and
finance backgrounds. Candidates include Timothy Flynn and James Bell, the Journal said, citing people familiar with the matter.
Bell served as chief financial officer at aircraft maker Boeing
Co. Flynn, ex-chairman of accounting firm KPMG International,
joined the board May 15.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a bank
spokeswoman, said she couldn’t confirm the report.  Banking Experience  Futter is expected to step down from the risk committee,
the Financial Times reported, also subsequent to the initial
publication of this story.  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for
the bank, declined to comment on the Financial Times article,
which cited people familiar with the situation.  JPMorgan, with $1.13 trillion of deposits, is the only one
of the six largest U.S. lenders that doesn’t have a former
banker, regulator or finance professor on its risk committee.  Susan Bies, who served as a Federal Reserve governor for
six years and risk manager at First Horizon National Corp., sits
on Bank of America Corp.’s panel. Morgan Stanley’s includes
Masaaki Tanaka, CEO for the Americas at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd., while Robert Joss, a former U.S. Treasury Department
official who ran Westpac Banking Corp., is on Citigroup Inc.’s.
Nicholas Moore, a former PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP chairman and
CEO of its U.S. unit, is one of six directors on  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ’s risk committee.  Bank of America  Only Bank of America’s risk committee is as small as
JPMorgan’s. Goldman Sachs’s has eight members, including Stephen Friedman, a former chairman of the firm who advised President
George W. Bush on economic policy, and James Schiro, a former
CEO of Zurich Financial Services AG.  Futter, a former president of Barnard College in New York,
joined the JPMorgan board in 1997. Her re-election this year was
opposed by Washington-based investor group Change to Win and
shareholder advocate Glass Lewis & Co. over her previous
experience on the boards of AIG and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  Futter headed the audit committee of Bristol-Myers, a New
York-based drugmaker, during an accounting scandal that began in
1999 and that the company settled for $300 million to avoid
criminal prosecution. She also served on AIG’s compliance and
governance committees, resigning in July 2008 before the insurer
took a $182.3 billion bailout from the U.S. government.  Museum Donations  “Given Ms. Futter’s inability to effectively monitor
credit risk during her tenure at AIG, and the company’s similar
level of involvement in the same markets, we do not believe her
continued service on the company’s board is in shareholders’
interest,” Jack Ferdon and Courteney Keatinge, analysts at
Glass Lewis, wrote in an April 24 report recommending that
JPMorgan stockholders vote against her.  JPMorgan cited Futter’s experience as a director of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York from 1988 to 1993, a non-supervisory position, in supporting her nomination. She won 86
percent of the votes, the lowest of any board member.  Futter was criticized in newspapers and industry
publications after she joined AIG’s board for accepting a $36.5
million donation for the museum from a charity run by then-CEO
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg.  JPMorgan is a  corporate sponsor  of the museum and gave $1.5
million for an exhibit about water, according to the
organization’s  2008 annual report . Dimon’s family foundation
donated $25,000 in 2009, according to tax filings.  Personal Loans  Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for the bank, wouldn’t say
how much JPMorgan or Dimon has donated to the museum, except
that the gifts are less than 2 percent of the organization’s
annual revenue, the limit set by the New York Stock Exchange for
donations to charities that directors help manage.  The board reviewed the bank’s charitable donations and
determined that “none of them create a material relationship”
that would impede the independence or judgment of its directors,
according to company disclosures.  Futter has received personal loans from JPMorgan, according
to the company’s proxy statement, and was awarded $245,000 in
cash and stock for her work on the board last year. The bank
didn’t disclose the amount of the loans. Futter didn’t return
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  Crown, who heads the risk committee, helps manage his
family’s privately owned Chicago-based investment firm. His
grandfather, Henry Crown, amassed a fortune in hotels, railroads
and meatpacking and once owned a stake in the Empire State
Building. The family owns about 3.7 percent of Falls Church,
Virginia-based General Dynamics, the maker of Abrams tanks and
Gulfstream jets, according to March filings.  Harvard Club  The younger Crown, who worked at bond-trading firm Salomon
Brothers Inc. for five years until 1985, was a member of the
search committee that chose Dimon to head Bank One Corp.,
acquired by JPMorgan in 2004. Dimon and Crown’s father, Lester,
are  overseers  of the Harvard Business School Club of  Chicago .  “I really value the risk attitude when you’re looking at a
huge fortune that you’re responsible for,” said John H. Biggs,
who served on JPMorgan’s board from 2003 to 2007. “You tend to
be shareholder-oriented, very risk-averse.”  Crown’s risk-management experience comes from his
directorships at General Dynamics and sausage maker Sara Lee
Corp. and his position at his family’s investment firm,
according to bank filings. Crown, who was awarded $300,000 for
his board work last year, didn’t return calls to his office and
home in Chicago.  Honeywell Links  Cote, who joined JPMorgan’s board in 2007, has been
chairman and CEO of Morris Township, New Jersey-based Honeywell
since 2002. Shares of the company, which sells products from
thermostats for homes to cockpit controls for airplanes, have
gained 75 percent since Cote became CEO.  Honeywell has received loans and financial advisory
services from JPMorgan, according to securities filings. The
bank said it purchased building safety, security equipment and
maintenance services from Honeywell, all of which were
considered immaterial.  Rob Ferris, a spokesman for Cote at Honeywell, referred
calls for comment to JPMorgan. Lemkau, the bank spokeswoman,
said all of the company’s directors have “extensive experience
in managing or overseeing large organizations with complex
financial needs and regulation.”  Richard Clayton III, research director at Washington-based
investor group  Change to Win , which advises union pension funds
that control about 6 million JPMorgan shares, said the risk
committee doesn’t have the depth of experience necessary for
such a complex company.  ‘Critical Mandate’  “There’s nothing about their professional track record,
nothing about their personal experience that suggests that they
would have known the right questions to ask the chief risk
officer that would have eliminated any of the potential dangers
involved in this trading strategy,” said Clayton, whose group
opposed Futter for re-election to the board this year.  Crown and Cote “at best appear to be of limited utility in
fulfilling the committee’s critical mandate,” the group wrote
in an April 2011 letter to David Novak, who headed the bank’s
corporate governance and nominating committee at the time and
has since stepped down.  JPMorgan should have “put together a risk committee with
more expertise in financial institutions and the risks produced
by their decisions,” said Lucian Bebchuk, director of Harvard
Law School’s program on corporate governance.  Biggs, the former director, said the role of the risk
committee is to oversee the bank, not to watch specific trades.  ‘Naive View’  “Most people have a very naive view of what the role of
the board is,” said Biggs. “Even if the governance is
absolutely right, it is a complex world out there.”  Biggs, 76, is a former chairman and CEO of TIAA-CREF, which
manages retirement accounts for teachers. “Blame the
auditors,” he said. “Why didn’t the auditors catch this? Why
didn’t the regulators?”  Another former director, John Kessler, chairman of real
estate developer New Albany Co., who left the board in 2007,
said he was glad he avoided being on the risk committee, whose
work he described as time-consuming.  “Thank God,” Kessler said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  