-- Jumio Is Growing Faster Than Facebook at the Start, Saverin Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-25T05:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/jumio-is-growing-faster-than-facebook-at-the-start-saverin-says.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder Eduardo Saverin said mobile-payment company Jumio Inc., one of his
startup investments, is growing even faster than the social
network did at the beginning.  Jumio , started nine months ago, is on course for $100
million in annual sales and is “highly profitable,” Saverin, a
director at the  Mountain View , California-based company, told
the CHINICT technology conference in Beijing today.  Saverin, who became a billionaire through Facebook’s
initial public offering, used his life savings of $30,000 to
fund  Mark Zuckerberg ’s plan for the social network and has since
invested in startups including  Anideo , a developer of mobile
applications, and  ShopSavvy Inc. , a price-comparison service.
Jumio, whose software turns any web cam or handset into a
credit-card reader, will “transform” mobile payments,
according to Saverin.  “The reason this company is exciting is the growth it’s
gone through is phenomenal,” Saverin said of Jumio. “It’s
actually grown a lot faster than I’ve seen in Facebook at the
beginning.”  Facebook began trading May 18 after raising $16 billion by
selling 421.2 million shares for $38 each in the largest-ever
technology IPO. Saverin owns 53.1 million shares in the  Menlo
Park , California-based social-networking site, a May 17
regulatory filing showed. The stake is valued at $1.75 billion,
based on Facebook’s closing price of $33.03 yesterday, falling
from $2 billion at the IPO.  Tax Reductions  Saverin, who was born in  Brazil , moved to the U.S. as a
child, and is now based in  Singapore , renounced his U.S.
citizenship last year. The move could cut his tax bill by at
least $67 million, according to an analysis by Bloomberg.
Saverin will pay “hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes” to
the U.S. government, he said in a May 17 statement.  After addressing the conference, Saverin declined to take
questions from reporters about his U.S. taxes, or the outlook
for Facebook in  China .  Facebook amended its IPO filing on May 9 to say growth in
advertising had failed to keep up with user gains. The handling
of that information led to a complaint filed in Manhattan
federal court on May 23 by investors who lost more than $2.5
billion since the offering.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  