-- Knicks’ Woodson Has Contract Extended After Trip to Playoffs
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/knicks-woodson-has-contract-extended-after-trip-to-playoffs.html
Mike Woodson  agreed on a multiyear
extension to coach the  New York Knicks  after helping the team
resurrect its season and reach the National Basketball
Association playoffs.  Terms of the deal were not disclosed yesterday in the
team’s e-mail release.  Woodson, 54, moved up to interim coach from an assistant’s
job on March 14 when coach  Mike D’Antoni  quit, with the Knicks
at 18-24, mired in a six-game losing streak and locker-room
bickering. The team went 18-6 under Woodson to finish the
lockout-shortened regular season in second place in the  Atlantic
Division .  “Mike took over the team under challenging circumstances
and made it clear, starting on day one, that he was going to
hold every player on our roster accountable,” Knicks owner
 James Dolan  said in the team release. “We saw a significant
improvement since Mike took over and believe our team will only
keep improving under Mike’s direction.”  New York, with guards Jeremy Lin, Iman Shumpert and  Baron Davis  lost to injuries, was eliminated in five games by the
 Miami Heat  in the first round of the playoffs. The Knicks’ one
victory was their first postseason win since 2001.  “I’m very humbled and honored to continue coaching the
franchise where I started my NBA career,” Woodson said in the
team release. “Our goal is to build off the success we had at
the end of last season and to continue our quest of bringing an
NBA championship to  Madison Square Garden. (MSG) ”  Lin-Led Streak  The Knicks had become the toast of the NBA in February,
winning seven straight games with Lin the surprising star at
point guard. The Harvard University graduate, who signed as a
free agent in December after being cut by two other teams,
became an international celebrity as the first Chinese- or
Taiwanese American to play in the NBA. He was on the cover of
 Sports Illustrated  for two straight weeks and captured the cover
of the Asian edition of Time magazine.  The upswing didn’t last. All-Star Carmelo Anthony returned
from injuries and never meshed with the free-flowing offense
that D’Antoni designed and Lin directed. Hours before D’Antoni’s
departure was announced, the  New York  Post reported that Anthony
wanted to be traded by the next day’s league deadline.  D’Antoni told Sports Illustrated that he decided to resign
while driving to practice, without having discussed his plans
with his wife or his brother, Dan, a Knicks’ assistant who also
lost his job.  “I was in my car driving to shootaround and it just came
to me,” D’Antoni told the magazine in its May 21 issue.
“‘That’s it. It’s inevitable. I have to resign. We’re not going
anywhere.’ I made the decision then and there.”  Stoudemire’s Injuries  The Knicks lost forward Amar’e Stoudemire to a back injury
for much of the end of the regular season, with Lin also
sidelined with a knee injury that kept him from postseason play.
In the playoffs, Shumpert, a rookie and the team’s best outside
defender, and Davis, a veteran point guard, tore knee ligaments,
and Stoudemire missed a game after cutting his left hand when he
punched a glass fire-extinguisher box after a loss.  Woodson coached the Atlanta Hawks from 2004-05 to 2009-10,
leading the franchise to a 206-286 record and playoff
appearances in his final three seasons.  A guard-forward, he played college basketball at  Indiana
University  before being selected by the Knicks with the 12th
overall pick in the 1980 NBA draft. Woodson played one season in
New York before joining five other clubs during a career that
ended in 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 