-- Naira Set for Longest Run of Falls in 2012 as Fuel Demand Gains
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-05-25T11:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/naira-set-for-longest-run-of-falls-in-2012-as-fuel-demand-gains.html
Nigeria ’s naira headed for its
longest run of weekly declines since December, weakening for a
fourth day, as fuel importers demanded dollars and on investors
taking profit.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer retreated 0.3
percent to 160.05 per dollar as of 11:22 a.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, taking its fall this week to 0.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The naira has risen 1.4
percent this year against the dollar.  Nigeria’s Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency
approved a tender for 3.57 million metric tons of gasoline
imports into the country for the second quarter in March, with
42 fuel retailers issued permits. The West African nation relies
on imports to meet 70 percent of its fuel needs because of
inadequate refining capacity, Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison- Madueke said in February.  “It looks like petroleum products import is gathering
momentum,” Adedayo Idowu, a Lagos-based analyst at Vetiva
Capital Management Ltd., said in e-mailed comments today.
“There are reports of repatriation of funds by foreign
portfolio investors - largely profit-taking I would assume.”  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  has stepped up the supply of
foreign currency at its twice-weekly auctions. The regulator,
based in the capital Abuja,  sold  $350 million this week at the
official windows, matching the amount sold last week, which was
the most since March.  Debt Costs  Nigeria’s debt costs have soared as the central bank has
raised its  benchmark interest rate  6 percentage points since
2010 to combat rising inflation and to stabilize the naira.  Yields on naira bonds due 2017 rose three basis points to
15.3 percent, according to May 24 data compiled by the Financial
Markets Dealers Association. That’s a jump of more than three
percentage points in a year.  Nigeria’s oil production contracted 2.32 percent in the
first three months of the year compared with 0.05 percent growth
in the same period of last year as production decreased, the
National Bureau of Statistics said May 22. The nation’s
benchmark  Bonny Light crude  has slumped 16 percent from a March
high this year.  “If production shortages persist and crude  oil prices 
slide further while imports surge, there are risks to the
current account position and capital flight pressures, thus
elevating  currency risk  going forward,” said Idowu.  Pressure on the naira is a reaction to the debt crisis in
 Europe , central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said May 22 after
the Abuja-based regulator left its benchmark  interest rate  on
hold for a fourth consecutive meeting at a record 12 percent.  Borrowing costs on Nigeria’s $500 million of Eurobonds due
2021 fell one basis point to 5.6341 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  