-- NetApp Investigated by U.S. on Syria Surveillance System Sale
-- B y   B e n   E l g i n   a n d   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2012-05-25T13:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/netapp-investigated-by-u-s-on-syria-surveillance-system-sale.html
U.S. regulators are investigating how
a multi-million-dollar storage system from  NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  came to
underpin a sweeping Internet-surveillance system being built
last year for the Syrian regime of President Bashar al-Assad.  The U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and
Security is conducting the probe, according to department
spokesman Eugene Cottilli. “The investigation is ongoing,” he
said.  The Sunnyvale, California-based maker of storage technology
has  condemned  any potential use of its equipment in Syria. After
Bloomberg News exposed the surveillance project in November,
NetApp said it notified the U.S. government that it’s conducting
an internal review and would cooperate with any inquiry.  NetApp is “continuing to finalize our internal review,”
spokeswoman Jodi Baumann said on April 30. She declined
yesterday to comment on the government investigation.  The Internet surveillance system was being built to
intercept and catalog virtually every e-mail flowing through
 Syria , and had been under construction as Assad’s regime waged a
crackdown that has killed as many as 10,000 people.  Italian company Area SpA, which spearheaded the development
of the surveillance project, bought the NetApp gear for 2.75
million euros ($3.5 million) from an Italian distributor and
exported it to Syria, Bloomberg News reported in November. While
the sale was indirect, workers for Area and NetApp communicated
directly, e-mailing each other after the sale about configuring
the equipment, copies of the correspondence show.  Ban and Sanctions  After Bloomberg disclosed the project, Area said it was
exiting the deal and the European Union banned the sale of
surveillance gear to Syria. On April 23, President  Barack Obama 
authorized sanctions against individuals and entities that
provide  information technology  that aids Syria and Iran in
cracking down on dissidents.  The U.S. has banned most American exports to Syria other
than food or medicine since 2004.  NetApp didn’t discuss Syria or the government investigation
in its quarterly earnings call after the close of regular
trading on Wednesday. However, the company alerted investors in
a Dec. 5 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that
it faces possible punishment and it intends to cooperate with
any inquiry.  ‘Adverse Impact’  “If we are found to have violated U.S. export control
laws, we may be subject to various penalties available under the
laws, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on
our business,” the company said in the quarterly filing. It
repeated the statement in its quarterly report filed in March.  NetApp has a  market value  of about $10 billion, and more
than 10,000 employees.  Area, which was building the system under a contract with
Syria’s state controlled fixed-line phone company, has said it
never had any relations with Syrian intelligence agencies, and
its dealings comply with all export rules. The project was never
completed and has never been operational, the company said last
November.  An  investigation  last year by Bloomberg News showed how
repressive regimes including Bahrain,  Iran  and Syria have
increasingly used Western surveillance technology to track,
detain and torture dissidents. Advocacy groups such as  Human
Rights Watch  say Assad’s regime has a pattern of using
surveillance for arrests that lead to torture and death.  E-mail Archive  The Area system was designed to use NetApp’s hardware and
software for archiving e-mails for easy retrieval.  Early project schematics state that NetApp’s technology
would provide four petabytes of storage for archiving e-mails
and other data. That is more than 15 times the amount of data
stored in the online archive of the  Library of Congress , or
enough storage space for more than a billion digital copies of
the epic Leo Tolstoy novel “War and Peace.”  In November, U.S. Senators  Mark Kirk , a Republican from
 Illinois , Robert Casey, a Democrat from  Pennsylvania , and
Christopher Coons, a Democrat from  Delaware , called for an
investigation into NetApp’s role in the Syrian project.  The senators also called for a review into the possibility
of suspending U.S. government contracts with NetApp until a full
investigation is completed, noting that NetApp has received more
than $111 million in U.S. contracts since 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  