-- New York Thruway Bonds Suffer With New Toll Bridge Cost
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-05-25T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/new-york-thruway-bonds-suffer-with-new-toll-bridge-cost.html
New York  Thruway Authority bonds are
slumping the most in at least a year as the operator of the
longest U.S. toll road faces a potential downgrade and prepares
to finance the biggest project in its 62-year history.  The yield penalty on some agency debt has climbed by about
50 percent in the past year as traffic on its 570 miles of
roadway has stalled at pre-recession levels. Authority officials
are developing a financial plan for a new $5.2 billion Tappan
Zee Bridge across the  Hudson River , a priority of Governor
 Andrew Cuomo , who likens the replacement of the 56-year-old span
to the 19th century construction of the Erie Canal.  “The Thruway Authority is a strong credit, but it does
have a bit of this mismatch with revenues and spending that it
needs to solve,” said  Peter Hayes , a managing director at New
York-based BlackRock Inc., which oversees about $105 billion of
municipals and holds the agency’s bonds. “The big albatross is
the Tappan Zee Bridge project, how that's going to get solved
and what the size of it will be, and they haven't completely
figured that out.”  New York may join New Jersey and Pennsylvania in raising
tolls to cover debt payments. By next year, the Thruway
Authority’s debt-ratio coverage may fall below 1.2, a minimum
level required by its bond resolution, assuming it issues enough
debt to fund its four-year capital plan, according to a June
2011 offering statement. The ratio was about 1.77 last year,
according to the authority’s website.  ‘Appropriate Ratio’  Allowing a decline below the minimum level may trigger a
downgrade on its $2.2 billion in general-revenue debt from the
current A+ level, potentially forcing the authority to raise
tolls even before it sell bonds to finance the new bridge,
according to  Standard & Poor’s . The move could rekindle the
political opposition that stymied past efforts to build a new
span. The S&P grade is its fifth highest.  “We do need to maintain a very specific debt-coverage
ratio, and our financial plan will take that into
consideration,” Tom Madison, the authority’s chief executive
officer, said in a May 9 interview in  Albany , the capital. “We
will work to ensure that the appropriate ratio is maintained.”  The authority in the next two months plans to sell more
than $1 billion in revenue-backed bonds, according to its
website. By then, it will have developed a capital spending
program through 2015 and a financial plan for the bridge,
Madison said.  Yields on Thruway Authority bonds due in January 2024 and
rated A+ were about 1.28 percentage points above top-grade tax-
exempts on May 23, up from a spread of about 0.82 percentage
point at the end of April 2011, according to Bloomberg BVAL
data.  ‘Steady Stream’  Traffic levels on U.S. roads in 2011 were more than 2
percent below their 2007 peak even as toll-road debt grew by 24
percent from 2005 to 2010, according to the  Federal Highway
Administration  and a February Moody’s Investors Service report.  “These expenditures will require a steady stream of toll
rate increases -- a challenging political process given the
struggling economy,” Moody’s analysts said.  New Jersey  raised its tolls in January by 53 percent to
11.4 cents per-mile on the 148-mile (238-kilometer) turnpike to
fund capital improvements and pay debt. On Jan. 1,
Pennsylvania’s turnpike tolls rose 10 percent to 8.4 cents per
mile for cash customers to help fund debt service.  The Thruway Authority’s annual debt-service payments grew
to $191.2 million in 2010, a 76 percent increase from 2005,
according to a June 2011 offering statement. Traffic levels fell
about 1 percent last year, almost 2 percent below the 2007 peak,
according to an April 30 financial report.  Federal Loan  The three-mile-long Tappan Zee, which connects Rockland and
Westchester counties 20 miles north of  New York City  as part of
the Thruway system, carries 138,000 vehicles a day, 40 percent
more than its original design intended.  New York has applied for a $2 billion federal
Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act loan.
The request is more than the program has available, and the
state suggested in its application the loan could be spread out
over several years.  In 2005, the authority raised tolls 25 percent for
passenger vehicles, the first increase since 1988. When its
debt-coverage ratio dipped to 1.58 times in 2008 from more than
2 in 2005, the authority raised tolls 10 percent for cash
customers. Tolls went up 5 percent in 2009 and the same amount
in 2010.  Rates are still lower than in New Jersey or  Pennsylvania .
At 4.7 cents per-mile, it costs $17.65 to travel the almost 400
miles from the Harriman barrier toll, about 50 miles north of
New York City, to Buffalo.  The bond resolution requires a ratio of at least 1.2, and
the governing board’s guideline is 1.5.  “If things go as forecasted, and to keep the rating where
it is, they’ll either have to increase revenue, cut costs
deeply, or a combination,” Joe Pezzimenti, an S&P analyst in
New York, said in an interview. “Some action needs to be
taken.”  Following are descriptions of coming sales:  VIRGINIA TRANSPORTATION BOARD plans to borrow $600 million
of revenue debt as soon as this month via competitive bid.
Proceeds will help finance capital projects, according to
documents from the board’s April 18 meeting. (Updated May 25)  LOS ANGELES COUNTY is set to issue $1.1 billion of tax- and
revenue-anticipation notes that will mature in one year,
according to sale documents. Note proceeds will help the county
pay expenditures in the fiscal year that begins July 1. Wells
Fargo Securities is the underwriter. (Added May 25)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  