-- News Corp. U.K. Employee Arrested in Tabloid Scandal
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-25T19:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/news-corp-tabloid-bribery-scandal-triggers-30th-u-k-arrest.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. bribery scandal led
to the arrest of an employee at its British publishing unit
today, bringing to 30 the number of tabloid journalists, police
officers and other public officials have detained in the probe.  The 37-year-old woman was arrested “by appointment” in
 London  on suspicion of conspiring to corrupt public officials
with illegal payments for stories, the  Metropolitan Police
Service  said today, without naming her. Police said in a
statement that the woman was released on bail.  The woman is Clodagh Hartley, a government editor for
 Rupert Murdoch ’s Sun tabloid, the Telegraph newspaper reported.
Mary Kearney, a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News
International, confirmed the woman arrested today was an
employee and declined to comment further.  The arrest was prompted by new information given to police
by New York-based News Corp.’s Management Standards Committee,
the company’s internal group investigating illegal voice-mail
interception and other wrongdoing by its U.K. journalists.
Before the group was created, the company had been accused by
victims of seeking to cover up the scandal.  Police have detained and released on bail more than 50
people since January 2011 in related probes of phone hacking,
computer hacking and bribery at News Corp. titles. Each new
arrest complicates News Corp.’s attempt to move on from the
affair, which has triggered public anger, botched its takeover
bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and cost the company
about $258 million in lawsuit legal fees and settlements.  First Charges  British prosecutors filed the probes’ first charges on May
15, accusing former News International Chief Executive Officer
Rebekah Brooks and five others, including her husband, of
conspiring to hide the phone hacking.  The arrest today comes a month after Murdoch, News Corp.’s
chairman, and Deputy Chief Operating Officer  James Murdoch 
testified at an ethics inquiry triggered by the scandals at the
Sun, Britain’s best-selling title, and the News of the World, a
newspaper the company shuttered in July to help contain public
anger. The father and son said they weren’t aware of the extent
of the hacking because subordinates had kept it from them and
lawyers had bungled internal probes.  Previous arrests in the bribery probe, dubbed Operation
Elveden, included the Sun’s Royal editor, pictures editor, a
chief reporter and an ex-member of the armed forces, as well as
police officers. They’re accused of paying or accepting bribes
for tabloid scoops.  The hacking affair emerged in 2006 with the arrest of the
News of the World’s royal reporter  Clive Goodman  and the
tabloid’s private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who both pleaded
guilty and were jailed the following year. While News
International claimed the practice was contained, civil lawsuits
by victims in 2010 revealed phone hacking was far more
widespread.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  