-- Nigerian May Reduce Reserves of Euros to Minimize Risk
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-05-25T15:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/nigerian-may-reduce-reserves-of-euros-to-minimize-risk.html
Nigeria  may reduce the portion of its
foreign reserves kept in euros to minimize risk amid the
European debt crisis, the central bank said.  “The euro component at 7.8 percent needs to be monitored
closely and if necessary further reduced to minimize the
currency and exchange rate risks associated with euro holdings
occasioned by the euro-zone debt crisis,” the Abuja-based
 Central Bank of Nigeria  said in a  report  published today on its
website.  The bank held $2.5 billion worth of euros as of the end of
2011 out of its total reserves of $32.6 billion, with the U.S.
dollar accounting for 82 percent, it said. Nigeria started
adding the Chinese yuan in the fourth quarter, which reached
$101 million equivalent by the end of the period, according to
the report.  The euro has come under pressure as the prospect of  Greece 
leaving the 17-nation euro region increased after parties
opposed to the terms of the country’s second bailout by the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  won most of
the votes in May 6 elections. A fresh round of voting will be
held June 17 after politicians failed to form a government.  The euro touched its lowest level since July 2010 against
the dollar amid concern Spain’s regional governments may lose
access to  capital markets . The shared currency fell 0.1 percent
to $1.2525 at 11:33 a.m.  New York  time after touching $1.2496,
the least since July 6, 2010. It was little changed at 99.73
yen. The yen traded at 79.64 per dollar.  The foreign currency reserves of Nigeria, Africa’s top oil
producer, rose 14 percent this year to $37.5 billion as of May
23, according to the bank’s  data .  Swap Arrangement  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said in September the
bank aims to hold as much as 10 percent of the country’s
reserves in the Chinese currency and plans a swap arrangement
with  China  for supplies of the  yuan . The Asian nation’s decision
to allow its companies to make outgoing investments in the yuan
will also become a source of supply of the currency, he said.  Diversifying holdings into the yuan will improve liquidity
and allow the bank to provide the currency to companies that
import goods from China, Sanusi said in March. Nigeria will also
use the currency as a “hedge” against  currency risk  when it
borrows from China, he said.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with more than 160
million people, depends on oil exports for 80 percent of
government revenue and more than 90 percent of foreign-exchange
income. The country’s reserves are also held in British pounds,
Swiss francs and Japanese yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  