-- Biggest Nordic Banks Lowered by Moody’s on Funding Risks
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-05-25T08:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/nordea-dnb-handelsbanken-cut-by-moody-s-on-funding-risks-1-.html
Some of the Nordic region’s largest
banks, among the best rated in  Europe , were downgraded by
Moody’s Investors Service on concern that a reliance on
wholesale funding has left them vulnerable to market volatility.  Sweden’s  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  were
cut by one level to Aa3 and  Norway ’s DNB Bank ASA was lowered to
A1, Moody’s said in separate statements. Credit grades of SEB AB
and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  were affirmed while Landshypotek AB was cut two
steps to Baa2. All ratings carry stable outlooks, Moody’s said.  The actions follow the “comparatively high reliance on
wholesale funding, which Moody’s regards as less reliable under
a severe stress scenario,” the company said in its statement on
the Swedish lenders. “Moody’s acknowledges the relatively good
capital markets access for most Swedish banks despite difficult
market conditions in recent years.”  Moody’s, which in February said it’s reviewing 114 European
lenders for possible downgrades and cut 16 Spanish banks last
week, said “modest profitability” and risks to asset quality
also triggered the downgrades.  “Moody’s recognizes that the Swedish economy has so far
performed well compared with other European Union economies, and
Swedish banks have been able to attract market funding on
economic terms from international investors,” it said.
“Furthermore, Swedish banks have strengthened their
capitalization since 2008.”  ‘Backward Looking’  Swedbank’s Chief Financial Officer Goran Bronner said this
week Moody’s is “backward looking,” and told banks in the
largest Nordic economy not to pay too much attention to its
views. In  Denmark , banks have started firing Moody’s after
winning assurances from some of the country’s biggest investors
that the opinions of ratings companies hold limited value.  Shares in Nordea rose 0.9 percent to 55.10 kronor as of
10:16 a.m. in Stockholm. Handelsbanken gained 0.8 percent to 208
kronor. SEB rose 1.1 percent and Swedbank gained 0.9 percent.
The 43-member Bloomberg index of European lenders gained 0.6
percent.  Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest mortgage lender and
Europe’s largest issuer of covered bonds backed by home loans,
terminated its contract with Moody’s last month, citing its
“volatile” views. Danske Bank A/S Chief Executive Officer
Eivind Kolding in an interview this month criticized Moody’s
view on systemic support, less than a year after the bank’s
mortgage arm sacked the company.  “It is hard for” rating companies “to keep track and
when you come close to them it is quite apparent they have
difficulty following everything that is happening elsewhere,”
Bronner said. “The key is more transparency and then the market
can decide.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  