-- Kerry Says Romney ‘Naive’ to Call Russia Foe of U.S.
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-05-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/obama-hits-romney-less-in-tv-ads-than-bush-pounded-kerry.html
Senator  John Kerry  said Russia is
closer to the U.S. position than many Americans realize on
issues including Syria’s future, and called Republican
presidential candidate Mitt Romney “breathtakingly off target
and naive” for calling Russia the nation’s foremost
geopolitical foe.  Kerry, a  Massachusetts  Democrat and chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, said Russian Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov told him during a recent meeting that Russian
leaders share the belief that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
must go. Syria has experienced 14 months of civil unrest that
the United Nations estimates has killed as many as 10,000
people, and Lavrov publicly has blamed Assad’s opponents for the
violence.  “I cannot think of any statement that frankly is more
inappropriately threatening and simply wrong by any calculus
than” Romney’s assessment of the threat from Russia, Kerry said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “We have much bigger problems on this planet in the  Middle
East , with the evolution of  Egypt , with the challenge of Syria,
terrorism, al-Qaeda in Yemen, and so forth,” he said.  Discussing this year’s election campaign, Kerry, the 2004
Democratic presidential nominee, took a swipe at Romney’s
governorship of their home state of Massachusetts from 2003 to
2007. During Romney’s term, “we went backwards in employment,
backwards in income for people,” he said.  Pakistan Aid  On Pakistan, Kerry called “egregious” the country’s
imposition of a 33-year sentence on a doctor for assisting the
U.S. in the hunt for al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, while
saying it would be “a mistake right now to cut aid” in
response.  A court in  Pakistan ’s northwestern tribal region convicted
the doctor, Shakil Afridi, on May 23, of running a fake
vaccination program in Abbottabad, the Pakistani town where bin
Laden hid for as long as five years, to obtain a DNA sample from
those living in the compound where the terrorist was shot dead
by Navy SEALs during a raid last May.  Kerry, 68, said he has hopes, based on recent talks with
Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari during the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization’s summit in  Chicago , that the U.S. will be
able to “get this relationship into a better place” over the
next few weeks.  CIA Contractor  Pakistan has “some legitimate complaints,” said Kerry,
including over the case of a U.S. Central Intelligence Agency
contractor who last year shot and killed two Pakistani men he
said tried to rob him. The contractor,  Raymond Davis , was
charged with murder in Pakistan but ultimately allowed to return
to the U.S.  On  Afghanistan , Kerry said he could see an American force
level of between 10,000 and 25,000 troops after 2014 as the U.S.
seeks to avoid a precipitous departure from the war-torn nation
that still poses a terrorist threat to the U.S.  “I envision a platform from which we can conduct
counterterrorism activities, protect the interest of the  United
States , prevent the Taliban from taking over,” he said. “The
reality is we’ve really only had a strategy since 2009. People
forget that.”  The U.S. began its military operation in Afghanistan in
October 2001 in retaliation for the assistance the Taliban
government then in control had provided the Sept. 11 terrorists.  Sanctions ‘Hurting’  On  Iran , Kerry said U.S. sanctions “are really hurting”
that nation and should be effective in forcing an agreement on
its pursuit of nuclear technology.  “We have to find the solution here, and I believe we
will,” Kerry said. “I think that in the end the Iranians will
be rational.”  Iranian leaders want the international community to accept
that their nation has a right to enrich uranium on its soil for
peaceful use. In Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says
the Jewish state will never be safe unless Iran ceases all
enrichment so it can’t secretly build an atomic bomb.  That put the U.S. in a difficult position as it began a
second round of nuclear talks this week in Baghdad with its five
partners -- the U.K.,  France ,  Germany ,  China  and  Russia .  If there’s no agreement, additional sanctions will go into
effect in the beginning of July. “We have a lot of time between
now and then,” said Kerry.  On China, Kerry said he expects “a public playing out of
enormous tensions over these next years,” as the Asian nation
transforms into a global economic leader in the absence of a
political transformation.  “There is going to be a huge change taking place,” he
said. “It will certainly transform the current political
structure.”  Tax Cuts  Kerry criticized Romney’s economic plan to provide a 20
percent across-the-board tax cut.  “That is to reinstitute sort of Bush on steroids,” Kerry
said, referring to tax cuts, first enacted under former
President  George W. Bush , that are slated to expire at the end
of this year. U.S. tax revenues are at a 60-year low while the
nation’s national debt continues to mount, Kerry said. “We
can’t afford that.”  He also criticized Romney’s position against the bailout of
U.S. automotive companies, including  General Motors Co. (GM)  “If you
had chosen Mitt Romney’s decision, they wouldn’t be around
today,” Kerry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  