-- Obama Rallies Base in Iowa With Attack on Romney Record
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-05-25T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/obama-rallies-base-in-iowa-with-attack-on-romney-s-background.html
President  Barack Obama  accused  Mitt Romney  of trying to return to policies that crippled the U.S.
economy as he renewed an appeal from his 2008 campaign for the
nation to “come together around a common purpose.”  Addressing a cheering rally at the  Iowa  State Fairgrounds
in  Des Moines  last night, Obama delivered his sharpest attack to
date against his presumed Republican opponent in the November
election as both campaigns anticipate a tight race. Iowa is a
swing state that both campaigns are targeting.  The president mocked Romney, who said during a May 15 visit
to Des Moines that Obama’s failure to rein in federal spending
is causing “a prairie fire of debt.” That is a “cow pie of
distortion,” Obama said, drawing upon his own homespun
metaphor.  Republican policies would add trillions to the debt, the
president said. That’s like trying to “put out a prairie fire
with gasoline,” he said. “We’re going forward. We’re not going
to double down on the same bad ideas.”  Obama said he has signed $2 trillion of spending cuts into
law, adding that he will ask the wealthy to pay more to help
lower the debt.  With the economy and unemployment the top issues in the
race, Obama has sought to use Romney’s background in business
against him by portraying the former Massachusetts governor as
favoring the wealthy over middle-income Americans.  Attacking Free Enterprise  Romney has countered by accusing Obama of attacking free
enterprise and not understanding how the economy works. He has
said in speeches and interviews that Obama is “not up to the
task” of guiding the economy.  For all the concern in  Washington  that the nation is piling
on too much borrowing as the deficit exceeds $1 trillion for a
fourth straight year, investors are showing sustained demand for
its bonds.  The Treasury sold notes yesterday at a record-low auction
yield for a second consecutive day as  Europe ’s debt crisis
underscored the status of  U.S. government debt  as the preferred
refuge. The $29 billion seven-year note sale drew a yield of
1.203 percent, compared with the previous record of 1.347
percent at the April 26 auction.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, which are benchmarks for
everything from mortgages to corporate bonds, climbed four basis
points to 1.78 percent. The average yield over the past 20 years
is 4.93 percent.  Federal Debt  Republicans have been focusing on the federal debt amid
signs the  U.S. economy  is gaining strength. Home sales, housing
starts and industrial production exceeded forecasts in April,
bolstering optimism that the world’s largest economy can
withstand fallout from the turmoil in Europe. Applications for
jobless benefits  decreased  by 2,000 to 370,000 in the week ended
May 19 from a revised 372,000 the prior week, according to the
Labor Department.  Obama has been seeking to portray Romney as out of touch
with the concerns of most Americans.  The president’s re-election campaign distributed a video
yesterday ridiculing Romney for the statement he made as he was
being heckled by anti-Wall Street audience members during a
speech at the fairgrounds Aug. 11.  “Corporations are people, my friend,” Romney said.
“Everything corporations earn ultimately goes to people.”  Steel Plant Closing  Obama’s campaign also is running an ad that highlights the
closing of a Missouri steel plant that was bought in 1993 by
Bain Capital LLC, the private-equity firm Romney co-founded.  The ad has been criticized by some Obama allies, including
Mayor  Cory Booker  of  Newark ,  New Jersey , and  Steven Rattner , who
headed the president’s auto task force. Rattner last week called
it “unfair.”  Romney has dismissed criticism of his business background.  “I’m pretty confident that the overall record of the
enterprise I helped begin is one that’s pretty solid,” he said
yesterday in an interview on the Fox News Channel. Obama
“doesn’t understand how the free economy works.”  Romney’s main message is a promise that he will deliver
stronger job growth. In a recent interview with Time Magazine,
he pledged to lower the  unemployment rate  to 6 percent by the
end of his first term.  Last night, for the second time this week, Obama responded
by chiding Romney for saying his background in business gives
him a better grasp of how to get the economy growing. Obama said
Romney concentrated on making money for investors while the
president has to be concerned with workers as well.  A President’s Job  “There may be value for that kind of experience, but it’s
not in the White House,” Obama said.  The president has stressed economic progress since he took
office in the aftermath of the financial crisis spurred by the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  While the  jobless rate  has declined since its peak during
Obama’s term of 10 percent in October 2009, the drop has been
slow and halting. It was stuck at about 9 percent through the
first three quarters of last year. Since last August, the
jobless rate has dropped seven out of eight months, to 8.1
percent in April.  Middle-income families have been slow to see a rise in
 living standards  from the recovery. Real median  household income 
in March was down $4,300 since Obama took office in January 2009
and down $2,900 since the June 2009 start of the economic
recovery, according to an analysis of census data by Sentier
Research, an economic-consulting firm in Annapolis,  Maryland .  Iowa has maintained one of the strongest state economies,
with the unemployment rate at 5.1 percent in April.  The state’s large agricultural sector was boosted by record
national farm profits last year. Demand for agricultural
equipment manufactured in the state also has been rising in
emerging economies.  Deere & Co. (DE)  announced a $70 million
expansion of its tractor production facility in Waterloo, Iowa,
on March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  