-- Hoboken Homes Gone in 60 Minutes Signal U.S. Recovery: Mortgages
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-05-25T20:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/hoboken-homes-gone-in-60-minutes-signal-u-s-recovery-mortgages.html
For the latest sign of a U.S. housing
rebound,  Toll Brothers (TOL)  Inc. Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley points to Hoboken, New Jersey: A couple torn between two
condos last month at the sales office for its Hudson Tea complex
decided to think about it over lunch. When they returned an hour
later, both units were gone.  “People feel like now is the time to buy and they aren’t
isolated to one building in Hoboken,” Yearley said in a May 23
conference call with analysts after the Horsham, Pennsylvania-
based luxury homebuilder reported that quarterly orders for new
homes surged 47 percent. “Confidence is up. The interest rates
are there and they’ve been waiting so long to move on with their
lives that they came out this spring.”  U.S. homebuilders  are reporting their most-improved spring
selling season in seven years as record low mortgage rates, job
gains, and shrinking inventories are drawing buyers to sales
offices that have been quiet since the property market collapse.
After dragging the economy into recession, housing is set to
“contribute modestly” to growth, according to Vincent Foley, a
credit analyst for Barclays Plc in  New York .  Purchases of  new homes  in April increased 3.3 percent from
the previous month to an annual pace of 343,000, the Commerce
Department said May 23. The largest publicly-traded homebuilders
reported an average 25 percent increase in purchase contracts in
the first quarter, the biggest jump since 2005, according to
Barclays.  Off the Fence  While demand for  existing homes  has been on the rise in
recent months, the improvement in new home sales signals that
the growing appetite for residential real estate goes beyond
foreclosures and other distressed sales targeted by investors.
Traditional homebuyers, including those who have to sell another
property to upgrade, are coming off the fence,  Stan Humphries ,
Zillow Inc.’s chief economist said.  Mortgage rates for 30-year loans fell to 3.78 percent in
the week ended yesterday, the lowest in Freddie Mac records
dating back to 1971. The  Federal Reserve  has pledged to hold
 interest rates  near zero through the end of 2014 and has bought
home-loan bonds to lower borrowing costs.  Rates for 30-year  jumbo mortgages  fell to 4.38 percent
yesterday from 5.11 percent a year ago, according to data from
Bankrate.com.  In Hoboken, Toll Brothers increased prices six times since
it began selling apartments last spring in the 157-unit 1450
 Washington  at Hudson Tea, where prices now range from $450,000
to $1 million, said Todd Dumaresq, marketing manager for Toll’s
City Living division. The company has sold 108 units in the
building and is now selling about 12 homes a month, he said.  Overlook Hudson River  The apartments overlook the Hudson River with views of
 Manhattan . The project has a fitness center and a rooftop
terrace with an open-air fireplace and barbecue.  Jon Corzine , the former  New Jersey  governor and co-chairman
of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., this month sold his penthouse
apartment in  Maxwell Place , also a Toll project in Hoboken, for
$2.8 million in cash. Corzine, who ran the now-bankrupt MF
Global Holdings Ltd., bought the apartment in November 2008 for
$3.26 million, according to property records. He sought $2.9
million when he put it on the market in January.  Rising apartment rents also are driving Americans who have
good credit and enough money for a down payment back into the
housing market. Effective rents, which take into account such
landlord concessions as a free month, climbed almost 1 percent
in the first quarter from the previous quarter, the largest jump
since the last recession began, according to REIS Inc.  ‘Broader-Based Recovery’  “There are signs that this is a broader-based recovery,”
Humphries said. “It is really driven by  affordability  and
buyers feeling more confident about the housing market.”  Dennis and Sally Webert were renting when they decided to
buy a home in  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) ’s Trailside at Huning Ranch
development south of  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico  for $140,000,
prompted by a special promotion. “We’ve been eyeballing these
homes for several years,” Dennis Webert said. “The timing was
just right.”  About 5,000 potential buyers showed up for the opening of
nine model homes last weekend at The Bridges, a community in
Delray Beach,  Florida  built by GL Homes, said sales agent Robert
Macias, 54. The company used eight golf carts to shuttle
customers from their cars and sold 18 homes over the weekend and
another handful this week, he said.  The company, which sells homes in the community for about
$500,000 to $1.5 million, has raised prices about 5 percent
since preconstruction sales began in February, East Coast
Division President Marcie DePlaza said.  50 In a Room  “There were times when you’d walk into one of the models
and there would be 50 people in a room,” Macias said. “This is
not like the boom because they were buying here because they
want to live here, not because they want to make an
investment.”  Homebuilders that stalled production during the crash are
beginning to ramp up, said Metrostudy Chief Economist  Brad Hunter . Housing starts in the first quarter jumped 20 percent
from a year earlier, according to the Houston-based firm, which
tracks new construction in 84 metropolitan areas. In Phoenix,
starts jumped 58 percent and increased 30 percent in Northern
California, he said. Inventory of finished new homes was down
13.4 percent from a year earlier and the supply at the current
pace was 2.7 months, Hunter said.  “Twenty percent is a huge percentage increase but we are
coming off a very low level,” Hunter said. “It’s occurring
because builders finally got rid of their inventory, and demand
is starting to pick up.”  Fragile Recovery  Homebuyers are choosing to pay a premium for a new home
because  foreclosures  often require repair, and short sales,
where the property is sold for less than the amount owed, can
take too long to complete, Hunter said.  The jump in demand is encouraging, though the recovery in
housing is fragile and faces economic headwinds, including
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and possible U.S. government
budget cuts next year. While  unemployment  has dropped to 8.1
percent from 10 percent in October 2009, it’s still above the
10-year average of 6.6 percent.  The pace of new home sales last month was less than half
the average of the past 10 years, according to Commerce
Department data. While  property prices  fell 3.5 percent in
February, the smallest 12-month drop since February 2011, it
extended the decline since the 2006 peak to 35 percent.  Home sales are also limited by tight lending standards, as
lenders require higher down payments and credit scores.  ‘Sure Feels Good’  Toll Brothers has the advantage of selling to wealthier
buyers with better access to cash and debt. Potential acquirers
also have better access to jumbo mortgages, including an “18-
month lock option, which we haven’t had since Moby Dick was a
guppy,” Donald Salmon, who runs Toll Brothers’ mortgage company
said during the May 23 conference call.  “While domestic and global headline risk remains a concern
that could potentially undermine buyer confidence, with  mortgage
rates  at historic lows and inventory supplies dropping in many
markets, we are feeling better than we have at any time in the
past five years,” Robert Toll, executive chairman of the
builder, said during the call. “We would like to say we’re
back, but we need a little more confirmation. Nonetheless, it
sure feels good compared to the desert we’ve just crossed.”  Publicly-traded homebuilders are taking market share from
private firms because they have better access to financing and
are able to buy land and build in the best locations, said Foley
of Barclays. Toll Brothers rose 0.9 percent to $28.20 at 4:15
p.m. in New York, the highest since June 2007. The company has
gained 38 percent this year, compared with the 37 percent
advance of the 11-member Standard & Poor’s 1500 Homebuilding
 index .  Tax Credit  The top builders saw a 25 percent increase in orders in the
first quarter, and first quarter level was the highest since
2008, Foley said. Orders declined in the first quarter of every
other year since 2005 except for the first three months of 2010,
which had a 5 percent increase because of a temporary federal
government tax credit for homebuyers, Foley said.  Homebuilders are raising prices in the strongest markets
and have been able to cut back on incentives, he said.  “There’s more light and less tunnel,” Foley said. “This
is real demand that has come back into the market.”  Toll Brothers, which reported a second quarter profit of
$16.9 million, or 10 cents a share that beat estimates, was one
of a string of builders that reported order growth in the past
month, including  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based PulteGroup,
the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue and  Fort Worth , Texas-
based D.R. Horton Inc., the largest homebuilder by volume.  Beat Expectations  “This spring selling season beat almost everybody’s
expectations,” said Michael Widner, an analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. “But this was a strong quarter in
what is likely to be a bumpy and protracted recovery.”  Traffic is rising at PulteGroup’s developments in  Arizona ,
said Graham Epperson, the vice president of sales in the
company’s Arizona division.  Investors make up a small portion of buyers in Arizona,
Epperson said. Even the investors that are making purchases are
planning to hold on to the property for several years and rent
them out, unlike the speculators during the  housing boom  who
sought to quickly sell homes for a profit, he said.  Sales rose 42 percent this year through April compared with
a year earlier at David Weekley Homes, a closely held Houston-
based homebuilder, according to Chairman David Weekley, with
demand for homes in  Texas  the strongest.  The company, which cut 1,000 jobs in the housing slump, has
been hiring again, with 20 to 30 employees a month for the last
three or four months, he said.  “We have no reason to expect that this sales increase
won’t continue,” Weekley said. “We’re very encouraged.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  