-- Corona-Brewer Modelo Posts Weekly Gain on Beer Demand
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-25T20:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/modelo-set-for-weekly-gain-on-beer-demand-mexico-city-mover.html
Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC) , the brewer of
Corona beer, had its biggest weekly gain since October as
traders speculated that demand will remain intact even as
 Europe ’s debt crisis curbs consumer spending.  Modelo closed at 93.41 pesos in Mexico City, an advance of
6 percent this week, its largest weekly increase since Oct. 28.
The shares fell 0.9 percent today.  Investors are betting that consumers worldwide will keep
buying beer even as concern that  Greece  will exit the euro has
wiped about $4 trillion from global equity markets this month,
said Ivo Kovachev, who helps oversee $1 billion including Modelo
shares at JO Hambro Capital Management Ltd. in  London .  “The whole sector, almost everywhere, has done well”
because of the belief that beer consumption won’t slacken, he
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Modelo will also benefit from declines in the peso because
of its strong export business, Kovachev said. The peso has
fallen more than 7 percent against the dollar this month, the
largest decline among major Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Modelo’s  sales rose  10.6 percent to 21.3 billion pesos
($1.52 billion) during the first quarter. Exports  rose 3.2
percent  to $626 million and accounted for 29 percent of the
brewer’s volumes. Corona has been the top imported beer in the
U.S. since 1997.  “The peso’s depreciation should help its second-quarter
results,” Karla Miranda, an analyst at Grupo Bursatil Mexicano
in Mexico City, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  