-- Oil Rises on Euro-Bond Speculation to Trim Weekly Drop
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-25T13:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/oil-rises-trimming-fourth-weekly-drop-on-hopes-for-euro-bonds.html
Oil headed for a fourth weekly
decline in  New York  on concern that European Union leaders are
failing to arrive at a solution for the bloc’s debt crisis.  West Texas Intermediate was little changed, giving up an
earlier advance of as much as 0.7 percent. U.S. stock-index
futures extended losses, signaling the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index will trim a weekly gain, and the euro gave up gains
against the dollar amid concern that Spain’s regional
governments will lose access to  capital markets . Iran, OPEC’s
second-biggest crude producer, and world powers decided
yesterday they will meet again in June after they were unable to
negotiate a deal on the nation’s nuclear program.  “Risk aversion still remains in the driver seat,” said
 Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in London. “While forward fundamentals suggest a
floor around current levels, the direction for  oil prices  in the
lead-up to the next Greek elections in mid-June remains skewed
to the downside.”  Crude for July delivery was at $90.71 a barrel, 5 cents
higher in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 1:40 p.m. London time. It had gained as much as 66 cents to
$91.32 a barrel. Prices are down 0.8 percent this week and 8.2
percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement rose 27 cents to $106.82 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $16.10, compared with $15.89 yesterday.  The euro slipped 0.1 percent to $1.2516 after  Spain ’s
Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said the
government is analyzing “with all caution” requests from
regional governments to help them regain access to capital
markets.  -- Editors:  John Buckley , Rachel Graham  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  