-- Oil Rises on U.S. Consumer Confidence, Iran Inspections
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-05-29T12:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/oil-fluctuates-amid-euro-bond-speculation-ample-u-s-sto.html
(Corrects enrichment increase in second paragraph of story
published May 25.)  Oil rose on reports showing that U.S.
 consumer confidence  gained and the  United Nations ’ atomic agency
found evidence Iran boosted its output of enriched uranium that
could be used for a nuclear weapon.  Futures increased for a second day as the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer  sentiment 
advanced to 79.3, the most since 2007. Iran increased its supply
of 20 percent-enriched uranium by a third, to 145 kilograms (320
pounds), since February, the International Atomic Energy Agency
said today in a restricted 11-page report seen by Bloomberg.  “The consumer confidence numbers and Iranian headlines are
giving us a lift,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
Investors also bid the price higher because “we’re heading into
a long weekend,” he said.  Crude oil for July delivery rose 20 cents to settle at
$90.86 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Front-month
futures declined 0.7 percent this week and are down 8.1 percent
this year. Prices have declined 18 percent from a March 1
intraday peak of $110.55.  There will be no floor trading in New York on May 28
because of the Memorial Day holiday.  Brent oil for July settlement rose 28 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $106.83 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s
 premium  to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate crude was at
$15.97, up from $15.89 yesterday.  The confidence measure was projected to hold at the
preliminary reading of 77.8, according to the median forecast of
60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Consumer Confidence  “Rising consumer sentiment is the main thing supporting
the market,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy
& Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts.  UN inspectors reported they’d found “the presence of
particles” of 27 percent-enriched uranium at  Iran ’s Fordo
facility. The particles were a result of “technical reasons
beyond the operator’s control,” Iran told the Vienna-based
agency, which is looking into the matter. Uranium enriched over
20 percent is technically highly enriched, though most nuclear
bombs use the heavy metal purified to 90 percent levels.  “News stories like this underscore the reality that the
nuclear issues with Iran remain unresolved,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-
based energy consultant. “Iran is not likely to go easy and
quietly to the negotiating table and offer full disclosure,
transparency or compliance.”  Nuclear Negotiations  Iran, the second-biggest crude producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , and world
powers decided yesterday that they will meet again next month
after they were unable to reach a deal on the nation’s nuclear
program. Negotiators from the U.S., the U.K., France,  Germany ,
China and Russia plan to meet their Iranian counterparts June 18
and 19 in Moscow.  Prices also advanced as German Chancellor Angela Merkel
left the door open to a compromise on debt sharing in the euro
area and Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti said most European
Union leaders at a summit this week backed the idea of issuing
common debt, and Italy can help coax Germany to act for Europe’s
“common good.”  Euro-Area Bonds  “Chatter about euro-area bonds is giving the market some
support,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut. “After falling $16
in six weeks, it’s time to take a little break.”  Merkel’s veto on allowing Germany to underwrite joint debt
issuance in the euro region is under fire. While she refused to
back joint euro-area bonds at this week’s Brussels summit,
Germany’s opposition parties wrung a concession from the
chancellor on her return to Berlin yesterday to reconsider a
separate proposal on common liability for sovereign debt.  Italy’s Monti said in an interview on Italian television
station La7 yesterday that “ Europe  can have euro bonds soon.”
Germany has an interest in ensuring no country leaves the euro,
and Greece will probably remain in the currency union, he said.  “The unresolved nature of the Iranian nuclear program
provides further upside risk to  oil prices  at a time when global
growth and European sovereign debt concerns seem to be
dominating the headlines,” Schenker said.  The euro fell against the dollar and yen for the fourth day
amid concern Spain’s regional governments may lose access to
 capital markets . The shared currency traded at almost its lowest
level since July 2010 after a Greek opinion poll showed an anti-
bailout party gaining support before June 17 elections.  Junk Status  Bankia SA (BKIA) ,  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  and  Bankinter SA (BKT)  had
their credit ratings cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s , which
cited Spain’s weakening economy.  “The fact that we are holding up signals that negative
news from Europe has already been priced in,” Lynch said.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 224,461
contracts as of 3:06 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 392,146
contracts yesterday, the lowest level since April 27 and 32
percent below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.44
million, the least since Feb. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  