-- Hollande Visits Afghanistan, Promises to French Pullout
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-05-25T12:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/hollande-visits-afghanistan-promises-to-french-pullout.html
President  Francois Hollande  ended his
first visit to Afghanistan today after telling French troops and
President  Hamid Karzai  that he was pressing ahead with a
campaign promise to withdraw all combat soldiers this year.  Hollande, who took office on May 16, completed a six-hour
visit in Afghanistan accompanied by his foreign and defense
ministers. Hollande first stopped at the Nijrab base in the
Kapisa region to meet with French soldiers and then went to
Kabul to meet with Karzai. The two held a joint press conference
and Hollande then met members of the local French community.  “The time for Afghan sovereignty has come,” Hollande said
in remarks in Nijrab. “Are we abandoning  Afghanistan ? No. Our
commitment will come in another form,” he said citing support
for the training of Afghan security forces and cooperation in
the cultural, health-care and education fields.  France  plans to withdraw most of the 3,308 soldiers based
in the central Asian country. Hollande said he will order the
pullout of 2,000 combat troops by the end of 2012, a year ahead
of the schedule announced by his predecessor,  Nicolas Sarkozy .
The 600 soldiers stationed in Nijrab will be replaced by 600
Afghan troops he said.  “The pullout won’t be easy to organize,” Hollande said in
a speech to the French community in Kabul.  NATO Meeting  Hollande told a May 21 NATO meeting in  Chicago  that the
timing and pace of France’s withdrawal hasn’t been set. Trainers
for the Afghan army and troops in charge of equipment withdrawal
will stay longer, he said.  “After 2014, there won’t be any French troops in
Afghanistan,” he told reporters on May 21.  The withdrawal will be “orderly” and done using common
sense in cooperation with allies in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, Hollande said.  A total of 83 French soldiers have died in Afghanistan
since France’s mission began in 2001. “We must limit the number
of casualties as much as possible,” Hollande said in Kabul
today.  At one point, France contributed almost 4,000 of the
130,000 troops in the U.S.-led  International Security Assistance
Force  in Afghanistan, the fourth-largest contingent.  “The terrorist threat targeting our territory is partly
under control, though it hasn’t disappeared. We have
accomplished our mission; it is ending,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  