-- London Occupy Granted One Week to Find a Case to Fight Eviction
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-05-25T13:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/london-occupy-granted-one-week-to-find-a-case-to-fight-eviction.html
A  London  council asked a court to
evict protesters against global financial inequality from a park
on the fringes of the City of London.  Judge Gary Hickinbottom gave the Occupy London protesters a
week to find a lawyer and put together a defense.  “I am not convinced that as matters currently stand that
the defendants are able to overcome the modest first hurdle,
that which they have to clear, to substantially defend the
application,” said Hickinbottom.  The Occupy Movement began in September, when protesters
took up residence in  New York ’s Zuccotti Park to highlight the
plight of Americans who suffered even as the largest U.S. banks
recovered from the 2008 financial crisis. Occupy London
protesters have cost the  City of London  and its police authority
more than 1.1 million pounds in legal and monitoring costs,
according to information obtained in a Freedom of Information
request from Bloomberg.  Islington Borough council on May 11 served the protesters
with a legal notice of eviction from the site, an overspill of
the original camp at St Paul’s Cathedral, giving them until May
18 to clear the square of tents and other temporary structures.  “We have a first world environment that has a third world
camp in it,” said Edwina Mayne, one of a number of people who
spoke on behalf of the protesters. “The possession order is
disproportionate and too quick.”  Chris Roe, a spokesman for Islington council declined to
immediately comment.  The London council estimated the damage to trees, pathways
and flower beds at the square at 20,000 pounds ($32,100),
according to the eviction notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  