-- One Hyde Park Developer Sells Abu Dhabi Bank Site in London
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-05-25T13:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/one-hyde-park-developer-sells-abu-dhabi-bank-site-in-london.html
The developer of the One Hyde Park
apartment complex in  London ’s affluent Knightsbridge sold the
last of three retail spaces in the property for more than 17
million pounds ($26.6 million).  The 2,982 square-foot (277 square-meter) space currently
occupied by  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (ADIB)  PJSC, was sold to an
undisclosed overseas buyer, developer Project Grande (Guernsey)
Ltd. said in a statement today. The company said in February
that it sought at least 21 million pounds.  One Hyde Park was developed by a venture between Christian Candy’s CPC Group and Qatar Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber al Thani’s closely held Waterknights. Candy
conceived the 86-apartment complex with his brother, Nick. Sales
of homes valued at more than 1.5 billion pounds have been
completed there, Project Grande said in February. The retail
space is one of three in the building, which is about 300 meters
(980 feet) from Harrods department store.  Grigory Guselnikov, a Russian entrepreneur, bought the
space rented by watchmaker Rolex Group for more than 13 million
pounds in August, broker  Savills Plc (SVS)  said. The space housing a
McLaren sports-car dealership sold for more than 11 million
pounds two months later, two people with knowledge of the deal
said at the time.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank, the  United Arab Emirates ’ second-
biggest Shariah-compliant bank, has 14 years left on its lease
for the site, Project Grande said in February. The bank leases
the real estate for 800,000 pounds a year, giving its landlord
an initial yield of about 4.4 percent at a 17 million-pound
purchase price. The site was the bank’s first branch in the
U.K., according to the developer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 