-- Pakistan Seeks Inflation Below 10% as Risks Threaten Growth
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-05-25T05:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/pakistan-seeks-inflation-below-10-as-risks-threaten-growth-1-.html
Pakistan  will seek to reduce
inflation to less than 10 percent for the next fiscal year as it
grapples with the fastest pace of price increases in  Asia .  The inflation goal for the 12 months starting July 1, 2012
is 9.5 percent, the prime minister’s office said in a statement
in Islamabad yesterday. Earlier this month, the government
projected gross domestic product will rise  4.3 percent  in the
period, up from 3.7 percent in the current fiscal year.  Pakistan’s economy has been hurt by blackouts, a trade
deficit, diminished aid flows and an insurgency on the Afghan
border. The government plans to boost spending on roads, health
care and education to support growth and is due to present its
last  federal budget  next week before elections that must be held
by February.  “The economy is facing huge challenges,” said Khalid Iqbal Siddiqui, head of research at Karachi-based United Bank
Ltd. “Power blackouts, reduced aid inflows and the law and
order situation are the key constraints that will keep growth
depressed in the next fiscal year.”  Pakistan’s rupee has weakened about 6.5 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months. Domestic risks and the threat to
global growth from  Europe ’s debt crisis have curbed demand for
the currency.  Farm output will climb 4 percent next fiscal year, up from
3.1 percent in 2011-2012, according to yesterday’s statement.
The industrial sector may expand 4.1 percent, from an estimated
3.6 percent this financial year, the projections showed.  Inflation Risk  The targets were set in a meeting of the National Economic
Council, which is headed by Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani .  Pakistan’s inflation accelerated to an eight-month high of
11.27 percent in April, limiting scope to cut  interest rates  to
support the $200 billion economy. The pace of price increases is
the fastest in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The central bank left borrowing costs unchanged at 12
percent last month for a third straight meeting, after cutting
them by 2 percentage points in 2011.  The  International Monetary Fund  said in February that
Pakistan should broaden the tax base, curb some subsidies and
curtail central bank financing of the  budget deficit . It
described the economy as “highly vulnerable.”  The council proposed to spend 873 billion rupees ($9.5
billion) on development projects in the year starting July 1, up
19.5 percent from 730 billion rupees in the current fiscal
period. The council originally proposed expenditure of 863
billion rupees yesterday, before increasing the planned outlay
by 10 billion rupees in a revised statement later the same day.  The  Asian Development Bank  has said the power deficit in
Pakistan and damage to the cotton crop from floods last year may
restrict economic growth to 3.6 percent in the year ending June.  The government will unveil the federal budget in parliament
in the first week of next month, according to local media
reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  