-- Philippine Judge Reveals Undeclared Assets in Impeachment Trial
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-25T12:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/philippine-judge-reveals-undeclared-assets-in-impeachment-trial.html
Philippine Chief Justice Renato Corona said he had $2.4 million in bank accounts that he didn’t
declare, less than the $12 million he was alleged to have
amassed in earlier testimony during his impeachment trial.  Corona told a Senate tribunal today that his failure to
declare the deposits didn’t violate a law requiring public
workers to declare their assets, liabilities and net worth
because these are secret under Philippine law. He said he would
allow the court to probe his accounts. The tribunal instead
ruled that it wouldn’t hear more evidence, and the case would be
decided following closing arguments on May 28.  “This court is not a producer of evidence, it is a hearer
of facts,” Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile said in court.  Corona faces charges of hiding his wealth and handing down
rulings that favored former President  Gloria Arroyo . Philippine
President  Benigno Aquino  says ousting him is crucial to an anti-
corruption campaign that has seen the government pursue charges
against Arroyo, whom Aquino accuses of rigging elections.  Corona “has proven, by his demeanor and his very own
statements, the validity of the charges against him, and
provided evidence more than sufficient to determine his fate,”
Edwin Lacierda, Aquino’s spokesman, said in a statement today.  Aquino needs 16 votes from the 23-member Senate tribunal to
secure a conviction.  The chief justice, in his second appearance before the
tribunal, also said he has 80 million pesos ($1.83 million) in
bank accounts, not all of which was disclosed in an asset
statement because it is jointly owned by relatives of his wife.  Corona said Aquino had used the country’s tax agency, Land
Registration Authority, ombudsman and Anti-Money Laundering
Council in seeking his removal from office.  Corona testified on May 22 that he has four  U.S. dollar 
accounts that he didn’t previously declare, not 82 as Ombudsman
Conchita Carpio-Morales alleged on May 14. Corona also has three
peso-denominated accounts, not 31 as alleged, he said.  Arroyo appointed Corona to the  Supreme Court  in 2002 and
promoted him to be the country’s top judge a month before her
term ended in 2010. Before his trial, Corona vowed to remain in
office and accused Aquino of undermining democracy by trying to
appoint his own magistrates to the court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  