-- Philippines Will Curb Peso Volatility If Needed, Tetangco Says
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-05-25T11:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/philippines-will-curb-peso-volatility-if-needed-tetangco-says.html
The Philippine central bank will curb
excessive currency movements if needed, Governor Amando Tetangco
said, as the peso slumped to a four-month low amid a selloff in
emerging-market assets.  The peso’s weakness and the pace of its decline is
“broadly in line” with other regional currencies, Tetangco
said in e-mails to Bloomberg News today, adding traders have
shifted away from the euro into so-called safe haven assets such
as the U.S. dollar and Treasuries. The central bank is studying
measures to improve its policy tools to manage domestic
liquidity aimed at avoiding a build-up in inflationary
pressures, Tetangco said.  Emerging-market policy makers are stepping up efforts to
curb volatility in financial markets and support currencies hurt
by the threat of a Greek exit from the euro.  Brazil  auctioned
currency swap contracts and  Mexico  sold dollars for the first
time since 2009 this week to prop up their exchange rates.  “In a period of heightened uncertainty, market
participants take on defensive stances,” Tetangco said. “This
trend may continue. But when more normalcy settles, we could see
a move back to assets of emerging-market sovereigns and
corporates that have shown fair resiliency.”  Asian currencies fell for a fourth week, the longest
stretch of losses this year. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar
Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the yen dropped 0.5 percent this week and touched
114.21 today, the lowest level since Dec. 15. Funds based abroad
pulled $1.5 billion from equity markets in  Taiwan ,  South Korea ,
 Indonesia  and  Thailand  in the first four days of this week,
exchange data show.  The Philippine peso weakened 1.2 percent to 43.755 this
week.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is prepared to take measures
against speculation, such as carry trades, involving its short-
term deposits, Tetangco said in April. In a carry trade, an
investor makes money by borrowing in a country with low  interest
rates , converting the money to a currency where borrowing costs
are higher and lending the amount at that higher rate.  “We are watchful to see how else we can fine-tune our
other policy tools like the special deposit accounts, to help
ensure these continue to enable us to effectively manage the
domestic liquidity generated by foreign-exchange flows,”
Tetangco said. Special deposit accounts are not open to overseas
investors and have tenors of two weeks and one month.  Bangko Sentral is monitoring the actions of participants in
the foreign-exchange market, as well as that of policy makers in
other countries, Tetangco said.  “Our policy has always been to maintain a presence in the
foreign-exchange markets only to contain excesses in market
movements, and to ensure that the amount of liquidity in the
system would not be inflationary,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  