-- Polish April Retail-Sales Growth Slows as Expansion Eases Pace
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-05-25T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/polish-april-retail-sales-growth-slows-as-expansion-eases-pace.html
Polish  retail-sales growth  slowed in
April for a third month as expansion eased pace in the European
Union’s largest eastern member, bolstering arguments for the
central bank to refrain from raising borrowing costs.  Sales advanced 5.5 percent from a year earlier, compared
with a 10.7 percent increase in March, the  Central Statistical
Office  in Warsaw said today. The figure compares with a 9.3
percent median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Retail sales fell 2.4 percent from the previous month.  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised its main rate by a quarter
point to 4.75 percent earlier this month on sustained high price
growth and expectations the country’s economy will avoid a steep
slowdown. The bank didn’t rule out another rate increase.  Central banker  Jerzy Hausner  said yesterday that the
Monetary Policy Council will consider tightening rates at its
forthcoming meetings, “though more evidence is needed before
raising borrowing costs further.” The council will hold its
next rate meeting on June 5-6.  “The retail data would have to show a big upside surprise
to generate any expectations for interest-rate increases on the
market for short-term yields,” Ernest Pytlarczyk and Marcin Mazurek, economists at BRE Bank in Warsaw, wrote today in a e-
mailed research note.  Today’s report capped a series of data in April indicating
the Polish economy is losing momentum. Industrial output growth
rose 2.9 percent last month, less than a half of the pace from a
year ago, while employment and wages grew at the slowest rate in
almost two years. The government forecasts the economy will slow
to 2.5 percent this year from 4.3 percent last year.  In a separate report, the statistics office said the
 unemployment rate  fell to 12.9 percent in April from 13.3
percent in the previous month. That matched the median forecast
of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  