-- U.K. Gilt Yields Fall to Records Amid BOE Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-25T16:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/pound-falls-versus-euro-on-bets-central-bank-to-resume-stimulus.html
Britain’s two- and five-year
government bond yields fell to records amid speculation the Bank
of England will add to its 325 billion-pound ($510 billion)
program of asset purchases to rekindle U.K. growth.  The pound posted its fourth weekly drop against the dollar
before reports next week that economists said will show  consumer
confidence  worsened and manufacturing shrank, adding to signs
the economy is contracting. Sterling pared a drop versus the
euro amid concern  Spain ’s regional governments may lose access
to  capital markets . The U.K. sold 3.5 billion pounds of bills.  “The odds are shortening that the Bank of England is going
to have to do more, but it won’t be until the next meeting at
the earliest, barring a dramatic escalation of the crisis,”
said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in London. “There is  risk aversion  generally
about what’s going to happen in the  euro zone  and safe havens
such as gilts are benefiting.”  The two-year gilt yield fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 0.23 percent at 5:51 p.m.  London  time after
declining to 0.216 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 1992. The rate slid eight basis points in
the week. The 2.25 percent note due in March 2014 traded at
103.58. The five-year yield decreased two basis points to 0.72
percent and reached a record 0.707 percent.  Pressure on Cameron  The pound slipped 0.2 percent $1.5647, having tumbled 1.1
percent this week, and slid to the lowest level since March 13.
The run of four straight weekly declines is the longest since
the period ended Sept. 23. Sterling was little changed at 79.98
pence per euro after earlier dropping as much as 0.6 percent.  Gilts rallied two days ago, when minutes from the May
meeting of the central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee showed
that members voted 8-1 to halt its program of bond purchases and
that the decision was “finely balanced” for some of them. The
 International Monetary Fund  said on May 22 the U.K. central bank
needs to inject more stimulus into the economy and said tax cuts
may be needed unless growth strengthens.  Gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent last quarter, the
 Office for National Statistics  said yesterday, a larger decline
than last month’s estimate for a 0.2 percent contraction.
Construction output slumped 4.8 percent, the most in three
years.  The IMF comments ramped up the pressure on Prime Minister
 David Cameron  to do more to spur growth, with his political
opponents saying that Britain’s deeper-than-expected recession
is the result of too much government-imposed austerity, rather
than the turmoil in the euro-region.  Break-Even Rate  U.K. debt has returned 3 percent this month, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, outperforming German bunds, which
gained 2 percent, and U.S. Treasuries, which rose 0.9 percent.
The Debt Management office said today it was starting
consultations with stakeholders on the potential sale of gilts
maturing in more than 50 years.  A gauge of the inflation outlook fell to the lowest since
December after the  Times newspaper  said the Statistics Authority
may recommend changing the way it calculates the retail-price
index.  The U.K. 10-year break-even rate, the difference in yield
between nominal and inflation-linked bonds, dropped to the
lowest since Dec. 14, narrowing as much as seven basis points to
2.55 percentage points.  Sterling Slips  The amendment to the retail-price index could lower
interest payments on  government bonds  tied to inflation and, if
it is made, the  Bank of England  would have to determine if it
would have a “material” effect on gilt holders, the London-
based Times said.  Sterling slipped 0.2 percent this week, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar gained 1.1 percent, and
the euro weakened 1.3 percent.  The pound may fall to as low as $1.5465 if it breaks
through two key levels of support, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG technical analysts.  The U.K. currency may slip to that level, which represents
the 78.6 percent Fibonacci retracement of the 2012 rally, should
it fall below $1.5640, the 61.8 percent retracement of that
move, and the March low of $1.56, analysts led by  David Sneddon ,
the head of technical analysis in London, wrote in an e-mailed
note to clients.  Support refers to an area on a price graph where buy orders
may be clustered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  