-- Rajaratnam Had P&G Board ‘Guy,’ Gupta Trial Witness Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/rajaratnam-had-p-g-board-guy-witness-says-citing-brother.html
Michael Cardillo, an ex-Galleon Group
LLC portfolio manager, testified he traded on  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG)  stock in 2009 after learning that Raj Rajaratnam had a
“guy” on the consumer-product’s company’s board.  Cardillo testified yesterday as a witness in the insider-
trading trial of  Rajat Gupta , who was also a  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  director. Gupta is accused of leaking inside information to
Rajaratnam that he learned at meetings of the bank’s board and
of the board of P&G, where he was also a director.  Cardillo said he and two other portfolio managers sold
short P&G stock on Jan. 29, 2009, betting that it would fall. He
told jurors in federal court in Manhattan that he was directed
to do so by Rajaratnam’s brother, R.K., who was also a Galleon
 fund manager . Cardillo said he was told that the part of P&G’s
earnings known as “organic growth” weren’t as high as
previously expected.  “I was told by R.K. that Procter & Gamble was expecting to
come in 4 to 6 percent but was actually going to come in lower
at 2 to 4 percent,” Cardillo said.  ‘Raj’s Guy’  U.S. District Court Judge Jed Rakoff, who’s presiding over
the trial, took over questioning of the witness, asking Cardillo
what R.K. Rajaratnam had actually told him.  “He told me he was hearing from Raj’s guy on the P&G
board,” Cardillo told jurors.  The government said that after the alleged tips were made,
certain Galleon funds began selling short 180,000 shares,
beginning on Jan. 29, 2009. The company announced their earnings
a day later.  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is charged
with conspiracy and securities fraud. He has pleaded not guilty
to the charges.  R.K. Rajaratnam hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing. A
phone message left at R.K. Rajaratnam’s home seeking comment on
yesterday’s testimony wasn’t immediately returned.  Cardillo, who pleaded guilty to  insider-trading  charges and
is cooperating with the government, testified last year at the
trial of former Galleon portfolio manager  Zvi Goffer , his
brother Emanuel Goffer and Michael Kimelman. All three were
convicted of insider trading.  Cardillo is scheduled to continue his testimony May 29 when
the trial resumes.  Other Witnesses  At a hearing outside the jury’s presence at the end of
court yesterday, prosecutors said they might conclude their case
by the end of next week after calling eight or nine more
witnesses. The trial began May 21.  In listing his probable witnesses, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Reed Brodsky didn’t name Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd Blankfein, who testified as a government witness at
Rajaratnam’s insider-trading trial last year. The fund manager
was convicted and is serving an 11-year prison term.  One government witness may be former Galleon trader  Adam Smith , who pleaded guilty to insider trading and is cooperating
with prosecutors. Smith might testify about his and Rajaratnam’s
relationship with Goldman Sachs Managing Director  David Loeb ,
Brodsky said. Loeb hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing.  ‘Wrong Man’  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , has argued his client is
innocent and that the government has “the wrong man on trial.”
In hearings outside the jury’s presence, Naftalis has suggested
Loeb was the source of Rajaratnam’s tips.  Brodsky confirmed at a May 23 conference with the judge
that the government had evidence that Loeb tipped Rajaratnam
about technology stocks, including  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Brodsky said there was no evidence that Loeb
provided Rajaratnam tips about the stocks at issue in this case.  “The defense has made much of -- there is a lot of dust
around the name David Loeb and there is certainly a lot of
statements from the defense about David Loeb and putting on a
Loeb defense,” Brodsky told the judge.  Brodsky said prosecutors hadn’t decided whether they would
call Smith as a witness and explained to Rakoff that the
portfolio manager had direct dealings with Loeb and could rebut
any defense assertions that Loeb had provided information.  “Mr. Smith had direct communications with Mr. Loeb, prior
to Mr. Rajaratnam having any communications with Mr. Loeb,”
Brodsky said. “It was Mr. Smith who was the primary
communicator with Mr. Loeb for most of the people at Galleon.”  Naftalis said prosecutors could call Smith, saying, “Adam
Smith is somebody who doesn’t have any material evidence to give
against us. He’s not a co-conspirator of ours. We have nothing
to do with Adam Smith.”  Naftalis declined to comment after court yesterday.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to comment on
the prosecutor’s statements about Loeb.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  