-- RBS Loses London Bid to Block $100 Million U.S. CDO Lawsuit
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-05-25T12:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/rbs-loses-london-bid-to-block-100-million-u-s-cdo-lawsuit.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  lost
its bid to block Highland Capital Management LP from suing it in
Texas for fraud and unjust enrichment in the collapse of a
collateralized-debt obligation, a London judge ruled.  Highland is seeking $100 million from RBS over the 2008
termination of its CDO and the seizure of underlying assets,
which happened at the height of the debt crisis following the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  While Judge  Michael Burton  ruled in 2010 that RBS’s
decision to terminate the deal was lawful because “the autumn
2008 financial crash ended any chance of public interest in such
securities,” he refused to grant an injunction stopping the
Texas proceedings.  In saying that Highland, based in  Dallas , could continue to
pursue RBS in Texas, Burton criticized RBS and one of its key
witnesses, Sam Griffiths, for “improper conduct” during the
proceedings. Griffiths, a managing director at the bank,
“lied” about the transfer of loans from RBS’s trading book to
its banking book, Burton said in a written judgment.  Griffiths didn’t respond to an e-mail or phone call to his
office seeking comment.  “While the judge did not award an injunction, he found
that RBS had a strong case to advance to the Texas court for the
dismissal of Highland’s claims,” RBS said in an e-mailed
statement.  Highland spokesman Stefan Prelog declined to comment.  ‘Sham Auction’  Highland claims Edinburgh-based RBS held a “sham auction”
to ensure it could get the loans at “bargain basement prices”
and make a profit, according to court papers in the  Texas  suit.
The firm, founded by James Dondero and Mark Okada in 1993,
manages about $23 billion in assets, chiefly in credit markets.  During the London trial, witnesses including RBS’ former
head of credit trading Stewart Booth told how the lender in 2008
used an accounting provision to reclassify loans and yield a
windfall of about 1.2 billion pounds.  Judge Burton said the so-called IAS/39 accounting move
“and the opportunity for massive profit resulting from it was a
crucial event for RBS.” In his judgment, he cited an e-mail
sent by Griffiths to a colleague at the time saying: “Awesome
... we are making the bank rich.”  The judge also today dismissed Highland’s application to
overturn the 2010 decision. He awarded RBS 19 million pounds in
that decision because the assets seized from Highland didn’t
cover the bank’s loan to purchase them.  “The judge confirmed today he was correct in 2010 to
decide that Highland owes RBS approximately 21 million euros,”
RBS said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  