-- Treasuries Head for First Weekly Loss Since March
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-25T01:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/treasuries-head-for-first-weekly-loss-since-march.html
Treasuries headed for a weekly loss,
snapping a rally that sent yields toward record lows, after
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said Greece will probably
stay in the euro bloc.  U.S. 10-year notes interrupted a nine-week surge as
European Union leaders ended a summit yesterday by urging Greek
voters to elect a government on June 17 that makes the spending
cuts needed to keep the country in the euro. Concern that Greece
would abandon the currency as it battles a recession drove the
surge in demand for the relative safety of  U.S. debt .  “Yields will stay low, but the rally is losing momentum,”
said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $75.3
billion in Tokyo as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest publicly traded bank.
“European governments are defending the euro. That’s the
priority. The fear of the destruction of the euro will fade.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed today at 1.78
percent as of 10 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 1.75 percent security due in May
2022 was 99 3/4. The yield slid to 1.6886 percent on May 17,
approaching the record low of 1.6714 percent set in September.  The rate increased six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, this week. The last time yields rose on a weekly basis
was March 16.  ‘Euro Bonds Soon’  A majority of European Union leaders at the Brussels summit
this week backed joint euro-area bonds as a way to help
governments raise money, Italy’s prime minister said.  “ Europe  can have euro bonds soon,” Monti said on Italian
television station La7 yesterday.  Greece  will probably remain in
the 17-nation currency region, he said.  A $29 billion sale of seven-year U.S. notes yesterday drew
a record-low yield of 1.203 percent.  Treasuries fell yesterday after Federal Reserve Bank of New
York President  William Dudley  said he doesn’t see the need for
additional stimulus.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, was to 2.16 percentage points, close to the average of
2.15 percent over the past decade.  Treasuries are  scheduled to close  at 2 p.m. New York time
and remain shut on May 28 in observance of Memorial Day in the
U.S., according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  