-- Treasuries Rise on Concern Europe Crisis Will Slow Growth
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-25T06:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/treasuries-rise-on-concern-europe-crisis-will-slow-growth.html
Treasuries rose, rallying from losses
yesterday, on concern  Europe ’s fiscal crisis will slow economic
growth around the world.  U.S. 10-year yields were nine basis points from the record
low as speculation that Greece will abandon the euro drives
demand for the relative safety of U.S. debt.  Societe Generale 
SA, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal
Reserve , said it’s still bullish. Treasuries returned 1 percent
this month as of yesterday, based on Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Investors tracking the MSCI All-Country World
Index of  stocks  lost 8.1 percent including reinvested dividends.  “Slowing growth in the U.S. and  China  and the risk of a
recession in Europe are helping Treasuries,” said Will Tseng,
who invests in  U.S. debt  at Taipei-based Shin Kong Life, which
has the equivalent of $52 billion in assets. “The fundamental
question of whether Greece will leave the  euro zone  is still
there.” Tseng said he has been buying 10-year notes this month,
including purchases over the past two days.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.77 percent as of 6:51 a.m. in  London ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The 1.75 percent
security due in May 2022 advanced 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 99 27/32. The yield slid to 1.6886 percent on
May 17, approaching the record low of 1.6714 percent set in
September.  Record Low Yields  A five-year Treasury auction this week drew a record-low
rate of 0.748 percent, and a seven-year note sold at a least-
ever yield of 1.203.  Japan ’s 10-year rate rose 1 1/2 basis point to 0.88 percent
today. It was as low as 0.815 percent on May 18, a level not
seen since 2003.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks dropped as much as
0.7 percent to the lowest level since Dec. 21, helping increase
demand for debt.  Treasuries are  scheduled to close  at 2 p.m. New York time
and remain shut on May 28 for the Memorial Day holiday in the
U.S., according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association in New York.  China’s biggest banks may fall short of loan targets for
the first time in at least seven years, three bank officials
with knowledge of the matter said.  U.S. Durable Goods  U.S. companies placed fewer orders for computers, machinery
and other capital equipment for a second month, according to a
government report yesterday. European services and manufacturing
output contracted more than economists forecast, a survey of
purchasing managers showed yesterday.  Treasuries fell yesterday after European Union leaders
ended a summit in Brussels by urging  Greece ’s voters to elect a
government on June 17 that makes the spending cuts needed to
keep the country in the euro.  The difference between two-year swap  rates  and same-
maturity U.S. debt shrank to 34 basis points from this month’s
high of 42 basis points on May 16, indicating emerging demand
for higher-yielding assets.  Swap rates are usually higher than those on government debt
because they are based on  bank transactions  that contain credit
risk.  Treasury “yields will stay low, but the rally is losing
momentum,” said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $75.3 billion in  Tokyo  as chief fund investor at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s biggest
publicly traded bank. “European governments are defending the
euro. That’s the priority. The fear of the destruction of the
euro will fade.”  Shimomura said he’s sticking with his bets on longer-term
Treasuries, the ones that gain most in a rally.  ‘Bullish’ Societe Generale  “We remain bullish U.S. Treasuries, for lack of better
alternatives,” according to a report that Ciaran O’Hagan, the
head of European interest-rate strategy at Societe Generale in
Paris, sent by e-mail yesterday. Europe’s decision-making
process is “dysfunctional,” leaving “markets hostage to
uncertainty.”  Record-low yields are signaling that inflation is in check,
said  Jack Malvey , the chief global markets strategist at Bank of
 New York  Mellon, which has and $1.3 trillion under management.  “There is an inflationary signal, which is not to worry
about it over the very near term,” Malvey said yesterday on the
“Bloomberg Surveillance” radio program with Ken Prewitt and
 Tom Keene .  Investors demand 2.56 percentage points of  extra yield  to
buy 30-year bonds instead of two-year notes. The spread narrowed
to 2.48 percentage points on May 17, a seven-month low. Thirty-
year bonds are more sensitive to inflation because of their long
maturity.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, was 2.16 percentage points, in line with the average over
the past decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  