-- Renesas Hits Record Low After Report of Cuts: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-05-28T09:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/renesas-said-to-plan-raising-1-3-billion-cutting-10-000-jobs.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  fell to the
lowest level on record after the company was said to be planning
to eliminate 10,000 jobs and raise 100 billion yen ($1.3
billion) under the latest draft of a restructuring plan.  The world’s biggest maker of automotive microcontrollers
presented the proposal last week to its workers’ union and
lenders Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. and Mizuho Financial
Group Inc., a person briefed on the matter said May 25. The job
cuts would amount to almost a quarter of the company’s 42,800
employees as it seeks to return to profit.  Renesas will explain the plan to its main shareholders
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ,  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503)  and  NEC Corp. (6701)  this week,
according to the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because it may change. It probably will ask the three companies
to buy shares to raise 50 billion yen, the Yomiuri newspaper
reported on May 22 without saying where it got the information.  The chipmaker’s shares dropped 11 percent to close at 244
yen in  Tokyo , the lowest since its July 2003 initial public
offering. More than 6.7 million shares exchanged hands, compared
with a six-month daily average of about 770,000.  NEC, the top shareholder of Renesas with a 35 percent
stake, tumbled 9.2 percent to 108 yen, while Mitsubishi Electric
gained 0.3 percent and Hitachi dropped 0.4 percent.  “Renesas fell on concerns over whether the company can
really sell shares,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps oversee
$6.6 billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “There
are also concerns that a further investment in Renesas would
hurt NEC’s financial strength.”  Job Cuts  The company may need to eliminate about 12,000 jobs, Takeo Miyamoto, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a May 23 report.  Job cuts may reach 14,000,  Kyodo News  reported May 26,
without saying where the information was obtained.  “We acknowledge the need for job cuts though nothing has
been decided,” Shinichi Iwamoto, a senior vice president of
Renesas, told reporters in Tokyo today.  Renesas may sell some of its 19 production plants in Japan,
including one in Tsuruoka, Yamagata prefecture, Yomiuri reported
yesterday after saying last week the company plans an alliance
with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  Cheng-Ming Lin, a director in charge of specialty
technology at TSMC, who also met reporters today on a plan to
collaborate with Renesas on developing and manufacturing
microcontrollers, declined to comment whether the company is
considering a plant from Renesas.  Top Shareholders  Renesas, 91 percent  owned  by NEC, Hitachi and Mitsubishi
Electric combined, posted a  net loss  of 62.6 billion yen in the
year ended March 31.  The major shareholders of Renesas may consider taking
“some kind of action” to support the chipmaker if asked,
Kenichiro Yamanishi, president of Tokyo-based Mitsubishi
Electric, said May 21.  NEC has no plan to make an additional investment in
Renesas, NEC spokesman Takehiko Kato said the following day.
Hitachi hasn’t received any requests from Renesas, spokesman
Hirotaka Ono also said May 22.  Renesas was formed in 2010 after the merger of money-losing
chipmakers Renesas Technology Corp. -- a venture between Hitachi
and Mitsubishi Electric -- and NEC Electronics Corp.  Elpida Memory Inc., which shares the same origin as
Renesas, filed for bankruptcy in February after posting losses
for five straight quarters because of falling prices of the main
memory used in personal computers. The Tokyo-based company was
formed in 1999 after merging Hitachi and NEC’s dynamic random-
access memory business. Mitsubishi Electric later separated its
DRAM unit and combined it with Elpida.  Renesas makes semiconductors that are used in products
ranging from automobiles to consumer electronics for tasks
including triggering air bags in cars and controlling  DVD
players . The company’s  customers  include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Sony (6758)  and
Nintendo Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  