-- Romney Struggles to Steal Bush’s Education Playbook
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-05-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/romney-struggles-to-steal-bush-s-education-playbook.html
Mitt Romney  is adapting a hallmark of
former President  George W. Bush ’s general election strategy,
focusing on education as a civil rights issue to broaden his
appeal for a wider audience.  A day after releasing new education initiatives, the
presumptive Republican presidential nominee took his campaign
bus into the heart of urban Philadelphia to tour a charter
school in the city’s economically impoverished western side.
Seated at a table at Universal Bluford Charter School, which has
a majority African-American student body and is surrounded by
boarded-up homes, Romney yesterday listened to teachers and
advocates discuss the challenges facing educators in urban
areas.  With his shirtsleeves rolled up and a concerned look,
Romney assured them that he understood.  “The gap in educational opportunity and achievement of
people of color in this society, I believe, is the civil rights
issue of our time,” Romney said. “We have an American
education crisis.”  Romney doesn’t realistically expect to win much support in
West Philadelphia or comparable neighborhoods where African-
American voters have remained staunchly behind President  Barack Obama , the country’s first black president. In his interactions
at the school, Romney found himself at times on the defensive.  The visit -- his first in this campaign to an inner-city
neighborhood -- is part of a larger political strategy to define
him for independents and disaffected Democrats before the Obama
campaign and its allies can tarnish his image.  Bush in 2000  It’s a tactic familiar from Bush’s 2000 presidential
campaign, when the then-Texas governor made improving education
-- particularly struggling urban schools -- a key plank of his
“compassionate conservative” stance. That campaign slogan was
credited with softening his image among swing voters in an
election he narrowly won.  Like Bush, Romney has backed public schools run by private
organizations, known as charter schools, as an alternative for
children in failing urban districts.  The challenge for Romney is that Obama has embraced many
ideas popular with Republicans, including support for charter
schools and tying teacher pay to student achievement rather than
seniority.  “The Obama administration quite brilliantly captured many
of the Republican positions on education,” said Michael Petrilli, executive vice president of the Thomas B. Fordham
Institute, a Washington research and advocacy group, in a
telephone interview.  Voucher Issue  Unlike Obama, Romney also advocates vouchers, which let
parents use tax money to go to private schools. Teachers’ unions
are among groups opposing vouchers.  Support for charter schools has been dogged by complaints
that they are more racially segregated than traditional public
schools, serve fewer students with serious disabilities and
drain money from regular districts, hurting the children who
don’t attend.  About 1.8 million children -- or 4 percent of public school
students -- attended charter schools in the 2010-2011 school
year, five times the number in 1999-2000, according to the
 National Alliance  for Public Charter Schools, a Washington-based
advocacy group. Supporters point to high-performing charter
schools that have succeeded in sending low-income children to
colleges when traditional schools have failed.  Bluford ‘Warning’  In spotlighting Bluford, Romney picked a school that has
struggled academically. The school was put on “warning” status
after failing to meet state and federal measures in reading and
math for last year.  According to data collected by the state of  Pennsylvania ,
27 percent of the students were considered proficient in math
and 22 percent in reading. That is well below the goals set by
the state for 2011, which aimed to have 67 percent of students
proficient in math and 72 percent in reading.  Bluford spokesman Devon Allen said the report card, taken
during the school’s first year in operation, didn’t reflect its
achievements. The school has higher attendance and test scores
than nearby public schools.  Prior to involvement by Universal Companies, the firm that
runs it and five other schools, test scores at Bluford were at
an all-time low, attendance was at 89 percent and serious
student-related incidents were at 20 percent, Allen said. Since
then, test scores in math and reading have increased by 30 and
40 percent respectively, attendance is up to 94 percent
and student incidents are at a record low of 1 percent.  ’Major Turnaround’  “There has been a major turnaround at Bluford,” said
Allen.  In his meeting with teachers and school officials, Romney
touted his 2003-2007 record as governor of  Massachusetts , where
the state’s schools were some of the best in the nation.  Bluford’s founder, local real estate developer Kenny Gamble, responded by reminding Romney of the turmoil that
engulfed Boston during the court-ordered integration of public
schools in the 1970s.  “You go back a few years, even in Boston, when they were
trying to integrate schools and they had young black children
going to white neighborhoods and they were throwing eggs at the
little black children, spitting on them, calling them all kinds
of names,” Gamble said.  Steven Morris, a teacher at Bluford, rejected Romney’s
claim that class size didn’t correlate with student performance.  “I heard your position on class size and testing,” Morris
said. “But you know, I can’t think of any teacher in the whole
time I have been teaching, 13 years, who would say that more
students (in the classroom) would benefit.”  Obama Photo  After the roundtable, Romney embarked on a quick tour of
the school, where photos of the first black astronauts and other
famous African-Americans -- including Obama -- adorn the walls.
He entered a computer literacy class and quickly circled the
room, shaking the hands of third graders sitting at desks with
new Apple computers.  From there, it was upstairs to the music room. Standing
amid teachers who were dancing as a choir of students serenaded
him, Romney stood mostly still, tapping his toe almost
imperceptibly.  “Good to meet you guys,” he said, as he left the room to
continue his tour. “Now and again if you watch the news you’ll
see me. I’m sorry about that.”  He then moved to another classroom where he helped a table
of sixth grade girls in a language arts class with their
assignment to write an example of alliteration. Romney eagerly
showed off their answer: Dogs Drive Douglas Dizzy.  Outside, local politicians and residents, including some
organized by the Obama campaign, charged Romney with caring
about them only as campaign backdrop.  “I don’t know why this guy’s here,” said Philadelphia
Mayor Michael Nutter, a Democrat. “You want to have an urban
experience? You want to have a West Philly experience? Then come
out here and talk to somebody in West Philly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Philadelphia at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net  