-- Royalty Pharma $600 Million Term Loan Rises in Initial Trading
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-05-25T15:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/royalty-pharma-600-million-term-loan-rises-in-initial-trading.html
Royalty Pharma Finance Trust’s $600
million  term loan  to fund future acquisitions rose in its first
day of trading, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The debt, due in November 2018, began trading yesterday at
99.25 cents on the dollar, Markit prices show. That’s up from an
issue price of 98.5 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. arranged the financing for the New York-based
company which acquires royalty interests in marketed and late
stage biopharmaceutical products, the data show.  The loan pays interest at 3 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate, with a 1 percent floor on the
benchmark, Bloomberg data show. Libor, the rate at which banks
say they can borrow in dollars from each other, serves as a
reference for about $360 trillion of financial instruments
worldwide.  Lenders are being offered one-year soft-call protection of
101 cents, meaning the New York-based company would have to pay
1 cent more than face value to refinance the loan during the
first year, Bloomberg data show.  With the issuance of the new term loan, Royalty Pharma’s
leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will now be 3.5 times, up from 2.9
times, according to a May 24 company statement.  “We believe the robust execution and our ability to
maintain the same borrowing spread underscores the strength of
Royalty Pharma’s reputation in the  debt market ,” Pablo Legorreta, chief executive officer of Royalty Pharma, said in
the statement. “From a long term perspective the overall cost
of this debt financing is extremely attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in  New York  at 
 Mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  