-- Rubio Faults Pentagon Over Filmmaker Access (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   R o b i n   M e s z o l y
-- 2012-05-25T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/rubio-faults-pentagon-over-filmmaker-access-transcript-.html
Florida Senator Marco Rubio said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that President Barack Obama’s
administration’s cooperation with a Hollywood moviemaker on a
film about the top-secret Navy unit that killed Osama bin Laden
is the type of action that could “impact the ability to carry
out similar operations in the future.”  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: Welcome back. Florida Senator Marco Rubio, the
Republican Party’s rising star, joins us now in the studio.
Senator, thank you for being with us.  MARCO RUBIO: Thank you.  HUNT: You’ve proposed a bipartisan piece of legislation,
Startup 2.0, that seeks to - seeks to hire for immigrants,
especially those with math and science skills, to enable them to
stay here, get jobs. Earlier legislation collapsed. It got
caught up in the large immigration debate, the same thing that’s
going to happen this time.  RUBIO: Yeah. So the bill does a couple of things. Obviously
it does things about capital formation. It starts with a very
true belief that new jobs are almost always created by new
businesses. And so we want to make it easier for people to be
able to do that. And I think that part is the least exciting.
It’s very important, the tax treatment, but the immigration part
of it is where it’s innovative.  So here’s what we keep hearing. Number one is if you’ve got
money and you want to invest it in the  United States  and you
want to create jobs, it becomes really hard to do that. It
becomes really hard to legally come here and do that. So we
create a visa, an investor visa for people who come here and
create a business without at least two jobs that are not
relatives, and then we allow them to renew that if within three
or five years they employ three or more people and they’re not
relatives.  HUNT: And they can stay?  RUBIO: And they can stay on a legal -  HUNT: Should pass, but it just gets caught up in that, as I
say, that bigger question (ph).  RUBIO: Well, and the other thing we do is with Ph.D and
master’s degrees. We’re going to make it easier for people that
graduate from American universities with a Ph.D or a master’s to
stay here as well. And this week a very interesting article that
talked about how  China  is trying to initiate a reverse brain
drain, in essence attract back many of the Chinese expatriates
that came, studied, and stayed in the United States. So I hope
it doesn’t get caught up in the bigger issues.  HUNT: Let me talk about that larger issue. And you are
developing, you haven’t finalized, some kind of compromised
Dream Act, if you will. Would you grant a pathway to citizenship
to veterans who are honorably discharged from the military?  RUBIO: Yeah. I think on the military service part, it’s not
nearly as controversial.  HUNT: So you would give them a pathway?  RUBIO: Right. I think anybody who’s honorably discharged
from the service of this country -  HUNT: Gets citizenship, even though they didn’t come here
legally.  RUBIO: Well, obviously you get a green card, then it’s
citizenship. But it’s a very different process, and very
uncontroversial.  HUNT: And for students though, they’d have to get in
another queue?  RUBIO: Yeah. And so that - the way that process - what I
can tell you about what we’ve designed already and have been
talking about is that we look at a very specific group of kids
that came here before a certain age and lived here continuously,
graduate from school, go on to college or some advanced
education. They would get a non-immigrant visa, the way
thousands of other people have non-immigrant visas. And that
would allow them to stay here legally, work here legally, live
here legally. At some point in the future, they will be allowed
to apply for their residency, like anybody else would, not a
special path (ph).  HUNT: But they wouldn’t have to go back?  RUBIO: No, they would not. As long as they have their visa
-  HUNT: Stay here, get in another queue.  RUBIO: Right, as long as their visa is active. In essence,
as long as they renew their non-immigrant visa and comply with
all of its conditions.  HUNT: Are you confident you’re going to get  Mitt Romney  to
sign on to this?  RUBIO: Well, I think he needs to see the details of it.
Here’s what I’m confident of. I’m confident that we’re going to
be able to produce a piece of legislation that’s going to help
these kids, not encourage illegal immigration in the future, and
can the support of the majority of Republicans in the Senate.  HUNT: When will it come out?  RUBIO: Well, we’re waiting for - what we’re waiting for is
-  HUNT: In June?  RUBIO: Well, here’s - it depends. We’re waiting on what the
 Congressional Budget Office  and the Congressional Research
Office tells us. Because one of the things we’re going to get
asked is how many people will this apply to and how much money
is it going to cost. And if I don’t have the answers to those
questions when I file this, it’s not going to -  HUNT: When would you like to file it?  RUBIO: As soon as we can. I think that the -  HUNT: Is it reasonable to talk about June?  RUBIO: I wouldn’t want to date it with a specific month. I
would just say that as soon as we can. Certainly it’s not
something we want to wait any longer than we have to to do.  HUNT: We talked about  Governor Romney , who in the primaries
went out of his way to criticize  Rick Perry  and  Newt Gingrich  on
their - some of their pro-immigration stance. He hired as a
policy adviser the virulently anti-immigration person Kris
Kobach. He has - as the Republican nominee he’s got a lot of
pivoting to do to get even the 31 percent of the Latino vote
that McCain got, didn’t he?  RUBIO: Well, a couple things. First of all, there is a lot
of frustration in America over the illegal immigration problem.
There is. And there’s a lot of frustration in the Hispanic
community about illegal immigration. And I think Governor Romney
gave voice to those frustrations. And those are valid
frustrations. I think the other thing he’s done which hasn’t
gotten nearly as much attention is he’s talked about how he’s
pro-legal immigration, how he wants to modernize the legal
immigration program in our country so that it works better not
just for America, but for the immigrants.  And here’s why that’s important. If we modernize our legal
immigration system, if we improve our legal immigration system,
and back it up with some enforcement mechanism like E-Verify and
an increased border security, the illegal immigration in America
will significantly diminish and how to deal with the millions of
people that are here without documents becomes easier. Not easy,
but it becomes easier if we had a functional guest-worker
program, if we had visa reforms like the ones we’re proposing
and others, and if we’re able to accommodate these young people
that find themselves here without documents through no fault of
their own.  HUNT: Do you think that Romney can do better than McCain
with Latino voters?  RUBIO: I do.  HUNT: You really do? Thirty-five, 40 percent?  RUBIO: I do. And here’s why. Because the economy and the
downturn in the economy has dramatically impacted Americans of
Hispanic descent. And I think the president cannot make the
argument to any Americans, much less Americans of Hispanic
descent, that they’re better off today than they were three and
a half years ago when he took over.  HUNT: Do you think that someone like Kris Kobach is a
constructive force in this debate?  RUBIO: Well, I don’t know Kris Kobach.  HUNT: But you know who he is and -  RUBIO: Look, I think he gives voice to a real frustration.  HUNT: But you don’t find - you don’t agree with him.  RUBIO: Well, I don’t agree with everything he stands on. I
certainly agree with him that we have an illegal immigration
problem in America. I think there’s differences of opinion in
the  Republican Party  about a bunch of these things.  HUNT: Let me switch subjects to  Bain Capital . Republicans
don’t like the Obama criticism of private equity. But a simple
question. Capitalism is creative destruction. Why is it all
right to talk about the creative part but not the destruction
part?  RUBIO: Well, I think the bigger issue that people are upset
about, and certainly that I think I question, is that behind the
ads isn’t just the performance of Bain Capital, but the
insinuation that somehow Mitt Romney is a bad person who doesn’t
care about the plight of these individuals. And I think that’s
deeply unfair. If you disagree with Mitt Romney’s policies, if
he doesn’t agree with his policies on taxes, on regulation, and
on the economy, let’s have a debate about the ideas.  But what really troubles me about modern American politics,
and sadly what’s increasingly troubling me about this president,
is that he goes straight for the argument that his opponents are
bad human beings, bad people that don’t care about the plight of
other Americans. And I think that’s wrong.  HUNT: You’re on the Intelligence Committee. The Obama
administration has granted Hollywood film makers unprecedented
access and information about the raid that killed  Osama Bin
Laden  to help them make a movie. Is this appropriate?  RUBIO: I think it’s part of a troubling trend of chest
thumping, showing how smart and good our intelligence services.
And they certainly are, but in the process trying to impress
people by what this administration was able to do, whether it
was on that raid or other -  HUNT: So you think it was wrong to give that kind of
access?  RUBIO: Not only was it wrong to give that access, we had
leaks about the - the new bomb technology. That’s very
troubling. We have a recent book by a former CIA official that
has things in there that perhaps shouldn’t be in that book. I
think there is a growing trend of leaks that threaten America’s
operational capacity in the intelligence world. And I think if
you look at some of the things that have found its way onto the
screen, not just in the movie, but some of the specials around
the anniversary of the Bin Laden raid, I think one has to be
concerned that that’s going to impact the ability to carry out
similar operations in the future.  HUNT: Senator, final question. You said that  Barack Obama 
is the most divisive figure in modern American history. Do you
think he’s more divisive than  Richard Nixon , and how?  RUBIO: Well, Richard Nixon was divisive because of the
issues.  HUNT: But you think Obama’s more divisive than Nixon.  RUBIO: I think that Barack Obama deliberately divides
Americans against each other for purposes of political gain. And
I, at least in my lifetime, have not experienced a president who
deliberately went out and tried to pit Americans against each
other.  HUNT: You’re running a lot (ph) for a couple years with
Nixon, but more divisive than Nixon?  RUBIO: In terms of his policies, in terms of how he pits
Americans against each other, yes. I believe that certainly
today. Obviously he’s not guilty of a Watergate-type scandal,
and - but what I’m talking about is the deliberate strategy of
telling Americans that the reason why they’re not doing well is
because other Americans are doing too well or pitting men versus
women. It’s a constant, weekly effort to divide Americans each
other in hopes of winning an election. And I think that’s
divisive and it’s wrong. And I know of no precedent to that
level like what we’ve seen.  HUNT: Senator Marco Rubio, thank you so much for being with
us.  RUBIO: Thank you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 