-- Rubio Criticizes Cooperation With Bin Laden Filmmaker
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-05-25T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/rubio-criticizes-cooperation-with-bin-laden-filmmaker.html
U.S. Senator Marco Rubio criticized
the Obama administration for cooperating with a Hollywood
moviemaker on a film about the top-secret Navy unit that killed
 Osama bin Laden , warning such actions could “impact the ability
to carry out similar operations in the future.”  It was “wrong” and “part of a troubling trend of chest-
thumping” on the part of the administration, Rubio said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al
Hunt ,” airing this weekend. The 40-year-old Florida Republican
sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee.  The Pentagon’s top intelligence official, Michael Vickers,
met with Oscar-winning director Kathryn Bigelow and divulged the
name of the typically secret Navy commando unit known as SEAL
Team Six, according to a transcript of the July 15 meeting
released May 22 by Judicial Watch, a Washington-based legal
organization. The meeting, sanctioned by the White House, came
after then-Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and then-Joint Chiefs
of Staff Chairman Admiral Michael Mullen urged military
officials to stop talking about the May 2, 2011 raid on bin
Laden’s compound in  Pakistan .  ‘Most Divisive’  In the interview, Rubio chastised  Barack Obama  on a number
of issues and reiterated a charge that the president is more
divisive than former Republican President  Richard Nixon , who
resigned under the threat of impeachment for his
administration’s involvement in the Watergate break-in scandal.  On immigration, Rubio is crafting an alternative to a bill
known as the DREAM Act that would grant a pathway to citizenship
for military veterans and allow some students to stay and work
legally on non-immigrant visas. A DREAM Act measure backed by
Obama and most Democrats that would have given some students
brought to the U.S. as children a path to citizenship was
blocked by Republican congressional leaders.  Rubio’s provision differs from Romney, who has called for
“self-deportation,” saying anyone residing illegally in the
U.S. should first return to their home countries while applying
for residency.  Rubio, a leading prospect for the Republican presidential
ticket as  Mitt Romney ’s vice presidential running mate, said the
former Massachusetts governor is still reviewing details of the
proposal.  Tea Party Favorite  Rubio, a Cuban-American and Tea Party movement favorite,
said Romney could do better than 2008 Republican presidential
candidate  John McCain  did with U.S. Latino voters, even though
Romney has taken a tough immigration stance.  “He wants to modernize the legal immigration program in
our country so that it works better not just for America, but
for the immigrants,” Rubio said.  Four years ago, McCain captured 31 percent of the fast-
growing Latino vote. The state of the  U.S. economy  will play in
Romney’s favor with Hispanic voters, said Rubio.  “The president cannot make the argument to any Americans,
much less Americans of Hispanic descent, that they’re better off
today than they were three and a half years ago when he took
over,” he said.  Earlier this month, the Obama campaign and its allies began
airing commercials targeting Romney’s business record as a
former executive at  Bain Capital  LLC, a Boston-based private-
equity firm, portraying him as a corporate raider eager to put
profits ahead of employees.  Bain Investment  A spot released by Priorities USA Action, a super-political
action committee backing Obama’s campaign, highlighted Bain’s
investment in GST Steel, which cut jobs and filed for bankruptcy
in 2001.  “Behind the ads isn’t just the performance of Bain
Capital, but the insinuation that somehow Mitt Romney is a bad
person who doesn’t care about the plight of these individuals,”
said Rubio.  Instead of attacking Romney on issues like taxes and the
economy, Obama “goes straight for the argument that his
opponents are bad human beings, bad people that don’t care about
the plight of other Americans,” said Rubio. “I think that’s
deeply unfair.”  Comparing Obama with Nixon, Rubio said the current
president “deliberately divides Americans against each other
for purposes of political gain.” He concluded that “in terms
of how he pits Americans against each other, yes” he is more
divisive than President Nixon was.  As Rubio offered his critique of the Pentagon’s dealings
with the bin Laden filmmaker, the Pentagon’s director of
entertainment media, Philip Strub, said in an e-mail that
officials “never received a script or any request for
production support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  