-- Rupiah Drops This Week After Funds Cut Asset Holdings
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-05-25T06:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/rupiah-drops-set-for-weekly-drop-after-funds-cut-asset-holdings.html
(Corrects country reference in second paragraph.)  Indonesia ’s rupiah headed for a
second weekly drop after overseas investors reduced holdings of
the nation’s assets. The currency’s non-deliverable forwards
dropped the most since September.  Global funds cut ownership of  sovereign debt  by 3.22
trillion rupiah ($340 million) this month through May 21, poised
for the biggest monthly outflows since February, finance
ministry data show. They sold $527 million more local stocks
than they bought in May until yesterday, according to exchange
data. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said Greece is likely
to stay in the euro area after European leaders disagreed over
joint bond sales at a May 23 summit.  “The rupiah will continue to underperform as capital
outflows reflect global  risk aversion ,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , a
Singapore-based economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.
“Bank Indonesia is trying to smooth out volatility in the
rupiah, but as it is, the market isn’t functioning perfectly
since it is driven by fear.”  The rupiah fell 0.4 percent this week to 9,393 per dollar
as of 10:04 a.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. It rose 0.4 percent today after
touching 9,483 the weakest level since December 2009.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, rose 200 basis points today and
400 basis points this week to 14 percent. That was the highest
level since Dec. 19.  Currency Forwards  The rupiah’s 12-month non-deliverable forwards declined 2.7
percent, the most since Sept. 14, to 10,363.  “There’s less liquidity in the  spot market  so people are
having a hard time trading, and the NDF market is expressing its
own views on the rupiah,” said Sean Yokota, a currency
strategist at UBS AG in Singapore. “Foreigners own about 30
percent of the  bond market , and if  Europe ’s situation worsens,
some of the funds may have to sell off some Indonesian bonds.”  Bank Indonesia continues to enter the foreign-exchange
market and will use its “ammunition” carefully, Deputy
Governor Hartadi Sarwono said on May 16. The monetary authority
doesn’t want the rupiah to weaken too fast, Sarwono said.  “The rupiah should hold up fairly well due to strong
underlying fundamentals in this current environment,”
strategists at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. led by  Marc Chandler  wrote in a report yesterday. “ Bank Indonesia  remains
committed to defending the rupiah from depreciation pressures
and has a preference towards a stronger currency.”  The  yield  on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds was
little changed today at 6.54 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The yield declined seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ven Ram at 
 vram1@bloomberg.net  