-- Russia Stocks Pare First Weekly Gain in Month on China Concern
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-25T16:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/russia-stocks-pare-first-weekly-gain-in-month-on-china-concern.html
Russian stocks retreated, paring the
benchmark index’s first weekly gain in more than a month, as
concern  China ’s biggest banks may fall short of loan targets
outweighed bets Europe’s debt crisis will be contained.  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  declined 0.2 percent 1,281.60 by
the close in Moscow, giving it a 0.8 percent advance this week,
the first increase in the period since April. OAO Federal Grid
Co. slumped 16 percent in the week, while OAO Mobile TeleSystems
climbed 6.2 percent amid speculation the mobile operator will
become the fourth-largest stock on MSCI  Russia ’s 10/40 Index.  China’s biggest lenders may miss loan targets for the first
time in at least seven years, according to three bank officials
with knowledge of the matter. Oil futures rose 0.3 percent in
 New York , reversing an earlier decline. Italy’s Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  told the country’s television station La7 yesterday
a majority of European Union leaders at a meeting in Brussels
this week backed joint euro-area bonds.  “Yesterday’s rebound was on weak hopes that something
would come out of the euro talks,” Peter Szopo, head of
research at  Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said by phone.  “The European
data yesterday disappointed, there’s hope that China will do
something about monetary easing this weekend, but that’s weak
support for the market.”  German business confidence fell more than economists
forecast in May, data showed yesterday, while a separate report
showed French business confidence sagged for a second month. The
U.K. economy shrank more than initially estimated in the first
quarter, according to yesterday’s report.  Fund Outflows  Oil prices  may slip next week as the global economy slows
amid rising U.S. supplies, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, received almost 50
percent of budget revenue from oil and gas sales last year,
according to government estimates.  The dollar-denominated  RTS  fell 1.1 percent to 1,272.69.
Russia was the first of the so-called BRIC countries to enter a
 bear market  in 2012 last week after the RTS index fell more than
20 percent from a March 15 peak.  Redemptions at Russia-focused equity funds rose in the week
through May 23 to $143 million compared with $52 million the
week before, according to VTB Capital, citing EPFR data.  Trading volumes  on the exchange declined this week, with 35
billion shares changing hands on the Micex today, according to
data on the exchange’s website, down from 70.7 billion May 18.  Russian stocks trade at 4.4 times  estimated earnings ,
having lost 8.5 percent this year. That compares with a 1.5
percent retreat for the MSCI Emerging-Market Index which trades
at 9.2 times projected earnings.  MTS, Sberbank, Gazprom  MTS, Russia’s biggest mobile-phone operator, and AFK
Sistema, its controlling shareholder, may be ranked together
with the fourth-biggest weighting in MSCI Inc.’s Russia 10/40
index, Troika Dialog and VTB Capital said yesterday. The
rebalancing will take place today and the changes come into
effect May 31, according to MSCI. MTS gained 1.3 percent to
218.75 rubles.  OAO Sberbank fell 1.8 percent to 80.11 rubles. Dexia SA,
the Franco-Belgian owner of  Turkey ’s Denizbank AS, said
yesterday it has entered into exclusive negotiations with
Sberbank, eastern  Europe ’s largest lender, to sell the unit.  Gazprom added 0.6 percent to 142.97 rubles after UBS AG
added the stock to its “Key Call”  emerging markets  list,
citing “attractive valuations and dividend yield,” and
“improved control over cash operating expenditure.”  -- Editors: Alex Nicholson, Linda Shen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  