-- Russian Wheat Exporters Seen by Union Ceding to U.S. Competitors
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-05-25T13:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/russian-wheat-exporters-seen-by-union-ceding-to-u-s-competitors.html
Russia ’s  wheat exporters  are losing
out to U.S. traders as Russian domestic prices are too high to
compete for shipments, Arkady Zlochevsky, the country’s grain
union president, said in Moscow.  Russia’s fourth-grade milling wheat, the country’s main
export variety, was $265 a metric ton on a free-on-board basis
in the main Black Sea port of Novorossiysk on May 12, above $247
a ton for U.S. wheat in the  Gulf of Mexico , Zlochevsky said
yesterday citing union data.  Wheat prices fell 0.4 percent to $6.63 a bushel in  Chicago 
yesterday. They’ve dropped 17 percent in the past year on rising
world production and slowing demand for U.S. supplies. In
Russia, fourth-grade milling wheat prices have risen 23 percent
since the season began on July 1 to 6,717 rubles ($210) a ton in
the week ended May 18, according to union data.  Egypt , the largest global buyer of wheat, has purchased
mostly U.S.-grain supplies since the start of February as well
as Canadian, Australian and Argentine grain. One of the latest
tender on April 5, the country bought 115,000 tons of U.S.
wheat. Russia hasn’t sold any grain to the Egyptian state since
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are losing competition to our U.S. rivals,”
Zlochevsky said. “That is why our export volumes decreased
despite our big export capacity.”  The price exporters have been paying farmers for the
fourth-grade milling wheat in Russia has been rising from 5,466
rubles a ton at the start of the season and shippers can’t
compete with U.S. soft red winter wheat prices, Zlochevsky said.  Falling Exports  Russia’s wheat exports were 1.29 million tons last month,
down from about 1.35 million tons in March, when some of the
main export destinations included  Libya , Jordan,  Iran  and  Iraq ,
according to OOO ProZerno Moscow-based agriculture consultancy.
The country’s wheat exports may fall to 800,000 to 900,000 tons
this month, Vladimir Petrichenko, the company’s director, said
by phone in Moscow today.  Russia exported more than 25 million tons of grain as of
today, and shipments may reach 26 million to 27 million tons in
the season ending June 30, Zlochevsky said.  Domestic prices are expected to start falling then as
Russian farmers begin to harvest the new crop, Zlochevsky said,
adding they’ll slump further from late August to October. That
period is expected to be favorable for exporters who may then be
able to compete internationally, he said.  Grain exports in the next marketing year are expected to be
between 20 million tons and 30 million tons depending on the
margin between domestic and world prices, Zlochevsky said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow
   msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Claudia
Carpenter at   ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  