-- Russian Grain-Crop Forecast Lowered on Weather at ProZerno
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-05-25T12:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/russian-grain-crop-forecast-lowered-on-weather-at-prozerno-1-.html
Russia ’s farmers will harvest 93.2
million metric tons of grain in the coming 2012-13 season, less
than previously estimated, because of dry weather, according to
OOO ProZerno.  The prior forecast made last month was for a 95.5 million-
ton crop, Vladimir Petrichenko, director of the Moscow-based
consultancy, said by phone today. ProZerno cut its estimate for
the wheat harvest by 4.1 percent to 54.2 million tons and
reduced its barley-crop forecast by 2.3 percent to 16.8 million
tons, he said.  Crops in southern Russia have been damaged by a month of
dryness, helping wheat prices to jump 16 percent last week in
Chicago trading. ProZerno’s latest forecasts account for the
positive effect of rains that began to fall in the country’s
south this week, according to Petrichenko.  “The main reason for the lower estimates is unfavorable
weather conditions for grains’ development in the south and some
parts of the Black Earth and Volga areas,” he said.  Development of plantings this month is above average and
improved from April in the western part of the Black Earth area,
central Russia, the Ural region and parts of the Volga area,
Petrichenko said.  Grain exports from Russia in the current season running
through June will come to about 25.5 million tons by the end of
this month, with another 1 million to 1.2 million tons to be
shipped out next month, Petrichenko said. Exports may reach 27
million tons for the season when shipments of peas are included,
he said.  ProZerno will be able to make an estimate for exports in
the coming season after the state statistics service releases
figures this month on national carryover stocks, Petrichenko
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 