-- SAIC Board Approved Transfer of 1% Venture Equity to GM
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-25T20:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/saic-board-approved-transfer-of-1-venture-equity-to-gm.html
Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp.
said it has approved selling back to  General Motors Co. (GM)  1
percent ownership in their joint venture for $91.4 million.  SAIC disclosed terms of the deal, which included yearly
interest of 4.86 percent, today on the Shanghai Stock Exchange
website. SAIC’s board approved the transfer on May 24, Lori Arpin, a spokeswoman for GM, said today in an e-mail.  The deal, which still requires Chinese government approval,
restores GM’s ability to have equal say on operational decisions
in  China , three years after it ceded control of the venture by
selling a 1 percent stake for $85 million. GM, which sold more
vehicles worldwide than any other carmaker last year, wants to
almost double deliveries in China to 5 million vehicles by 2015.  The two partners said in April they were close to a deal,
where Shanghai GM would first be split into two. Both partners
would hold equal stakes in the operations unit, while SAIC
retains a 51 percent majority in the sales arm. That allows the
Chinese company to include the venture’s revenue in its
financial statements, the companies said in April.  Adam Jonas, an analyst with  Morgan Stanley (MS) , said at the
time that GM’s ability to regain equal control of its passenger-
vehicle manufacturing venture would be an “extremely
important” development helping GM roll out global platforms and
coordinating product strategy. The deal would also pave the way
for the two partners to deepen ties and enhance GM management’s
credibility, Jonas wrote in an April 19 report.  Sales Rising  GM, whose first-quarter profit slid 61 percent as losses at
its European unit widened, increased deliveries in China 9.4
percent to 972,369 vehicles during the first four months of the
year.  The partnership began with equal ownership between the two
companies. GM sold its stake in Shanghai GM as the Detroit-based
parent dealt with its 2009 bankruptcy reorganization in the U.S.  GM officials have said there was an agreement at the time
to transfer back ownership. GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson in August said the automaker expected to eventually buy
back the stake.  GM rose 1.8 percent to $22.44 at the close in  New York . The
shares have gained 11 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  