-- Sales of Notes Betting on Yuan Gains Soar Even as Concerns Mount
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-05-25T10:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/sales-of-notes-betting-on-yuan-gains-soar-even-as-concerns-mount.html
Investors made the most bets this
year in May that the Chinese yuan will gain against the  U.S.
dollar , even as concerns mounted that the world’s second-largest
economy may be slowing.  Banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  sold 12 structured notes this
month that profit when the  renminbi  rises against the greenback,
compared with three in April, making it the most popular
currency bet, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
dollar-euro  exchange rate  was second, linked to nine securities.  Barclays, which sold $330 million of yuan-dollar notes
since April, offers principal protection on most of the
securities, said Matilde Acerra Skelton, the bank’s head of
foreign exchange structuring for the Americas in New York.
Speculation has increased that China’s efforts to cool inflation
may push the economy into recession and prompt the authorities
to depreciate the renminbi.  “Investors are still generally bullish on China, but think
that a hard landing is a possibility so they prefer principal
protection, but they are also looking to take advantage of any
upside in the currency,” Skelton said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank also sold structured notes
tied to the exchange rate in May, Bloomberg data show.  Slowing Growth  China’s economic growth may slow to 6.4 percent without
policy stimulus if Greece abandons the euro, economists at China
International Capital Corp, the nation’s biggest investment
bank, said in a May 23 report. That would be the worst annual
rate since 1990. The World Bank predicts China’s economy will
expand 8.2 percent in 2012, down from 9.2 percent in 2011 and
10.4 percent in 2010.  Most of Barclays’s securities linked to the yuan were
bought by private banks, and U.S. investors snapped up about $88
million of the products, Skelton said. The bank also sold about
$22 million of structured notes betting the  yuan  will also gain
against the euro and the U.K. pound.  The yuan dropped 0.26 percent this week to 6.3444 per
dollar in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency touched 6.3525 today, the weakest
level since Dec. 20, and is heading for its worst month in at
least five years. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, decreased five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, today to 2.1 percent  Two-year implied volatility was at about its lowest point
in May since 2007, making yuan-linked notes cheaper to issue,
Skelton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  