-- SEC’s Schapiro Said to Be Open to Compromise on Money-Fund Rule
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-05-25T19:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/sec-s-schapiro-said-to-be-open-to-compromise-on-money-fund-rule.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  is weighing whether to allow
money-market mutual funds to charge a fee on customers who take
out money from the firms during a liquidity crisis, according to
a person familiar with the discussions.  Such a measure, which  HSBC Holdings PLC (HSBA)  has advanced in
recent months, could replace other ideas Schapiro has proposed
and the industry has fought, including one that would prevent
money fund customers from completely withdrawing their money for
30 days.  SEC staff hasn’t finalized any of the proposed measures,
including how much the liquidity fee might cost and the
circumstances in which it might be proposed, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the deliberations aren’t
public.  John Nester , an agency spokesman, declined to comment.  Once considered among the safest investments, money market
funds have been a focus of regulators including Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  since the September 2008 collapse of
the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, which triggered a
broader run in global financial markets. The withdrawal fee
could blunt a lobbying campaign backed by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and internal divisions at the SEC that have blocked
Schapiro from acting.  Other proposals that  money-market funds  are fighting are
still under consideration. For instance, the SEC could require
money-market funds to float their net asset value in addition to
holding more capital and imposing the liquidity fee, the person
said.  In its initial response to the Reserve Primary Fund’s
collapse, the SEC adopted rules that imposed liquidity minimums
on money-market funds along with average maturity limits and new
disclosure requirements.  The Wall Street Journal reported today that money market
firms are considering the liquidity fee option after discussing
it with SEC officials on May 8 in Washington.  Internal Divisions  Schapiro has struggled to overcome internal division over
new rules for money market funds. The two Republicans on the
five-member commission,  Troy Paredes  and Daniel Gallagher, are
opposed to new rules and Luis Aguilar, a Democrat, is
uncommitted and seen as the swing vote in the debate.  Schapiro has also faced an intense lobbying campaign from
the industry. The Chamber of Commerce bought all of the
advertising space in a subway station near the SEC’s Washington
headquarters to argue against new rules.  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus 
and Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican, wrote a
letter to Schapiro questioning why she is devoting time to the
proposal when the SEC has missed multiple deadlines in the
implementation of the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul.  “I’ve been the subject of lots of vitriol about even
raising this issue,” Schapiro told lawmakers during a hearing
on April 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  