-- Serbia’s Tadic Still Deciding on Whether Seek to Be Premier
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-05-25T17:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/serbia-s-tadic-still-deciding-on-whether-seek-to-be-premier-1-.html
Former Serbian President  Boris Tadic ,
a pro-European Union politician defeated by nationalist  Tomislav Nikolic  on May 20, hasn’t decided yet whether he will seek to
become the country’s next prime minister.  Tadic’s  Democratic Party  held talks today after losing to
Nikolic’s Progressive Party in a May 6 parliamentary vote. After
the meeting, Tadic declined to say whether he wants to serve as
premier, saying “personnel questions were not on today’s agenda
but they will be very soon.” Nikolic wants to call talks with
party leaders to form the nation’s next government after he is
sworn in as the head of state on June 1.  Serbia, a former Yugoslav republic that’s struggling to
head off a return to a recession, has been without a government
able to cut spending and create new jobs in an economy with an
 unemployment rate  running about 24 percent. Tadic would need to
cobble together a majority of support in parliament to get his
party back in power after he lost his bid for re-election.  “Tadic must make up his mind as soon as possible and
decide what he wants to do with his life,” Nikolic told
reporters on May 24, after stepping down as the leader of his
Progressive Party.  ‘Don’t Know’  “I don’t know who will form the government, it seems it
will be the Democrats, Socialists and parties of the former
coalition, but I ask them to make quick decisions,” Nikolic
 told  state broadcaster RTS in a pre-taped interview posted on
the its  website .  Nikolic took 49.54 percent of the vote in presidential
elections, compared with 47.31 percent for Tadic, whose
popularity was eroded by nationalist concerns the country would
cede its claim over the breakaway province of  Kosovo  to win EU
membership and austerity programs that are sweeping  Europe .  The Progressive Party’s victory gave it 73 seats in the
250-seat legislature and control of about 94 lawmakers in a pact
with the anti-EU party of former Premier Vojislav Kostunica.
Tadic’s Democrats came in second place with control of 111 seats
in an alliance with the third-place Socialist Party. A coalition
needs 126 seats to gain power.  Nikolic told journalists on May 24 that he won’t insist on
who will form the new Cabinet and prefers a “quick act” to
form the government because Serbia’s public finances are in a
“horrible” state.  ‘Catastrophic’ Finances  His deputy, Aleksandar Vucic, said today the “financial
situation is catastrophic” and the government will have to
repay 136 million euros ($170 million) in interest in September,
72 million euros in October and 69 million euros in November.  Whoever leads  Serbia ’s new government will need to mix a
leaner budget with more public investment to jump-start the
economy, which contracted 1.3 percent in the first three months,
and keep a lid on unemployment.  The National Bank of Serbia has already urged politicians
to quickly form a government and take steps toward fiscal
consolidation to persuade the  International Monetary Fund  it’s
committed to maintaining macroeconomic stability and allowing
for the continuation of a $1.3 billion precautionary loan after
talks were suspended in February because of a widening deficit.  Without a government, the dinar has dipped to a new low of
116.4480 to the euro. The central bank has spent 1 billion euros
from official foreign-exchange reserves this year so far to curb
the weakening of the dinar, the sixth-worst performer among 174
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Psychological instability has appeared among many people,
including foreign investors, who do not know the makeup of a new
government and its program,” Nikolic  told  state broadcaster  RTS 
interview posted on the its  website . He said Serbia if facing
“tough financial problems” and will be “unable to resolve
them without international assistance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  