-- Shearman, Dewey, Allen & Overy, Drinker: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/shearman-dewey-allen-overy-drinker-business-of-law.html
Dow Chemical Co., the largest U.S.
chemical maker by sales, said an arbitration panel ruled  Kuwait 
must pay $2.16 billion in damages because it canceled a 2008
agreement to buy a stake in the company’s plastics business.  Law firm  Shearman & Sterling LLP represented Dow in the
arbitration. The firm’s team was led by international
arbitration partners Henry Weisburg in New York, Emmanuel Gaillard in Paris, Jon Greenblatt in  Washington , Richard Kelly
in  London  and Chris Ryan in Washington.  The award by the London-based International Court of
Arbitration doesn’t include costs or interest and is final and
binding, Midland, Michigan-based Dow said yesterday in a
statement. The timing of the payment and other terms of the
agreement are confidential, Nancy Lamb, a Dow spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail.  “Anything north of $1 billion is a pleasant surprise,”
said  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global
Advisors. “I don’t think the market was giving Dow any credit
for an imminent settlement.”  Kuwait’s Petrochemical Industries Co., under pressure from
lawmakers, canceled a contract to form a 50-50 venture with
Dow’s plastics unit in December 2008. The failure of the so-
called K-Dow venture deprived Dow of a $9 billion payment during
the global financial crisis, almost derailed its 2009 purchase
of  Rohm & Haas Co. (DOW)  and forced the company’s first dividend cut.  “We are studying what legal action is available to
pursue,” Petrochemical Industries Chairwoman and Managing
Director Maha Mulla Hussein said in a telephone interview. The
company is a unit of state-owned Kuwait Petroleum Co.  For more, click here.  News  Dewey’s Downfall Speeded by Pay Deals; Clean-Up May Take Years  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, a law firm with 103 years of history,
collapsed in a matter of weeks. Cleaning up the debris may take
years.  A trickle of partner defections in March turned into a
torrent, with at least 250 of Dewey’s 304 partners having now
found new jobs. All five senior partners named to a new
chairman’s office in March have left, and the firm faces a
criminal probe. The staff at the firm’s Manhattan offices has
been gone for more than a week. Joff Mitchell of Zolfo Cooper, a
restructuring company, is running things.  Mitchell’s task is to wind the firm down while dunning
former clients for bills they have little incentive to pay in
full. That’s bad news for the firm’s creditors, including bank
lenders owed at least $75 million and bondholders owed $125
million or more. Other creditors range from partners who got pay
guarantees worth about $100 million to the firm’s janitors, who
have sued for about $300,000 in unpaid bills.  “The Dewey debacle has all the orderly progression of the
Great Chicago Fire,” said Ed Reeser, a former managing partner
for the Los Angeles office of Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP,
who’s now a consultant. Including a bankruptcy, he said, “I
wouldn’t be surprised if the wind-down took a minimum of six to
seven years. It could take 10.”  Dewey & LeBoeuf was the result of a 2007 merger between
Dewey Ballantine, a firm dating from 1909 whose most famous
partner was two-time Republican presidential candidate Thomas E.
Dewey, and LeBoeuf Lamb Greene & MacRae. Created to enter the
club of powerhouse international law firms, Dewey collapsed amid
a culture characterized by a lack of disclosure and controls
where an inner circle of partners reaped most of the rewards.  “The combination of outsized debt and widely spread pay
guarantees divorced from performance put the firm in a situation
with almost zero margin for error,” said Bruce MacEwen, a
lawyer and law-firm consultant at Adam Smith Esq. LLC in  New
York . “Markets have a habit of punishing firms in that
posture.”  Dewey, which at the time of the merger had 1,300 lawyers,
offices in 25 cities and revenue of more than $900 million, is
the biggest U.S. law firm to fail, Reeser said. Other firms that
have collapsed in the past, including Brobeck, Phleger &
Harrison LLP in 2003 and Heller Ehrman LLP in 2008, are still
unwinding their debts and obligations, Reeser said.  More than 50 former Dewey partners have hired lawyer Mark Zauderer of Flemming Zulack Williamson Zauderer LLP to protect
their interests, he said. He’ll do such things as sue former
managers or defend his clients from lawsuits to claw back pay
they received, according to a person familiar with his hiring.  Since Dewey’s legal bills secure its bank loans, lenders
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  didn’t
immediately put Dewey in bankruptcy involuntarily because they
saw more chance of collecting the bills outside of court,
according to a person familiar with the firm’s finances. Bankers
now think a bankruptcy is needed to establish the pecking order
for creditors, the person said.  JPMorgan and Citigroup declined to comment on Dewey’s
financial position.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Allen & Overy announces Vietnam Opening With  Mayer Brown  Partner  Allen & Overy LLP announced plans to open two offices in
Vietnam, one in Ho Chi Minh City and the other in Hanoi, after
regulatory approvals. Dao Nguyen, a Vietnamese lawyer who was
formerly managing partner of Mayer Brown LLP in Vietnam, was
hired to head the new offices.  “Vietnam is rapidly establishing itself as a key
jurisdiction within Southeast  Asia  and is of increasing interest
to international companies and investors,” Thomas Brown, Allen
& Overy’s Asia Pacific managing partner, said in a statement.  Nguyen, who will join later in the year, focuses on
corporate and commercial matters, particularly real estate,
foreign investment in Vietnam and dispute resolution, according
to her biography on Mayer Brown’s website.  Mayer Brown issued a statement thanking Nguyen for her
service and saying, “Our Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh offices will
continue to operate as usual. Mayer Brown JSM has been operating
in Vietnam since 1994, and we remain deeply committed to having
a strong presence in this important growing market to continue
serving all our valued clients.”  John Marsden will serve as the interim managing partner for
the firm’s Vietnam office.  With the addition of the two new offices, Allen & Overy
will have 42 offices in 29 countries around the world.  Moves  Drinker Biddle Adds Dewey Corporate Partner in New York  A Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP partner and another lawyer joined
Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP’s corporate & securities practice
group in New York.  Partner Joseph L. Seiler III, a corporate lawyer, focuses
on serving insurance and insurance holding companies on public
and private securities offerings and financings, as well as
mergers and acquisitions and restructurings. He also advises
private and public clients in the leisure, manufacturing and
technology industries, among others.  In January, Drinker Biddle added a group of insurance
regulatory lawyers, which included three partners. The new
additions bring the total number of lateral hires in the firm’s
New York office to eight since July 2011, the firm said.  “When you have an opportunity to add lawyers who can
complement your existing practice while building out new
offerings, you do it,” Alfred W. Putnam, Jr., Drinker Biddle’s
chairman, said in a statement.  Robert C. Juelke, chairman of Drinker Biddle’s corporate
and securities practice group, said, “Our clients have been
asking us more and more to help them with their insurance
transactional work. These additions allow us to better meet
their needs.”  Drinker Biddle has 650 lawyers in 11 offices nationwide.  Restructuring Partner Joins Gibson Dunn’s Los Angeles Office  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP hired restructuring partner
Jeffrey Krause in the Los Angeles office. Previously, he was at
Stutman, Treister & Glatt.  Krause has handled debtor and creditor committee
representations, as well as representations of examiners
appointed in bankruptcy cases, and secured and unsecured
creditors.  His recent matters include representation of the official
committee of unsecured creditors in In Re Azabu, representation
of Ranch Capital and the investment vehicle it formed to fund
the reorganization plan for Hawaiian Airlines, and
representation of Falcon Industries in its Chapter 11
reorganization, the firm said.  Gibson, Dunn has more than 1,000 lawyers and 17 offices in
the U.S.,  Europe , the  Middle East , Asia and  South America .  Litigation  MBIA Tells Court Restructuring Protects All Policyholders  MBIA Inc.’s (MBI)  2009 restructuring was approved by New York
regulators because it protected all policyholders, including the
banks challenging the decision,  Marc Kasowitz , an attorney for
the bond insurer, told a trial judge.  Banks suing MBIA can’t prove their argument that the
approval of the restructuring was “arbitrary and capricious,”
Kasowitz, with  Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP 
representing Armonk, New York-based MBIA, told a state judge
yesterday in Manhattan.  “The banks are throwing as much money as they can at the
wall in the hope that something will stick,” Kasowitz said.  Justice Barbara Kapnick of state  Supreme Court  is hearing a
nonjury trial on claims by  Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  that the February 2009 approval of MBIA’s proposal
by then-Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  was based on inaccurate and
incomplete information and should be annulled.  More than a dozen financial institutions sued MBIA and the
state insurance department in 2009 over the restructuring. Bank
of America and  Societe Generale  are the only banks left in the
litigation after JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, UBS AG
and other banks dropped out.  The banks claim the restructuring exposed them to losses as
policyholders by transferring $5 billion in assets out of an
MBIA unit that insured risky mortgage debt.  The case being tried by Kapnick is a challenge to the
approval brought under the state’s Article 78 law, which allows
challenges of administrative decisions. Bank of America and
Societe Generale have another lawsuit pending against MBIA, and
MBIA is suing Bank of America over mortgage loans.  David Holgado, a lawyer in state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office, earlier this week asked Kapnick to
dismiss the lawsuit, saying the approval was rational and based
on an “extraordinary” analysis by a former Insurance
Department official, Jack Buchmiller.  Kasowitz said yesterday that the approval was based on a
yearlong state investigation that included weeks of on-site
review at MBIA’s headquarters.  The  banks’ arguments that the restructuring was a “secret
plan” of which they were not notified conflicts with statements
issued in February 2008 after MBIA first announced the proposal
-- including a Bank of America equity research note that said it
was “feasible and reasonable,” Kasowitz said.  “This secrecy argument turns out to be absolutely false,”
Kasowitz said. “The banks knew all along about the proposed
transformation.”  The trial began May 15 and is expected to last two to four
weeks. Lawyers for the banks made their opening statements last
week, and attorneys for the state completed theirs earlier this
week.  The case is ABN Amro Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2009, New York
state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 