-- Singapore Opposition Wins By-Election Vote With Narrower Margin
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-05-26T15:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/singaporeans-vote-in-by-election-as-lee-seeks-to-regain-support.html
A member of a Singapore opposition
party won a by-election today that tested Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s ability to draw back support after the ruling
party’s poorest performance at polls last year.  Png Eng Huat, a 50-year-old businessman representing the
 Workers’ Party , won 62.1 percent of valid votes in the seat for
the northeastern Hougang district that has been held by his
group since 1991. The seat was left vacant after Yaw Shin Leong,
who won 64.8 percent of votes in 2011, was expelled from the
party in February for what it called “indiscretions in his
private life.”  The People’s  Action Party  was returned to power in May last
year with the smallest margin of victory since independence in
1965 and record opposition gains, prompting Lee to pledge his
party will change the way it governs. While candidates had
campaigned on local issues such as improving public housing, a
survey of 50 residents by Today newspaper this month showed a
majority of residents were looking at national policies,
including the  cost of living  and the influx of foreigners.  “The by-election is seen as a report card on how the
government has fared in the past year,” Kit Wei Zheng, a
Singapore-based economist at Citigroup Inc., said before the
results.  Smaller Margin  About 23,000 people, or 1 percent of the electorate, were
eligible to vote in the district. Png got 13,447 out of 21,951
ballots cast, of which 294 were considered spoiled votes,
Returning Officer Yam Ah Mee said in a national broadcast.  The  People’s Action Party  candidate, Desmond Choo, 34, a
trade union official and former police officer, received 8,210
votes, Yam said.  While today’s poll will be a barometer of support for
government policies, it won’t alter the balance in parliament,
where Lee’s party has 81 of the 87 seats. The People’s Action
Party has governed the country since 1959.  The government is under pressure to placate voters without
disrupting the arrival of talent and labor that helped forge the
only advanced economy in  Southeast Asia . In the past year, Lee’s
government has implemented stricter immigration policies and cut
ministerial pay to appease voters.  The administration has raised property taxes for non-
Singaporeans and accelerated construction of housing. Lee also
made permanent a program to provide cash, utility rebates and
medical funds for the elderly and low-income households. The
government is subsidizing bus companies’ purchases of new
vehicles to reduce crowding on public transport and adding
hospital beds.  More than a third of the 5.2 million population is made up
of foreigners and expatriate permanent residents, and efforts to
reduce the inflow of workers since 2010 have had little effect.
The foreign workforce has grown 7.5 percent annually over the
last two years, Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in
February as he imposed new rules on the percentage of overseas
labor that companies are allowed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  