-- Single Women Voters Focus of Democrats’ Equal-Pay Appeal
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-05-25T14:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/single-women-voters-focus-of-democrats-equal-pay-appeal.html
Unmarried women were among  Barack Obama ’s most loyal supporters in 2008, turning out in droves and
delivering 70 percent of their votes to him. When many of them
stayed home in the 2010 midterm election, Democrats lost the
House and had their Senate majority trimmed.  Now, determined to get single women back, Senate leaders
are reshaping their legislative agenda, advancing a bill to
bolster workers’ ability to win pay discrimination lawsuits. A
similar measure was blocked by Republicans two years ago, and
proponents expect it to be rejected again, setting up a contrast
between the parties over an issue that especially touches
unmarried women.  It will be the third time this year that Senate Democrats
will push for votes on policies affecting women, with the other
measures focused on insurance coverage for contraceptives and
programs for domestic violence victims.  They are aiming to fire up the 55 million single, divorced,
separated or widowed U.S. women eligible to vote this year.
While 60 percent of all unmarried women cast ballots in 2008,
just 38 percent turned out in 2010, said Democratic pollster
Celinda Lake. Democratic strategists see these voters as
critical to helping return Obama to the White House and to
retain Senate seats in  Ohio ,  Virginia  and other states.  “What is really at issue is their turnout rate,” Lake
said in an interview. “Unmarried younger women plummeted in the
turnout in 2010, and they came into this election cycle not very
interested in the election.”  ‘Paycheck Fairness’  While the Democrats’ legislation could appeal to a variety
of women voters, regardless of marital status, single women who
on average have lower  household income  than married women might
pay particular attention to pocketbook measures such as the pay
discrimination bill.  “For unmarried women, paycheck fairness is one of their
top economic issues,” Lake said. “These women are feeling very
economically marginalized.”  Frank Newport , editor-in-chief of the Gallup Poll, said
Democratic candidates have a stronger appeal to single women,
who he said “are much more likely to support Obama.”  Newport said unpublished Gallup data from 8,000 interviews
with voters April 11 to 29 showed that Obama had a six-point
advantage over Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
with women voters. Among unmarried women, it was a 26-point
advantage, he said. Romney had a seven-point advantage among
men.  Senate Races  The 2010 midterm slide in voting among unmarried women was
evident in states important to this year’s presidential and
Senate contests, as Democrats seek to retain a majority in the
Senate, which they control with 53 of 100 seats. This includes
states where Senate seats held by Democrats may turn over, such
as Virginia, where turnout among single women dropped 34
percent; Ohio, with a 23 percent drop; and  Florida , with a 21
percent decline, Lake said.  Single women make up 25 percent of the adult population,
and they are a large share of eligible voters. In 2010, 53.1
million unmarried women were eligible to vote, compared with
56.4 million married women. This year, 55 million unmarried
women are eligible.  Senator  Patty Murray  of Washington, the only female Senate
Democratic leader and chairwoman of the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee, is playing an advisory role on legislation
aimed at women voters. A spokesman for Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  of  Nevada  said the legislation goes beyond election-
year messaging and that the measures are meant to address
women’s needs.  ‘Tuned In’  “The issues are really what’s driving it,” said Adam
Jentleson, a Reid spokesman. If voters notice, “it just shows
that people are tuned in and getting an accurate view of where
each side stands.”  The women-focused legislation trend began with a vote in
March on a Republican proposal allowing employers to refuse to
provide health-insurance coverage for  birth control  for moral or
religious reasons. All but three Democrats voted against the
measure, and party leaders used the vote to assert that
Republicans were embarking on a “war on women.”  House Democrats weighed in late last month as Republicans
controlling the chamber passed a measure preventing the U.S.
student-loan interest rate from doubling July 1. To cover the
cost, the legislation would take $5.9 billion from a preventive
care fund, which House Speaker  John Boehner  called “one of the
slush funds” in the 2010 health care overhaul. House Democratic
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  fired back that the move would be “another
assault on women’s health” as the fund provided care for women.  Domestic Violence Bill  Debate in both chambers on legislation reauthorizing aid to
domestic violence victims was seen by Democrats as another
chance to appeal to women. A bill passed by the Republican-led
House wouldn’t extend the same assistance to illegal immigrants,
gays and Native Americans as the Senate bill. As negotiators try
to work out differences, Democrats are emphasizing the
differences between the chambers.  The forthcoming debate on the pay-discrimination bill will
matter to single women, pollster Lake said. The measure,
introduced by Democratic Senator Barbara Mikulski of  Maryland ,
increases potential damages to plaintiffs in pay-discrimination
suits and enhances the burden on employers to show pay
disparities aren’t gender-based. An identical measure failed to
advance in the Senate two years ago, as debate was blocked on a
58-41 vote with 60 votes needed.  Pay Gap  Mikulski said women earn 77 cents for every dollar men
earn, which she called evidence that a pay gap still exists 49
years after the Equal Pay Act became law.  “We want to ensure that we close the loopholes that have
existed since then,” she said at a news conference with other
female Democratic senators this week.  In 2010, the median annual earnings of unmarried women age
25 years and older who worked full time and year-round were
$35,000, compared with $40,000 for married women, according to
an analysis of U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data by the
Washington-based Institute for Women’s Policy Research.  Lake has identified groups of voters she calls the “rising
American electorate” that includes unmarried women, adults
younger than 29, blacks and Latinos, who taken together account
for 111 million eligible voters for this year’s election. That’s
about 53 percent of all eligible voters nationwide. Unmarried
women are the biggest segment.  Verdict is Out  Democrats in Congress have been trying to target
legislation to members of these groups, and the verdict is still
out on whether that’s an effective strategy, said  Karlyn Bowman ,
a public opinion expert at the  American Enterprise Institute  in
 Washington .  “There’s serious electioneering going on here,” she said.
“Democrats are trying hard to reconstruct the base. A lot of
appeals have been made in recent weeks to do that. It remains to
be seen whether they’ll be effective.”  For their part, Republican leaders are trying to blunt
Democrats’ contention that the party supports measures that work
against women’s interests and instead turn the media spotlight
back to the economy.  House Republicans  this week started a “women’s policy
committee,” comprised of all 24 women Republicans in the
chamber, that will focus on how women are affected by
unemployment and taxation, rather than the issues pushed by
Democrats.  In the Senate, Republicans are trying to move some of these
issues off the agenda. When the Senate considered the Violence
Against Women Act, Republican leaders decided not to block the
measure’s advancement, though some had concerns about its
constitutionality and other matters. It passed, 68-31. Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  predicted last week a final
version will pass both chambers.  “I’m confident that we’ll renew the Violence Against Women
Act,” he told reporters. “As you may recall, it passed the
Senate a few years ago on a voice vote. This is not something
about which there should be any real controversy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  