-- SIPC Says Bankruptcy Court Can Rule on Madoff Clawbacks
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-05-25T18:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/sipc-says-bankruptcy-court-can-rule-on-madoff-claims-correct-.html
Bankruptcy judges can rule on claims
for fraudulent transfers by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
brokerage, exercising powers that aren’t affected by a U.S.
Supreme Court ruling in the Anna Nicole Smith case, the
Securities Investor Protection Corp. said.  SIPC was responding to U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff,
who has received hundreds of requests by defendants to remove
their cases from  bankruptcy court . If needed, bankruptcy judges
may ready cases for trial, and then send them to district court,
SIPC said in today’s filing in federal court in  Manhattan .  In their requests to move cases to district court, some
Madoff defendants cited the Smith case, known as Stern v.
Marshall, which stopped the former Playboy magazine model’s
heirs from collecting millions of dollars from Texas billionaire
J. Howard Marshall’s estate.  The Madoff trustee’s right to take back so-called customer
property for the brokerage estate is protected by law,
empowering bankruptcy judges to make final judgments subject to
district court review, SIPC said.  “The close connection between the statutory protection
scheme and the claim renders the claim a public right under
Stern and its predecessors and therefore permits the bankruptcy
court to adjudicate the claim through final judgment,” SIPC
said in the filing.  The SIPC brief was filed in the case of In re Madoff
Securities, 12-mc-0115, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan). The brokerage liquidation case is
Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  