-- SocGen Search for Funding Takes Bank to German Car Buyers
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-05-25T14:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/socgen-search-for-funding-takes-bank-to-german-car-buyers.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s quest for
funding is prompting the bank, France’s second-largest, to mine
sources not tapped before: German car loans and Dim Sum debt.  Seeking shelter from Europe’s resurgent sovereign debt
crisis,  Societe Generale  and France’s three other large, listed
banks --  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Natixis SA --are
seeking new ways of financing their balance sheets.  “There’s flight to quality,” said Christophe Nijdam, a
Paris-based analyst at AlphaValue, who recommends buying Societe
Generale shares. The bank “is using all financing resources
acceptable to investors.”  Burned by last year’s liquidity crunch, Societe Generale,
BNP Paribas and Credit Agricole are shrinking balance sheets in
most overseas markets and cutting sovereign-debt holdings. The
four Paris-based banks bolstered assets in  France  by 11 percent
last year to 3.72 trillion euros ($4.67 trillion) while cutting
commitments in other European countries by about 7 percent,
according to the lenders’ data compiled by Bloomberg.  BNP Paribas assets shrank in 2011 even in Belgium and
Italy, its largest retail-banking markets outside France, by 1.6
percent and 3.8 percent respectively, its annual report shows.
That’s even though its retail-banking loans in Belgium rose 6.4
percent in the 12 months through March 31, and its Italian
retail commitments were stable at 71.3 billion euros in a
“trend of decelerating demand,” it said May 4.  Societe Generale boosted French assets by 15 percent and
got most new debt placed with investors in northern  Europe .  Avoiding Stress  To protect against a refinancing drought, France’s three
largest banks have completed about three quarters of their 2012
plans to issue at least 42 billion euros of debt with maturities
over one year. Societe Generale went so far as to securitize 700
million euros of German car loans from a unit representing less
than 0.5 percent of its balance sheet.  “Winds of risks are blowing through the euro zone and
they’d better make sure of their funding,” said Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $8.5 billion at Banque Martin Maurel
in Marseille and owns shares in Societe Generale and BNP
Paribas. “French banks are taking actions to avoid the stress
they endured last year.”  Societe Generale  has fallen  61 percent in the past year,
trading at 16.25 euros as of 4:27 p.m. in Paris. BNP Paribas,
which has tumbled 49 percent in the last 12 months, traded at
26.61 euros.  Credit Agricole , which lost 71 percent in the past
year, was at 2.98 euros.  More Securitization  Societe Generale got 58 percent of its medium- and long-
term financing from northern Europe investors last year, the
most since at least the 2008 failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., compared with 1 percent from investors in southern Europe
and 15 percent from France.  BNP Paribas and Credit Agricole, which both operate Italian
consumer-banking units, are using assets in the euro region’s
third-largest economy to help refinancing efforts. In the first
quarter, Credit Agricole got 15 percent of its refinancing from
private placements with clients at its Italian unit Cariparma.  At the end of 2011, BNP Paribas had 8.1 billion euros in
securitized funding, up from 6.7 billion euros a year earlier.
The end-2011 securitized refinancing included 2.6 billion euros
of home loans at Italian unit BNL, its annual report shows.  European banks are diversifying ways of getting long-term
funds as the region’s deepening debt crisis makes unsecured debt
sales scarcer and more expensive.  Shrinking Lenders  Deutsche Bank AG, Europe’s largest bank, said last month
that it raised about 7 billion euros of long-term funding this
year, mostly “via retail and other private placements” at an
average rate of 90 basis points above the London Interbank
Offered Rate. In the first quarter of 2011, Deutsche Bank issued
10 billion euros at an average spread of 56 basis points more
than Libor, with retail networks taking 40 percent.  While unsecured senior bonds represent most of BNP’s
outstanding medium- and long-term-funding, this year France’s
largest bank placed 57 percent of its debt rollovers through
private placements, it said May 4.  France’s largest banks, hurt by losses from Greek sovereign
debt last year, are cutting at least 300 billion euros off their
balance sheets by scaling back businesses such as dollar-funded
aircraft loans. The cuts mirror European rivals’ efforts to meet
stricter Basel III capital rules.  French Exposure  French banks “are cutting assets that are most difficult
to refinance or that use too much capital,” Forneris said.  In February, BNP Paribas sold $9.5 billion in North
American energy assets to Wells Fargo & Co. Societe Generale cut
its holdings of subprime-era assets, including U.S. residential
mortgage-backed securities, by half in the year through March to
15.6 billion euros, mostly via disposals.  With mounting concerns of a possible Greek exit from the
euro and the havoc it may cause across the region, French banks
find themselves once again among institutions at risk even after
they reduced exposure to the country’s sovereign debt by taking
part in the largest debt-swap in March.  French banks were caught in the middle of Europe’s debt
crisis last year because of their holdings in private and public
debt in  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland,  Spain  and  Italy . Their access
to  U.S. dollar  short-term funds evaporated after the summer.  Contagion Worry  French lenders held about $38 billion of private loans in
Greece at the end of 2011, more than any other foreign
borrowers, according to data from the Bank for International
Settlements.  The risk of Greece leaving the 17-nation euro region
increased after parties opposed to the terms of the country’s
bailout by the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund  won most of the votes in May 6 elections. Greeks will vote
again on June 17 after political parties failed to join forces
to form a government.  UBS AG, the third-biggest manager of money for the wealthy,
sees a 20 percent chance of Greece leaving the euro within six
months, the bank’s chief investment office, led by  Alexander Friedman , told client advisers in an internal note last week.  “A possible Greek exit would feed concerns over Spain and
Italy,” said  Jean-Paul Pollin , an economics professor at
Orleans University. “French banks can absorb direct risks in
Greece, but indirect effects would be much heavier, with unknown
propagation mechanisms through the European financial system.”  Euro Exit  Should Greece leave the euro, European banks would face
indirect effects in Portugal, Spain, Ireland and Italy including
possible markdowns on sovereign debt and possible deposit
withdrawals, Citigroup Inc.’s analysts including Stefan Nedialkov and  Kinner Lakhani  wrote in a May 17 note to clients.  European lenders would probably need another 800 billion-
euro three-year funding lifeline from the  European Central Bank 
to help stem contagion from a Greek exit, the analysts said.  The ECB in December and February provided 1 trillion euros
in three-year funds to the region lenders, helping unfreeze debt
markets. BNP Paribas used the programs to help fund its Italian
unit as it cut its intra-group support. Credit Agricole at the
end of March used 1.6 billion euros of ECB financing to fund its
unprofitable Athens-based division Emporiki Bank.  ECB loans are “just a safety net,” Societe Generale Chief
Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said in a May 3 interview. “On
the liquidity front, the situation is very sound.”  German Joker  Societe Generale issued 8.7 billion euros in the January-
April 23 period, 35 percent from secured funding such as bonds
backed by French mortgages. The bank covered most of its 2012
needs of between 10 and 15 billion euros. As the bank also pre-
funded 2.6 billion euros last year, additional issuances this
year will cover its 2013 needs, it said May 3.  In April, Societe Generale sold its first Dim Sum bond,
raising 500 million  renminbi  ($79 million) for the funding needs
of its Chinese operations.  For Societe Generale, securitizing German  car loans  at its
Bank Deutsches Kraftfahrzeuggewerbe AG, or BDK, unit represented
8 percent of its medium- and long-term issuance between January
and April 23, according to data on its website.  “French banks are renationalizing their exposures to fend
off risks from troubled countries,” said  Francois Chaulet , who
helps manage 200 million euros at Montsegur Finance in Paris.
“Still, holding German private debt is a joker that would suit
any balance sheet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  