-- S. Africa, Australia Host Alien-Seeking Telescope Complex
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d ,   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-05-25T14:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/south-africa-australia-to-share-biggest-telescope-complex-1-.html
South Africa  and  Australia  will share
the  Square Kilometer Array , a project that that will see the
construction of the world’s biggest radio telescope complex and
may reveal whether there is life beyond earth.  The member countries of the group organizing the project
unanimously decided that both of the shortlisted candidate
nations should host the project. The majority of the first phase
dishes will be built in South Africa, which is considered a
“preferred site,” the  group  said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “It’s an international, global project and one of the
important things we seek to achieve is the broadest possible
support for it,” Michiel Van Haarlem, the director-general of
the Manchester, England-based organizing body, said in an
interview at The Netherlands’ Schipol airport, where the
decision was taken. “That’s needed, it is an expensive project
and we need as many countries as possible to carry the costs.”  When its construction is completed in 2024, the telescope
will be 50 times more sensitive and will be able to survey the
sky 10,000 times faster than any existing radio telescope. It
will allow astronomers to study the formation of the first black
holes, stars and galaxies after the Big Bang, according to the
SKA website. The telescope will be able to collect signals from
the origin of the universe when it’s completed.  “In 2024 we expect to be able to look back at the first
stars and milkyways formed in the universe,” Van Haarlem said.
“We’ll look for extraterrestrial life and try to uncover the
role of magnetic fields in the forming of stars.”  Life Elsewhere  The telescope will be able to observe complex molecules on
distant planets, raising the possibility that it may detect life
in another galaxy, according to its website.  The decision was taken unanimously by  Canada ,  China ,  Italy ,
the Netherlands and the U.K., SKA Organisation member countries
which didn’t bid, the group said.  “Factors taken into account during the site selection
process included levels of radio frequency interference, the
long term sustainability of a radio quiet zone, the physical
characteristics of the site, long distance data network
connectivity, the operating and infrastructure costs as well as
the political and working environment,” the SKA Organisation
said.  South Africa accepted the decision to share the 1.5 billion
euro ($1.9 billion) project.  Ecstatic Minister  “I’m ecstatic,” South Africa’s Science and Technology
Minister Naledi Pandor told reporters in  Pretoria , the capital.
“Of course you want everything but getting three-quarters is
pretty good in my view.”  Antennae for the project will be spread across eight other
African countries, ranging from  Ghana  in West Africa to
Mauritius in the  Indian Ocean  off the east coast of the
continent, SKA Organisation said. Fiber-optic cables twice the
length of the equator will connect thousands of dishes and other
receptors, it said.  As part of the project, South Africa is building the Karoo
Array Telescope, known as the  MeerKAT , in the Northern Cape
province. The seven-dish array telescope will be completed in
2016, according to the Department of Science and Technology.
Other dishes will be added to the  Askap  array in Australia, SKA
Organisation said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  