-- South Africa Bonds Gain Second Day on Rate Bets
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-05-25T13:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/south-africa-bonds-gain-second-day-on-rate-bets.html
The rand declined, set for a fourth
consecutive weekly retreat, on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
weigh on growth, damping South Africa’s export prospects and
investors’ appetite for riskier assets. Bonds gained.  The rand weakened 0.2 percent to 8.3770 per dollar as of 3
p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its five-day retreat to 0.5
percent. South Africa’s currency has slumped 7.5 percent in the
past four weeks. The yield on 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
dropped two basis points to 7.66 percent.  Spain ’s government is analyzing “with all caution”
requests from regional governments to help them regain access to
 capital markets , Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de
Santamaria said today after the government of Catalonia asked
for assistance. Greece is heading for a second election on June
17 after an inconclusive vote this month ignited concern it may
quit the euro. European leaders urged  Greece  to stick with
austerity measures needed to stay in the single currency at a
summit in Brussels that ended yesterday.  “The currency, along with other risk assets and commodity
currencies, remains under pressure on a combination of global
growth and the concerns about Greece exiting the euro zone,”
Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at  Standard Bank  Group Ltd.
in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “With EU leaders
still at odds over the way forward, and Greek elections looming
next month, the only certainty is that the rand’s volatility
will continue.”  Standard Bank sees the rand weakening to 8.60 per dollar by
the end of 2012, from a previous estimate of 8.10 per dollar,
Guma said.  Consumer Confidence  Data next week may show  consumer confidence  in the euro
bloc was little changed this month, while the jobless rate
climbed in April to a 21-year high. The 17-nation euro area buys
22 percent of South Africa’s exports.  South African bonds gained for a second day as investors
added to bets the central bank will cut  interest rates  as the
global economy slows.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee left its
benchmark repo rate at 5.5 percent yesterday even after
inflation quickened to 6.1 percent in April, above the 6 percent
upper limit of the bank’s target range. Governor  Gill Marcus 
revised her inflation forecast lower, and said the central bank
is ready to cut rates should the euro area debt crisis weigh on
economic growth in Africa’s biggest economy.  “The dovish bias in the statement has seen more talk of
easing prospects,” Carmen Nel and Mamello Matikinca, analysts
at FirstRand Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“As long as the  euro zone  crisis keeps uncertainty and risk
aversion elevated alongside a moderation in global growth, the
market will continue to price in a reasonable chance of a rate
cut.”  Forward-rate agreements starting in February, after the
first Monetary Policy Committee meeting for 2013, yielded 5.52
percent today after dropping to 5.49 yesterday, the lowest since
December. Forward-rate agreements are pricing in a 20 percent
chance of a 50 basis-point rate cut between September and
January, Nel and Mamello said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  