-- SpaceX Ship Grabbed by Station’s Robotic Arm in Docking Prelude
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-05-25T15:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/spacex-ship-grabbed-by-station-s-robotic-arm-in-docking-prelude.html
Space Exploration Technologies
Corp.’s supply ship was grabbed by the International Space
Station’s robotic arm in preparation for a historic docking with
the research laboratory.  Astronaut Don Pettit, with help from colleague Andre
Kuipers, grabbed the craft with the 60-foot-long robotic arm at
9:56 a.m.  New York  time. Actual docking, or berthing, was
scheduled to take place about three hours later, or about 1 p.m.  Berthing is critical because it will demonstrate that the
craft can re-supply the station and complete a key test in the
flight’s mission. SpaceX would be the first company to
accomplish the feat.  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration retired
its shuttle fleet last year and wants the private sector to take
over the job of carrying supplies and eventually astronauts to
the station.  After almost three years of delays in the mission,
billionaire Elon Musk’s SpaceX launched its Falcon 9 rocket,
carrying the Dragon ship, on May 22 from  Cape Canaveral ,
 Florida . A previously scheduled attempt on May 19 was called off
with a half-second left in the countdown because of a faulty
engine valve.  “Dragon captured by the International Space Station! Just
awesome ...” Musk tweeted today.  ‘Confidence Boost’  A successful test of flight and navigation systems “was a
big confidence boost,” John Couluris, SpaceX’s mission
director, said after the test yesterday during a press
conference organized by NASA’s Johnson Space Center in Houston,
Texas.  “It’s exciting to be an American and part of putting an
American spacecraft into orbit,” he said from the company’s
headquarters in Hawthorne, California.  The Obama administration in 2010 canceled a program to
develop a shuttle successor, betting the private sector would
offer lower costs.  SpaceX is among several companies that have won a total of
more than $1 billion in NASA contracts to develop the technology
to transport cargo and crew into space.  The group includes  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB) , based in Dulles,
Virginia; Blue Origin LLC, based in Kent, Washington;  Boeing
Co. (BA) , based in Chicago; and Paragon Space Development Corp.,
based in Tucson,  Arizona .  The others are Sierra Nevada Corp., based in Sparks,
Nevada; and United Launch Alliance LLC, a joint venture of
Boeing and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda, Maryland.  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , based in Arlington, Virginia, has
teamed up with Lockheed and Astrium, part of Leiden,
Netherlands-based European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co., in
offering the Liberty rocket to compete for NASA business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  