-- SpaceX Becomes First Company to Dock Ship at Space Station
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-05-25T18:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/spacex-becomes-first-company-to-dock-ship-at-space-station-1-.html
Space Exploration Technologies Corp.
docked a supply ship at the International  Space Station  in a
breakthrough for commercial space travel.  Closely held SpaceX, controlled by billionaire Elon Musk,
connected its unmanned Dragon capsule to the station at 12:02
p.m.  New York  time, according to Kyle Herring, a spokesman for
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. It is the
first company to accomplish the feat.  “There’s so much that could have gone wrong, and it went
right,” Musk, 40, said in a press conference from SpaceX’s
headquarters in Hawthorne, California. “This really is I think
going to be recognized as a significantly historic step forward
in space travel.”  He said the timing of an initial public offering of SpaceX
shares wouldn’t be affected by the successful docking. He told
Bloomberg last month that an IPO was likely in 2013.  The U.S. is on its way to having a cost-effective space
transportation system, Michael Lopez-Alegria, president of the
Washington-based Commercial Spaceflight Federation, said in a
statement.  SpaceX, he said, should be thanked for “restoring U.S.
access to the space station.”  Shuttle Decision  NASA  retired its shuttle fleet last year and wants the
private sector to take over the job of carrying supplies and
eventually astronauts to the station. The U.S. currently relies
on the governments of  Europe ,  Japan  and Russia for that work.  After almost three years of delays in the mission, SpaceX
launched its Falcon 9 rocket, carrying the Dragon ship, on May
22 from  Cape Canaveral , Florida. A previously scheduled attempt
on May 19 was called off with a half-second left in the
countdown because of a faulty engine valve.  Astronaut Don Pettit, with help from colleague Andrew
Kuipers, grabbed the craft with the 60-foot-long robotic arm at
9:56 a.m. New York time. Actual docking, or berthing, was
completed at 12:02 p.m.  The Obama administration in 2010 canceled a program to
develop a shuttle successor, betting the private sector would
offer lower costs.  John Holdren, assistant to President Obama for science and
technology, called the docking a milestone.  “That is exactly what the President had in mind when he
laid out a fresh course for NASA to explore new scientific
frontiers and take Americans even deeper into our solar system
while relying on private-sector innovators” to ferry astronauts
and cargo to the space station, he said in a statement.  Orbital Sciences  SpaceX is among several companies that have won a total of
more than $1 billion in NASA contracts to develop the technology
to transport cargo and crew into space.  SpaceX may begin regular supply deliveries to the station
in September, NASA Station program manager Mike Suffredini told
reporters at the press briefing. The company and  Orbital
Sciences Corp. (ORB)  will do the “lion’s share” of the station
supply work,  he said.  Publicly traded Orbital, based in Dulles, Virginia, plans
to launch its new Antares rocket for the first time in August,
from a new launch pad near Wallops Island on Virginia’s Eastern
Shore, according to NASA. It’s scheduled to deliver supplies to
the station with its Cygnus craft in December as part of a test
flight similar to SpaceX’s.  Others working with NASA include Blue Origin LLC, based in
Kent,  Washington ;  Boeing Co. (BA) , based in Chicago; Paragon Space
Development Corp., based in Tucson,  Arizona ; Sierra Nevada
Corp., based in Sparks, Nevada; and United Launch Alliance LLC,
a joint venture of Boeing and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in
Bethesda, Maryland.  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , based in Arlington, Virginia, has
teamed up with Lockheed and Astrium, part of Leiden,
Netherlands-based European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co., in
offering the Liberty rocket to compete for NASA business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  