-- Spurs Are Close to Signing Vertonghen for $15 Million: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-25T06:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/spurs-are-close-to-signing-vertonghen-for-15-million-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Spurs Signing Close          Tottenham Hotspur is close to signing Ajax central defender
Jan Vertonghen for a fee of 9.6 million pounds ($15 million),
 the Guardian reported .  Spurs Chairman  Daniel Levy  flew to Amsterdam on May 21 for
negotiations with Ajax officials and is confident of completing
an agreement, the newspaper said. Vertonghen, 25, is ready to
move having been impressed by the London club’s personal touch,
the Guardian added.  Gunners’ Giroud Bid  Arsenal made an 6.5 million-pound bid for Montpellier
striker Olivier Giroud,  the Daily Mirror reported .  Giroud, who scored 21 goals last season to help Montpellier
win its first French league title, has a buyout clause of 12.8
million pounds in his contract and Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger 
is said to be ready to offer a cash-plus-player deal involving
 Marouane Chamakh , the Mirror added.  Whelan’s Warning  Wigan Chairman Dave Whelan warned Liverpool’s owners it
will cost them 3 million pounds in compensation to hire  Roberto
Martinez  as manager,  the Sun reported , adding that Martinez held
talks with Liverpool principal owner John W. Henry and Chairman
Tom Werner in Miami yesterday.  “Liverpool would have to buy out Roberto’s contract,” the
Sun cited Whelan as saying. “You’re into 3 million pounds, but
I am sure Liverpool would honor that. I gave him my permission
to talk to Liverpool and he’s just carrying that out.”  Ranieri Return  Claudio Ranieri has emerged as a serious contender to
replace  Roy Hodgson  as West Bromwich Albion manager,  the Daily
Telegraph reported .  Ranieri, who’s been out of work since being fired by  Inter
Milan  in March, met West Brom Chairman Jeremy Peace and sporting
and technical director Dan Ashworth yesterday and could return
to the Premier League for the first time since leaving Chelsea
in May 2004, the newspaper said.  Improved Offer   Manchester United  is set to make an improved offer of 13
million pounds for Borussia Dortmund midfielder Shinji Kagawa,
who has one year left on his contract,  the Daily Mail reported .  United is also confident that that Lille’s Eden Hazard will
choose to move to Old Trafford rather than joining  Manchester
City  or Chelsea, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  