-- Suzlon Rebounds as Loans Promise to Avert Default
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-25T05:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/suzlon-rebounds-as-loans-promise-to-avert-default.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd.’s (SUEL)  convertible
bonds are rebounding from a four-month low after India’s biggest
wind-turbine maker obtained loan pledges to avoid default in the
coming three weeks.  The $175 million 5 percent debt due April 2016 rallied 5
percent in the past week, driving yields down by 243 basis
points to 22.55 percent, Elara Capital Plc prices show. A group
of about 20 banks have offered as much as $300 million in loans,
the company, which must repay $358 million by June 12, said last
week. Indian equity-linked notes were little changed in the past
three months, outperforming all but one Asian market as South
Korean bonds lost 2.9 percent, Barclays Capital indexes show.  Indian convertible securities are trailing only those from
 Malaysia  after the central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut
borrowing costs in April for the first time since 2009 to
support  Asia ’s third-largest economy. Suzlon’s shares gained 5
percent after it announced the funding plan, which followed its
worst loss in five quarters amid an economic slump.  “It looks like they’ve avoided default,” Raj Kothari, a
London-based convertible bond trader at Sun Global Investments
Ltd., said in an interview on May 22. “There’s been huge
interest since the loan plan was announced and some of the funds
who were holding Suzlon started doubling positions. That’ll give
a lift to the Indian convertible  bond market  too.”  New credit from lenders including SBI Capital Markets Ltd.
and IDBI Bank Ltd., combined with cash reserves, should help
Suzlon meet its obligations this year, according to London-based
Elara Capital. HSBC Holdings Plc estimated in March that the
company may fall short by as much as $592 million on bond and
loan repayments of $700 million due by April 2013.  Extension Sought  The Pune, India-based turbine maker has asked for a 45-day
extension on next month’s payment deadline to accommodate any
delay in raising the loan, and most bondholders have supported
the request, Vikas Rathee, head of corporate finance, said in an
interview in Mumbai on May 18.  “When we’ve paid these bonds, we’ll be out of the woods,”
Rathee said. SBI Capital, a unit of  India ’s biggest bank, is
“extremely confident” of completing the loan transaction in
time to ensure Suzlon meets its June repayments, Executive Vice
President Supratim Sarkar said in an e-mail on May 19.  “This is certainly great news,” Rosita D’Souza, a credit
analyst in  Singapore  at Elara Capital, said on May 19. “They
have some time and breathing room now to explore other options
if necessary” to meet obligations later in the year, she said.  ‘Won’t be Easy’  Suzlon plans to sell as much as $500 million in high-yield
bonds later this year through one of its overseas units to help
meet future payments, Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said
last month. The company hasn’t yet hired banks to arrange the
offering, according to Rathee.  “Selling new bonds won’t be an easy process,” said Sun
Global’s Kothari. Issuing debt through its Hamburg-based Repower
Systems SE unit “could raise a lot of restrictions that would
prevent Suzlon from getting access to those funds,” he said.  The firm also expects to “monetize non-critical assets,”
according to an e-mailed statement on May 18. Repower is
Suzlon’s “most critical asset” and not for sale, Vagadia said
on April 27. Suzlon declined to comment yesterday as it is due
to announce fourth-quarter financial  results  today.  Former Chief Financial Officer  Robin Banerjee  resigned in
March after Suzlon lost 2.86 billion rupees ($51 million) in the
three months ended Dec. 31. The firm faces slower sales due to
the debt crisis in  Europe , where it gets more than 50 percent of
its orders. Denmark’s Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s
largest wind-turbine maker, and  Spain ’s Gamesa Corp Tecnologica
SA reported losses this month after turbine prices slid 25
percent from a mid-2009 high.  Borrowing Costs  Suzlon may succeed in capping  interest expenses , which
touched a record in the final quarter of 2011, after the  Reserve
Bank  of India cut its benchmark  repurchase  rate last month for
the first time since 2009. The company paid 3.58 billion rupees
in debt costs in the three months ended Dec. 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The RBI’s repo rate is currently at
8 percent, after last month’s half-percentage-point reduction.  “Interest costs have peaked, but are not expected to come
down in a hurry,” said Elara Capital’s D’Souza.  Benchmark five-year borrowing costs for  AAA rated  companies
in India declined 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point,
this quarter to 9.46 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yields on  10-year sovereign  debt dropped seven basis points
in the period. The  extra amount  sought to hold the notes instead
of U.S. Treasuries has retreated 24 basis points from a decade-
high 697 reached in November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Better Position’  The yield on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021 rose
two basis points to 8.52 percent today, according to the central
bank’s trading system. The rupee fell 0.3 percent to 55.84 per
dollar. Indian bonds returned 2.9 percent this year in the
region’s best performance, indexes compiled by HSBC show.  Bond risk for Indian borrowers fell this year as inflation
cooled, allowing Subbarao to ease monetary policy. Annual gains
in wholesale prices averaged 7.1 percent in the first four
months, compared with 9.5 percent in the whole of 2011,
government data show.  The average cost of five-year credit-default swaps insuring
against non-payment by eight local issuers fell 73 basis points
in 2012 to 388, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
privately negotiated markets. The swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a nation or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  “Suzlon should be in a much better position to meet its
obligations for the year” once the loan transaction is
completed, Atul Gharde, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at SJS
Markets Ltd., said in an interview on May 21. “But its fourth-
quarter results need to be looked at too” to ensure the company
has enough cash and orders, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 