-- Suzlon Energy in Advanced Discussions on $300 Million Loan
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-25T16:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/suzlon-energy-posts-unexpected-fourth-quarter-loss-on-costs.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  is in advanced
talks regarding a $300 million loan as  India ’s biggest maker of
 wind turbines  seeks to meet its debt obligations.  “We are in very, very advanced stage of discussions with
our lenders so we are confident that it will be raised in
time,” Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said in a phone
interview.  Suzlon is under pressure to boost orders and generate cash
in order to meet debt repayments. In March, HSBC Holdings Plc
estimated that Suzlon had $700 million in bond and loan
obligations maturing in the next 12 months and an estimated cash
balance of 7.5 billion rupees ($136 million).  The dollar-denominated loan under discussion will not place
any immediate repayment obligation on Suzlon as its maturity is
“not too short term”, Vagadia said. The company’s debt
obligations include $358 million of dollar convertible notes
maturing June 12 that investors are unlikely to swap for  stock 
that’s trading below the conversion price.  Suzlon said on May 19 it expects to raise as much as a $300
million  term loan  by next month in time to pay bondholders. It
has asked bondholders for a 45-day extension in case of
procedural delays. Bondholders will meet on June 11 to discuss
that matter, according to Suzlon.  ‘Debt Neutral’  “We are replacing one debt with another debt so probably
it will be debt neutral as far as our debt is concerned,” he
said.  In October, the company has another $200 million in
convertible bonds that mature. Suzlon still plans to sell as
much as $500 million in high-yield bonds later this year to help
meet its obligations, Vagadia said. He is in the process of
selecting “standard international merchant bankers” for the
transaction, he said.  The company is also looking to sell non-critical assets
that could raise $100 million to $200 million, according to
Vagadia, among other options.  Earlier today, the Pune-based company reported a fourth-
quarter loss of 3 billion rupees ($54 million) compared with a
profit of 2.11 billion rupees a year earlier, the company said
today in a statement. The median estimate of six analysts in
Bloomberg survey was for a profit of 441 million rupees. The
loss was due to “small volume slippage,” Vagadia said  Suzlon’s biggest wind-focused peers reported losses this
month as government-backed clean energy incentives were rolled
back in  Europe  and the U.S., and demand slackened in  China .
 Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  fell to a nine-year low on May 2 after
saying its first-quarter loss almost doubled.  Gamesa Corp.
Tecnologica SA (GAM)  plunged to a record low on May 10 after reporting
an unexpected first-quarter loss, citing lower turbines volumes
amid a slowdown in grid connections in China.  Sales at the manufacturer were 66.99 billion rupees, down
from 72.8 billion rupees, the company said. Finance costs rose
to 4.24 billion rupees from 3.63 billion rupees the previous
year. Total expenses increased to 66.1 billion rupees from 65.5
billion rupees, according to the company.  ’Extremely Challenging’  “Despite an extremely challenging business environment we
as a group continue to be extremely well positioned in the
market place,” Chairman  Tulsi Tanti  said in the statement,
citing the company’s 5.5 percent operating profit margin
compared with 2.2 percent a year ago.  Tulsi said the company expects to record a 30 percent
growth in revenue for the 2013 financial year at 270 billion to
280 billion rupees. Suzlon fell 0.2 percent to 20.85 rupees in
Mumbai.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  