-- Swiss Stocks Advance as U.S. Consumer Sentiment Increases
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-25T16:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/swiss-stocks-rise-monti-says-most-leaders-pro-euro-bonds.html
Swiss stocks  rose, wrapping up the
first weekly advance this month, as U.S.  consumer confidence 
jumped to the highest level since October 2007, outweighing
speculation the euro-area debt crisis is deepening.  Transocean Ltd., the biggest operator of offshore drilling
rigs, climbed 0.9 percent.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse AG dropped,
limiting gains on the benchmark Swiss Market Index.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) ,
the world’s biggest crop-chemicals company, fell 0.5 percent
after settling litigation involving U.S. water utilities over
the herbicide atrazine.  The  SMI (SMI)  added 0.2 percent to 5,865.19 at the close in
Zurich, bringing this week’s increase to 1.2 percent. The gauge
has still  retreated 1.2 percent  this year amid concern Greece
may fail to implement austerity measures and leave the euro
currency union. The broader Swiss Performance Index rose 0.2
percent today.  “Stocks are caught between the harsh realities in  Greece 
and the hope politicians and central bankers will step up to the
challenge,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at PFA
Pension A/S where he helps oversee $55 billion. “We’re so close
to the brink that investors begin to expect some kind of
intervention, though politicians probably won’t do so till the
European summit in late June.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 19 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Consumers  A U.S. report showed the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final index of American  consumer sentiment  climbed to
79.3 in May from 76.4 the prior month. The gauge was projected
to hold at the preliminary reading of 77.8, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  told television station
La7 yesterday that most of the EU leaders at a Brussels meeting
this week backed joint euro-area bonds. He added that Italy can
help persuade Germany to support  Europe ’s “common good” as
well.  “Europe can have euro bonds soon,” Monti said.  Monti’s comments followed a meeting on May 23 when leaders
clashed over joint debt sales as they called on Greece to stick
with budget cuts needed to stay in the euro.  Transocean rose 0.9 percent to 41.53 francs. Oil rose for a
second day after U.S. consumer confidence climbed and the  United
Nations ’ atomic agency found evidence that Iran may be moving
closer to producing higher-grade nuclear fuel.  UBS and Credit Suisse declined 0.9 percent to 11.15 francs
and 1.4 percent to 19.09 francs.  Syngenta dropped 0.5 percent to 304.30 francs. The company,
which agreed to pay $105 million to settle litigation involving
U.S. water utilities over the herbicide atrazine, filed an
agreement with a district court in  Illinois  yesterday. The
charge is partly covered by provisions, and the effect on 2012
earnings will be about 50 U.S. cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  