-- Syria Blame Game Begins as Annan’s UN Peace Plan Falters
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-05-25T10:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/syria-blame-game-begins-as-annan-s-un-peace-plan-falters.html
As the United Nations peace plan for
Syria flounders toward failure, a U.S.-Russian blame game has
begun, increasing the odds that violence the UN says has killed
more than 10,000 people will continue.  The Americans, skeptical from the start about the chances
of success for UN envoy  Kofi Annan ’s strategy, will be able to
argue that they were right all along. Russia, a longtime ally of
Syria that wrote the April 21 Security Council  resolution 
authorizing the mission of 300 observers, is blaming terrorists
for violating the cease-fire pact.  The finger-pointing threatens to dim any hopes that Russia
and the U.S. can unite behind a plan to ease Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad out of power. With Russia and Iran arming the
Syrian regime, and  Saudi Arabia  and other  Persian Gulf states 
supporting opposition forces, the stalemate is likely to prolong
the violence, said two Obama administration officials. They
spoke on the condition of anonymity because they aren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  “While the blame game has started before the Annan Plan
was put in place, it is likely to escalate as the key outside
stakeholders are more concerned about their face-saving
operations than with working out a common strong position on
resolution of the crisis,” said Lilit Gevorgyan, a Russia
analyst at IHS Global Insight.  Judgment Day  Both sides will seek to draw on evidence from the ground to
make their arguments before Annan formally declares his plan
dead. Judgment day may come on July 21, when the 90-day observer
mission ends, or sooner if any of the unarmed monitors is killed
or injured in a conflict in which the opposition is increasingly
relying on tactics such as suicide bombings.  “The concern here is that we still have the regime, on a
daily basis, firing on innocents,” State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said on May 18. “So they are leading in
creating this climate that is enabling other kinds of violence,
as well.”  Security forces killed 40 people yesterday, according to
the Local Coordination Committees, an opposition group. The
state news agency Sana said 19 people were killed across the
country by “armed groups,” including an officer and his 13-
year-old child shot on their way to school in a Damascus suburb.  Sergei Lavrov , who was re-appointed Russia’s foreign
minister after  Vladimir Putin  was elected president, has blamed
Assad’s opponents for the violence. He points to “daily reports
of terrorist acts, explosions and attacks involving the Syrian
Free Army and various terrorist groups linked to al-Qaeda.”  ‘External Players’  “Let’s not forget external players that finance and arm
combat groups and squads,” Lavrov told reporters May 23. “In
my view their goal is obvious: the sabotage of Annan’s peace
plan.”  Russia will be able to draw ammunition to frame its case
from a UN investigation that documents human rights abuses by
armed opposition groups, as well as by Assad’s security forces.  The report, which says at least 207 people died between
February and May 10, was published yesterday by the UN
Independent International Commission of Inquiry on  Syria  and
draws on interviews with 214 victims and witnesses.  Families Killed  The investigators, who weren’t permitted into the country,
describe how entire families were killed in their homes by
Assad’s forces. The opposition was found to have captured and
tortured soldiers and used children as messengers for life-
threatening deliveries into  Turkey .  The report describes actions by increasingly well-organized
fighters planting mines, making homemade bombs and putting nails
in pipes with explosive powder. There are six documented cases
of explosions in which civilians were killed. While the
commission said it wasn’t able to verify who was responsible, it
listed the bombings under abuses committed by anti-government
forces.  One problem with the Annan plan is that that the U.S. and
 Russia  seem to see it as a tool to reach different ends,
Gevorgyan, the Russia analyst, said in an e-mail.  “The trouble is that Russia and  China  see the current
Annan plan as more of an opportunity to resuscitate the current
Syrian setup, with some modification, while the West sees the
road map as an orderly and quick regime change plan,” Gevorgyan
said.  Obama Reluctant  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is reluctant to
press Russia to stop supporting Assad, the two officials said,
because it wants to avoid a confrontation with Putin so soon
after he took office and because it puts a higher premium on
gaining Russian support for halting  Iran ’s suspected nuclear
weapons research.  At the same time, the officials said, tensions with
 Pakistan  have increased the need for U.S. and allied troops in
 Afghanistan  to use supply routes through former Soviet republics
in Central Asia where Russia still has influence.  As the Annan plan’s deadline nears, the spiraling violence
raises the stakes if it fails, said  Aaron David Miller , a senior
fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
in  Washington .  “No one believes in the plan, but no one wants it to fail,
because if it fails, the emperor is proven to have had no
clothes, and that requires the powers to come up with an
alternative, which no one wants to do,” Miller said in a
telephone interview.  What Next?  Once the plan is formally recognized as a failure, he said,
the discussion will shift to what should come next.  “That question has been asked and answered by the Obama
administration,” Miller said. “They’re not prepared to
intercede in a significant way. They’ll keep the pressure on the
Assads with sanctions; they’ll covertly arm the opposition
indirectly or directly; and they’ll keep the pressure up on the
Russians and the Chinese. That’s it.”  Given the chasm between Russian and American goals and
viewpoints, the likely outcome is more gridlock in the UN
Security Council, said  Andrew Tabler , a fellow at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, a policy group.  Once the Annan plan is declared a failure, “I don’t see
the political process at the end of it,” Tabler said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  