-- U.S. Stock Futures Little Changed Before Consumer Report
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-05-25T11:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/u-s-stock-futures-gain-on-euro-optimism-quest-advances.html
U.S. stock futures were little
changed, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index heading for its
biggest weekly gain in more than two months on optimism that
 Greece  will stay in the euro and as investors awaited a report
on consumer sentiment.  Quest Software Inc. (QSFT)  advanced 4.2 percent after people with
knowledge of the matter said Dell Inc. is in discussions to
acquire the company.  Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW)  climbed after
JPMorgan Chase & Co recommended buying the company’s shares.  S&P 500  Index futures expiring in June rose 0.1 percent to
1,323.50 at 7:25 a.m. in  New York . Dow Jones Industrial Average
futures lost 3 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,533.  U.S. stocks yesterday reversed losses as Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  said that “Europe can have euro bonds
soon,” and Italy could help push  Germany  to support the idea of
collective debt. Stocks had dropped earlier as officials said
China’s biggest banks may fall short of loan targets for the
first time in at least seven years amid an economic slowdown.  French 10-year bonds extended an advance today, driving the
yield on the securities to an all-time low. Yields on German 10-
year securities yesterday reached a record low.  “Declines in borrowing costs are helping stocks” said
Louis de Fels, a Paris-based  money manager  at Raymond James
Asset Management International, which oversees $35 billion
worldwide. “The market can have a positive dynamic in the short
term.”  Weekly Gains  The S&P 500 is heading for a 2 percent gain this week, its
biggest increase since the week ending March 16, as Chinese
Premier Wen Jiabao pledged to focus more on bolstering growth.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment climbed to 77.8, the highest since January
2008, from 76.4 the prior month, a report may show. That would
confirm preliminary data released earlier in the month.  Quest rallied 4.2 percent to $26.24 in Germany.  Dell (DELL)  is in
discussions to acquire Quest, a maker of tools that help
companies manage their computer systems, according to people
with knowledge of the matter.  Dell is among several companies that made offers for Quest
Software after it agreed in March to be bought by private-equity
and venture-capital firm Insight Venture Partners for about $2
billion, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the discussions are private.  Illinois Tool Works climbed 2 percent to $56.88 in
Frankfurt trading. The company was raised to overweight, the
equivalent of buy, at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 