-- U.S. Corn Harvest ‘Great Opportunity’ for China Reserve Buy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-25T03:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/u-s-corn-harvest-great-opportunity-for-china-reserve-buy-1-.html
The U.S. new-crop corn harvest will
provide a “great opportunity” for the Chinese government to
build stockpiles and bridge a domestic shortfall to prepare for
peak feed-grain consumption in the second half.  Record corn acreage in the U.S., expectations for a bumper
harvest and a slump in Chicago prices have combined to provide
the Chinese government with an opportune time to buy, said
 Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. , the largest independent Chinese
agricultural researcher.  The International Grains Council forecast yesterday a
“huge” U.S. harvest, pushing global production to 913 million
metric tons in the year through June 2013. That’s 12.7 million
tons more than the London-based group predicted last month and
up from 866.1 million tons a year earlier. The  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  said May 10 that global output will rise to an
all-time high of 945.78 million tons.  Corn for July delivery rose 0.7 percent to $5.8225 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade at 11:19 a.m. Singapore time,
trimming this week’s decline to 8.4 percent. Futures have
dropped 9.9 percent this year.  “Stockpiles have been depleted, at a time when consumption
is forecast to rise as the number of fertile sows has reached
the highest level in 38 months,” Shanghai JC Intelligence said
in an e-mailed report today. “So there’s an urgent need for the
government to import new-crop corn this season to ensure
domestic supply and reduce pressure on inflation in the second
half of this year.”  The key growing period for the U.S. crop is July, when
there might be an impact from the El Nino weather pattern, the
researcher said.  “The Chinese government should buy in bulk to replenish
stockpiles before the market may speculate on El Nino’s impact
on corn crop size and push up prices,” the report said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  