-- U.S. Stocks Fall as Spanish Debt Overshadows Economy
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-25T20:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/u-s-stock-futures-drop-on-concern-over-spanish-debt.html
U.S. stocks fell, trimming the first
weekly gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since April, as
concern about Spain’s finances tempered optimism with data
showing American  consumer confidence  rose to a four-year high.  Industrial (S5INDU) , commodity and financial companies had the
biggest declines in the S&P 500 among 10 groups.  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  retreated at least 1.2
percent to pace losses in the largest companies.  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
tumbled 3.4 percent, following a two-day advance.  The S&P 500 decreased 0.2 percent to 1,317.82 at 4 p.m. New
York time. The benchmark measure for U.S. equities gained 1.7
percent this week. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped
74.92 points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,454.83. About 5 billion
shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges, the fewest this year.
The U.S. stock market will close on May 28 for a holiday.  “It’s tough,” said Rick Fier, director of equity trading
at Conifer Securities LLC in New York. His firm oversees more
than $12 billion. “America is doing great, yet Europe is a real
disaster. Where it ends? Who knows.”  Spain is analyzing requests from regional governments to
help them regain access to capital markets, Deputy Prime
Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said today. Catalonia’s
government said it is complying “strictly” with its budget
program and will honor its commitments. The  Bankia (BKIA)  group, a
Spanish lender nationalized earlier this month, will seek 19
billion euros ($23.8 billion) of government funds. In the U.S.,
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment climbed to 79.3 in May, beating estimates.  $1 Trillion  More than $1 trillion was erased from U.S. equity values
this month amid uncertainties over Greece’s permanence in the
euro. The S&P 500 has slumped 5.7 percent since the end of April
and was headed for its second monthly decline, the longest
losing streak since September.  “People are wondering if there are other skeletons in
Spain’s regional government closets,” said  Russ Koesterich , the
San Francisco-based global chief investment strategist for the
IShares unit of BlackRock Inc. His firm oversees $3.68 trillion.
“Greece is critical, but relatively small in the euro zone. The
same cannot be said of Spain.”  Investors are reluctant to take risk even as the U.S. stock
market looks attractive, said Mark Lehmann, president of JMP
Securities. The  S&P 500  trades at 13.3 times reported earnings,
below the average since 1954 of 16.4, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. About  71 percent  of companies in the benchmark
index which reported first-quarter results beat estimates.  ‘Very Vanilla’  “It’s very vanilla right now,” Lehmann said in a
telephone interview from San Francisco. “I don’t think there’s
anybody getting wildly bullish or wildly bearish. The  U.S.
economy  is in better shape, corporate balance sheets are in
better shape. Yet the fear of the unknown is taking over. Nobody
is panicking, yet nobody is taking a lot of risk.”  Eight out of  10 groups  in the S&P 500 fell today. Boeing,
the largest aerospace company, retreated 2 percent to $70.
JPMorgan declined 1.4 percent to $33.50. Chevron dropped 1.2
percent to $98.86.  Facebook retreated 3.4 percent to $31.91, erasing
yesterday’s gain. The company’s initial public offering, which
set a record for technology companies by raising more than $16
billion, also has the distinction of producing the worst return
among the largest U.S. deals of the past decade.  Shares of Menlo Park, California-based Facebook have fallen
13 percent since underwriters  sold  them for $38 on May 17
through yesterday. The decline exceeds the 10 percent drop by MF
Global Holdings Inc. in its first five days. Visa Inc. did best
among the biggest deals, rising 45 percent.  Facing Criticism  Facebook and Morgan Stanley, its lead underwriter, have
faced criticism for boosting the number of shares sold in the
IPO by 25 percent last week to 421.2 million. They also boosted
the asking price to between $34 and $38 from $28 to $35.  “Raising the price and number of shares was clearly a
mistake,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management in New York, which oversees more than $1.9 billion.  The first day of trading was disrupted by the “poor
design” of Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s software for IPO auctions,
 Robert Greifeld , the chief executive officer of the exchange
operator, said on May 20. The malfunction also prevented Nasdaq
OMX from sending messages to brokerages confirming that clients’
orders went through.  Talbots Inc. (TLB)  tumbled 41 percent, the most ever, to $1.51.
The company ended exclusive talks to be bought by Sycamore
Partners for $215 million and saying it will explore other
strategic alternatives.  Chesapeake Rallies  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  rallied 1.5 percent to $15.81.
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , known for pushing for change at
the companies in which he invests, reported that he has a 7.56
percent stake in the company. The news came after the close of
regular trading. Bloomberg News yesterday reported that he had
become one of Chesapeake’s largest shareholders, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  RealD Inc. (RLD)  surged 2.9 percent to $11.47. The maker of
three-dimensional projection gear advanced after Sony Pictures
agreed to pay for 3-D glasses for showings of “Men in Black
3,” the movie opening in U.S. theaters today.  The cost of protecting against losses in shares of smaller
U.S. companies is the cheapest in nine months, a sign traders
expect the stocks to be hurt less than their larger counterparts
from the European debt crisis.  Implied Volatility  Implied volatility , the key gauge of options prices, for
puts 10 percent below the  iShares Russell 2000 Index Fund (IWM)  was
33.53 yesterday, according to data on six-month contracts
compiled by Bloomberg. The measure reached the lowest level
versus the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust since August this week.  Federated Investors Inc. says smaller companies are likely
to be spared more losses as an expanding U.S. economy insulates
their businesses from Europe’s debt crisis. About 8.4 percent of
companies in the  Russell 2000  get more than 10 percent of sales
from the region, compared with 13 percent in the S&P 500, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “In times of economic improvement, results for smaller
companies exceed those of larger companies, and the economy is
grudgingly improving right now,” Lawrence Creatura, the
Rochester, New York-based manager of the Federated Clover Small
Value Fund, said in a May 23 phone interview. Federated oversees
$363.6 billion in client assets. Investors “need less of an
insurance policy against trouble ahead,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  