-- Obama Shunning China Yuan Manipulator Tag Gets Romney Ire
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-05-25T20:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/u-s-treasury-declines-to-name-china-currency-manipulator.html
The U.S. declined to brand  China  a
currency manipulator, while asking the world’s second-largest
economy to strengthen the “significantly undervalued”  yuan .  In its semi-annual report to Congress on  exchange-rate 
policies, the Treasury Department said yesterday that it will
continue to “closely monitor” the pace of yuan appreciation
and push for “policy changes that yield greater exchange-rate
flexibility.”  The Obama administration says China’s policies keep the
yuan undervalued and produce an unfair advantage in global
trade. Politicians including presumptive Republican presidential
nominee Romney and Senator Charles Schumer, a  New York  Democrat,
have complained that the administration should be more
aggressive in pushing China on the currency. No country has been
designated a manipulator by the U.S. since China in 1994.  “With recession in Europe starting to slow China’s
economy, now is not the time to rock the boat with one of
America’s most important trading partners,”  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New
York, said in an e-mail after the report was released.  “Greater foreign-exchange rate flexibility and the need to
monitor are going to be in this report for the next several
years, but the nuclear option to declare China an outright
manipulator is unlikely to be used with the global outlook so
uncertain right now,” Rupkey said.  European Crisis  In its report, the Treasury said the deepening European
crisis “is a significant risk to the U.S. outlook as our
recovery remains vulnerable to events abroad.” A “tightening”
of the region’s financial markets could “adversely impact the
willingness of U.S. banks to lend and invest.”  The Treasury said the  Chinese yuan  has appreciated 40
percent against the dollar, after taking inflation into account,
since China initiated currency reform in July 2005. This year
through May 15 the Chinese currency was “virtually flat”
against the dollar.  “It is in China’s interest to allow the exchange rate to
continue to appreciate, both against the dollar and against the
currencies of its other major trading partners,” the Treasury
said in the report, which was originally due to be released
April 15.  The Treasury frequently delays the report. The last one,
due Oct. 15, was released Dec. 27. The previous one, due April
15, 2011, was released May 27.  Nicholas Lardy , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, said the report was overly critical
of China.  More Credit  “Treasury is making a mistake in not giving China more
credit for the appreciation that it has undertaken and the large
reduction in its global external imbalance,” Lardy said in an
e-mail. “They should not stick with the ‘significantly
undervalued’ language.”  The Treasury is required to report twice a year on
exchange-rate policies of major trading partners and enter into
direct talks with those it designates as manipulators.  China’s economy  may grow in 2012 at its slowest pace in 13
years, a Bloomberg News survey showed earlier this month, as
Europe’s debt crisis curbs exports, manufacturing shrinks and
demand for new homes wanes. China’s gross domestic product
expansion, which dropped to 8.1 percent in the first quarter,
may further slip to 7.9 percent in the three months ending in
June, according the survey. That would be the sixth quarterly
deceleration.  IMF Projection  The  International Monetary Fund  last month projected that
China would grow 8.2 percent this year and the global economy
will expand by 3.5 percent.  The yuan dropped for a third week on signs China’s economy
is slowing and as concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening
hurt demand for riskier assets. The yuan fell 0.24 percent this
week to 6.3439 per dollar in Shanghai, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency was little changed
yesterday and touched 6.3525, the weakest level since Dec. 20.
It has declined 0.53 percent in May, heading for its worst month
in at least five years.  The Chinese currency is “getting closer to an equilibrium
price,” said  Kenneth Lieberthal , director of the John L.
Thornton China Center at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington. “The  U.S. Treasury  recognizes that, although
politically you would not be able to say it officially. So they
say that the Chinese need to go further. They do need to go a
little further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in  Washington  at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  