-- U.S. Banking Sector Stress Eases, Money Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-25T14:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/u-s-banking-sector-stress-eases-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market indicators signaled
stresses in U.S. short-term funding markets eased even as
concern increases the  Europe ’s debt crisis may be worsening.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.46685 percent, as it has remained since May
16, according to the British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS
spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend, narrowed to 30.9
basis points from 31 basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, narrowed to 38.3 basis points from 39.44
basis points yesterday, according to the second rolling three
month contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 0.38 basis points to 34.75 basis points. The gap
is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in
many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market increased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 47.1 basis points below Euribor, compared to 45.4
basis points below yesterday.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, widened. The
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 40 basis
points compared to 39 basis points. The measure has fallen from
95 basis points at the start of the year.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $14.9 billion to $1.009 trillion in the week ended May 23,
according to Federal Reserve data. That’s the highest level
since $1.03 trillion on Sept. 21, while the fourth straight
weekly increase is the longest streak since the period ended
Feb. 8.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 36.2 basis points, compared with
37.2 basis points yesterday. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  