-- Ukrainian Opposition Blocks Parliament on Russian Language Bill
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-05-25T14:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/ukrainian-opposition-blocks-parliament-on-russian-language-bill.html
Former Ukrainian Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko ’s party blocked the speaker’s podium in Parliament to
halt voting on a draft law making Russian the former Soviet
republic’s second official language.  The 450-seat legislature put off debate today of the bill
after Ukrainian opposition parties clashed with President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s party, which initiated the proposal, on the
assembly floor, leaving two lawmakers from Tymoshenko’s
Fatherland party hospitalized.  “Parliamentarism in Ukraine has been ruined,” Speaker
Volodymyr Lytvyn said in televised remarks today on the Kiev-
based Parliament’s Rada channel after failing to sponsor a
compromise over the state language bill.  Tymoshenko, who was sentenced to seven years in prison in
October for abuse of power while serving as premier, helped lead
the bloodless 2004 Orange Revolution, when millions of people
supported Ukraine’s closer ties with the European Union and less
dependence on  Russia . Yanukovych, who is from the Russian
language-dominated eastern part of Ukraine, has been campaigning
for official recogntion of the language. His party’s support has
slid before October national elections.  “For three years we agreed that this bill should not be
discussed in Parliament,” said Andriy Kozhemiakin, the head of
Tymoshenko’s parliamentary group, on its website. “And then,
the bill was pulled out of the closet to help influence the
outcome of the elections.”  Ukrainian was announced as the only official language after
the country got its independence as the  Soviet Union  collapsed
in 1991. The two Slavic languages are related, much like Czech
and Slovak, both official languages in the defunct
 Czechoslovakia .  Mykola Tomenko, a deputy speaker and a Fatherland member,
said the opposition is ready to block the parliament for a
month, providing grounds for the legislature’s dismissal and
elections before October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  