-- United Technologies Leads U.S. Company Bond Sales Higher
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-05-25T16:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/united-technologies-leads-u-s-company-bond-sales-higher.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s $9.8
billion offering, the largest in more than three years, sent
U.S. corporate bond sales higher this week even as speculative-
grade issuance plummeted to the lowest levels of 2012.  Overall  issuance  soared 38 percent from last week to $19.4
billion while junk bond sales declined 60 percent to $1.9
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hartford,
Connecticut-based  United Technologies , which last tapped the
market more than two years ago, sold debt in six portions
ranging from 18-month floating-rate notes to 30-year bonds.  Bond buyers are being lured by higher-rated debt like that
of the maker of Sikorsky helicopters and Pratt & Whitney engines
as turmoil in Europe sends them to safer assets. While
investment-grade returns in the U.S. are down 0.2 percent this
month through yesterday, speculative-grade bonds have declined
1.3 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  “If  Europe  blows up, there’s a flight of quality to single
A corporate industrials,” Mark Pibl, head of credit strategy at
broker-dealer Cortview Capital Securities LLC, said in a
telephone interview.  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
rather than similar-maturity Treasuries expanded 4 basis points
from last week to 314 basis points as of yesterday, the widest
since Jan. 31, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  Biggest Since Pfizer  United Technologies’s offering was the biggest since March
2009 when Pfizer Inc. sold $13.5 billion of bonds in a five-part
offering. Proceeds from the sale will be used to help fund the
aerospace and building-system company’s acquisition of
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Goodrich Corp.  The company sold floating-rate debt that included $1
billion of 18-month notes yielding 27 basis points more than the
London interbank offered rate, and $500 million of three-year
debt yielding 50 basis points more than Libor.  It also sold $1 billion of 1.2 percent, three-year notes;
$1.5 billion of 1.8 percent, five-year debt; $2.3 billion of 3.1
percent, 10-year securities; and $3.5 billion of 4.5 percent,
30-year bonds, the data show.  Relative yields for U.S. investment-grade debt rose to 225
basis points as of yesterday, up 2 basis points from May 18 and
below last year’s high of 272 on Oct. 5, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  McDonald’s Record Low  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant chain,
raised $900 million in a two-part offering on May 23 with the
1.875 percent coupon on its $400 million of seven-year debt
matching a record low set by International Business Machines
Corp. on May 8, the data show. It also issued three-year notes
at 0.75 percent to yield 45 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, sold
$750 million each of 1.375 percent, three-year notes on May 22
at a spread of 100 basis points and 3.375 percent, 10-year
debentures at 165 basis points, the data show.  The coupons were
the lowest on record for three- and 10-year debt issued by the
company.  Debt offerings were 14 percent below the $22 billion weekly
average for the last 12 months, according to Bloomberg data.
Global bond sales reached at least $57 billion, below the weekly
average of $61 billion  High-yield, high-risk issuance dropped to the lowest weekly
level since December, according to Bloomberg data. The biggest
issuer in the market was NGPL PipeCo LLC which sold $550 million
of 9.625 percent, seven-year notes with a 842 basis-points
spread.  Junk Issuance  Yields reached 7.91 percent this week, the highest level
since Jan. 31, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. High Yield Master II index. High-yield, or junk, bonds are
rated below Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  “The high-yield market still offers a good amount of
incremental yield,”  Thomas Chow , a  money manager  at Delaware
Investments in Philadelphia with about $170 billion under
management, said in a telephone interview. “If you can select
the right names you will be rewarded for it, but you just have
to realize that there will be greater mark to market
volatility.”  Faced with  Greece ’s potential exit from the common
currency, Europe’s leaders sought to contain the region’s fiscal
crisis, as  Germany ’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel  left the door open
to a compromise on debt sharing. Italian Prime Minister  Mario
Monti  said he can help bring Germany around to acting in
Europe’s “common good.”  Euro-Area Bonds  While Merkel refused to back joint euro-area bonds at a
Brussels summit on May 23, Germany’s opposition parties wrung a
concession from the chancellor on her return to Berlin yesterday
to reconsider a separate proposal on common liability for
sovereign debt.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer majority
owned by the U.S. government after a 2008 bailout, issued $750
million in debt as an auction of $1.7 billion of its assets was
resumed by the  Federal Reserve , the data show. The New York-
based company sold 4.875 percent, 10-year bonds at a spread of
325 basis points, the data show.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  bought the
mortgage-tied securities from the Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York , the district bank said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 