-- Unsecured Creditors Face Losses in EU’s Plan for Failing Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-05-26T09:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/unsecured-creditors-face-losses-in-eu-plan-for-failing-banks-1-.html
The European Union will seek to give
regulators the power to impose writedowns on senior unsecured
creditors at failing banks as part of measures to prevent
taxpayers from footing the bill for saving crisis-hit lenders.  The writedown powers would apply to senior unsecured debt
and derivatives, while some other claims, including secured debt
and deposits that are protected by government guarantee
programs, would be shielded from the losses, according to draft
plans obtained by Bloomberg News. Regulators would have the so-
called bail-in powers from the start of 2018.  The cost of bank funding may increase as investors take on
board the plans “but this is a natural process of getting
taxpayers off the hook,”  John Vickers , the chairman of the
U.K.’s Independent Commission on Banking, said in a speech in
Brussels yesterday. “It’s not sinister that funding costs go up
if it’s for that reason.”  EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  had
delayed proposing the law, which was originally scheduled to be
released in September 2011, because of market turbulence. The
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index  has fallen
35.8 percent in the past year on concerns lenders have been
weakened by the European sovereign-debt crisis.  Any bail-in of bank debt would “be accompanied by the
removal of the management responsible for the problems of the
institution,” according to the draft proposals, prepared by
Barnier’s staff at the European Commission. The bank would face
restructuring “in a way that addresses the reasons for its
failure.”  Equity Conversion  The plans, scheduled to be published on June 6, will have
to be agreed on by finance ministers from the EU’s 27 member
states and members of the European Parliament before they become
law.  The bail-in powers must be in place across the EU by the
start of 2018, the commission’s draft proposal said. As well as
writing down claims, national regulators would also have the
power to convert them into equity, according to the draft rules.  “In order to reassure investors and market counterparties
and to minimize its impact it is necessary not to apply the
bail-in tool until Jan. 1, 2018,” the commission said in the
document.  Such a delay would be a mistake,  Karel Lannoo , chief
executive officer of the Centre for European Policy Studies, a
Brussels-based research institute, said in a phone interview.  ‘Right Away’  “We need a shift to this system right away,” Lannoo said.
Without the powers, the EU risks further fragmentation of its
banking market along national lines, he said.  Barnier has cited the state-funded break up of Fortis AG
along national lines as an example of the kinds of bank rescues
that should be avoided in the future, both to protect taxpayers
and to preserve the principle of cross-border banking in the
bloc.  Under the plans, banks with “systemic relevance” would be
required to issue a minimum amount of capital instruments,
subordinated debt and other claims that could be written down in
a crisis.  This minimum amount should be equivalent to 10 percent of a
bank’s non-equity liabilities, the document says.  According to the document, the commission has dropped plans
from last year to place longer-term unsecured debt in the firing
line for writedowns ahead of shorter-term claims. The commission
said in March that while such a measure would aid the interbank
lending market, it could also encourage banks to rely on less
stable funding sources.  Stefaan De Rynck, Barnier’s spokesman, declined to
immediately comment on the document.  Flexibility  Barnier said today that national regulators would be left
with some flexibility to decide when they enact a bail-in.  Anders Borg,  Sweden ’s finance minister, has called for
governments to retain the option to rescue banks with taxpayer
money if they think that is the best way to safeguard financial
stability.  The Barnier plans call on national governments to ensure
that a minimum amount of money is immediately available to
stabilize a crisis-hit bank. Authorities would be free to decide
on the “institutional setup of such arrangements,” which would
allow regulators to buy time while other steps, such as creditor
writedowns, are enacted.  The funds would be raised through annual contributions by
banks. Lenders could be tapped for further financing in an
emergency, while governments would be obliged to lend to each
other as a last resort.  Bank Deposit Guarantees  Member states  could merge these requirements with existing
national arrangements to guarantee  bank deposits , according to
the EU document.  The draft plans also state that national authorities should
be prepared to pool their financial resources when a cross-
border bank is on the point of failure. The preparations should
include the drawing up of a “financing plan” showing how each
nation would contribute.  This requirement is “far too weak,” Lannoo said, as the
pooling of resources would “take weeks” to activate. A
standing EU-level bank resolution fund is needed, he said.  Under EU law, governments must guarantee bank deposits of
100,000 euros ($125,000) or less. Barnier proposed in July 2010
that lenders be forced to contribute to standing national funds
that would help authorities honor their obligations to
depositors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  