-- Hurricane Bud Weakens as It Nears Landfall on Mexico
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-05-25T15:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/hurricane-bud-weakens-as-it-nears-landfall-on-mexico.html
Hurricane Bud weakened as it neared
the southwest Mexican coast, where it will probably go ashore
overnight between Puerto Vallarta and Manzanillo, according to
the U.S. National Hurricane Center.  The storm is expected to be “at or just below hurricane
strength” when it makes landfall, the center said in an
 advisory  issued just before 11 a.m.  New York  time. There is a 55
percent chance Bud will strike Mexico as a hurricane, according
to  Tropical Storm Risk , a London-based consortium that tracks
such systems.  The storm is moving north at 7 mph and is 95 miles west-
southwest of Manzanillo.  “Hurricane conditions are expected to reach the coast
within the  hurricane warning  area this afternoon,” the center
said in  an advisory . “Preparations to protect life and property
should be rushed to completion.”  Bud, a Category 2 storm with winds of 100 miles (161
kilometers) per hour, has weakened since reaching its peak as a
major Category 3 storm with 115 mph winds. The mountains of
western Mexico are expected to tear the storm’s structure apart
as it goes ashore and returns to the Pacific, breaking it apart
in about three days.  Mexico ’s weather service alerted seven states to prepare
for the storm and urged people to be cautious on beaches.  Alerts Posted  A  hurricane warning  was in effect from Manzanillo northwest
to Cabo Corrientes, and a tropical storm warning and hurricane
watch were issued for Punta San Telmo to the east of Manzanillo,
the Miami-based NHC said. Hurricane-force winds extend out from
the center as much as 35 miles, it said.  “Everything is carrying on as normal,” Mauricio Fuentes,
receptionist at the Tesoro resort in Manzanillo, said today by
phone. “The hotel is open and will continue working and
accepting guests until the authorities tell us we need to start
evacuating them.”  Manzanillo’s port is known for container facilities as well
as being a destination for  cruise ships , while Puerto Vallarta
and its beaches have long been a destination for tourists from
the U.S. and  Canada .  In the Atlantic, a low-pressure system over southern
 Florida  and the Bahamas has a 70 percent of becoming a tropical
or subtropical cyclone over the weekend, the NHC said.  The storm probably won’t reach that threshold, according to
weather models, said Travis Hartman, energy weather manager and
meteorologist at MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The Florida Division of Emergency Management is warning
residents to pay attention to the system, which may bring heavy
rains and gusty winds to the state even if it doesn’t reach
tropical storm status, according to an e-mailed statement.  When a system’s winds reach 39 mph, it’s given a name and
officially becomes a tropical storm. A storm becomes a hurricane
when its winds reach 74 mph.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in  London  at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  