-- Hurricane Bud Weakens to Category 2 Storm Nearing Mexico
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-25T13:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/hurricane-bud-weakens-to-category-2-storm-as-nears-mexico.html
Hurricane Bud will begin to lash the
Mexican coast in a few hours before going ashore late today with
heavy rains that may cause flash floods and mudslides, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said.  Bud, a Category 2 hurricane with winds of 110 miles (175
kilometers) per hour, weakened slightly overnight from its peak
as a major Category 3 storm status on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson scale. The storm is about 105 miles southwest of the
Mexican port of Manzanillo and moving north-northeast at 8 mph.  “Hurricane conditions are expected to reach the coast
within the  hurricane warning  area this afternoon,” the center
said in  an advisory  just before 8 a.m.  New York  time.
“Preparations to protect life and property should be rushed to
completion.”  While Bud’s winds peaked at 115 mph overnight, it may still
be a Category 2 storm when it goes ashore in Mexico later today
between Manzanillo and Puerto Vallarta. It is then expected to
reverse course, weaken and drift back out to sea tomorrow,
dropping as much as 15 inches of rain in some areas.  “Everything is carrying on as normal,” Mauricio Fuentes,
receptionist at the Tesoro resort in Manzanillo, said today by
phone. “The hotel is open and will continue working and
accepting guests until the authorities tell us we need to start
evacuating them.”  Port, Resort  Manzanillo’s port is known for container facilities as well
as being a destination for  cruise ships , while Puerto Vallarta
and its beaches have long been a destination for tourists from
the U.S. and  Canada .  A hurricane warning was in effect from Manzanillo northwest
to Cabo Corrientes, and a tropical storm warning and hurricane
watch were issued for Punta San Telmo to the east of Manzanillo,
the Miami-based NHC said. Hurricane-force winds extend out from
the center as much as 35 miles, it said.  In the Atlantic, a low-pressure system over southern
 Florida  and the Bahamas has a 70 percent of becoming a tropical
or subtropical cyclone over the weekend, the NHC said.  The storm probably won’t reach that threshold, according to
weather models, said Travis Hartman, energy weather manager and
meteorologist at MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The Florida Division of Emergency Management is warning
residents to pay attention to the system, which may bring heavy
rains and gusty winds to the state even if it doesn’t reach
tropical storm status, according to an e-mailed statement.  When a system’s winds reach 39 mph, it’s given a name and
officially becomes a tropical storm. A storm becomes a hurricane
when its winds reach 74 mph.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  