-- Bud Weakens to Tropical Storm on Way to Mexico Coast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-26T06:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/hurricane-bud-may-weaken-further-before-drenching-mexico.html
Bud weakened to a tropical storm
heading toward  Mexico ’s southwestern coast near Puerto Vallarta,
where it will probably hover through the weekend.  The storm’s winds diminished to 50 miles (85 kilometers)
per hour, down from 70 mph, the U.S.  National Hurricane Center 
said in an advisory at about 11 p.m. New York time yesterday.
Bud is expected to continue to weaken, the center said.  “We think the issue will not be the wind but the
rainfall,” said Dan Kottlowski, lead hurricane forecaster for
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  The storm is 15 miles south-southwest of Cabo Corrientes,
Mexico, moving north at 7 mph, according to the  advisory . Bud’s
center will be near or over Mexico’s coast today and tomorrow,
the advisory shows.  The Miami-based center issued tropical storm warnings late
yesterday for the U.S. east coast from  Florida  to  South Carolina 
as storm Beryl approached.  Beryl was 285 miles east of Charleston, South Carolina, and
will bring higher than normal tides and rain, according to a 2
a.m. advisory from the center. Its maximum sustained winds were
at 45 miles per hour and the storm was moving west at 2 miles
per hour, the center reported.  Bud Diminished  After Bud goes ashore, it is expected to move along the
coast before drifting back out into the Pacific, the NHC said.  A mixture of dry air and wind shear diminished the storm,
which was a major Category 3 hurricane yesterday, an NHC
forecast analysis posted at 5 p.m.  New York  time yesterday said.
The mountains of western Mexico may separate Bud’s top layer
from its surface winds, breaking the storm apart later this
weekend.  Kottlowski said Bud won’t be able to re-form because it
will have been too damaged and the water off the coast is too
cool.  Mexico’s weather service alerted seven states to prepare
for the storm and urged people to be cautious on beaches.  The government of Mexico changed a  hurricane warning  to a
tropical storm warning for the coast from Manzanillo northwest
to Cabo Corrientes and discontinued the hurricane watch and
tropical storm warning for the coast east of Manzanillo to Punta
San Telmo, the NHC said.  Tropical storm force winds extend out from the center as
much as 80 miles, it said.  Manzanillo’s port is known for container facilities as well
as being a destination for  cruise ships , while Puerto Vallarta
and its beaches have long been a destination for tourists from
the U.S. and  Canada .  When a system’s winds reach 39 mph, it’s given a name and
officially becomes a tropical storm. A storm becomes a hurricane
when its winds reach 74 mph.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  