-- VeriFone Drops on Growth, Cash Flow Concern: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-05-25T20:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/verifone-drops-on-growth-cash-flow-concern-san-francisco-mover.html
VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY) , the largest
maker of credit-card terminals, fell the most since March 2009
after an analyst again questioned the company’s growth and said
it has poor free  cash flow .  VeriFone  fell 15.5 percent to $38.03 at the close in  New
York . The stock has dropped 31 percent from April 29, the day
before Deutsche Bank Securities analyst Bryan Keane downgraded
the  San Jose , California-based company, through today.  Yesterday VeriFone issued next-quarter revenue and earnings
guidance that missed some analysts’ expectations.  “The company put out even weaker free cash flow number
than in the first quarter,” Keane said in a telephone interview
today. “It’s unclear if free cash flow is going to materially
improve.”  VeriFone generated $50.2 million in cash from operating
activities in the six months ended on April 30, down from $68.8
million in the same year-ago period.  Firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc.
recommended today that investors buy the stock on weakness.  “Their business is growing pretty decently, they’ve just
set expectations too high,”  Gil Luria , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc., said in an interview.  Keane downgraded VeriFone to a sell rating from a hold on
April 30, lowering his 12-month target price to $40 a share from
$44. In a report that day, he questioned the company’s method
for reporting organic growth.  ’More Appropriate’  “In our view, organic growth is being inflated through
acquisitions,” he wrote in the report. Keane added: “The more
appropriate method to calculate organic growth is to look at all
acquisitions as if they were owned in both comparable periods.”  VeriFone Chief Financial Officer Robert Dykes said the
company stood by its estimates.  “One analyst’s taken upon himself to paint a short story
of the company,” Dykes said in an interview today. “He’s just
misinterpreting data and making an issue where there isn’t one.
We did 15 percent organic growth. All the other analysts but
Bryan are happy with our analysis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland , Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 