-- Veterans Groups Decry ‘Broken’ Disability Benefits System
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-05-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/veterans-groups-decry-broken-disability-benefits-system.html
Military veterans groups called on
President  Barack Obama  to repair what they called a failed
bureaucracy that requires former service members to wait months
for disability benefits.  “The system is broken,” Paul Rieckhoff, founder and
executive director of Iraq and  Afghanistan  Veterans of America,
said in the transcript of an interview taped for  CNN ’s “ State
of the Union ” program tomorrow. “The president has not been
aggressive in tackling this backlog, which continues to plague
our veterans nationwide.”  With thousands of troops coming home from the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan, the number of disability cases filed with the
Department of Veterans Affairs jumped 48 percent over the past
four years to 1.3 million in 2011. The department faces a
backlog of about 905,000 claims, with 65 percent of them taking
longer than the agency’s 125-day target for processing,
according to tallies released this week.  “It is not acceptable,” Senator  Patty Murray , a
Washington Democrat who heads the Senate Veterans’ Affairs
Committee, said in an interview for the CNN program in advance
of Memorial Day on May 28. “It doesn’t meet the guidelines of
the VA. It doesn’t meet what the country expects.”  When asked why the backlog has persisted for years without
improvement, Murray said, “It is such a complex problem. I’m
not going to give anybody excuses, but I do need to remind all
of us that the injuries that our soldiers are coming home with
today -- what they are living through that previous generations
of warriors did not survive -- are very complex.”  Jobless Veterans  Tim Tetz, legislative director for the  American Legion ,
said it can take as long as 400 days for troops who apply for
disability benefits to receive them.  “Making them sit there and languish for 400 days while in
some barracks on some base is absolutely an atrocity,” he said
on the program.  Rieckhoff and Tetz agreed that  unemployment  remains the top
concern of veterans coming home from war.  Among those 18 to 24 years old who served in Iraq or
Afghanistan, the jobless rate last month was 18.6 percent,
compared with 14.5 percent for non-veterans of that age group.  “That is still a striking number,” Tetz said. “That’s
still far worse than other eras. But we are having a hard time
having young people get jobs today.”  Obama signed legislation last year that offers tax credits
for businesses that hire veterans and provides additional
education and training programs for veterans seeking jobs.  Tetz said two-thirds of jobless veterans are 35 to 64 years
old “and they might not have the resources, like the G.I. Bill
and many of the other things, that these younger veterans have
to use.”  A program announced this month by the  Veterans Affairs  and
Labor departments lets veterans ages 35 to 60 receive benefits
covering education costs for as long as one year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  