-- Vietnam Cuts Rates a Third Time as Inflation Hits 21-Month Low
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-25T17:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/vietnam-cuts-rates-a-third-time-as-inflation-hits-21-month-low.html
Vietnam  cut  interest rates  for the
third straight month as policy makers stepped up efforts to
bolster a struggling economy after inflation eased to the lowest
since 2010.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam’s  refinancing rate  will fall to
12 percent from 13 percent effective May 28, according to a
statement on the central bank’s website yesterday. The discount
rate will be cut to 10 percent from 11 percent and deposit rate
cap will be lowered to 11 percent from 12 percent, it said.  “Business and production activities are still facing many
difficulties,” the central bank said. The rate cuts are meant
“to resolve difficulties for business and production, in line
with the government’s policy.”  Asian nations have diverged in monetary policy responses to
shield their economies from  Europe ’s debt crisis and a growth
slowdown in  China  as some kept rates steady or cut borrowing
costs, while others tightened to limit price gains. Vietnam’s
 economy  expanded 4 percent in the first quarter, the least since
2009, and Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said this month
that helping businesses and checking inflation are urgent tasks.  “We expect inflation to moderate further this year, and
with the economy likely to remain weak, further rate cuts are
likely,” Gareth Leather, a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd., said in a note after the decision.  Government Resolution  The Vietnamese government asked the central bank to speed
up lending-rate cuts after consumer-price gains eased, according
to a resolution on the government website on May 10. Inflation
was at a 21-month low of 8.34 percent in May.  The central bank on May 4 said short-term commercial
lending rates will be capped at 3 percentage points above the
deposit rate limit for some sectors to help reduce borrowing
costs. Commercial bank lending fell 0.66 percent through April
from the end of 2011, Dau Tu newspaper reported this month.  Vietnam cut fuel costs twice this month, lowering the price
of the most commonly used grade of fuel by 4.6 percent.  Power tariffs will increase “in the near future,” the
Thanh Nien newspaper reported on May 11, citing Nguyen Tien Thoa,
head of price control at the  Finance Ministry .  Not Performing  “The economy is not performing as it could or should,”
Jean-Christophe Ganz, the Zurich-based chairman of  Vietnam
Holding Asset Management Ltd. (VNH) , said before yesterday’s decision.
There is always a risk that cutting rates “will re-start
inflation and recreate the situation we have experienced many
times, but the State Bank still has some room to maneuver.”  The rate cap for deposits with terms of one month or longer
will drop to 11 percent from 12 percent. The interest limit for
non-term deposits and those with terms of less than one month
will be lowered to 3 percent from 4 percent, the central bank
said.  Vietnam’s central bank will give companies that are
currently trading gold bars a six-month transition period from
July 10 to register with the monetary authority if they want to
continue with the business, according to a separate statement on
its website yesterday.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . With assistance from K.
Oanh Ha and Diep Pham in Hanoi. Editors: Rina Chandran, Shamim
Adam  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  