-- Wen Call for Growth, Not Loan Push, Echoed by Cabinet
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-25T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/wen-call-for-growth-not-loan-push-echoed-by-cabinet.html
Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s call to focus
more on  growth  was endorsed by China’s State Council this week
with the exception of his push to expand credit, in what
economists said shows tension over how to reverse the slowdown.  Wen, 69, in comments posted on the government’s website May
20, said the nation should put “stabilizing growth in a more
important position” and increase lending to support
construction, spurring speculation the government will step up
stimulus. A statement May 23 by the State Council, or Cabinet,
backed the shift by listing ways to boost expansion including
infrastructure projects without urging an escalation in credit.  The ruling Communist Party is dealing with a deeper-than-
forecast slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy as it
prepares for a once-in-a-decade power handover that begins later
this year. Leaders may be reluctant to enact stimulus on the
scale of the $586 billion program during the global financial
crisis that triggered a lending binge, fueled  inflation  and
burdened local governments with debt.  “It might be very hard for the leadership to reach a
consensus to protect growth unless employment shows major
problems,” said Xu Gao, Beijing-based chief macroeconomic
analyst at Everbright Securities Co., a unit of one of the
nation’s largest state-owned investment companies.  He said the State Council statement is “disappointing”
for failing to send a clear signal about loosening bank credit
and “appears to be a result of compromise.”  The State Council, composed of about 90 officials including
ministry heads, said the government will stick with a “prudent
monetary policy, maintain a reasonable size of social financing
and further improve the credit structure.”  ‘Less Urgency’  Helen Qiao, Morgan Stanley’s Hong Kong-based chief Greater
 China  economist, said in a May 24 note that the Cabinet
statement “showed less urgency in monetary easing” than Wen’s
remarks suggested. That suggests top officials are “still
waiting for further confirmation of growth weakness before
implementing aggressive policy easing,” she said.  The yuan weakened against the  U.S. dollar  for a third
straight week, dropping 0.2 percent to 6.3439. That’s the lowest
close for a week since December.  The government on May 12 cut banks’ reserve  requirements 
for the third time in six months. China’s biggest banks may fall
short of loan targets for the first time in at least seven years
as an economic slowdown crimps demand for credit, three bank
officials with knowledge of the matter said this week.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and China
Construction Bank Corp., the two largest lenders, last quarter
posted the slowest earnings growth in more than two years.  Short-Term Loans  New bank loans last month dropped 33 percent from March to
681.8 billion  yuan , missing the 780 billion yuan median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A third of April’s new
credit was so-called discounted bills, or short-term loans often
used by banks to pad the total figure.  Liu Yuhui , a researcher at the government-backed  Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences , said that “while there have been
red-hot state media reports every day on boosting infrastructure
investment, banks have moved little.” Next-generation leaders,
including Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , have been mum on adding
stimulus to the economy, he said.  China plans to speed up approval of infrastructure projects,
the China Securities Journal reported on May 22, citing an
unidentified person. This year’s investment plans must be
submitted before the end of June and the government may allocate
construction funds earlier than planned, the newspaper said.  Everbright Securities’ Xu said he still expects the
government to adopt measures including tax cuts or increase
fiscal spending. The steps may have a “limited impact on
overall demand unless bank lending is relaxed,” Xu said.  Credit Rush  The four biggest banks advanced 34 billion yuan in loans
this month as of May 20, Liu said, without saying where he got
the data. They may rush to boost credit in the final days,
mainly through short-term loans, he said.  The slowdown in growth may not necessarily be bad in the
long term because it provides a chance to improve the way
resources are distributed and make investment decisions based
more on market demand, said Liu, director of a financial
research office at CASS. Boosting credit without adequate demand
may “cause huge risks” for banks, he said.  Remarks published May 22 from Li, Wen’s likely successor,
also showed a possible split in views, said  Ken Peng , Beijing-
based economist at BNP Paribas.  Spurring Consumption  Li, 56, said during a visit to eastern Jiangsu province
that he will focus more on supporting public housing and
overhauling the medical and social welfare system to create jobs
and spur consumption. He also urged innovation and upgrading of
technology.  Wen’s concern about growth is “very obvious” while Li’s
remarks focused on changing the makeup of the economy and
increasing efficiency, said Peng, last year’s top forecaster of
the Chinese economy, according to Bloomberg Rankings.  “One of them eyes this year, while the other is thinking
about the next decade,” Peng said.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Zhou Xin in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  