-- Wheat Climbs on Demand for U.S. Supplies; Corn, Soy Gain
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-05-25T20:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/wheat-climbs-on-demand-for-u-s-supplies-corn-soy-gain.html
Wheat futures jumped the most in a
week as declining world production boosts demand for supplies
from the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter. Corn and soybeans
for delivery after this year’s harvest rose.  World wheat output will fall 3.5 percent to 670.5 million
metric tons in the season that begins June 1 from a year
earlier, according to the International Grains Council. Last
week, U.S.  exporters  sold the most grain in 14 months, the
Department of Agriculture said yesterday. The U.S. is winning
business from Russian suppliers whose domestic prices are too
high, Arkady Zlochevsky,  Russia ’s grain union president, said in
Moscow today.  “Exports are picking up for U.S. wheat because of
declining world crops,”  Sid Love , the president of Joe Kropf &
Sid Love Consulting Services in  Overland Park , Kansas, said in a
telephone interview.  Wheat futures for July delivery advanced 2.6 percent to
close at $6.80 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, the biggest gain since May 18. The most-active contract
dropped 2.2 percent this week, the third decline in four weeks.  The grain also climbed on speculation that freezing
temperatures in parts of the northern U.S. Great Plains and
 Canada  overnight may have damaged spring varieties, Love said.  Corn and soybeans for delivery after the harvest rose on
speculation that unusually hot, dry weather will reduce yield
potential for crops in the U.S., the biggest producer.  Dry Weather  The lack of rain will deplete soil moisture for most fields
from  Arkansas  to  Ohio  during the next five days before cooler
weather and light showers return by May 30, Global Weather
Monitoring said in a report. Rainfall will be restricted by low
humidity and dry subsoil, increasing potential crop stress, the
private forecaster said.  “Weather will be the main focus for the next several
months,” Jason Roose, a broker and market analyst for U.S.
Commodities Inc. in  West Des Moines , Iowa, said in a telephone
interview.  Corn futures for delivery in December, after the harvest,
rose 1.3 percent to $5.215 a bushel in Chicago. The contract for
July delivery, the most actively-traded and widely-held, was
unchanged at $5.785. The contract tumbled 9 percent this week,
the most since May 2011, after rising 9.4 percent a week
earlier.  Soybean futures for July delivery climbed 0.4 percent to
$13.82 a bushel on the CBOT, paring this week’s decline to 1.5
percent, the fourth straight drop for the most-active futures
contract. The November contract increased 1 percent at $12.8925.  Corn is the most valuable U.S. crop, followed by soybeans,
hay and wheat, USDA data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in  Chicago  at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  