-- New Jersey Woman Who Texted Found Not Liable for Friend’s Crash
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-25/woman-who-texted-not-liable-for-friend-s-crash-judge-says-1-.html
A woman who texted her boyfriend as
he drove isn’t liable for his car crash that injured a couple
riding on a motorcycle, a state judge in  New Jersey  ruled.  State Superior Court Judge David Rand yesterday dismissed
claims against Shannon Colonna, who had argued that her texting
played no role in the crash that injured David and Linda Kubert.
The Kuberts sued Colonna and her boyfriend, Kyle Best, blaming
her texting in part for his crash on Sept. 21, 2009.  Rand, who sits in Morristown, rejected arguments by the
Kuberts that Colonna knew Best was driving and her texting aided
and abetted his violation of motor vehicle laws, according an
attorney for the Kuberts, Stephen “Skippy” Weinstein. The case
appeared to be the first of its kind in the nation, he said.  “The Kuberts are extremely disappointed,” Weinstein said
in a phone interview. “The Kuberts did not seek the publicity
that this case generated. They simply wanted to have something
done so that others don’t get injured, killed or brain damaged
as a result of young people texting while driving.”  Both Kuberts had a leg amputated after the accident in Mine
Hill, according to Weinstein. The couple will appeal the ruling
on Colonna and proceed to trial against Best, who remains a
defendant in the negligence lawsuit, Weinstein said.  $760 Fine  Best, who was 18 at the time of the crash, pleaded guilty
to careless driving, failure to stay on his side of the road and
texting while driving. He was fined $760 and ordered to speak at
14 high schools about the dangers of texting while driving,
according to Weinstein.  Maryann O’Donnell, an attorney for Best, declined to
comment. Joseph McGlone, an attorney for Colonna, who Weinstein
said was 17 at the time of the accident, didn’t immediately
return a call yesterday seeking comment.  McGlone had argued in court papers that Colonna had no duty
of care to the Kuberts. He argued there was no evidence that
Colonna knew Best was driving when she texted him, and it wasn’t
foreseeable that Best would read her message while driving.  “While it may be foreseeable that a person who is reading
or composing a text message might become distracted and get into
an accident, it is a leap of logic to argue that it is likewise
foreseeable to the remote sender of the message that sending an
electronic message to another would cause a car accident,”
McGlone argued in a filing on March 28.  “There is no way for a person that sends a message to know
or control where and when it will be read,” McGlone argued.
“Drivers frequently receive electronic messages while driving
that they do not read until stopped.”  Weinstein said that the judge agreed with the argument that
Colonna had no duty of care to the Kuberts.  The case is Kubert v. Best, MRS-L-1975-10, Superior Court
of  New Jersey , Morris County (Morristown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  