-- Abe Signs Deal With Hollande on Japan-France Nuclear Ties
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-06-07T07:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/abe-signs-deal-with-hollande-on-japan-france-nuclear-power-ties.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and French President  Francois Hollande  agreed to deepen
cooperation on nuclear reactor exports and to consider working
together on defense equipment development.  France and  Japan ’s foreign and defense ministers will meet
as soon as possible for talks on matters including military
exports, under the accord Hollande and Abe signed today in
 Tokyo .  Both leaders are seeking to market their country’s
technological expertise abroad to revive their economies. Abe is
also highlighting Japan’s atomic energy prowess even as his
government mulls restarting nuclear plants shut after the 2011
Fukushima disaster.  “We must raise international safety standards, and from
that perspective we want to meet expectations for Japan’s
technology,” Abe told reporters at a joint press conference
with Hollande. “In that respect, Japan and  France  are the
strongest partners in the world.”  Hollande’s trip comes six weeks after a visit to China,
where Airbus SAS won an $8 billion order for 60 planes. Last
month Abe and his Turkish counterpart  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
attended the signing of a $22 billion agreement for the building
of Turkey’s second nuclear plant by Japan’s  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011)  and France’s Areva SA.  Japan and France agreed to promote the international use of
the 1,100-megawatt Atmea reactor, developed by Mitsubishi and
Areva. The Atmea has never been built anywhere after a project
in France was canceled. Championing Japan’s nuclear power
technology is part of Abe’s aim to triple infrastructure exports
to 30 trillion yen ($31 billion) by 2020 to boost economic
growth.  Shared Values  Struggling to calm a territorial standoff with  China , Abe
has sought since taking office in December to strengthen ties
with countries he says share values including democracy, human
rights and the rule of law. The two countries agreed in the
accord to boost cooperation to maintain peace and stability in
the Pacific.  “Both our countries contribute to the maintenance of
international peace and safety and we share the will to
strengthen our cooperation in this field,” the leaders said in
their statement.  Hollande praised Abe’s efforts to overcome 15 years of
deflation, saying at the press conference that improving
competitiveness and economic activity was “good news.”  The French president is being accompanied by first lady
Valerie Trierweiler as well as the chief executives of firms
including Renault SA and  Areva SA. (AREVA)  After meeting with Abe,
Hollande addressed a joint session of Japan’s parliament before
attending a state dinner with Emperor Akihito at the Imperial
Palace.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  