-- Taiwan Dollar Has Best Week in Nine Months as Fed Concern Eases
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-06-07T08:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/taiwan-dollar-rallies-this-week-as-investors-weigh-fed-exit-odds.html
Taiwan ’s dollar completed the best
week in nine months on speculation the Federal Reserve will hold
off reducing asset purchases that have spurred fund flows to
 emerging markets . Government bonds gained.  U.S. employment growth slowed in May compared with April,
according to a Bloomberg survey before nonfarm payrolls data due
today. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last month the central
bank could taper its $85 billion of monthly debt buying if there
are signs or sustained improvement in the jobs market. The yen
rose against the dollar by the most in three years yesterday,
supporting Taiwanese exporters such as  HTC Corp. (2498)  that compete
against Japanese companies in overseas markets.  “Investors are taking a step back and thinking whether the
Fed will cut bond purchases, when the economy hasn’t really
stabilized yet,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “Asian currencies are recovering
some of their losses because of that.”  The Taiwan dollar gained 0.6 percent this week to NT$29.871
against its U.S. counterpart as of 4:30 p.m. local time, Taipei
Forex Inc. prices show. That was the biggest advance since the
period ended Sept. 14, 2012. The currency climbed 0.2 percent
today.  The local dollar was trading 0.4 percent stronger one
minute before the 4 p.m. close yesterday and finished little
changed. The central bank has sold the currency in the run-up to
the close on most days in the past year, according to traders
who asked not to be identified.  Taiwan’s exports rose 0.9 percent in May from a year
earlier, a government report showed today, compared with the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey for a 0.8 percent drop.  Bonds Gain  One-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.9 percent this
week and 0.1 percent today to NT$29.730 against the greenback,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. One-month implied volatility, a
gauge of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, decreased 21 basis points from May 31 to 4.72 percent.  The yield on the 0.875 percent bonds due January 2018 fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, this week to 0.98
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market prices. The rate
declined one basis point today.  The  overnight interbank lending  rate was steady at 0.385
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  