-- MAN SE Chairman Expects Legal Battle Over VW Offer Price
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-06-07T09:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/man-se-chairman-expects-legal-battle-over-vw-offer-price.html
Ferdinand Piech , supervisory board
chairman at both  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and MAN SE, said he expects a
legal battle with minority shareholders seeking a higher price
than what VW is offering for the rest of German truckmaker.  “We’ll see each other in front of a court for a long time
-- that’s what I assume,” Piech said late yesterday at MAN’s
annual meeting after several lawyers, including Dusseldorf-based
Peter Dreier from law firm Dreier Riedel Rechtsanwaelte, raised
doubts over VW’s valuation of MAN.  VW gained shareholder approval last night for a profit
transfer and domination agreement, which eliminates the need for
arm’s length negotiations between the companies and gives the
carmaker access to MAN’s cash. The vote was never in doubt
because VW’s voting stake of just over 75 percent gave it
sufficient muscle to push through the plan.  VW, which is required under German law as part of the
agreement to offer to buy out minority owners, is proposing
purchasing the truckmaker’s remaining stock for 80.89 euros
($107.17) a share. Investors who don’t accept the cash deal will
receive an annual dividend of 3.07 euros per share. The shares
traded today at 83.85 euros.  “Due to the intensive discussions we expect that several
investors and shareholders will call for a legal challenge to
check the offered compensation,” Michael Punzet, an analyst at
DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a note to clients. “The
expected legal challenge against the valuation of MAN as part of
the domination agreement might lead to a delay.”  Shares Gain  The pact will take effect once it is entered in  Germany ’s
commercial register. The company can file for legal approval to
implement the agreement even if the lawsuits are still pending.
That process can lead to a delay of several weeks or months.  MAN shares  gained  as much as 89 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
84.06 euros and were up 0.8 percent as of 11:33 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading. The stock has climbed 3.8 percent this year,
valuing the German manufacturer at 12.3 billion euros.  MAN Chief Executive Officer Georg Pachta-Reyhofen said the
offer is fair given the poor economic conditions in  Europe .  “ MAN SE (MAN)  considers the current valuation to be relevant and
appropriate,” Pachta-Reyhofen said in a speech yesterday. “The
prospects for the MAN group in 2013 have been affected by the
decline in economic growth expectations.”  Schering Ruling  Minority shareholders of German corporations who are
eventually forced out after a takeover often sue for more
compensation.  Dreier last month won a ruling ordering  Bayer AG (BAYN)  to pay
some former shareholders of Schering AG an extra 46 euros a
share, including interest, over the 2006 acquisition. The lawyer
said the additional payments will cost Bayer more than 300
million euros, based on 7.2 million Schering shares.
Schering shareholders in the 2006 deal had gotten 89.36 euros a
share. Bayer has appealed the ruling, arguing the terms and
conditions set at the time of the takeover were adequate.  Closer cooperation is crucial to VW’s effort to jump start
a stalled seven-year effort to forge Europe’s biggest truckmaker
comprising MAN,  Sweden ’s  Scania AB (SCVB)  and its own commercial
vehicles unit. Slumping demand for trucks in Europe, MAN’s
largest sales region, and ill-fated business decisions by the
truck manufacturer have added urgency to VW’s efforts.  MAN on Tuesday forecast its return on sales will fall
“significantly” this year because of higher charges related to
a power-plant deal, “substantial” tax risks and weaker after-sales business for its turbo and diesel unit. In the first
quarter, MAN reported an operating loss of 82 million euros.
Pachta-Reyhofen said yesterday he saw no reason to spin off the
power engineering unit.  Era Ending  “The era of a proud MAN is coming to an end,” Daniela Bergdolt, a representative of the DSW shareholder organization,
said in a speech. MAN’s weak results and profit warning were
aimed at keeping the company’s valuation low to avoid a higher
offer, she said. “You should be ashamed.”  VW has been seeking a heavy-truck alliance since buying an
MAN stake in 2006, a move that thwarted MAN’s own effort to take
over Scania, which VW partly owned. VW gained a controlling
stake in Scania in 2008. MAN and Scania will remain separate
brands, Pachta-Reyhofen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  