-- Manchin Says End Broad Anti-Terror Surveillance (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-06-07T22:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/manchin-says-end-broad-anti-terror-surveillance-transcript-.html
Senator Joe Manchin, a West Virginia
Democrat, said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
With  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that President Barack Obama
should end the broad surveillance of telephone calls and
Internet usage.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT:  We begin the show with West Virginia Senator Joe
Manchin. Senator, thank you for being with us.  SENATOR JOE MANCHIN: Good to be with you, Al.  HUNT: You have invested so much time on background checks
for guns, the conventional wisdom is it’s dead for this year. Do
you agree?  MANCHIN: Oh, I don’t agree that it’s dead, because
something that makes so much sense and it’s common sense - and I
think, Al, you have to look at the background checks. I’m a law-abiding gun-owner. That bill gave me the full - the full value
of the Second Amendment that I should have, so we expand - not
only we protect it, we expanded it.  HUNT: But you lost that case. Do you think you can still
bring it up and pass it in the Senate this year?  MANCHIN: Well, we’re still working. I’m still working. I’m
talking to senators every day.  HUNT: Is it 50-50 or better?  MANCHIN: I always - I’m in a 50-50 to where I think can we
pick up five more members? I think we can. We have to make sure
that the constituents of the states that represent those
senators that we need them to change their vote and rethink this
position understand the full value of what we have done and what
we’re trying to do.  As a law-abiding gun owner, I’m not going to sell my gun to
a stranger, not going to sell to someone who’s mentally
deranged, or to a family member who basically is not
responsible. But when I go to a commercial gun show, such as a
gun show or Internet, I as a responsible law-abiding gun owner,
I want to know, is that person worthy of having a gun?  HUNT: Your colleague, Senator Blumenthal, says he’s going
to offer on the immigration bill, in essence, a background check
for immigrants coming here. Will you support that?  MANCHIN: Oh, I - on the background check, if it has the
same contents of what we did - I don’t want to take - I mean,
they have to assume that basically, as a law-abiding gun-owner,
I’ve - I’ve done everything I’m supposed to do. Why are you
holding any type of rights of mine away?  But with that being said, I also am a responsible person,
that I’m not going to sell or let some stranger or over the
Internet, at a gun show. If Richard Blumenthal has something
along those lines, absolutely.  HUNT: Senator, you’ve had a chance to look at the
immigration bill now, put together by the Judiciary Committee. I
know you have at least one change you want to make in the
education, but apart from that, are you more likely to support
or oppose this bill as it stands now?  MANCHIN: I’m still - I’m still - I would have to say, I’m
still in the undecided column there. I have to make sure that
when I go back home to West Virginia, I can look people in the
eye and say, listen, we have secured the borders. Because
they’re going to go back to the ’80s. They say, we heard the
same thing back in the ’80s when you had reform, and you had 3
million identified undocumented people coming into this country.
And then after you said you fixed it in the ’80s, we have 11
million.  HUNT: Do you think more has to be done to this bill so you
can guarantee people that?  MANCHIN: I think that basically they have worked - and I
commend both sides. It’s been a bipartisan effort, and they’ve
worked hard across the aisle, bipartisan, so all of the members
involved I applaud. Making sure that we’re able to secure,
making sure that we’re able to deport criminals who came -
who’ve come here illegal and committed a crime should be sent
out. So people have to know that we’re serious about -  HUNT: But does that bill do that, from what you’ve seen?  MANCHIN: The bill basically is moving along those - and you
have -  HUNT: But you need a little bit more?  MANCHIN: I think, yeah. I’m looking at that. I really am.
And we have to do something.  HUNT: OK. Let me ask you about another issue that’s come
up. We’ve learned the last couple days that the Obama
administration has engaged in a massive surveillance of
Americans, phone records, credit cards, now servers, the e-mail
and the chats and the audio. Does that bother you? And should
something be done about it?  MANCHIN: Sure, it bothers me, and I think it bothers you
and every other American -  HUNT: Should it stop?  MANCHIN: - something - something inherent in us. It should
be stopped as far as the broad-base that they’re doing. If
there’s a profile and targeting that goes on, then fine. I’m
wanting to do everything I can to fight the war on terror. There
will not be another day in my life, my children or
grandchildren’s life they won’t have to be vigilant against
terrorists wanting to do us harm. But do you give up everything
as an American?  HUNT: This is too broad-based, is what you’re saying.  MANCHIN: I think that basically they have - they’ve put
this with a pretty broad brush, and I think the Patriot Act and
the interpretation and way it’s being enforced is broader than
what we would have intended.  HUNT: You know, the 9/11 Commission with Tom Kean
recommended that an Office of Civil Liberties be put in the
White House as a - as a check on some of this. Is that something
- and neither Bush nor Obama has done it. Is that something that
should be done?  MANCHIN: Well, in the light of what’s coming out every day
that you see something different coming out, somebody better be
looking at, what are my liberties? What are my rights? What are
my freedoms? What did my founding fathers intend for me to have
as an American, life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness? I
mean, there’s a lot to be said there.  HUNT: That’s something that ought to be considered?  MANCHIN: I sure think so.  HUNT: Yeah. Let me ask you about confidence and - the
attorney general is in the middle of a lot of this. Some of this
is NSA. But do you have confidence in Eric Holder right now as
an attorney general?  MANCHIN: Let me just say that - that any public official -
no matter whether it be the attorney general or anybody in
public office - whenever you feel that you have lost your
effectiveness or may be losing your effectiveness to the
detriment of the job that you do, even though you’re a good,
honest, sincere, hardworking person, you have to evaluate that
and make a decision.  And I think we’re at the time now where
decisions have to be made.  HUNT: And do you think that that applies to Eric Holder
right now?  MANCHIN: I think it applies to every public official.  HUNT: Uh-huh.  And - and - but I suspect you have
confidence in John Kerry, don’t you?  MANCHIN: I most certainly do.  HUNT: So Eric Holder might be in a different category?  MANCHIN: I just think that basically, in light of what is
going on in the country, and everybody looking at it, it must be
the - might be the most well intended person with the best of
intentions, but if they’re not being effective and they’re not
being received, how effective is it and how good is it for the -
for the country?  HUNT: Senator, you’re on the Armed Services Committee and
have looked at  Syria  a lot, I know. There’s been a lot of talk
for months about putting together a coalition, nothing really
happens. The reports now that Assad is on the ascendancy, that
he may be winning. Do we just have to accept the fact we’re
going to have a brutal dictator there? Or do we have to do
something quickly?  And if so, what?  MANCHIN: I don’t know.  If you look back in history and
look at  Iraq , we removed Saddam Hussein.  HUNT: Right.  MANCHIN: What do we have there?  Do we have any better
foothold?  HUNT: No.  MANCHIN: Do we have democracy growing and flourishing?  I
think  Iran  might have as much, if not more influence than we
have and other, you know, parts of the world. So I think you
start looking, are we able to change that? I just never thought
that we could change and - and invoke our will on a people who
basically historically have lived a different life and different
backgrounds, OK, whether it be religious or whether it just be
just - they’re tribal or any - we don’t understand that.  And what we do understand is that civility towards human
beings and treated equality of care that everybody should have,
we like to invoke that. But you have to show that - you can’t -
you can’t force that upon people.  HUNT: There are limits to what we can do?  MANCHIN: There is. And - and for us to say that, OK, let’s
remove - who - who comes after him? I mean, we’ve proven that,
if you remove one, there’s something as bad, if not worse. I
don’t know. The people are going to have to decide that.  I would be more concerned - what are the neighbors feeling?
What’s Syria’s neighbors feeling about this? That’s their
neighborhood.  HUNT: Senator, you - some of your Republican colleagues are
upset that  Barack Obama  has tapped Susan Rice to be his national
security adviser. That’s not a confirmable post, but is it a
good move?  MANCHIN: The bottom line is, I’m not going to - being an
executive myself at one time, being the governor of the state of
West Virginia, I had to put my staff together. And I give as
much leeway as possible for a person to put their staff
together. And I think the president has that right and
responsibility to do that.  And it’s not even subject to
confirmation from us, which tells you that basically -  HUNT: So it’s up -  MANCHIN: It’s up to him, his decision, and he’ll be judged
on that. He’s elected to be the president of the United States.
He’s our president, whether you’re a Democrat or Republican,
whether you’re a liberal or you’re a conservative. He is our
president. And you want always your president to do well.
Historically, Americans want their government to succeed. We
have lost trust of government, I mean, of the people as
government, and we’ve got to gain that trust back. So he’s going
to be judged on the appointment and how well she performs.  HUNT: Your colleague, Jay Rockefeller, is retiring. It’s a
seat the Democrats have held for a long time. Everybody says a
Republican is going to win in West Virginia next year. You going
to have a Democrat candidate? Who will it be?  MANCHIN: I’m not sure about that. They’re looking at it
right now. We have a lot of people who’ve had interest in that.
They’re looking at it seriously. I think we will have, I think,
a very viable Democratic candidate. It will be a challenge. It
will be a challenge to hold that seat. I understand that. Our
state demographics have changed, if you will. But with that
being said, I still believe that the Democratic principles of
who we are.  HUNT: So you got a shot?  MANCHIN: Yes, we have a shot.  HUNT: Can you give me a name or two -  MANCHIN: The West Virginia - the West Virginia - West
Virginia Democrat is not the same as a  Washington  Democrat.  HUNT: Right.  MANCHIN: I mean, it’s a little different. And I think that
you see that, whether you see it in the South or just a whole
culture that we come from, Al. But the bottom line is, is that
we always are for the underdog. We’re always going to try to
help someone help themselves. In West Virginia, we look at
accountability and responsibility. We’re going to hold you
accountable. We’ll help you, but you’ve got to want to help
yourself if you can.  HUNT: Senator Joe Manchin, you’ve made a mark in
Washington. Thank you so much for being with us today.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<587628.1204164.3.4.1.0.25>#
 