-- Manchin Seeks End to Widespread Anti-Terror Surveillance
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-06-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/manchin-seeks-end-to-widespread-anti-terror-surveillance.html
President  Barack Obama  should end the
broad surveillance of telephone calls and Internet usage,
Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  said.  “It bothers me, and I think it bothers you and every other
American,” Manchin, of  West Virginia , said in an interview on
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend on
Bloomberg Television. “It should be stopped as far as the broad
base that they’re doing. If there’s a profile and targeting that
goes on, then fine.”  Manchin, 65, also indicated that Attorney General Eric Holder, who has been criticized for targeting news
organizations, among other issues, should consider resigning.  “Whenever you feel that you have lost your effectiveness
or may be losing your effectiveness to the detriment of the job
that you do,” he said about Holder, “you have to evaluate that
and make a decision. And I think we’re at the time now where
decisions have to be made.”  The Obama administration and congressional allies have
defended the collection of phone data from  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  on all its customers’ calls and the
gathering of data on foreign nationals from Internet companies.  “I’m wanting to do everything I can to fight the war on
terror,” Manchin said. “There will not be another day in my
life, my children or grandchildren’s life they won’t have to be
vigilant against terrorists wanting to do us harm. But do you
give up everything as an American?”  Liberties Office  Manchin said he agreed with the recommendations of the
commission set up to investigate the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks to establish a White House Office of Civil Liberties
that would be consulted on these kinds of issues. Neither Obama
nor his predecessor,  George W. Bush , followed through.  “Somebody better be looking at what are my liberties, what
are my rights, what are my freedoms,” Manchin said. “What did
my founding fathers intend for me to have as an American?”  Manchin said he hadn’t decided how he would vote on the
bipartisan immigration bill now before the Senate. He said he
was still concerned about the border-security provisions and
suggested they needed to be strengthened before he could support
the legislation.  “I have to make sure that when I go back home to West
Virginia, I can look people in the eye and say, ‘Listen, we have
secured the borders,’” he said.  Gun Legislation  The senator said efforts to expand background checks to
 firearms purchasers  at gun shows and over the Internet weren’t
over though the legislation he drafted with Republican Patrick Toomey of  Pennsylvania  failed to receive the 60 votes needed to
advance in the Senate.  Manchin, who called the bill “something that makes so much
sense and it’s common sense,” said he was trying to pick up
support from some senators who had voted no.  “As a law-abiding gun owner, I’m not going to sell my gun
to a stranger, not going to sell to someone who’s mentally
deranged, or to a family member who basically is not
responsible,” Manchin said. “I’m at 50-50 to where I think we
can pick up five more members.”  Machin, who sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee,
cautioned about U.S. involvement in  Syria , where the  United
Nations  estimates at least 80,000 have died since a rebel
uprising against President Bashar al-Assad began in 2011. After
the U.S. ousted  Saddam Hussein  in  Iraq ,  Iran  gained in influence
and democracy didn’t take hold, Manchin said.  “We’ve proven that, if you remove one, there’s something
as bad, if not worse,” Manchin said. “What’s Syria’s neighbors
feeling about this? That’s their neighborhood.”  Manchin said the Democrats “have a shot” at keeping the
West Virginia Senate seat being vacated by retiring  Jay Rockefeller , though it “will be a challenge.”  He predicted the party will find a “very viable”
candidate to oppose Republican Representative Shelley Moore Capito, considered the front-runner for the Senate seat.  “It will be a challenge to hold that seat,” he said. “I
understand that. Our state demographics have changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  