-- Angelo Gordon, Centerbridge Said to Purchase Frans Bonhomme Debt
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p
-- 2013-06-07T10:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/angelo-gordon-centerbridge-said-to-purchase-frans-bonhomme-debt.html
Angelo Gordon & Co. and Centerbridge
Capital Partners LLC bought portions of loans of Frans Bonhomme
SAS, the French plastic pipe company seeking to renegotiate its
debt, according to four people with knowledge of the matter.  The purchases helped boost the price of the debt of the
Cinven Ltd.-owned company, which started talks with lenders last
month after a change in French laws reduced funds available to
pay down the borrowings, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. Portions of the
company’s 550 million euros ($722 million) of debt rose to 80.5
cents on the euro on June 6, from about 77 cents a month ago,
and about 20 percent higher than in January, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Officials at Angelo Gordon and Centerbridge, both of which
are based in  New York , declined to comment on the deal.  A 41 million-euro portion of Frans Bonhomme’s debt sold at
79 cents on the euro on May 15 and 26 million euros of loans
sold at about 80 cents on 21 May, people have said previously.  Frans Bonhomme told lenders last month it won’t make a debt
payment following the introduction of a new French law that
changes levies on employee shareholdings and profit-sharing. The
rule would lead to a one-time 10 million-euro reduction in  cash
flow .  Debt Ratio  The company has a  leverage ratio , a measure of debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
of more than nine times, the people said previously.  Cinven bought the Joue-les-Tours, France-based company
through its third fund in 2005 for 893 million euros, according
to Cinven’s  website . Frans Bonhomme then raised 816 million
euros of loans in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The private-equity company invested 15 million euros in the
business last year to help it keep within the terms of the
loans.  Cinven generated a 1.4 billion-euro capital gain from its
third fund, it said in its 2011  report .  A London-based spokeswoman for Cinven, who asked not to be
named citing company policy, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  