-- Anti-Fraud Plan Gains Steam in EU Bid to Meet Summit Goal
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-06-07T10:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/anti-fraud-plan-gains-steam-in-eu-bid-to-meet-summit-goal.html
European Union finance ministers,
aiming to fulfill at least one of last month’s EU summit
pledges, are building support for a U.K.-backed plan to combat
fraud related to value-added taxes.  Mobile phones , tablet computers, gas and electricity are
among the areas most at risk for the type of fraud targeted by
the proposals, according to an EU report prepared for a June 21
ministers’ meeting in Luxembourg obtained by  Bloomberg News . The
plan would permit temporary “reverse charges” on some kinds of
goods and services when fraud is suspected.  The goal is “to combat sudden and massive tax fraud”
before it has “a considerable impact on national budgets,”
said the planning report dated June 5. The compromise proposal
has gained the support of the European Commission and of
Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency.  EU leaders called on finance ministers to adopt the anti-VAT fraud measures “by the end of June 2013 at the latest” as
part of a  10-point plan  to crack down on  tax avoidance . The U.K.
compromise aims to overcome an impasse on who makes decisions on
penalties when fraud is suspected.  The anti-fraud proposal has two elements: a “quick
reaction mechanism” to address new cases, and a “reverse
charges mechanism.” The U.K.-backed compromise would allow
nations to move forward with penalties after a one-month review
by the European Commission, under the condition that the reverse
charges gain unanimous support from all EU countries within nine
months.  To build support for the reverse-charge measures, the
current plan adjusts proposed evaluation criteria, reporting
obligations and other controls, according to the June 5
blueprint. Proposed revisions, dated May 28, specify that
measures could apply to products including mobile phones, game
consoles, laptop computers, microprocessors and integrated
circuit devices, gas and electricity certificates, and cereals
and other industrial crops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  