-- Apax and KKR Financial Services Said to Leave
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-06-07T15:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/apax-and-kkr-financial-services-said-to-leave.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Apax Partners LLP’s
executives with responsibility for investments in  Europe ’s
financial services industry are both stepping down after more
than a decade at their respective firms, two people with
knowledge of the moves said.  Nicolas Cattelain, a partner and head of the European
financial services team at KKR, and Massimiliano Belingheri, 39,
a partner at Apax responsible for investments in the same
industry, are both leaving, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the departures are private.  KKR said in an emailed statement that Cattelain’s duties
have been assumed by KKR executives Mattia Caprioli and Enrico
Grasso. Sarah Rajani, spokeswoman for London-based Apax
Partners, declined to comment on Belingheri’s departure. The two
men didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment and neither could
be located through directory assistance.  Cattelain joined KKR in 2000 and served as a director at
companies including French directory publisher  PagesJaunes
Groupe (PAJ)  and Dutch electronics group  NXP Semiconductors NV. (NXPI)  Prior
to joining New York-based KKR, Cattelain worked at Industri
Kapital, now IK Investment Partners Ltd., Merrill Lynch & Co.,
and Credit Lyonnais SA.  Belingheri joined Apax in 2001, originally dividing his
time between  London  and Milan before relocating permanently to
London in 2008. Investments he worked on at Apax included Tel
Aviv-based asset manager Psago Investment House and Milan-based
credit manager Farmafactoring SpA. Prior to joining Apax,
Belingheri was a consultant at McKinsey & Co. specializing in
the financial services and energy sectors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  