-- Apollo Said to Get $200 Million Deutsche Bank Loan to Buy Homes
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-06-07T21:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/apollo-said-to-get-200-million-deutsche-bank-loan-to-buy-homes.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  arranged a $200
million credit facility for  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  to buy
U.S. single-family rental homes, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The loan will allow Apollo to buy, renovate and rent the
properties, said the person, who requested anonymity because the
deal hasn’t yet been announced. Apollo, founded in 1990 as a
private-equity firm, manages $114 billion of assets and is an
investor in Haven Realty Capital LLC, an El Segundo, California-based manager of single-family homes.  The bank line is at least the third by Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank to money managers who are seeking to take
advantage of the recovering  housing market  following its worst
crash since the Great Depression. Private-equity firms have been
among the biggest buyers of foreclosed and distressed homes
across the U.S. to turn into rentals, helping to turn what has
historically been a mom-and-pop business into an institutional
asset class.  Deutsche Bank in March led a syndicate of lenders offering
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest U.S. owner of single-family
homes with about 26,000, an expansion of its credit line to $2.1
billion from $600 million to buy houses. It also arranged a $100
million loan for asset manager Five Ten Capital LLC the
following month.  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for the bank,
declined to comment on the Apollo credit line, as did Melissa Mandel Kvitko, a spokeswoman for New York-based Apollo at
public-relations firm Rubenstein Associates.  Haven managed about 1,000 houses in California, Nevada and
Illinois as of March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  