-- Apple Said to Sign Sony Music, Clearing Way for IRadio
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-06-08T00:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/apple-said-to-sign-sony-music-clearing-way-for-iradio.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  signed an agreement with
 Sony Music Entertainment , the final record-company holdout
needed for the iPhone maker’s planned online radio service, said
people with knowledge of the situation.  Sony signed its agreement late yesterday, and Apple plans
to announce the service, unofficially dubbed iRadio, at a
conference on June 10, said the people, who requested anonymity
because the talks are private.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music and
Len Blavatnik’s Warner Music Group have already signed
agreements with Apple, people with knowledge of the situation
said this month.  With the  record companies  on board, Apple plans to announce
an advertising-supported service that will compete with  Pandora
Media Inc. (P)  for listeners. IRadio will allow users to build
custom stations based on an artist or genre that draws on music
from the company’s iTunes library.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, rose 0.8 percent to
$441.81 at the close in New York and is down 17 percent this
year. Oakland, California-based Pandora -- which today reported
70.8 million active listeners at the end of May, a 33 percent
jump from the same period a year earlier -- rose 5.7 percent to
$15.12 and has gained 65 percent this year.  Apple’s agreement with  Sony Music  was reported earlier
today by AllThingsD. Sony/ATV Music Publishing, a joint venture
of  Sony Corp. (6758)  and the estate of  Michael Jackson , signed its
agreement with Apple today, Chief Executive Officer Marty Bandier said in an interview.  Two-Year Deal  Sony/ATV’s deal with Apple covers a two-year introductory
period and provides the New York-based company with 10 percent
of all advertising revenue generated from its music catalog, the
biggest in the world, Bandier said. That’s more than double the
current standard 4 percent rate in digital music publishing
agreements, he said.  “This is a wonderful recognition of songwriters and their
contributions to hit records,” Bandier said. “For so long they
have received the short end of the stick.”  The radio service will be free to customers and supported
by ads, people with knowledge of the offering said earlier this
month. By integrating the service with iTunes, users will be
able to buy and download songs that are played, they said.  Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president in charge of the
effort, has retooled the company’s iAd mobile-advertising unit
to focus on selling audio ads and attracting large brands to the
service, people familiar with the plans have said. The
advertising revenue will be shared with the music companies.  More Downloads  Apple has pitched the service to music companies as a tool
for boosting downloads of songs through iTunes. As more people
listen to music for free through services such as Pandora and
Google Inc.’s YouTube, Apple sees the service as a way to turn
people on to new music. Services such as Spotify Ltd. and Rdio
Inc., which charge a monthly fee for unlimited access to their
song libraries, also have gained traction.  Apple remains the world’s biggest music retailer,
representing 63 percent of the download market, according to
estimates from NPD Group Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  