-- Apple, Google, Actavis, Nestle: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/apple-google-actavis-nestle-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s first U.S.
patent victory over  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may prove fleeting if the iPhone
maker rolls out new products before the government’s ban on
older devices takes effect.  Apple has several avenues to string out, if not eliminate,
damage from an import ban ordered by a U.S. trade panel
yesterday on devices including the iPhone 4 and iPad 2 3G. It
can appeal to President  Barack Obama  and an appeals court, and
lobby customs officials charged with enforcing import bans.  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  and two regional carriers
selling the offending devices have been offering the iPhone 5,
which isn’t covered by the import ban, since last year and a new
model is expected out later this year. When Samsung filed its
complaint in June 2011, it targeted the iPhone 3G, iPhone 3GS
and iPad 3G -- none of which are sold anymore. Apple usually
discontinues older models when it introduces a new one.  The iPhone 4 and iPad 2 3G, offered as entry-level products
to lure in people that Apple hopes to convert into long-term
customers, were found by the U.S. International Trade Commission
to infringe Samsung’s patent 7,706,348, covering a way data is
transmitted over networks.  In an April 10 filing with the ITC, Samsung estimated an
import ban against Apple would impact about 1.4 percent of the
smartphones and 2.7 percent of the tablet computers sold in the
U.S. While Samsung is the world’s biggest smartphone maker,
Apple dominates in the U.S.  T-Mobile said June 5 it “doesn’t anticipate any impact of
current and future supply of Apple devices.” AT&T said it
expects “minimal, if any, impact for customers wanting an
iPhone 4 or iPad 2.”  The Cupertino, California-based Apple has indicated it
won’t give up without a fight, even if only a few of the models
it currently sells are blocked.  On the other side, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung is the
pride of a nation forging closer economic ties with the U.S.,
including a free trade agreement signed in March 2012 and a
pledge to stand together against threats from North Korea.  Apple said it will appeal the ITC ruling to the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in Washington.  Google Patents Facial Gesture-Recognition Unlocking Method  Google Inc., creator of the most-used search engine,
received a patent on a technology that may lead users to scowl
or grin in order to unlock their mobile devices.  Patent 8,457,267, issued June 4, covers a technology that
will detect facial landmarks and facial gestures. The device
will compare the original image to one with a different gesture
when determining whether to grant access to the user.  The technology would defeat attempts to access a device
equipped with facial-recognition software by using a photo of
the face the device recognizes. The device would contain what
Google calls an “anti-spoofing module” that could detect the
“liveness” of the facial image, according to the patent.  Mountain View , California-based Google filed the
application for the patent in June 2012 with the assistance of
 Shumaker & Sieffert PA  of  St. Paul ,  Minnesota .  Fresenius Sues Actavis Over Generic Diprivan Anesthetic  Actavis Inc. (ACT)  was sued by a unit of global health-care
products maker  Fresenius SE (FRE)  over claims the drugmaker infringed
four U.S. patents covering the injectable anesthetic Diprivan.  Fresenius Kabi USA, based in Lake Zurich,  Illinois ,
contends Corona, California-based Actavis plans to market copies
of Diprivan in violation of Fresenius’s patent rights, according
to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  “Fresenius will be substantially and irreparably harmed”
by the infringement unless it’s stopped by a court,’’ company
lawyers said. Fresenius seeks an order prohibiting Actavis and
its Watson Laboratories unit from marketing the copies until the
patents expire.  Charlie Mayr, an Actavis spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  The case is Fresenius Kabi USA LLC v. Watson Laboratories
Inc., 13-cv-01015, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Nestle’s ‘Maggi’ Mark Barred From Use by Appliance Company  Nestle SA (NESN) , the Switzerland-based maker of packaged food,
persuaded India’s  Intellectual Property  Appellate Board that a
Mumbai-based appliance company wasn’t entitled to the “Maggi”
trademark, the Indian Express  reported .  Although Swaraj Industrial & Domestic Appliances argued
that it had used the name since 1983, the board said the company
could give no adequate explanation for its use of the name,
according to the newspaper.  Nestle said it used “Maggi” because it was the surname of
Julius Maggi, the company’s founder, according to the Indian
Express.  The board said that the appliance company’s use of the term
would confuse consumers into thinking these products emanated
from the Swiss food company, the newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  London Police, Fraud Intelligence Bureau Team Up Against Piracy  London police have begun contacting websites believed to
enable copyright infringement, the  BBC   reported .  Police are working with the U.K.’s National Fraud
Intelligence Bureau and have given the owners of the accused
websites until June 14 to respond to law-enforcement inquiries,
according to the BBC.  Letters warning of possible heavy jail sentences for
criminal copyright infringement have been sent to sites known to
share links to pirated music, according to the BBC.  Several content-industry trade groups provided the impetus
for the new enforcement program, the BBC reported.  Google Art Project Yields New Art Focused on Copyright Issues  Copyright issues related to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Google Art
Project have given rise to a new series of artworks, Wired
magazine  reported .  The art project, which involves the use of the same 15-lens
cameras that create the Google Street Views, blurs certain
paintings because of copyright restrictions, according to Wired.  British artist Phil Thompson made screen grabs of the
blurred images, sent them to a company in China that makes
paintings to order, and is exhibiting the resulting images in a
gallery, Wired reported.  He told Wired he wanted the blurred image to exist as
independent works of art, and that his choice of a Chinese
company was deliberate and his gloss on the issue of Web
censorship in that country.  CBS Files Copyright Suit Over YouTube Post of ‘Judge Judy’ Show  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s King World unit sued a Californian accused of
posting episodes of the “Judge Judy” program to Google Inc.’s
YouTube video-sharing service.  According to the complaint filed May 28 in federal court in
 Manhattan , Jessie Zaragosa of Long Beach,  California , has posted
multiple “Judge Judy” episodes to YouTube without
authorization and has sought to monetize the postings.  New York-based CBS claims the poster has multiple accounts
with YouTube containing “Judge Judy” as part of their names.
The networking sent notices to YouTube demanding, under the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act, that the content be taken
down.  In response, CBS claims, Zaragosa sent a counter-notice,
seeking reposting of the content. Efforts to contact Zaragosa
for comment on the suit were unsuccessful.  The network asked the court to bar further infringement,
and for awards of money damages, litigation costs and attorney
fees.  The case is Big Ticket Television Inc., v. Zaragosa, 13-cv-03582, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 