-- Harper Won’t Sign Trade Pact on Europe Trip, Aide Says
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-06-07T14:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/harper-won-t-sign-trade-pact-on-europe-trip-aide-says.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  probably won’t sign a free trade agreement with the
European Union during his trip to Europe next week, his chief
spokesman said.  The two sides haven’t reached an agreement that  Canada  is
prepared to accept, Andrew MacDougall, Harper’s director of
communications, told reporters today in Ottawa. MacDougall said
there are a few issues still left to agree on, without
specifying.  “We’re not there yet,” MacDougall said at a briefing with
reporters. “We have not reached an agreement that Canada is
comfortable yet and we’re going to keep pushing hard until we
do.”  The proposed pact is a test of Harper’s efforts to
diversify Canada’s trade away from the U.S., its largest trading
partner. The two sides have struggled to close a deal because of
differences over agricultural goods, procurement and financial
services. When talks began in 2009, Canada had been hoping for
an agreement by as early as 2011.  The biggest sticking point for Canada is access to the
single market for the country’s beef and pork producers, a
person with knowledge of the negotiations said this week.
European officials may be trying to use Harper’s visit to
pressure Canada into accepting unfavorable terms, said the
person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks
aren’t public.  Harper is traveling to  Europe  on an eight-day trip that
will take him to London, Paris and Dublin before a stop in
 Northern Ireland  for a summit of Group of Eight leaders. Ireland
holds the EU’s rotating presidency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  