-- Aso Says Japan Won’t Intervene in Market After Surge in Yen
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-06-07T04:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/aso-says-japan-won-t-intervene-after-biggest-yen-gain-in-3-years.html
Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso
said that the government won’t intervene in the  currency market 
for now after the yen strengthened by the most in three years
against the dollar.  “We are carefully watching, but we don’t have any
immediate intention of taking any action, such as
intervention,” the finance minister told reporters in Tokyo
today. The yen jumped 0.7 percent to 96.28 per dollar as of 1:47
p.m. local time.  Japan ’s currency surged 2.2 percent yesterday, adding to
the headwinds of a slide in stocks and volatility in bonds as
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe campaigns to revive the world’s third-biggest economy. As attention turns to a Bank of Japan meeting
on June 10-11, Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s actions may be limited
by his pledge to avoid “incremental” steps after announcing a
plan to double the monetary base over two years.  “Stocks rose and the yen weakened between November and May
at a very rapid pace, driven by expectations for Abenomics and
Kuroda-nomics, exceeding the pace of the economy’s fundamental
improvement,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist in Tokyo at
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management. “The markets are now going
through an adjustment phase from the too-rapid moves.”  Muto said that the “adjustment” is probably temporary
because the Japanese economy is making gains. At the same time,
he said the government may consider another jolt of fiscal
stimulus.  Market Outlook  Economy Minister Akira Amari said today that “the markets
will focus on improvements to Japan’s real economy and will
eventually factor this in and respond accordingly.”  The Topix Index fell 1.9 percent as of 1:48 p.m. in Tokyo,
down about 18 percent from a May 22 high. The gauge is still up
22 percent for the year.  Abe said this week that legislation to advance the so-called “third arrow” of Abenomics, measures to boost growth
and cut regulation stifling business, won’t be unveiled until
autumn. He needs to maintain the momentum of his campaign after
weakness in the yen stoked optimism on the prospects for
Japanese exporters, with the currency down about 18 percent over
the past year.  BOJ Division  The  Bank of Japan  is divided over whether to authorize a
measure designed to quell bond-market volatility, with some
officials concerned it would return the BOJ to a pattern of
incremental steps that failed in the past, people familiar with
the discussions said recently.  At issue is whether the board should give its financial
markets department the power to double the maturity of loans it
extends to banks to two years. An opposing view is that the step
is a useful backup in case of a spike in fluctuations in the
government bond market, the people said, asking not to be named
because the talks are private.  Installed as prime minister after his Liberal  Democratic
Party  won a landslide victory in the lower house of parliament
in December, Abe faces a July election for the less powerful
upper house, which his party is forecast to win.  “Abe’s government will probably come under pressure to
provide more fiscal spending to shore up the economy as the
upper-house election approaches,” Muto said. “I expect Abe to
decide to draft an additional fiscal spending package.”  The prime minister’s support rate was at 68 percent,
according to a Nikkei newspaper poll published May 27. Almost
half of the respondents planned to vote for the LDP, compared
with 6 percent for the next most popular party, the  Democratic
Party of Japan . The Nikkei surveyed 921 people May 24-26 and
gave no margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  