-- Assad Victory in Qusair May Kill Peace Hopes, Report Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-06-07T09:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/assad-victory-in-qusair-may-kill-peace-hopes-report-says.html
Any hope of a negotiated end to the
Syrian crisis may have died with the victory of government
forces in al-Qusair, the  Institute for the Study of War  said in
a report.  “That the regime was able to execute such an operation at
this stage of the war testifies to its resilience and
adaptability, and, more importantly, to the unswerving support
of its allies  Russia ,  Iran , and Hezbollah,” said  Elizabeth
O’Bagy , a senior analyst at the Washington-based group, and
author of the report titled “The Fall of Al-Qusair”. “This
portends the failure of the summit and an end to international
efforts to resolve the conflict through negotiations.”  A proposed peace conference to resolve the war in Geneva
next month was already facing multiple difficulties: the U.S.
and Russia, its main sponsors, have yet to agree who should
attend, while it’s also unclear which parts of the opposition
might join in. At least 80,000 people have been killed in  Syria 
since the uprising began in 2011, millions of others have been
displaced and reports of human rights abuses on both sides are
increasing, the United Nations said this week.  Government control of al-Qusair, about 30 kilometers (19
miles) southwest of Homs, secures lines of communication from
Damascus to the coast, cuts cross-border weapons supplies for
the rebels and provides a staging ground for efforts to retake
opposition areas to the north and east, the report said.  New Approach  Assad’s government revealed a new approach to fighting in
al-Qusair, and carried out operations in three phases, O’Bagy
said.  The first phase in early May began with heavy bombardment
to weaken rebel positions. That was followed by the infiltration
of irregular allied units from the south. Finally, armor-backed
infantry attacks were launched, O’Bagy said. Each stage was
achieved through the coordination of separate chains of command,
and thousands of Hezbollah fighters, and possibly Iraqi and
Iranian fighters, joined in, she said.  “That the regime was able to cooperate so closely with
Hezbollah leadership in combining regular, irregular, and allied
units with separate functions speaks to the close nature of the
relationship between the Syrian government and Hezbollah,” the
analyst said.  Although al-Qusair may not be the decisive battle for
Syria, it should be seen as an “important turning point” and
the most important military victory of the past two years,
O’Bagy said. “If the international community truly seeks to
enforce a negotiated settlement, they will have to do something
to decisively change the balance of power on the ground ahead of
the negotiations.”  Britain and  France  plan to arm the Syrian rebels if the
Geneva meeting fails to make progress, according to unidentified
U.K. officials cited by the Financial Times on May 31. The same
officials said London and Paris expected the U.S. to send
weapons too if the talks failed.  Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said in comments
broadcast on state television today that arming the rebels was
“the road to nowhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  