-- Bearish Bets on Emerging-Market Bond ETF Surge to Record
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-06-07T13:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/bearish-bets-on-emerging-market-bond-etf-surge-to-record.html
Investors are the most bearish ever
on the largest  exchange traded fund  for emerging-market bonds as
concern the Federal Reserve will reduce stimulus prompts
investors to dump debt from developing nations.  Short interest, a measure of shares borrowed and sold on
speculation they will fall, on the iShares JPMorgan USD  Emerging
Markets  Bond Fund surged to 8.5 million on June 5, according to
data compiled by London-based  Markit Group Ltd. (EMB)  That’s up from
1.9 million on Dec. 31 and is equivalent to 18 percent of the
outstanding shares,  the data showed .  Investors are retreating from emerging markets as
speculation on whether the Fed will scale back quantitative
easing pushes up Treasury yields, making developing country debt
less attractive.  JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index  for dollar-denominated bonds fell 5.4 percent over the past month, the most
since 2008, as anti-government protests in  Turkey , mining
strikes in South Africa and slower growth in  China  hurt investor
confidence.  “We are in the initial phase of unwinding the QE
liquidity,”  Siobhan Morden , the head of fixed-income strategy
at Jefferies Group LLC, said in a phone interview from New York.
“Assets have been mispriced for too long. It raises the risk
for another leg down.”  Average  yields  on emerging market dollar-denominated bonds
rose 79 basis points, or 0.79 percentage point, over the past
month to 5.4 percent on June 6, the highest in a year, JPMorgan
data show.  Extra Yield  Investors demanded an extra 334 basis points in yield to
hold the securities instead of U.S. Treasuries yesterday, the
highest  premium  since August. The so-called spread narrowed to
330 basis points as of 9:14 a.m. in New York.  A government report showed U.S. employment increased more
than forecast in May while the jobless rate climbed from a four-year low, keeping the debate going on whether the Fed will taper
its bond purchases.  The iShares fund, which tracks JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Core
Index, posted about $80 million in redemptions on June 5, the
biggest one-day outflow since March, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Investors yanked $1.1 billion out from the fund
this year, after pouring in $5.1 billion over the past three
years.  The surge in short interest is “a striking trend,” said
Alex Brog, a director at Markit in  London . “There was a lot of
buildup in short interest before the recent price fall. It seems
investors are expressing a directional view here.”  U.S. Employment  Emerging-market assets sold off in the past month as Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank could slow
unprecedented stimulus should the U.S. employment outlook show
sustainable improvement.  Local-currency bonds  slumped 7.3 percent in dollar terms
over the past month through June 5, the most since 2009,
according to JPMorgan’s global diversified index. The MSCI
Emerging Market Index of stocks fell to a six-month low
yesterday.  Turkish bond yields were poised for a weekly surge after
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan failed to calm investor
concern as anti-government protesters demonstrated for the
seventh day yesterday. Foreign investors sold a net 4.9 billion
rand ($495 million) of South African bonds on May 29, the most
since 2011, according to Johannesburg Stock Exchange data.  China’s gross domestic product expanded a less-than-estimated 7.7 percent in the first quarter and analysts last
month trimmed forecasts for the April-June period to a median
projection of 7.8 percent.  BlackRock’s View  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, said
yesterday it reduced emerging market investment, citing concern
a reduction in Fed bond purchases may curb support for the
assets.  “We had very little exposure to local EM bonds but have
trimmed our external EM positions recently to reduce the levels
of risk from this sector,” Scott Thiel, the deputy chief
investment officer for fundamental fixed-income in London, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Investors pulled $1.5 billion out from emerging market bond
funds in the week ending June 5, according to a Morgan Stanley
report yesterday, citing data compiled by EPFR Global. It was a
second weekly outflow and the largest since September 2011,
according to Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  