-- Bellway Reservations Rise on Cameron Homebuyer Program
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-06-07T09:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/bellway-reservations-rise-on-government-s-help-to-buy-initiative.html
Bellway Plc (BWY)  said reservations in the
past four months rose 31 percent from a year earlier as a
government program to help buyers gave the U.K. homebuilder’s
customers greater access to mortgages.  Bellway had 160 reservations a week during the period, the
Newcastle, England-based company said today in a statement. The
average selling price rose 5 percent to 200,300 pounds
($312,000), Bellway said.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government introduced its
Help to Buy program in March to help stimulate the economy,
enabling buyers to pay a deposit as low as 5 percent of the
property’s value by granting equity loans of as much as 20
percent. The loans were used in 360 transactions since it began
in April, Bellway said. The  International Monetary Fund  said
last month that granting the loans risked stoking demand and
inflating prices.  “We’re only 8 weeks into Help to Buy and we don’t see
rampant sales-price inflation,” Bellway Chief Executive Officer
Ted Ayres said by telephone. “It has given a bit of a boost to
sales and generally enhanced  market sentiment , but will it solve
all of the problems of the house-building industry? Well, no.”  About two thirds of home completions in the year ending
July 31 will arise from land bought since the global financial
crisis when real estate prices crashed. That would result in a 2
percentage point widening of operating margin, from 11.4 percent
last year, Bellway said.  Bellway rose 2.2 percent to 1,344 pence in London trading,
giving the company a market value of 1.64 billion pounds. The
shares are up about 30 percent this year.  The company said it already met and annual target of
increasing volumes by at least 5 percent, and it expects a 7
percent gain in the number of completions in the fiscal year
through July 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  