-- Fed Seen Holding to QE Strategy Even as Payrolls Beat Forecasts
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n ,   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-06-08T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/bernanke-seen-holding-to-qe-pace-even-as-hiring-beats-forecasts.html
The Federal Reserve probably won’t
alter its strategy for $85 billion in monthly bond purchases
even after a 175,000 gain in U.S. hiring last month exceeded
economists’ forecasts.  Most economists surveyed before the Labor Department report
said they expected the Fed to maintain the pace through the
summer and then trim its monthly asset buying to $65 billion
starting in September, October or December. Yesterday’s jobs
figures probably won’t change their view, said  Michael Feroli , a
former Fed economist.  “If you went into this jobs report thinking they’ll taper
in December, you’re probably still thinking December,” said
Feroli, chief U.S. economist for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in New
York. “If you were thinking September, you’re probably still
thinking September.”  The Federal Open Market Committee has pledged to press on
with stimulus until the labor market shows signs of substantial
improvement. The commitment prompted investors to closely
scrutinize the payroll report for signs the labor market has
grown strong enough for Chairman Ben S. Bernanke to begin
dialing back stimulus.  Debate among policy makers over when to reduce their
unprecedented bond buying has shaken financial markets. Yields
on 10-year Treasury notes rose to a one-year high of 2.17
percent yesterday in New York from 2.08 percent on June 6 and as
low as 1.63 percent last month. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 1 percent to 1,638.39.  Remove Support  Bond traders may still be concerned that a reduction in Fed
purchases later this year will remove support for Treasury
prices, said Michael Gapen, senior U.S. economist and head of
U.S. asset allocation strategy at Barclays Plc and a former Fed
economist.  The median forecast for job gains in a Bloomberg survey
called for an increase of 163,000 in May. The unemployment rate
climbed to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent as a surge in the number
of people entering the labor force swamped the number of
positions available.  The payroll expansion is “in that gray area where labor
markets are improving moderately but the report’s not decisive
in one direction or the other,” Gapen said.  Policy makers  calling for no pullback in record stimulus
can find ammunition from several points in the payroll report
beyond the rise in unemployment to 7.6 percent. Average hourly
earnings were little changed at $23.89 in May compared with
$23.88 in April.  Postal Service  Also, employment at federal agencies excluding the postal
service showed a 9,400 decrease, and manufacturing payrolls
shrank for a third month, falling 8,000 in May after a 9,000
decrease in April.  Bernanke said at a March 20 press conference that the Fed
would adjust its monthly bond buying in a “sensitive way”
based on several measures of the labor market, including
payrolls, wages and jobless claims.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said
yesterday the Fed probably won’t reduce its asset purchases
after the rise in joblessness in May from a four-year low.  The payroll report doesn’t indicate “anything about
tapering at all with unemployment going higher and metrics in
terms of the work week and wages being very dour,”  Gross,
founder of Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Mike McKee.  Four Months  Policy makers may need to see four months of job growth
averaging at least 200,000 to justify reducing the pace of asset
purchases, according to Vincent Reinhart, chief U.S. economist
at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in New York and a former director of the Fed’s
Division of Monetary Affairs.  “They would see that as confirmation that the economy is
on a self-sustaining trajectory and they would thus be confident
that they could reduce the pace” of bond buying, said Roberto Perli, a partner at Cornerstone Macro LP in Washington.  Boston Fed president  Eric Rosengren  and  Chicago ’s Charles Evans, both voting members of the FOMC this year who have
consistently supported increased stimulus, have cited job growth
of 200,000 as a benchmark for labor-market improvement.  The impact of the Fed’s first move to reduce purchases may
be muted if the step is a small one. Economists in the June 4-5
Bloomberg Survey said the Fed will reduce its pace of purchases
to $65 billion a month, split between $30 billion in mortgages
and $35 billion in Treasuries. That would be a reduction of $10
billion a month in each market.  First Step  “Even those who are advocating for tapering are thinking
that it could be a pretty small first step to see how it goes,”
said Julia Coronado, chief economist for North America at BNP
Paribas SA in New York and a former Fed economist, before the
jobs numbers. Yesterday’s report led to “no change at all” to
her forecast, she said in an e-mail.  Companies are stepping up hiring amid growing confidence
demand will rise even in the face of the higher taxes and U.S.
government spending cuts that have slowed growth this year.  Among companies hiring workers is Santa Fe Brewing Co., a
30-employee craft beer maker in Santa Fe, New Mexico. The
company has hired five full-time workers and one part-time
employee this year to help support growing sales in the
Southwest. It’s looking to hire three or four part-time
employees now, and may add more full-time positions next year,
said owner Brian Lock.  Coming Back  “I get the sense the economy is coming back a little bit,”
said Lock, 41. “We are definitely on the recovery track. We are
seeing more tourists than we have in the past three of four
years, and that is a good sign.”  Yesterday’s report showed gains among private employers
were broad-based, ranging from retailers and builders to health-care providers and hotels.  “The economy this year is stronger than it has been during
the entire recovery so far,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S.
economist at UniCredit Group in New York and the top forecaster
of payrolls gains for the past two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “Companies just need a little bit more
confidence that this goes on.”  Among those who have recently found work is Jane Hillerby,
56, who was living in Reno,  Nevada , and commuting to San
Francisco when she lost her job as a manufacturing consultant in
January. With degrees in engineering and business, she was
confident she could find work closer to home.  In March she took a job with Ebara Corp., an industrial
pump manufacturer with a site in Reno. Her $90,000-a-year salary
as a project manager is less than the $130,000 she earned as a
consultant, though she doesn’t have to commute to  California  and
the company covers her health insurance.  “I thought I had a pretty good resume but I wasn’t getting
anything,” Hillerby said. “It’s tough out there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  