-- Billionaire Son Taps Mrs. Watanabe for Sprint Bid
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-06-07T06:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/billionaire-son-taps-mrs-watanabe-for-sprint-bid-japan-credit.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s second bond sale to
individual investors in three months demonstrates billionaire
Masayoshi Son’s ability to undercut rival bidders for  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  with lower funding costs.  Japan ’s third-largest mobile phone operator plans to raise
400 billion yen ($4.2 billion) by issuing five-year notes, in
the nation’s biggest retail offering by a non-financial company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 1.74 percent yield
offered by the securities compares with  0.295 percent  for
Japan’s sovereign bonds and the 4.25 percent rival bidder  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  paid to sell similar-maturity debt in April.  Son is seeking to tap the $8.6 trillion in savings at
Japanese households just as Sprint considers delaying the June
12 shareholder vote on SoftBank’s $20.1 billion takeover
proposal to consider Dish’s counterbid. While the $25.5 billion
offer from the U.S. satellite television company is higher,
Japan’s fastest growing wireless carrier has argued that the
deal would load the resulting company with too much debt.  “The company’s ability to raise that much money from
individual investors is where it’s really superior to Dish,
which has to pay more to sell debt,” said Hiroaki Hayashi, who
manages 1.6 trillion yen of fixed-income investments at
Fukokushinrai Life Insurance Co. in  Tokyo . “SoftBank simply
wouldn’t be able to borrow at this level of cost if it wasn’t
for private investors.”  Retail Debt  The extra yield institutional investors demand to own
SoftBank’s 70 billion yen of 1.467 percent notes due March 2017
instead of government debt was at 105 basis points yesterday,
down from 137 at the time of the offering in March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 18 basis points
for Japanese telecommunications company bonds and 145 for peers
worldwide, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  SoftBank has relied on retail offerings for 65 percent of
its yen bond sales in the past four years, raising 1.095
trillion yen from individual investors in the period, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company sold in February 300
billion yen of 1.47 percent securities maturing 2017.  The wireless carrier is counting on the popularity of its
brand and that of Apple Inc.’s devices to tap 854 trillion yen
of cash and bank deposits owned by the nation’s households.
Japanese individual investors are often nicknamed Mrs. Watanabe
because many are housewives.  Individual Coffers  Japanese households had 1,547 trillion yen in financial
assets as of the end of December, according to  Bank of Japan 
data. That compares with 32 trillion yen of debt securities and
106 trillion yen in equities and investments, the data show.  “From the point of view of bond issuers, this is a massive
market that more borrowers should consider,” said Yoshimitsu Goto, SoftBank’s head of finance, in an e-mailed answer to
Bloomberg’s questions yesterday. The company will use the funds
to help pay for the acquisition and to repay debt, Goto said.  Dish didn’t immediately answer an e-mail seeking comment to
its public relations office in after hours.  The acquisition, which SoftBank plans to complete on July
1, would give it 70 percent of Sprint, the third-largest U.S.
wireless network. SoftBank won U.S. national-security clearance
for the takeover last month, overcoming Dish’s contention that
allowing a foreign company to control an American phone network
would compromise national security.  Ergen’s Offer  Sprint is considering delaying the shareholder vote June
12, as it seeks a binding offer from Dish including details on
financing sources, two people familiar with the matter said
earlier this month.  Charlie Ergen , Dish’s billionaire chairman,
made the unsolicited bid for Sprint to expand into the mobile-phone industry. He wants to pair his satellite-TV operations
with Sprint to provide a bigger bundle of services to customers.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
raised yesterday 105.6 billion yen in the largest sale of
Samurai bonds since October, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The four-part offering ended a drought of more than a
year for yen bond issuance to Japanese investors by U.S.
borrowers, since Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s 82 billion yen of
notes in February 2012.  Samurai bonds have handed investors a 0.07 percent loss
since the end of March, compared with a 0.39 percent decline for
Japanese corporate notes, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. Company debt worldwide has dropped 0.23 percent.  GPIF Allocation  Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund will cut its
allocation of domestic bonds to 60 percent from 67 percent, the
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare said in a statement
today. GPIF, which oversees about 100 trillion yen in assets,
will increase domestic shares and foreign stocks and debt, the
ministry said.  The benchmark 10-year Japanese sovereign yield rose 2 1/2
basis points, or 0.025 percentage point, to 0.86 percent in
Tokyo. The securities  yielded  124 basis points less than
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries compared with 79 a year
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Pacific Investment Management Co. is in “no hurry” to
increase its JGB holdings with 10-year yields around 0.8 to 0.9
percent, Tomoya Masanao, head of  portfolio management  for Japan
at Pimco, the operator of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in
an interview in Tokyo.  Yen Swings  The yen traded at 96.80 per dollar at 3:36 p.m. in Tokyo
today, rising more than 7 percent from the 103.74 it touched
last month, the weakest since October 2008. The dollar plunged
2.1 percent against the yen yesterday, the most since May 2010.  Five-year  credit-default swaps  to insure Japan’s sovereign
notes were at 79.5 basis points yesterday, up from 54 on May 13,
which was the lowest since November 2010, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. An
increase in the contracts signals worsening perceptions of
creditworthiness, while a decrease suggests the opposite.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index , comprised of default swaps
for 50 companies, was at 97 basis points yesterday, CMA data
show. The gauge closed at 159 last year.  Son, 55, is Japan’s second-richest man with a net worth of
$12.9 billion as of yesterday, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . Almost 95 percent of his fortune is from his
19 percent stake in shares of SoftBank, where he is president.
Son’s company owns a  professional baseball team .  White Dog  The carrier’s sitcom-styled commercial featuring a white
dog as father of a human family helped it to top favorability
rankings for the sixth year, according to Tokyo Kikaku Co.’s CM
Data Bank. SoftBank’s retail bond offering, which is on sale
until June 19, comes with a towel set featuring the dog
character.  Sony Corp. is seeking to raise 150 billion yen in its first
sale of bonds targeting individual investors, according to a
statement to Japan’s  Finance Ministry . Orix Corp. offered 20
billion yen of 1.126 percent 10-year notes in April aimed at
such buyers, while Shinsei Bank Ltd. sold 10 billion yen of
subordinated bonds, according to separate filings from the
companies.  “Retail bonds can offer investors a better rate than
 savings accounts  or sovereign notes without the risk that comes
with a stock investment,” said  Mana Nakazora , Tokyo-based chief
credit analyst at BNP Paribas SA. “One difference from selling
debt to institutions for the issuer is that individual investors
are less likely to dump the bonds when something goes wrong.”  New Subscribers  SoftBank benefited from being the sole domestic carrier to
offer the iPhone from 2008 until last year when it was joined by
KDDI Corp. SoftBank added 3.53 million new subscribers in the
year ended March 31, compared with 1.4 million at NTT DoCoMo
Inc., the Japan’s biggest carrier, and 2.6 million at KDDI, the
country’s No. 2, according to data provided by companies.  The acquisition of  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint’s
55.2 million subscribers would increase SoftBank’s total
customer base including its subsidiaries to 97 million, the
company said. DoCoMo has about 61.5 million subscriptions.  SoftBank has 130 billion yen retail  bonds  maturing Sept. 17
and 94.9 billion yen of notes next year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s  weighted average fixed
coupon  fell to 1.75 percent in the first quarter, from 3.77
three year earlier.  “You could say individual bond investors are SoftBank’s
main bank,” Fukokushinrai’s Hayashi said. “Their debt
offerings also serve a public relations function, promoting
SoftBank’s services in what amounts to a tight integration of
its fiscal and operations strategies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  