-- Blackstone Buys Stake in Brazil’s Alphaville From Gafisa
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-06-07T20:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/blackstone-buys-stake-in-brazil-s-alphaville-from-gafisa.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and its Brazilian
partner agreed to buy a stake in the country’s largest
residential land developer, betting that the appeal of its gated
communities will withstand a slowing in  home prices .  Blackstone and Patria Investimentos Ltda. jointly will buy
70 percent of  Gafisa SA (GFSA3) ’s Alphaville Urbanismo residential-development business for 1.4 billion reais ($651 million). The
transaction values Alphaville at 2 billion reais, Sao Paulo-based Gafisa said today in a statement.  The transaction is the first real estate deal to come out
of Blackstone’s 2010 investment in Patria. The New York-based
private-equity firm is banking on growing demand for housing and
Alphaville’s brand luring buyers as  Brazil ’s torrid home-price
growth eases. Prices in 16 Brazilian cities rose almost 14
percent in 2012, after a 26 percent jump in 2011, data from
FipeZap show. In the 12 months through May, prices rose 12
percent, down from 20 percent a year earlier.  Alphaville is “a well-managed, high-potential Brazilian
company, primed to capitalize on the country’s increasing growth
and development,”  Jonathan Gray , Blackstone’s global head of
real estate, said in the statement.  The Alphaville purchase, expected to be completed in the
second half, is Blackstone’s first investment in the Brazilian
residential real estate market, aside from assets it inherited
when it took over a Bank of America Corp./Merrill Lynch & Co.
portfolio during the credit crisis. The company has spent about
$4.5 billion in the U.S. to purchase 26,000 single-family homes
to rent.  Reducing Debt  Gafisa also will buy the 20 percent stake in Alphaville it
doesn’t already own for 367 million reais, allowing it to keep a
30 percent stake in the company, according to the statement.  Gafisa will use the proceeds to reduce its ratio of net
debt to assets to 53 percent, from 94 percent at the end of the
third quarter, and to buy land to build new projects, both for
Gafisa and its low-income unit, Tenda, saidAndre Bergstein,
Gafisa’s chief financial officer.  “The deal allows us to balance the need to raise cash
without having to let go of an asset with very high returns,”
Bergstein said in a telephone interview.  Shares Fall  Gafisa  fell  as much as 11 percent amid a slump in Brazilian
stocks after initially rallying 5 percent. The shares fell 9
percent at 3.69 reais at 4:47 p.m.  Sao Paulo  time.  “The market was already mostly pricing in this transaction
and the price paid for Alphaville is in line with market
expectations,” Eduardo Silveira and Frederico Mendes, Sao
Paulo-based analysts at Espirito Santo Investment Bank Research,
said in a report today.  Alphaville, founded in 1973, develops gated communities
outside city centers. The company acquires rights to develop
residential lots from landowners, typically farmers, in exchange
for a share of the proceeds from the eventual sale of
properties, then readies the land for building by supplying
utilities and common areas such as clubhouses before selling to
homeowners, who are then responsible for hiring builders.  Alphaville has a pipeline of about 13 billion reais of land
in the process of being prepared for development, according to
today’s statement. Blackstone and Patria said they will keep
Alphaville’s management team, led by Marcelo Willer.  Gafisa, seeking to reduce debt, began exploring ways to
raise cash from Alphaville in September.  “The transaction will allow our shareholders, through the
30 percent stake in Alphaville, to participate in the long-term
value creation we believe will be produced by partnering with
two leading investment firms with global and local experience in
the real estate sector,” Duilio Calciolari, Gafisa’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  Renato de Albuquerque and Nuno Luis de Carvalho Lopes Alves
will step down from Alphaville’s board when Gafisa completes its
acquisition of the 20 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  