-- Bombardier Sees Challenge Meeting 2014 CSeries Delivery
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-06-07T21:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/bombardier-sees-challenge-meeting-2014-cseries-delivery.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  is confident it will
meet a “challenging” goal of delivering the CSeries jet one
year after its maiden takeoff this month, even though the
timeline is half that of recent programs by competitors.  The Montreal-based company is working toward the first
flight of the narrow-body CSeries by June 30 and the program is
still on track to meet that goal, said Rob Dewar, vice president
and general manager of the CSeries, in a phone interview today.  New plane programs such as  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner and
 Embraer SA (EMBR3) ’s E-190 have taken an average of two years from first
flight to entering commercial service, Ronald Epstein, an
analyst at Bank of America Corp. in  New York , said in a May 15
note to clients. That suggests a CSeries delivery may not take
place before 2015’s second half, he wrote.  Bombardier’s “extensive” ground tests on the CSeries --
which included the construction of an integrated testing
facility at its Mirabel, Quebec, plant -- should allow it to
start deliveries as scheduled in about one year, Dewar said.
Ground tests on the plane began more than one year ago, he said.  Entry into  service  of the CSeries in mid-2014 “is a
challenging target, that’s clear, but we’ve done things
differently,” Dewar said. “One, we did much more upfront
testing than others have, or ourselves. Two, we are providing a
very mature aircraft into the flight test program.”  Bombardier sparked concern among investors in November by
announcing a six-month delay in the CSeries. Dewar, who said
he’s been working seven days a week for about two months, said
the plane will take to the skies on time.  “We are tracking day on day for the end of the month,” he
said. “That’s our objective. We feel we have done really good
in our schedule compared to others, so we are very satisfied
with that schedule.”  Bombardier’s flight-test group took control of the plane
earlier this week, and ground vibration tests will now be
carried out before low-speed taxiing begins, Dewar said.  “The aircraft looks phenomenal,” he said. “It’s been a
long journey, but I’m really excited to see this program come
together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  