-- Borealis Group Boosts Severn Trent Takeover Offer by 3.5%
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-07T23:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/borealis-led-group-boosts-severn-trent-bid-to-8-22-billion-1-.html
Severn Trent Plc (SVT) , the U.K.’s second-largest publicly traded water company, again rejected an
increased takeover offer from a group including a Canadian
infrastructure investor and Kuwait sovereign wealth fund.  The LongRiver Partners, comprising the Kuwait Investment
Office, Borealis Infrastructure Management Inc. and Britain’s
Universities Superannuation Scheme, offered 2,200 pence a share,
or 5.3 billion pounds ($8.24 billion), according to a statement
yesterday. The group’s third takeover approach since May 14 is
34 percent above Severn Trent’s average closing price for the
six months to May 13, it said.  Severn Trent, named for two of Britain’s biggest rivers, is
the latest U.K. utility to face potential foreign ownership
after buyouts including Thames Water Utilities Ltd. and
Yorkshire Water Services Ltd. British water utilities, regulated
by Ofwat through price controls, offer steady gains that have
lured buyers including Macquarie Group Ltd., KKR & Co. and
Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd.  Severn Trent said in a statement late yesterday that the
offer represents an increase of only 3.5 percent from the
previous proposal, and a premium of only 20.5 percent to the
company’s share price the day before LongRiver announced its
interest.  “The board, having consulted its financial advisers, has
unanimously concluded that the proposal continues to fail to
reflect the significant long-term value of Severn Trent or to
recognize its future potential,” according to the statement.  ‘Compelling Value’  Severn Trent jumped as much as 8.9 percent to a record
before paring gains to close 2.5 percent higher at 2,070 pence
in  London  yesterday. The stock has advanced almost 32 percent
this year. The yield on Severn Trent debt due in 2026 rose to
the highest for the day at 3.59 percent.  “LongRiver’s proposal of 2,200 pence per share in cash
represents certain and compelling value for Severn Trent
shareholders,” Michael Rolland, chief executive officer at
Borealis, said in its statement. “We look forward to engaging
with the Severn Trent board to enable us to make our formal
offer to Severn Trent shareholders. Without engagement, there
can be no offer from the consortium,” he said.  The bidding group first made a takeover approach more than
three weeks ago that Coventry-based Severn Trent rejected a day
later. It returned with a higher offer on May 31 that it said
valued Severn Trent at about 5.2 billion pounds.  The utility spurned the approach that it said valued the
stock at 2,079.49 pence a share because stockholders wouldn’t
receive a 45.51 pence dividend, leading the bidders to say they
were “surprised and disappointed” at the rejection. The
dividend is included in the latest offer at 2,200 pence, 3.5
percent higher than the May 31 approach.  ‘Hanging Tough’  “Severn management have been hanging tough,”  Lakis
Athanasiou , a utilities analyst at Agency Partners LLP in
London, said by phone. “They’ve got no option now but to talk
with the bidders. If they turn around and refuse the bid and the
bidders walk, you can’t really see the management surviving not
having accepted the bid because the share price will plummet
over time.”  The pre-conditional cash offer values Severn Trent at about
5.3 billion pounds, according to LongRiver.  The approach represents a 41 percent premium to Severn
Trent’s regulatory capital value of 7.4 billion pounds on March
31 using the “fair market” value of Severn Trent’s debt and 31
percent using the so-called book value, the group said.  The announcement of a firm intention to make an offer under
U.K. takeover rules is subject to completion of due diligence
and recommendation by the Severn Trent board, it said. LongRiver
has until June 11 for a formal offer.  Takeover Targets  Borealis Infrastructure co-owns the U.K.’s largest ports
operator, Associated British Ports. It’s the infrastructure unit
of Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System, or Omers.
Based in Toronto, Omers is  Canada ’s sixth-biggest pension fund
manager.  Severn Trent, which announced a 3.3 percent drop in
underlying pretax profit to 266.3 million pounds on May 30 after
high rainfall cut water use of commercial customers such as
farmers, supplies drinking water to 7.7 million people and sewer
services to 8.7 million clients.  Severn Trent isn’t the only U.K. water company to be the
subject of recent takeover talk. The Daily Mail in April
reported state-owned Abu Dhabi Investment Authority was
considering a bid for Pennon while the Sunday Times said United
Utilities hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. amid speculation of a
possible takeover deal.  Thames Water, with 14 million customers in the London area,
was bought in 2006 by Kemble Water Holdings Ltd., with investors
including Macquarie’s European Infrastructure Funds. CKI,
controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , completed an
acquisition of Northumbrian Water Group Plc in 2011 while KKR
bought South Staffordshire in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  