-- Brazilian Real’s Rout Deepens as S&P Cuts Credit Rating Outlook
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-06-07T14:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/brazilian-real-falls-on-s-p-outlook-cut-swap-rates-increase.html
Brazil’s real fell to a four-year low
after  Standard & Poor’s (SPY)  cut the government’s  credit-rating 
outlook to negative amid an economic slump that’s threatening to
drive up the country’s debt levels.  The real sank 0.8 percent to 2.1467 per dollar at 10:23
a.m. in Sao Paulo after earlier reaching 2.1533, the lowest on a
closing basis since May 2009. Swap rates due January 2016 rose
11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 9.79 percent. The
Ibovespa benchmark stock gauge slumped 0.5 percent  S&P lowered yesterday the outlook from stable on Brazil’s
BBB rating, which is two levels above junk and in line with
Mexico’s and  Russia ’s, saying it was concerned by the country’s
sluggish economic growth, weakening fiscal accounts and loss of
credibility with investors. The rating company also cut the
outlooks for state-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) 
and government-run utility  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA. (ELET3)   “It has to do with policy inconsistency, the low-growth
high-inflation trade off, and the loss of credibility of the
central bank,”  Siobhan Morden , a fixed-income strategist at
Jefferies Group LLC, said in a phone interview from  New York .  The move threatens to end a decade-long stretch of rating
upgrades for Latin America’s biggest country. Yields on Brazil’s
dollar bonds  have surged  an average 0.81 percentage point in the
past month to 4.49 percent. Morden said the outlook revision may
trigger more declines in Brazilian debt.  ‘Ambiguous Policy’  “We could lower the credit rating in the coming two years
if continued sluggish economic growth, weaker fiscal and
external fundamentals, and some loss in the credibility of
economic policy given ambiguous policy signals diminish Brazil’s
ability to manage an external shock,” S&P said in the report.  Brazil’s economy expanded 0.9 percent last year and is
forecast to grow 2.77 percent in 2013, according to a central
bank survey published June 3. Quickening inflation has prompted
policy makers to boost  interest rates  by 0.75 percentage point
this year after they lowered borrowing costs by 5.25 percentage
points in cuts that began in August 2011.  The annual inflation rate rose to 6.5 percent in May,
matching the upper end of policy makers’ target range, from 6.49
percent in April, a government report showed today.  Lackluster growth is leading to deterioration in the fiscal
outlook and a rising government debt burden that may lead to a
downgrade in the next two years, S&P analyst Sebastian Briozzo
said in an e-mailed statement. There’s at least a one in three
chance of a rating cut, S&P said.  Three-Month Plunge  “Continued slow economic growth, weaker fiscal and
external fundamentals, and some loss in the credibility of
economic policy given ambiguous policy signals could diminish
 Brazil ’s ability to manage an external shock,” Briozzo wrote.  The real has fallen 8.9 percent in three months, the
biggest drop among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as
rising U.S. bond yields drew capital away from Brazil. The
government removed a tax on foreigners’ bond purchases this week
in a bid to lure investment.  S&P last upgraded Brazil in November 2011. The country is
rated BBB by  Fitch Ratings  and an equivalent Baa2 by Moody’s,
which has a positive outlook on the grade.  “There was no change in rating, but a review based on
growth outlook in 2013,” Marcio Holland, economic policy
secretary at the  Finance Ministry , said yesterday after S&P
announced the outlook revision. “There is no change in economic
policy and the environment is conducive to investment. Fiscal
policy is anti-cyclical, not expansionary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  