-- Brazilian Real Fluctuates as Intervention Outlook Offsets S&P
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-06-07T15:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/brazilian-real-fluctuates-as-intervention-outlook-offsets-s-p.html
Brazil ’s real swung between gains and
losses on speculation the central bank will intervene after the
currency touched a four-year low as Standard & Poor’s cut the
nation’s credit rating outlook to negative.  The currency appreciated 0.1 percent to 2.1280 per U.S.
dollar at 12:25 p.m. in Sao Paulo after touching 2.1533, the
weakest intraday level since May 2009.  “There are expectations that the central bank could
intervene with a currency swap auction,” Francisco Carvalho,
currency director at BGC Liquidez in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2015 increased three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 9.25 percent after a report showed the annual
inflation rate accelerated to 6.50 percent, matching the upper
end of policy makers’ target range.  The real has traded in an intraday range of 1.94 to 2.15
per dollar this year as policy makers fluctuated between selling
currency swaps to prevent it from falling too much and offering
reverse currency swaps to rein in gains.  The central bank sold currency swap contracts worth $1.38
billion on June 5 after selling contracts worth $877 million on
May 31 in its first intervention in the foreign-exchange market
since March.  S&P lowered yesterday the outlook from stable on Brazil’s
BBB rating, which is two levels above junk and in line with
 Mexico ’s and  Russia ’s. The company cited the country’s sluggish
economic growth, weakening fiscal accounts and loss of
credibility with investors.  The rating company also cut the outlooks for state-controlled oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA and government-run
utility Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  