-- Brazil Rating Outlook Cut to Negative by S&P on Sluggish Growth
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-07T00:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/brazil-rating-outlook-cut-to-negative-by-s-p-on-sluggish-growth.html
Brazil’s credit rating outlook was
cut to negative by  Standard & Poor’s , which said sluggish
economic growth and an expansionary fiscal policy could lead to
an increase in the government’s debt levels.  S&P said in a statement yesterday that it lowered the
outlook on Brazil’s BBB rating, which is two levels above junk
and in line with Mexico and  Russia , from stable. The rating
company also cut the outlooks for state-controlled oil company
Petroleo Brasileiro SA and government-run utility Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA.  The move, which threatens to end a decade-long stretch of
rating upgrades for  Latin America ’s biggest country, was
triggered by forecasts for a third year of “modest” economic
growth, “weaker” fiscal policy and a deterioration in the
government’s credibility, S&P said. Yields on  Brazil ’s dollar
bonds  have surged  an average 0.81 percentage point in the past
month to 4.49 percent. The outlook revision may prompt Brazilian
debt to underperform, according to Siobhan Morden, a fixed-income strategist at Jefferies Group LLC.  “It has to do with policy inconsistency, the low-growth
high-inflation trade off, and the loss of credibility of the
central bank,” Morden said in a phone interview from  New York .  Brazil’s economy expanded 0.9 percent last year and is
forecast to grow just 2.77 percent in 2013, according to a
central bank survey published June 3. Quickening inflation has
prompted policy makers to boost  interest rates  by 0.75
percentage point this year after they lowered borrowing costs by
5.25 percentage points in cuts that began in August 2011.  ‘Not Expansionary’  Annual inflation, which was 6.49 percent in April, has
remained above the 4.5 percent midpoint of Brazil’s target range
since central bank president Alexandre Tombini took office in
January 2011.  “There was no change in rating, but a review based on
growth outlook in 2013,” said Marcio Holland, economic policy
secretary at the  Finance Ministry . “ There is no change in
economic policy and the environment is conducive to investment.
Fiscal policy is anti-cyclical, not expansionary.”  Lackluster growth is leading to deterioration in the fiscal
outlook and a rising government debt burden that may lead to a
downgrade in the next two years, S&P analyst Sebastian Briozzo
said in an e-mailed statement.  “Continued slow economic growth, weaker fiscal and
external fundamentals, and some loss in the credibility of
economic policy given ambiguous policy signals could diminish
Brazil’s ability to manage an external shock,” Briozzo wrote.  Opposite Direction  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s Investors Service’s
rating and outlook changes and 50 percent of those by S&P.
That’s worse than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based
on more than 300 changes since 1974.  S&P last upgraded Brazil in November 2011. The country is
rated BBB by  Fitch Ratings  and an equivalent Baa2 by Moody’s,
which has a positive outlook on the grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  