-- Brazilian Dollar Bond Slump Deepens as S&P Lowers Rating Outlook
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-06-07T16:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/brazilian-dollar-bond-slump-deepens-as-s-p-lowers-rating-outlook.html
Brazil’s benchmark dollar bonds fell
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the government’s  credit rating 
outlook to negative amid an economic slump that’s threatening to
drive up debt levels.  The nation’s $2.2 billion of bonds due 2023 fell 0.19 cent
to 92.40 cents on the dollar at 12:10 p.m. in  New York , the
lowest price on a closing basis since the notes were issued in
September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields rose
3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.57 percent,
extending their increase over the past five days to six basis
points, the fifth straight weekly jump.  S&P lowered yesterday the outlook on Brazil’s BBB rating,
which is two levels above junk, saying it was concerned by the
country’s sluggish economic growth, weakening fiscal accounts
and loss of credibility with investors. S&P also cut the rating
outlook for state-controlled companies Petroleo Brasileiro SA
and Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA.  “There are a number of elements contained in the
evaluation set forth by S&P that we also see as highly important
risks ahead for Brazil,”  Enrique Alvarez , the head of  Latin
America  for fixed income at research company IdeaGlobal, wrote
in a note to clients. “We can only suspect that the trading
sessions that lie ahead for this currency, and Brazilian
sovereign paper, both domestic and global, will include upped
overall bearish pressure.”  The move by S&P threatens to end a decade-long stretch of
rating upgrades for Latin America’s biggest country. The extra
yield investors demand to own Brazilian bonds over Treasuries
has surged 46 basis points in the past month to 209 points today
in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  Lackluster Growth  “We could lower the credit rating in the coming two years
if continued sluggish economic growth, weaker fiscal and
external fundamentals, and some loss in the credibility of
economic policy given ambiguous policy signals diminish Brazil’s
ability to manage an external shock,” S&P said in the report.  Brazil’s economy expanded 0.9 percent last year and is
forecast to grow 2.77 percent in 2013, according to a central
bank survey published June 3. Quickening inflation has prompted
policy makers to boost  interest rates  by 0.75 percentage point
this year after they lowered borrowing costs by 5.25 percentage
points from August 2011 through last year.  The annual inflation rate rose to 6.5 percent in May,
matching the upper end of policy makers’ target range, from 6.49
percent in April, a government report showed today.  Lackluster growth is causing the country’s fiscal outlook
to deteriorate and increasing the government’s debt burden,
raising the chances of a downgrade in the next two years, S&P
analyst Sebastian Briozzo said in an e-mailed statement. There’s
at least a one-in-three chance of a rating cut, S&P said.  ‘Anti-Cyclical’  “Continued slow economic growth, weaker fiscal and
external fundamentals and some loss in the credibility of
economic policy given ambiguous policy signals could diminish
 Brazil ’s ability to manage an external shock,” Briozzo wrote.  The nation’s currency has fallen 8.4 percent in three
months, the biggest drop among 24 major emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, to 2.1377 reais per dollar as
rising U.S. bond yields drew capital away from Brazil. The
government removed a tax on foreigners’ bond purchases this week
in a bid to lure investment.  S&P last upgraded Brazil in November 2011. The country is
rated BBB by  Fitch Ratings  and an equivalent Baa2 by Moody’s,
which has a positive outlook on the grade.  “There was no change in rating, but a review based on
growth outlook in 2013,” Marcio Holland, economic policy
secretary at the  Finance Ministry , said yesterday after S&P
announced the outlook revision. “There is no change in economic
policy and the environment is conducive to investment. Fiscal
policy is anti-cyclical, not expansionary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  