-- California Power Reliability Top Concern for FERC Commissioner
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-06-07T18:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/california-power-reliability-top-concern-for-ferc-commissioner.html
Edison International (EIX) ’s plans to
retire two Southern California nuclear reactors has made the
state’s ability to generate sufficient power a top concern of
federal regulators.  Edison’s Southern California Edison electricity utility
said today it will permanently shut the 2,200-megawatt San
Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, closed since January 2012,
because of uncertainty over when or if regulators would allow
the plant to return to  service .  The reactors at the plant, about midway between  Los Angeles 
and  San Diego , were shut down after a radioactive leak and the
discovery of unusual wear on tubes that transfer reactor heat to
power-generating turbines.  “It was already near the top of the list of areas of
concern for reliability, but it shot up to the top of the list
and it’s going to be a few years before that can essentially be
solved,” Philip Moeller, a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
member, said in a telephone interview.  The California Independent System Operator Corp., which
runs the state’s grid, said in March that it may prove
“difficult” to manage parts of the grid, particularly  Southern
California , without San Onofre and during a below-average year
for hydroelectric generation.  Until today, the plant’s restart “was a pretty big
uncertainty hanging out there,” Moeller said. Shutting the
reactors will increase the state’s reliance on natural gas to
produce electricity, he said.  The loss of San Onofore, and the pending shutdown of
additional power plants over the next few years because of state
regulations limiting the intake of water for cooling, will
increase the risk of blackouts for several years, Moeller said.  “It’s a really important generator that’s in a very
critical load pocket, so it just means that the area is going to
need more generation, more transmission,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  