-- Canada First Quarter Labor Productivity Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-06-07T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/canada-first-quarter-labor-productivity-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s business sector labor productivity report for
the first quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  Labour productivity of Canadian businesses edged up 0.2% in
the first quarter. This was the second consecutive quarter of
weak growth, following three quarters of decline.  Business sector real output expanded in the first quarter,
mainly as a result of an increase in hours worked. In the
previous quarter, business output and hours worked had been
almost flat.  The growth in real gross domestic product (GDP) of
businesses was 0.7% in the first quarter, the fastest pace since
the third quarter of 2011 (+1.9%). Both goods-producing
businesses and service-producing businesses contributed to the
increase. The largest gains were in mining and oil and gas
extraction, as well as in the arts, entertainment and recreation
sector.  Hours worked in production (+0.5%) also increased in the
first quarter. Hours worked rose 1.3% in the goods-producing
sector and 0.2% in the service-producing sector. Construction,
retail trade, and real estate and rental and leasing services
were the main contributors to the increase in hours worked in
the first quarter.  Productivity of goods-producing businesses decreased 0.2%
in the first quarter, after rising 0.1% in the fourth quarter of
2012. Productivity gains in mining and oil and gas extraction
(+4.5%) and manufacturing (+0.2%) were not enough to offset
declines in agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting (-3.9%)
and construction (-2.4%).  In service-producing businesses, productivity edged up 0.2%,
a rate similar to that of the previous quarter, primarily due to
increases in arts, entertainment and recreation (+5.2%), finance,
insurance and holding companies (+1.6%) and professional,
scientific and technical services (+0.9%).  In the  United States , the productivity of American
businesses grew by 0.5% in the first quarter, after falling 0.4%
in the previous quarter.  Productivity in Canadian businesses increased slightly
faster than hourly compensation (+0.1%) in the first quarter. As
a result, labour cost per unit of output in Canadian businesses
decreased 0.1%, the first decline since the third quarter of
2011.  When the first quarter 1.8% depreciation of the Canadian
dollar against the American currency is factored in, Canadian
businesses’ unit labour costs in US dollars declined 1.8%. This
was the first decrease since the fourth quarter of 2011.  In comparison, American businesses saw their unit labour
costs decline 1.3% in the first quarter, following a 2.9%
advance the previous quarter.  Note to readers  Revisions  This release incorporates the National economic accounts
revisions published on May 31, and the revised annual data on
provincial and territorial labour productivity by industry
published on May 15. These resulted in revisions of the
quarterly series for labour productivity and related variables
back to the first quarter of 1981 at the aggregate level and
back to the first quarter of 2007 at the industry level.  Productivity measure  The term “productivity” in this release refers to labour
productivity. For the purposes of this analysis, labour
productivity and related variables cover the business sector
only. Labour productivity is a measure of real gross domestic
product (GDP) per hour worked. Unit labour cost is defined as
the cost of workers’ wages and benefits per unit of real GDP.  All the growth rates reported in this release are rounded
to one decimal place. They are calculated with index numbers
rounded to three decimal places, which are now available on
CANSIM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  