-- Canadian Dollar Climbs on Nation’s Largest Jobs Gains in Decade
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-06-07T21:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/canadian-dollar-climbs-on-nation-s-largest-jobs-gains-in-decade.html
Canada ’s dollar gained for a second
day against its U.S. peer after the economy added the most jobs
in more than a decade in May and the  unemployment rate  declined.  The currency advanced to its first weekly gain in five
against the greenback as the U.S. jobless rate went up even as
payrolls increased, offering mixed signals as the  Federal
Reserve  considers tapering monetary stimulus. It climbed the
most in more than a year yesterday after Bank of Canada Governor
Stephen Poloz in his first public comments reiterated his
predecessor’s view that rates will rise as the economy grows.
Canada’s 10-year  bond yield  rose to the highest in a year.  “The economy is holding up reasonably well this quarter,
supporting, for now, the Bank’s current policy-rate tightening
bias,” David Madani, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd.,
wrote in a note to clients. Madani, a former senior economist at
the  Bank of Canada , said “recent employment figures will help
to sooth fears about a second-quarter economic slowdown.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.7 percent to
C$1.0197 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto after gaining as
much as 1 percent. One loonie buys 98.07 U.S. cents.  Futures on crude oil rose 1.5 percent to $96.21 per barrel
in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks added 1.3
percent.  ‘Holding Up’  Canadian employment rose by 95,000 in May, the most since
August 2002, and the jobless rate fell to 7.1 percent from 7.2
percent even as more people joined the workforce,  Statistics
Canada  said in Ottawa. The job gain tripled the highest of 25
forecasts in a Bloomberg economist survey that predicted no
change in the unemployment rate.  “It’s a sign that the Canadian jobs market is holding up,
so it’s giving a little bit of support to the Canadian dollar
and triggering weakness in bonds,” Emanuella Enenajor, an
economist at  CIBC World Markets , said by phone from Toronto.
“This supports the view that the Canadian economy is doing a
little bit better than we thought in the spring.”  The U.S. unemployment rate rose to 7.6 percent from 7.5
percent, Labor Department figures showed in Washington, after
economists in Bloomberg survey forecast no change. Payrolls
added 175,000 after a revised 149,000 increase in April that was
smaller than first estimated. The median forecast in another
survey called for a 163,000 gain.  Tapering Expectations  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 the central bank
could reduce its monthly purchases of $45 billion of Treasuries
and $40 billion of mortgage bonds if the U.S. employment outlook
shows a sustainable improvement. Policy makers have pledged to
keep interest rates near zero as long as joblessness is above
6.5 percent and inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  “We do see the Fed tapering the asset-purchase program by
the end of this year -- given the correlation with Canadian
market, that would see Canadian yields also head higher,”
Enenajor said. CIBC is forecasting 10-year yields will rise to
2.45 percent by year-end.  Canadian  government bonds  fell, with the yield on the 10-year benchmark gaining 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage
point, to 2.15 percent, the highest level since April 5, 2012.
The 1.5 percent note due June 2023 dropped 92 cents to C$94.25.  Rates Outlook  “As the world heals,  interest rates  will rise,” Poloz,
the former chief executive officer of the nation’s trade
financing agency who took office on June 3, said during
testimony to the House of Commons Finance Committee yesterday in
Ottawa. “It will be consistent with our inflation target, which
is to get inflation back up to 2 percent.”  Poloz declined to say whether the Canadian dollar was
overvalued.  Former Governor  Mark Carney , who left June 1 to head the
 Bank of England , kept the key interest rate at 1 percent for the
22nd consecutive meeting on May 29. Poloz will probably maintain
Carney’s no-change policy for at least the rest of the year,
according to economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  May job’s growth “will improve the outlook for Canada’s
economy and will justify some of the words from the new BOC
Governor, who said rates will eventually rise,”  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a phone interview from Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  