-- Chevron Among Drillers Facing Gas Wells Nuisance Lawsuit
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-06-10T16:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/chevron-among-drillers-facing-suit-over-nuisance-gas-wells.html
(Corrects 13th paragraph to remove reference to Chevron
ownership in story published June 8.)  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Williams Cos. and  WPX
Energy Inc. (WPX)  face a lawsuit by six Pennsylvania families who
claim nearby gas wells are a nuisance that have diminished their
ability to make use of their property.  The families say the companies’ activities have ruined the
“quiet use and enjoyment” of their homes and caused emotional
damages including anxiety and fear. The homeowners seek
unspecified compensatory and punitive damages for the effects of
toxic chemicals, noise and odor from nearby gas wells, according
to a copy of a complaint provided by the families’ lawyers. It
couldn’t immediately be verified in court records.  Advances in hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, and
horizontal drilling have spurred a boom in states including
 Pennsylvania . With it have come complaints that drilling
operations have spoiled water and air. Regulators in
Pennsylvania have linked gas and oil drilling with about 120
cases of water contamination from 2009 to 2012, according to
documents obtained through a state right-to-know request.  Since 2009, more than 35 lawsuits that allege fracking
contaminated water have been filed in eight states, according to
a Jan. 1 report from the  law firm  Fulbright & Jaworski LLP.  In those cases, homeowners must rely on scientific evidence
that may not be conclusive, according to Charlie Speer, whose
 Kansas City , Missouri-based law firm is handling the complaint.
In a nuisance case, a jury is asked to consider the intrusion
into people’s lives as a result of drilling.  Twelve Wells  The plaintiffs live in Fayette County, a part of
Pittsburgh’s metropolitan area with a population of about
136,000 spread across 790 miles (2,050 square kilometers),
according to the 2010  U.S. Census . The county is home to Frank
Lloyd Wright’s Fallingwater and the state’s largest cave, Laurel
Caverns. Uniontown, the county seat located about 50 miles
southeast of Pittsburgh, is the birthplace of the McDonald’s Big
Mac, according to the county’s Website.  Twelve wells near the residents’ properties have been
leaking natural gas, methane and other toxic and radioactive
substances into the air and ground, according to the complaint.
Faulty design, construction and maintenance are allegedly to
blame.  Susan Oliver, a spokeswoman for WPX Energy, said the
company has no operations in the county. The oil and natural gas
producer was spun off from Williams Cos. on Dec. 31, 2011.  Title Chain  Speer said the company appears in the chain of title and
will be removed from the suit if that’s an error.  “It’s interesting the approach that they’re taking,”
Oliver said in a phone interview. “It is a legal operation and
it is one of the most highly regulated industries in the U.S.”  Tom Droege, a spokesman for  Williams Cos. (WMB) , said in an e-mail, “Our policy is not to comment on litigation.” Russell
Johnson, a spokesman for Chevron, said in an e-mail “We have
not been formally served, so we are unable to comment on this
matter. Chevron strives to be a good neighbor in the communities
where we operate.”  Speer’s clients allege that some of the wells began leaking
as early as the fall of 2011.  Residents David and Linda Headley, who own 116 acres of
farmland, repeatedly notified Atlas Resources LLC and other
defendants about defects in the wells’ construction and design,
according to the complaint.  New Tanks  Efforts by the companies to fix the problems by installing
new seals, tanks and bypass lines have failed, according to the
complaint. The wells continue to leak dangerous substances, have
killed trees and a hayfield used by the Headleys’ horses and
routinely make noise, sometimes hourly, according to the filing.  Pipeline construction has brought with it heavy equipment
and truck traffic that has damaged roads, according to the
plaintiffs. Drilling causes nearby houses to vibrate and
pipeline company employees repeatedly urinate and defecate on
their properties, according to the homeowners.  The state’s Department of Environmental Protection has
repeatedly cited defendant Laurel Mountain Midstream Operating
LLC, a subsidiary of Williams Cos.’s  Williams Partners LP (WPZ)  unit,
for discharging industrial waste into a creek near the Headley’s
property, according to the complaint, which cites violations in
June, July and August 2012.  Noise from a compressor station run by Laurel Mountain
forced Benjamin Groover Sr. and his wife Lori to abandon their
residence along with their two children in June 2009. The couple
has since moved within the county but still own and use the
property, according to the complaint. Robert Nicklow, who lives
within 800 feet (244 meters) of the station, is subjected to a
“high decibel screeching sound” that can sometimes last all
day, as well as toxic substances including benzene, methane and
ethane.  “On many occasions, Nicklow is forced to stay indoors,”
according to the complaint.  The case is Headley v. Chevron Appalachia LLC, Court of
Common Pleas of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net :
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  