-- China Sets S. Korea Leader’s Visit Dates Before Obama Summit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-07T09:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/china-sets-s-korea-leader-s-visit-dates-before-obama-summit-1-.html
South Korean President Park Geun Hye
will visit China this month, putting her on track to meet
President Xi Jinping ahead of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un,
whose country has been China’s ally for more than six decades.  Park will visit June 27-30 at Xi’s invitation, China
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters today in
Beijing. The announcement came hours after Xi arrived in
southern  California  to meet President  Barack Obama  at a summit
where the two are expected to discuss  North Korea ’s nuclear
program. Hong, when asked, said he had no information about a
possible visit by Kim.  “Since Park took office, China and  South Korea  have
maintained high-level contact,” Hong said. “China and South
Korea maintaining healthy and stable bilateral relations is in
line with the mutual interests of the two peoples and good for
the region’s peace, stability and development.”  China is South Korea’s biggest trading partner, with
companies including Hyundai Motor Co. and Samsung Electronics
Co. expanding in the world’s biggest auto and mobile phone
market. South Korea’s trade with China dwarfs that of North
Korea, with two-way commerce in the first three months of this
year  totaling  $63.3 billion, compared to $1.3 billion in trade
between China and North Korea during the same period, according
to Chinese customs figures.  Kim hasn’t visited China since taking over the top post in
the world’s only hereditary Stalinist dictatorship from his
father, who died in December 2011.  Kim Jong Il  made regular
trips to China and visited in August 2010, meeting then-President  Hu Jintao  in the northeastern Chinese city of
Changchun.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  