-- China Sets Strongest Yuan Fixing on Record Before Xi-Obama Talks
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-06-07T08:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/china-sets-strongest-yuan-fixing-on-record-before-xi-obama-talks.html
China’s central bank set the
strongest  yuan   reference rate  on record before Chinese President
Xi Jinping and U.S. counterpart  Barack Obama  meet for talks in
 California  later today.  The People’s Bank of China raised the yuan’s fixing by 0.19
percent to a record 6.1620 per dollar. The increase was the
biggest since May 2, official data show. The onshore spot rate
gained 0.04 percent today and was little changed this week
before data tomorrow that may show export growth halved in May.
The currency has appreciated 1.6 percent this year, Asia’s best
performance.  “Every time there is a high-profile meeting between the
U.S. and China, the yuan has to appreciate,” said Nathan Chow,
a Hong Kong-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “Near
term the yuan may face more pressure for a correction. The
market is expecting the trade figures won’t be so good.”  The Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers have argued the
yuan remains weak enough to give China, the world’s biggest
exporter, an unfair advantage in global trade. The Treasury
Department declined to label Asia’s biggest economy a currency
manipulator in a semi-annual report to Congress on April 12,
while saying the yuan “remains significantly undervalued.”  The yuan closed at 6.1335 per dollar in  Shanghai , compared
with 6.1362 yesterday and 6.1345 at the end of last week,
according to China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices. That is
0.5 percent stronger than the fixing, the smallest premium since
September. The exchange rate is allowed to diverge from the
fixing by a maximum 1 percent. China’s financial markets will be
shut June 10-12 for the Dragon Boat festival holiday.  Xi-Obama Meeting  The currency touched 6.1210 on June 3 and May 27, the
strongest level since the government unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Xi is set to meet Obama June 7-8 in Rancho Mirage,
California. The meeting will be their first since Xi took over
as general secretary of  China ’s Communist Party and president in
a once-a-decade power shift that took place in March.  China’s exports rose 7.4 percent in May from a year
earlier, half the previous month’s reported 14.7 percent, based
on the median estimate of economists ahead of data due tomorrow.
The government will also report import data, followed by
releases on prices, industrial production, retail sales and
investment on June 9.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan rose 0.2 percent
this week to 6.1372 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.1
percent in the past five days to 6.2575, trading at a 2 percent
discount to the onshore exchange rate. The offshore yuan slipped
0.06 percent and forwards fell 0.1 percent today.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
dropped 20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 1.84
percent this week. The gauge rose five basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  