-- China Sovereign Fund President Says It’s Met State Expectations
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-07T11:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/china-sovereign-fund-president-says-it-s-met-state-expectations.html
China  Investment Corp., the nation’s
$482 billion sovereign wealth fund, has met the government’s
expectations by delivering 5 percent annualized returns in the
five years since its creation, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported, citing the fund’s president.  CIC, which is seeking a new chairman after  Lou Jiwei  was
named China’s finance minister in March, achieved an 11 percent
investment return on its overseas portfolio last year, compared
with a loss of 4.3 percent in 2011 , Gao Xiqing, also a vice
chairman of the fund, said according to Xinhua. Gao said CIC has
done “more good deals than bad deals” and its performance has
exceeded the benchmark set by its board of directors, Xinhua
reported.  The sovereign fund was set up in 2007 to boost returns on
China’s  foreign exchange reserves , which grew to $3.44 trillion
at the end of the first quarter. Since then, the  State
Administration of Foreign Exchange , which oversees day-to-day
management of the reserves, has created an office with the
mandate to seek “innovative use” of the funds.  “CIC is an experiment for China to manage excessive
foreign exchange reserves for higher returns,” Li Jie, head of
the foreign-exchange reserve research office at the Central
University of Finance and Economics in Beijing, said by
telephone. “An annual 5 percent return is not horrible given
the global financial crisis, but it’s nothing to boast about.”  Li, who has advised the foreign exchange regulator in the
past, said SAFE is acting increasingly like CIC, including
investing in equities and hiring people from  Wall Street .  Overall Plan  Xinhua cited CIC’s Gao as saying there’s “no problem”
with China having more than one sovereign fund if they have a
proper relationship. There should also be an “overall plan,”
he was quoted as saying.  SAFE doesn’t publish data on its investment returns.  CIC reported a 2.1 percent loss on its overseas investments
in 2008, before posting returns of 11.7 percent in both 2009 and
2010. Lou deployed almost all of CIC’s cash in 2010 as the
global economy improved and increased holdings of resources-related companies and bolstered long-term portfolio and private-equity assets.  Fixed-income securities accounted for 21 percent of CIC’s
global portfolio as of Dec. 31, 2011, compared with 25 percent
in equities, according its latest annual report. Almost 44
percent of its diversified stocks holdings were in  North
America , according to that report.  CIC has proved that “a diversified investment approach is
better than solely buying treasuries,” Xinhua cited Gao as
saying. The fund can manage more money as it has yet to reach an
optimal size, he was cited as saying. CIC received an injection
of $30 billion at the end of 2011.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  