-- China Lending Data May Be Overstated, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-07T07:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/china-lending-data-may-be-overstated-credit-suisse-says.html
China ’s record  funding expansion  this
year may be overstated in part because of double-counting, say
Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of America Corp. analysts trying
to reconcile the data with weaker economic growth.  Some Chinese companies may use loans to buy wealth
management products that are recorded a second time in another
category, Vincent Chan, a Credit Suisse analyst in Hong Kong,
wrote in a June 5 report, citing people he didn’t identify at
the central bank and banking regulator. Bank of America
estimates that double-counting explains 2.7 percentage points of
a 12-point gap between first-quarter growth in outstanding
credit and nominal gross domestic product.  The concerns echo doubts about Chinese trade figures that
helped trigger an official crackdown on false reporting,
resulting in May export growth  forecast  to be about half of
April’s gains in data due tomorrow. While the estimated
distortions in the credit numbers are smaller, they may provide
one part of the explanation for the inconsistency between growth
in financing and an economic slowdown.  “The statistics errors in total social financing this year
are larger than normal, and it’s mainly caused by double
counting,”  Zhu Haibin , chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co., said at a briefing yesterday in Beijing.  The first quarter’s $1 trillion increase in economy-wide
financing contrasted with an unexpected  growth  slowdown,
suggesting China was becoming less responsive to credit.  More Noticeable  The gap between lending and growth “has become more
noticeable in recent months,” Zhu said. Another issue is that
some Chinese companies have to borrow to cover working capital
as accounts receivable rise, adding to the gap between credit
and economic growth, Zhu said.  The People’s Bank of China, which releases the lending data,
didn’t immediately respond to faxed questions seeking comment on
the issue.  The  rate  China’s financial institutions charge one another
on overnight loans jumped the most in almost two years as
shrinking capital inflows led to a cash squeeze before a three-day holiday. The tightening of liquidity in the interbank market
is a risk to the economy given “high leverage and the fact that
shadow banking activity continues to flourish,” Zhang Zhiwei,
chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, said
in a report today.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks fell 0.3 percent as
of 4:21 p.m. in  Tokyo , while the benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index dropped for a seventh day, the longest losing streak in
almost a year.  Cheap Funding  Lu Ting, head of Greater China economics at Bank of America
in Hong Kong, said outstanding credit may be overstated by 3.6
trillion yuan ($587 billion) out of about 90 trillion yuan as of
April. The double-counting issue flared up in mid-2012 when some
large state-owned enterprises took advantage of cheap bond
financing to then re-lend funds through other channels, Lu said
in a report yesterday.  Loans to finance fake trade settlement accounted for about
0.3 percentage point of the 12-point credit-GDP gap, Lu said.  Data due over the next week from the PBOC may show  new
local-currency loans  were 815 billion  yuan  last month, based on
the median estimate of 34 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News,
compared with 792.9 billion yuan in April and 793.2 billion yuan
in May 2012.  Estimates from nine analysts for aggregate financing in May
range from 1.5 trillion yuan to 1.8 trillion yuan, after April’s
1.75 trillion yuan.  Inflation Data  Trade figures due tomorrow from the General Administration
of Customs will be followed June 9 by monthly data from the
National Bureau of Statistics on inflation, industrial
production and  retail sales .  Credit Suisse said the PBOC and China Banking Regulatory
Commission highlighted in meetings with Credit Suisse in Beijing
three possible causes for overstated credit growth: bill
financing for non-existent trade; double-counting of credit used
to buy wealth-management products; and new loans that highly
leveraged companies are using to pay interest.  At the same time, the gap between funding growth and the
pace of the nation’s expansion can also be explained by other
reasons, including a time lag as credit filters through the
economy, and weakness in  industrial investment  and private
consumption, Credit Suisse’s Chan wrote.  Economists at Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc also
said double counting is an issue. China’s broad credit
environment “is not as accommodative as the headline aggregate
financing number showed” partly because of double counting, Ma Jun, Deutsche Bank’s chief economist for Greater China in Hong
Kong, wrote in a note.  Forecast Cut  The weak link between credit growth and economic
performance was one reason for JPMorgan’s latest cut in its
China GDP forecast, Zhu said. The bank last month reduced its
2013 growth projection to 7.6 percent from 7.8 percent. The
economy expanded 7.7 percent in the first quarter.  The central bank started releasing aggregate financing data
in 2011 to provide a broad picture of funding, as the
traditional bank-lending indicator became insufficient,
accounting for less than half of the total.  The measure, which includes new bank loans,  trust loans ,
bonds and commercial bills, rose 58 percent to a record 6.16
trillion yuan in the first quarter of this year.  April’s new aggregate financing of 1.75 trillion yuan
included 792.9 billion yuan in local-currency loans, 220.9
billion yuan from commercial bills, 195.3 billion yuan from
trust loans, 192.6 billion yuan from entrusted loans, 190
billion yuan from bond issuance, 84.7 billion yuan from foreign-currency loans and 27.4 billion yuan from stock sales, PBOC data
showed.  Indicator’s Value  “Not all funds raised have been used to finance economic
growth,” said Sun Junwei, a Beijing-based economist at HSBC.
While some non-bank lending may have been double-counted, it’s
not so much as to negate the indicator’s value in measuring the
flow of credit to the economy, Sun said.  Elsewhere in Asia today, South Korea said first-quarter GDP
rose 0.8 percent from the previous period, revising the prior
estimate of a 0.9 percent expansion. Sri Lanka’s central bank
left benchmark interest rates unchanged.  In Europe, German exports rose more than economists
forecast in April. The U.S. releases employment figures for May,
with nonfarm payrolls projected to rise by 163,000 people,
compared with 165,000 in April, as the jobless rate probably
held at 7.5 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  