-- China Overnight Rate Rises Most in Two Years as Inflows Slow
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-07T09:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/china-repo-rate-rises-to-16-month-high-on-signs-inflows-easing.html
The  rate   China ’s lenders charge one
another on overnight loans jumped the most in almost two years
as shrinking capital inflows led to a cash squeeze before a
three-day holiday.  Yuan positions  at local financial institutions, an
indication of money pouring into  Asia ’s largest economy, rose
294 billion  yuan  ($48 billion) in April and China International
Capital Corp. estimates the gain slowed to around 100 billion
yuan last month. While the People’s Bank of China  added  a net
160 billion yuan to the financial system this week, it has
refrained from conducting reverse-repurchase operations that
inject funds since Feb. 7. Local markets will be shut from June
10 to June 12 for the Dragon Boat Festival.  “Foreign capital inflows are probably declining,” said
Wang Huane, a senior bond trader at Qilu Bank Co. in Jinan,
capital of the eastern Shandong province. “The PBOC has
refrained from adding more capital into the financial system,
which worsens the situation.”  The one-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, climbed 253 basis points, or 2.53
percentage points, to 8.68 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai,
the biggest jump since July 2011, according to a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.
It surged 4.15 percentage points this week.  Default Report  China Everbright Bank Co. failed to repay 6 billion yuan
borrowed from Industrial Bank Co. on time yesterday because of
tight liquidity conditions, Market News International reported
today, citing three unidentified people in the  interbank market .  Industrial Bank said market speculation that Everbright
Bank failed to repay it more than 100 billion yuan was “untrue
and exaggerated,” according to an e-mailed statement from the
lender. Everbright Bank said in an e-mailed statement that its
relationship with Industrial Bank is good and that “all
liquidity indicators for Everbright Bank are good.”  “Some smaller banks may be unable to cover cash openings
as big banks are unwilling to lend cash,” said Chen Jianheng, a
bond analyst in Beijing at CICC, the nation’s biggest investment
bank. “If the central bank doesn’t inject more capital into the
financial system, the cash shortage will probably last for the
rest of June.”  The Open Market Operations Office of the PBOC declined to
comment when reached by telephone. The media office of the
central bank didn’t immediately respond to faxed questions about
the surge in interbank market rates.  State Administration  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange said May 5 it
would send notices to companies whose goods and capital flows
don’t match, as well as those bringing large sums of cash into
the country. The regulator also required Chinese lenders to
limit foreign-currency loans to 75 percent of deposits by the
end of June.  China’s  interest-rate swaps  pared gains this afternoon amid
talks that the central bank injected capital into the financial
system to help ease cash shortage.  The one-year swap contract, which exchanges fixed payments
for the floating seven-day  repurchase rate , gained three basis
points to 3.54 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate rose as much as 13 basis points earlier today. The
seven-day repo surged 153 basis points today to 6.85 percent,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  “There was rumor about the PBOC injecting capital in the
afternoon,” said Chen Ying, a Shenzhen-based bond analyst at
Sealand Securities Co. “But we don’t know if it’s true or
not.”  Three calls to the central bank’s media office went
unanswered. Weisheng He, a strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Shanghai , suggests investors pay short-term swap rates on
speculation liquidity will remain tight in the next two months.
“The rate will stay elevated,” He said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  