-- Clapper Defends U.S. Surveillance as Terror Prevention
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-06-07T03:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/clapper-defends-u-s-surveillance-as-terror-prevention.html
James Clapper , the U.S. director of
national intelligence, defended government surveillance efforts
as essential to thwarting terrorist attacks, responding to media
reports on operations that gather telephone and Internet data.  In a statement last night, Clapper said that data collected
are subject to court restrictions and that the program to tap
the servers of Internet companies “cannot be used to
intentionally target any U.S. citizen” or anyone located within
the U.S. He criticized the release of previously classified
information.  “The unauthorized disclosure of information about this
important and entirely legal program is reprehensible and risks
important protections for the security of Americans,” Clapper
said of the report on Internet data. He said that stories in the
Washington Post and the Guardian newspapers about the telephone
and Internet surveillance programs contained errors and left out
important information.  The Post and the Guardian reported earlier yesterday that
the National Security Agency and  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
were accessing the central servers of nine U.S. Internet
companies, extracting audio and video chats, photographs, e-mails, documents and connection logs. The newspapers cited
documents they obtained on the programs.  The day before, the Guardian reported that the NSA was
culling millions of telephone records from  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  under a clandestine court order. The
disclosure of the Verizon and Internet data collection stirred
protests from privacy-rights advocates and renewed questions
about the regard President  Barack Obama ’s administration has for
civil liberties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  