-- CoCo’s Flop, Myanmar Accounting, SEC Group: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/coco-s-flop-myanmar-accounting-sec-group-compliance.html
Denmark’s experiment with contingent
convertible bonds risks falling flat even before the first sale,
according to the nation’s biggest bank.  The Financial Supervisory Authority said this week it will
let banks use such hybrid debt to meet individual  capital
requirements . The regulator is also looking into allowing too-big-to-fail banks to use the securities to build buffers beyond
individual capital requirements. According to  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,
investors probably won’t be interested in the hybrids at a price
that would make them feasible for Danish lenders to sell.  The FSA argues stricter rules are needed to protect Denmark
from a financial industry whose combined assets are four times
the size of the $300 billion  economy . For systemically important
financial institutions, a government-appointed committee said in
March that hybrid conversion triggers should fire once banks
breach a capital threshold of 10.125 percent. Lawmakers have yet
to approve the Sifi proposals.  To make convertible bonds work for too-big-to-fail banks at
the current trigger proposal is “close to impossible,”
according to Thomas Hovard, head of credit research at Danske
Bank Markets in Copenhagen.  The FSA plans to provide more details in coming weeks on
which hybrid instruments banks can use. It is still looking into
the use of hybrids to fulfill proposed crisis-management buffers
for too-big-to-fail banks, Director General Ulrik Noedgaard
said.  Compliance Policy  KPMG Says Myanmar Needs Rules Investors Can Rely on  Michael Andrew, chairman of KPMG International, the global
accounting and professional services firm, talked about the
challenges Myanmar faces as the southeast Asian economy opens up
for foreign investments after half a century of military rule.  Andrew spoke from the  World Economic Forum  on  East Asia  in
Naypyidaw, Myanmar, with Haslinda Amin on Bloomberg Television’s
“Asia Edge.”  For the video report, click here.  Fracking Rule Comment Period Extended 60 Days by U.S. Interior  The U.S. Interior Department agreed to accept comments on
its proposed rule on hydraulic fracturing for an additional 60
days after industry groups complained they needed more time to
consider it and respond.  Interior Secretary Sally Jewell announced the extension of
the initial period, which was to end June 24, yesterday at a
hearing of the  Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee .  In the proposal released May 16, the Interior Department
made a second attempt to establish national  regulations  for
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, on public lands.  The rule is being watched closely by the drilling industry
because fracking is used in about 90 percent of the wells
drilled on  federal lands . A draft rule released last year was
criticized by companies; a revised proposal was issued last
month.  Senate Panel Approves Bill for Insurer Sales in Multiple States  The U.S.  Senate Banking Committee  unanimously approved a
bill that approves sales by insurers in multiple states,
according to a statement by the panel.  The bill will now head to the Senate floor.  The draft law sets up a nonprofit, independent board called
the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers that
would allow the multi-state licensing of insurance sellers.  Compliance Action  U.S. House Republicans Criticize Power of Shareholder Advisers  The two firms that dominate the shareholder advisory
industry were accused by Republican lawmakers and the U.S.
 Chamber of Commerce  of pushing activist proposals without
sufficient oversight.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and Glass, Lewis &
Co., the leading companies advising large investors how to cast
their votes, were criticized by Republican lawmakers at a
hearing June 5 for advocating agendas that they said hurt
company value and for advising shareholders on issues in which
they have a potential financial interest.  Representative  Scott Garrett , the  New Jersey  Republican who
heads the House subcommittee that oversees  capital markets , said
the firms team with unions, pension funds and “other activist
shareholders” to push an agenda that is “generally immaterial
to investors.”  “The discussion at the hearing would have benefited from
the presence of proxy advisers including  Glass Lewis ,” said
Robert McCormick, chief policy officer for the firm, in an e-mail. His company has addressed and resolved conflict-management
points, he said, and it’s working with other advisory firms on
an industry code of practice.  “The special-interest groups that testified against proxy
advisers today are attempting to attack and discredit the
messenger rather than focus on the issue of what makes good
corporate governance and who ultimately is responsible for the
vote,” Cheryl Gustitus, an ISS spokeswoman, said in an e-mail,
referring to the June 5 hearing. She said ISS provides
independent analysis in a “transparent manner with significant
input from many constituencies.”  SEC Commissioner Daniel Gallagher said in a speech last
month that the advisory industry should be examined to determine
whether the firms are excessively relied on in corporate
elections and whether their work benefits shareholders
financially.  Courts  Thailand-Based Trader Sued by SEC Over Smithfield Deal Profits  A Thailand-based trader was sued by U.S. regulators over
 claims  he reaped more than $3 million in profits trading ahead
of the announcement that  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  would be acquired
by  China ’s biggest pork producer.  Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd. agreed on May 29 to
acquire Virginia-based Smithfield, the world’s largest hog
producer, for about $4.72 billion. Badin Rungruangnavarat made
his purchases from May 21 through May 28 using an account at
Interactive Brokers LLC, the SEC said. He sought to withdraw
more than $3 million from his account on June 3, the SEC said.  The SEC obtained an emergency court order to freeze his
assets, the agency said.  The SEC said there is no known defense counsel for
Rungruangnavarat.  Interviews  Stephen Ehrlich Sees ‘Demise’ of High-Frequency Trading  Stephen Ehrlich, former chief executive officer at
Lightspeed Financial Inc., talked about reduced volume and
falling profits in high-frequency trading.  Ehrlich, who spoke with Sara Eisen and  Erik Schatzker  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers,” also discussed the
impact of social media on high-frequency trading. Bloomberg’s
Matt Philips also spoke.  For the video, click here.  CFTC’s Gensler Pushes Swaps Market Reform at Regulation Meeting  “Swaps market reform is a key component in ensuring that
firms are not too interconnected, too complex or too in the
shadows of the market to fail,” Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  said yesterday.  He made the statements in prepared remarks for a meeting on
cross-border application of swaps market regulation.  “If the offshore operations of financial institutions are
allowed a free pass from reform, though, we will not fulfill
Congress’s intent to end ‘too big to fail,’” Gensler said.  The chairman spoke at a Sandler O’Neill conference.  Fed’s Raskin Seeks to Clarify Bank Rules by Hastening Basel III  Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said regulators
must complete new international capital rules because delays may
be harming financial institutions by leaving them unsure how to
plan for the future.  “ Lending decisions and  funding plans today are shaped by
perceptions of business conditions in the future, and those
conditions include the details of the final regulatory capital
framework,” Raskin said yesterday in prepared remarks for a
speech in Columbus,  Ohio . “It seems obvious to me that
uncertainty over that framework is weighing on the balance
sheets of banks that will be affected by the rules.”  Raskin, who didn’t discuss the outlook for the economy or
monetary policy, called for regulators to hasten the
implementation of new capital rules known as Basel III, adopted
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , and designed to
improve the quality and quantity of regulatory capital. Both the
European Union and the U.S. missed a January 2013 deadline to
begin phasing in the standards.  She said that while it is important “to get it right,”
that should be balanced against the “costs of delay.”  U.S. banking regulators said in November that they were
delaying implementation of new capital rules because of concerns
expressed in the industry about understanding the rules and
adapting to them.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  SEC Renames Division Focusing on Economic, Risk Analysis  The Division of Risk, Strategy and Financial Innovation of
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has been renamed,
the agency said in a press release.  The group will now be known as the Division of Economic and
Risk Analysis. Chief Economist Craig Lewis is head of the
division.  The division was formed in 2009 when the Office of  Risk
Assessment , Office of Interactive Data, and Office of Economic
Analysis were combined.  Banks Should Review Staff Pay to Prevent Libor Repeat, ESMA Says  European Union regulators are calling on  banks  to review
how they pay staff that submit benchmark data, in the wake of
the scandal engulfing interbank lending rates and oil price
reporting.  The guidelines, drawn up by regulators in the European
Securities and Markets Authority are part of a broader EU
response to the rate-rigging scandal that may also see oversight
of some “critical benchmarks,” such as Libor, given to the
Paris-based agency.  Banks should remove “any direct link between the
remuneration of staff involved in benchmark data submissions and
the remuneration of, or revenues generated by, different staff”
whenever there is a risk of a conflict of interest, according to
guidelines published yesterday by Paris-based ESMA. Lenders
should also “prevent or control the exchange of information
between staff” whenever such contact could lead to attempts at
rate manipulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 