-- Colombia Finance Ministry Sees No Downside to Peso Depreciation
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2013-06-07T17:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/colombia-finance-ministry-sees-no-downside-to-peso-depreciation.html
Colombian Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said he saw no downside to the recent weakening of the
peso and that the currency had space to continue depreciating as
the U.S.  Federal Reserve  withdraws its monetary stimulus.  With inflation close to a six-decade low, the government
isn’t concerned that a weaker peso will stoke faster price rises
and isn’t trying to halt its slide, Cardenas said today in an
interview in London. Annual inflation will probably be closer to
2.5 percent than to 3 percent this year, he said.  “Our currency was overvalued and this is just correcting
that and as you can see we don’t have an inflationary problem,”
Cardenas said. “There’s space for the currency to depreciate
before it causes us concerns, so for now the depreciation of the
currency is not sweet and sour, it’s only sweet.”  Emerging market currencies have tumbled around the world
this month on speculation a pick-up in the  U.S. economy  will
prompt the Federal Reserve to scale back its asset-purchase
program. Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  this week scrapped a
levy on foreign purchases of bonds to try to prevent the real
from sliding further.  Colombia ’s peso has fallen 7 percent this year, the biggest
decline among 24 major emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, after the South African rand and the Argentine peso.
The government of President  Juan Manuel Santos  has repeatedly
tried to weaken the currency, saying its strength is hurting the
Andean nation’s industry and agriculture.  Inflation Slowdown  Colombian consumer prices rose 2 percent in May from a year
earlier, at the low end of the central bank’s target range. In
February, inflation was 1.83 percent, its slowest pace in six
decades. Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus
one percentage point.  Inflation will accelerate in 2014 as consumer demand picks
up, economic growth accelerates and the weaker peso causes some
prices to rise, Cardenas said.  The government will probably cut its 2013 forecast for
gross domestic product growth to 4.4 percent to 4.5 percent,
Cardenas said, from the current 4.8 percent. After cutting its
policy rate by 2 percentage points over the last year, the
economy now has the right amount of stimulus, he said.  “We think with the current rate, the economy is going to
grow by the end of this year at a rate which is close to
potential - somewhere around 4.5 percent,” he said. “We feel
confident that with the current policy stance our economy is on
the right track and has the right amount of stimulus.”  Rate Decision  The central bank’s policy committee, which Cardenas chairs,
held its benchmark  interest rate  at 3.25 percent at its last two
meetings, the lowest rate among major Latin American economies.
Policy makers could adjust the rate in either direction
depending on how the economy performs, Cardenas said.  The economy expanded by about 2.8 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, Cardenas said. The national
statistics agency publishes its first quarter GDP report on June
20.  The central bank voted unanimously at its May policy
meeting to buy $2.5 billion between June and September, compared
with $3 billion between February and May. In April the
government said it would change the rules governing pension
funds to encourage them to invest more outside the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in  London  at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  