-- Commodity Investments Drop the Most in 11 Months as Gold Tumbles
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-06-07T16:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/commodity-investments-drop-the-most-in-11-months-as-gold-tumbles.html
Commodity investments fell $27
billion in April, the most in 11 months, on record sales of gold
exchange-traded products,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said.  Assets under management dropped to $385 billion from $412
billion in March, the biggest decline since May 2012, London-based Barclays said in a report e-mailed today. Net redemptions
in gold were a record 182 metric tons worth $8.7 billion in
April followed by another 99 tons in May, it said.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw
materials fell 4.7 percent in April, the biggest drop since May
2012. The gauge is down 3.1 percent this year. Gold tumbled into
a bear market during the month as some investors lost faith in
the metal as a store of value.  “The relatively poor performance of commodity assets means
that some institutions that had planned allocations to
commodities are delaying their entry,”  Suki Cooper , an analyst
at Barclays, said in the report. “We expect inflows to
commodity index investments to remain subdued for now but for
flows to improve modestly later this year, especially if
commodity investment outcomes improve relative to other
assets.”  Commodity-related ETP assets declined 11 percent to $174
billion and index investments fell 4.5 percent to $128 billion.
Gold prices dropped 18 percent this year to $1,378.26 an ounce
after falling to a two-year low on April 16.  Gold Rebound  There is a risk of “modest rebound” in gold prices over
the next month, Cooper said. Concerns that the U.S. Federal
Reserve will scale back stimulus are premature, she said.  Investors should sell copper if it goes above $7,500 a
metric ton as the economy in  China , the world’s largest buyer of
the metal, is growing slower than anticipated, according to the
report. Platinum is favored because of limited supplies and
investor demand, Barclays said.  “A mild recovery in gold prices in the weeks ahead seems
possible,” Cooper said. “With fundamentals in palladium and
platinum among the strongest across the whole commodity
spectrum, the precious metals sector could turn out to be one of
the better performers over the rest of the second quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  