-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Climbed in April on Non-Revolving Loans
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-06-07T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-climbed-in-april-on-non-revolving-loans.html
Consumer borrowing  in the U.S.
accelerated in April as Americans took out more education and
automobile loans.  The $11.1 billion increase in credit followed a revised
$8.37 billion increase the previous month that was more than
initially reported, Federal Reserve figures showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for
a $12.9 billion gain in April.  Higher stock and property values are putting households in
a position to take advantage of low  interest rates  for bigger
purchases, such as cars. Credit-card use also rose as Americans
contended with higher payroll taxes and limited income growth.  “A lot of what is driving  consumer credit  right now is
non-revolving credit,” Tom Simons, an economist for Jefferies
LLC in  New York , said before the report. Simons is the second-best forecast of consumer credit over the past two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The  unemployment rate 
is going to have to fall and earnings are going to have to go up
before people are comfortable spending more than they make.”  A Labor Department report earlier today showed wage gains
aren’t picking up. Average hourly earnings were little changed
at $23.89 in May after $23.88 in the prior month. They were up 2
percent in 12 months ended in May, the same as in April.  Employers last month increased payrolls by a net 175,000
after a revised 149,000 gain in April that was smaller than
first estimated. The unemployment rate rose to 7.6 percent from
7.5 percent as more people entered the  labor force .  Estimates of the 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for
consumer credit ranged from gains of $8.5 billion to $17.5
billion.  Non-Revolving Loans  Non-revolving debt , such as that for college tuition and
the purchase of vehicles and mobile homes, increased $10.4
billion, today’s report showed.  Lending to consumers by the federal government, which is
mainly for  student loans , rose by $1.5 billion before adjusting
for seasonal variations.  Automobile demand has been a bright spot for the economy.
Cars and light trucks sold at an average  15.26 million 
annualized rate in the first quarter, the strongest since the
same period in 2008, according to data from Ward’s Automotive
Group. In May, vehicles sold at a 15.24 million pace.  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, increased by
$682.3 million after a $906.4 million decrease. Personal
spending in April fell 0.2 percent after a 0.1 percent gain in
the prior month, the Commerce Department said on May 31. Incomes
were unchanged following a 0.3 percent advance.  Housing Gains  Consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, is also being underpinned by the recovery in
housing. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20
cities increased 10.9 percent in the year to March, the biggest
12-month gain since April 2006, a report showed last month.  The Fed’s consumer credit report doesn’t track debt secured
by real estate, such as home-equity lines of credit and home
mortgages.  Higher stock prices also provide the wherewithal to
increase spending. The U.S. is in the fifth year of a  bull
market  amid better-than-estimated corporate earnings and three
rounds of bond purchases by the Fed. The  Standard & Poor’s  500
index increased 13.8 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  