-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Employment Data Fuel Stimulus Bets
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-06-07T16:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-payrolls-increase-in-may.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
dropped the most in a month as May employment data allayed
concern that the  Federal Reserve  will taper stimulus efforts
that have bolstered credit markets.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 4.2
basis points to a mid-price of 79.7 basis points at 11:05 a.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the biggest drop since May 3 on an intraday basis.  Fed policy makers are debating on when and how to dial back
their unprecedented stimulus campaign, known as quantitative
easing, based on the level of improvement in the  U.S. economy .
Payrolls grew by 175,000 workers last month after a revised
149,000 gain in April, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. The  unemployment rate  rose to 7.6 percent from 7.5
percent.  “There is some level of optimism in the report, but it
still supports the idea of very slow growth,” Zane Brown,
fixed-income strategist at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City , New
Jersey, said in a telephone interview. “This gives us evidence
of a continued, sub-par recovery that still needs support from
an accommodative Fed.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Pimco’s Gross  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index dropped 17.1 basis points to 392.9 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said
the Fed is unlikely to reduce its asset purchases after the
unemployment rate climbed in May.  “I don’t think today’s report says anything about tapering
at all with unemployment going higher and metrics in terms of
the work week and wages being very” dire, Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s founder Gross said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Mike McKee . Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  “won’t taper. But I think ultimately
in order to get a more normal economy, the Fed has got to move
 interest rates  up to more normal levels.”  Jarden Convertibles  Jarden Corp. (JAH) , the maker of Crock-Pot slow cookers and Mr.
Coffee, sold $250 million of convertible securities in a private
offering.  The company issued 1.5 percent notes that can be swapped
for shares at $58.46 each by June 2019, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock traded at $44.96 at 11:05 a.m.
in New York after gaining 31 percent this year.  The proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes,
Rye, New York-based Jarden said in a statement today. Initial
purchasers have the option to buy up to an additional $50
million of the debt.  The securities are rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service,
the credit grader said in a statement yesterday, adding that the
proceeds will probably be used to fund future acquisitions.  The cost to protect against a default by  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD) 
dropped as U.S. drugstore chain said it has started refinancing
$500 million of debt and forecast fiscal first-quarter earnings
that topped analysts’ estimates.  Term Loan  Five-year credit swaps tied to Rite Aid debt declined 50
basis points to a mid-price of 358 basis points by 11:10 a.m.,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill
Financial and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That’s the biggest drop since April 11 on a
closing basis.  Rite Aid will refinance its 7.5 percent notes due March
2017 with the proceeds of a new $500 million second-lien  term
loan , according to a statement today. The company may also use
available cash and borrowings under its revolving  credit line  to
pay down the debt.  The drugstore-chain also  forecast  earnings of as much as 9
cents a share for the quarter through May, five cents more than
the average  estimate  from 5 analysts.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt tightened 5.2 basis points to 543.5 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  