-- Costs Surging to Four-Month High Damp South Korean Bond Issuance
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-06-07T00:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/costs-surging-to-four-month-high-damp-south-korean-bond-issuance.html
South Korean corporate bond sales
slowed to the least in three weeks as the highest yields in more
than four months discouraged issuers.  KCC Corp. (002380) , a Seoul-based maker of paint and building
products, led 300 billion won ($268 million) of offerings, the
least since the five-day period ended May 17 and the slowest
start to a month since January, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Company note sales plunged to the least in 4 1/2
years in May as borrowing costs rose and new rules increasing
borrowers’ reporting requirements came into effect May 6.  Benchmark  yields  for AA- rated companies touched 3.17
percent this week, the highest since Jan. 22, after surging last
month by the most since January 2011, according to data from the
 Korea Financial Investment Association . In the U.S., where AA
rated corporate notes offer 2.28 percent, yields are also
climbing after  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled
that extraordinary stimulus could be pared if there’s a
sustained economic improvement.  “Bond yields are rising so sharply amid talks of the U.S.
exit from quantitative easing,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, a Seoul-based fixed-income analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. “Borrowing
costs are unlikely to fall back to record-low levels because the
central bank isn’t expected to cut rates further. The heyday for
issuers may be over.”  STX Pan  Volatility in  Korea ’s corporate bond market may increase as
 STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670) , a Seoul-based commodities ship operator,
holds a board meeting today to discuss whether to apply for
court receivership, Yonhap News reported today, citing
unidentified regulatory officials. The nation’s financial
regulator is considering measures to avoid concern spreading
across the market, the newspaper reported.  STX Pan Ocean has 1.1 trillion won of bonds outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Bank of Korea  lowered the benchmark  seven-day
repurchase rate  to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent on May 9, its
first trim since October, joining global easing from  Europe  to
 Australia . BOK Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board cut
 interest rates  to spur growth and shield the nation’s exporters
against the weaker yen, which is aiding Japanese rivals.  The yield on three-year  sovereign notes  rose to 2.81
percent on June 5, the highest since Jan. 2. U.S. jobs data
today may further encourage the Federal Reserve to begin
tapering asset purchases which have spurred fund flows into
 emerging markets .  Jobs Data  The Labor Department reported last month that nonfarm
payrolls swelled by 165,000 jobs in April, more than forecast,
and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 7.5 percent. It
will probably say today employers added 163,000 workers in May,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  and
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  are
among policy makers who’ve said they would like to see monthly
payroll gains of 200,000 or more on a sustained basis before
judging the labor market has improved.  BOK Governor Kim has called for advanced countries to
coordinate when implementing quantitative easing exit strategies
to avoid the risk of sudden capital outflows and international
financial market turmoil.  Three-year corporate note yields touched a record-low 2.80
percent on March 28, data going back to 2000 show. The extra
yield investors demand to own Korean company notes over similar-maturity government debt has narrowed to 36 basis points from 59
basis points a year ago.  KCC, Dongbu  KCC Corp. sold 200 billion won of five-year 3.15 percent
notes and will use the proceeds to repay debt, Bloomberg data
and a June 4 company regulatory filing show.  Dongbu Corp. (005960) , which
builds hospitals, sports facilities and apartment complexes and
whose commercial paper is graded A3 by Korea Ratings Corp.,
issued 60 billion won of 8.9 percent notes due 2014.  “We’ll use 50 billion won to repay one-year debt maturing
on June 7 and the rest to pay some bills,” Ma Seung Gyun, an
official in Dongbu’s finance team said, adding he didn’t think
borrowing conditions were “much different” from a year ago.  A unit of DGB Financial Group Inc. borrowed 40 billion won
via two-year 3.45 percent securities, the data show. Proceeds
will be used to fund new businesses including leases, according
to a June 4 regulatory filing.  The total amount of bonds outstanding in emerging  Asia ’s
local-currency bond markets increased 2.9 percent to $6.7
trillion in the first quarter from the prior three months,
spurred by “robust” growth in the corporate  bond market  and a
“modest improvement” in the government sector, according to
the  Asian Development Bank .  Sales Pipeline  The 3.1 percent quarter-on-quarter increase in Korea was
“driven primarily by 3.7 percent growth in its corporate bond
market compared with growth of only 2.2 percent in the
government bond market,” the Manila-based lender said in its
 Asia Bond Monitor  released this week. Borrowing may pick up if a
supplementary government spending bill is successfully
implemented, it said.  Korea’s  Finance Ministry  unveiled a 17.3 trillion won
supplementary budget in April to support exporters and revive an
economy that grew last year at the slowest pace since 2009.  The won has risen 15 percent against the yen in the past
six months and traded at 1,118.76 per dollar yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CJ Hellovision Co. and Tongyang Inc. are among companies
expected to price won-denominated notes in coming days,
preliminary data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  