-- CSRC Releases Stringent IPO Rules as Xiao Tackles Fraud
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-07T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/csrc-releases-stringent-ipo-rules-as-xiao-tackles-fraud.html
China ’s securities regulator plans to
restrict share issuers and major holders from selling their
stock below initial public offering price as part of new rules
aimed at cracking down on fraud and protecting investors.  The restrictions will be in place for two years after lock-ups end, according to draft rules the China Securities
Regulatory Commission posted on its  website  yesterday. Issuers
must also prepare and disclose plans to stabilize share prices
that fall below net asset values within five years of their
debuts.  The watchdog is seeking public feedback on the proposals by
June 21.  New CSRC Chairman Xiao Gang, a former chairman of  Bank of
China Ltd. , is extending predecessor Guo Shuqing’s campaign to
combat fraud. Since Xiao took over in March, the regulator has
dished out penalties including a three-month suspension of Ping
An Securities Co.’s underwriting license for the firm’s role in
the share sale of a fraudulent company in 2011.  Under the draft rules, when a company reports a net loss or
a drop of more than 50 percent in profit in the same year as an
IPO, the CSRC will stop reviewing any applications submitted by
the investment bank that advised it.  The CSRC punished three brokerages and banned bankers from
Ping An, Nanjing Securities Co. and Minsheng Securities Co. from
the securities industry for life in the past month for failed
due diligence in IPOs.  The CSRC also plans to change the IPO pricing system by
letting individual investors who meet criteria set by
underwriters participate in the placement process, previously
limited to institutional investors, according to the draft
rules.  12-Month Window  To make the IPO process more market driven, the CSRC plans
to allow issuers 12 months to decide when to start trading after
they receive regulatory approval for their initial sales.  Companies will also be able to apply to issue bonds while
their IPO applications are pending regulatory approval, the
securities watchdog said, as it encourages companies to explore
fundraising options.  The securities watchdog’s  issuance review commission  has
the sole discretion to decide whether a company is fit for a
listing. Investment banks and their bankers must determine and
guarantee the truthfulness of clients’ offering documents,
financial performance, and proper corporate governance for as
long as three years.  Bankers for companies listed on the main board may receive
 penalties  including suspension of their licenses if the issuers’
financial performance doesn’t meet certain standards, or for
various forms of misconduct on the part of the issuers.  Some companies raced to sell shares in Shenzhen, and
particularly on the ChiNext board, in 2010 after companies such
as Gumuzhen Bio-Technology Co., a fungus grower, and Walvax
Biotechnology Co., a maker of vaccines, priced IPOs at
valuations of more than 130 times earnings.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  