-- Dalian Wanda in Talks to Invest in Yachtmaker Sunseeker
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-06-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/dalian-wanda-in-talks-to-invest-in-yachtmaker-sunseeker.html
Dalian Wanda Group, a closely held
Chinese property developer, is in talks to invest in Sunseeker
International Ltd. as the British luxury yacht maker seeks to
expand into the world’s second-largest economy.  Dalian Wanda, controlled by billionaire Wang Jianlin, plans
to take a stake in the yacht manufacturer and financial terms of
the deal haven’t been finalized, Gordon Hui, chairman of
 Sunseeker   Asia , said in a phone interview yesterday. A media
officer at Dalian Wanda declined to comment on the talks.  “Dalian Wanda will bring investments into Sunseeker to
help fund its expansion in China,” said the Hong Kong-based
executive. Production at the Dorset-based yacht maker, whose
vessels have featured in  four  James Bond movies , will remain in
the U.K., according to Hui.  The increasing number of wealthy Chinese is drawing luxury
companies to look for growth in the world’s most populous
nation. The number of millionaires in China has climbed 4
percent from 12 months earlier to 2.8 million, according to the
Hurun Research Institute’s findings this year.  Dalian Wanda, which last year bought U.S. cinema chain AMC
Entertainment Holdings Inc. for $2.6 billion, is among Chinese
companies seeking acquisitions overseas to gain foreign
expertise, brands and technology. Shandong Heavy Industry Group-Weichai Group acquired Italian yacht builder Ferretti in 2012
and Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co.  bought  Volvo Cars in 2010.  China Customers  Dalian Wanda, based in Dalian in northeast  China , is close
to buying Sunseeker and is expected to pay about 300 million
pounds ($467 million) for the company, the Financial Times
reported, citing unidentified people.  Sunseeker sold about 190 boats in Asia, excluding
 Australia , in the past decade, with more than 60 percent of the
purchases coming from China including Hong Kong, Hui said. A
lowest-priced  Portofino 40  cruiser costs about five million  yuan 
($815,000) and the most expensive model costs as much as 230
million yuan, he said.  Wang, whose businesses include hotels, cinemas and shopping
malls, has a net worth of $7.7 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . The billionaire is among the
luxury yacht maker’s customers in China, according to Hui.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  