-- Dingell’s Record Congress Run Began With ‘Honeymooners’
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-06-07T18:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/dingell-s-record-congress-tenure-began-with-honeymooners.html
Congress’s longest-serving member
arrived at the  House of Representatives  when Dwight Eisenhower
was in the White House, “The Honeymooners” was a top-rated
television show, youngsters wore coonskin caps and their older
siblings danced to “Rock Around the Clock.”  As of today, Michigan Democrat John Dingell, 86, has served
in Congress for 57 years, five months and 26 days -- exceeding
by one day the record set by the late West Virginia Senator
 Robert Byrd , a Democrat, who died in office in 2010.  It’s the  20,997th day  as a member of the House for Dingell,
once considered Congress’s most feared Democrat because of the
investigations he conducted when he led the Energy and Commerce
Committee.  In a June 5 interview, he called his vote for the 1964
Civil Rights Act the proudest moment of his career.  The law “set a whole bunch of American citizens on the way
to full citizenship, which had been denied to them for over 100
years,” Dingell said, stooping over the cane he now uses to get
to the House floor. “It solved some hideous, hideous racial and
domestic peace problems.”  Dingell, who also uses a scooter with a license plate that
reads “The Dean,” has left his mark on pivotal legislation. He
presided in the House as members voted to create the Medicare
health-insurance program for older Americans in 1965. He loaned
the same gavel to House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  in 2010 for the
passage of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  Signing Pens  Obama gave the congressman a pen he used to sign the
health-care bill into law. Dingell keeps it alongside another he
received from President  Lyndon Johnson  after he signed the
Medicare act.  In a statement issued today to mark the milestone, Obama
said Dingell “continues to fight for workers’ rights, access to
affordable health care and the preservation of our environment
for future generations to enjoy.”  Dingell is the author of the 1973 Endangered Species Act,
the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments, and the 1970 National
Environmental Policy Act.  “You learn more talking to John Dingell in five minutes
than you can learn from most members in five years,”
Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, said in an
interview. “He’s so knowledgeable, such an institution.”  ‘Honest Broker’  “He’s an honest broker, and a broker not just between
parties but between generations,” Cole said.  Dingell earned a reputation as a domineering committee
chairman by leading investigations during 16 years running the
Energy and Commerce panel. He also spent 12 years as the
committee’s top Democrat under Republican rule in the House.  During the mid-1980s, the committee discovered that the
Defense Department paid $640 each for toilet-seat covers for
military aircraft, and that  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  overcharged
the government by $244 million over a decade, including a fee
for boarding an executive’s dog, named Fursten. The company
repaid the money.  An investigation of the nation’s blood banks found improper
testing and contaminated blood units as a result of donations by
people with HIV or hepatitis. The  Food and Drug Administration 
issued strict procedures for blood-collection centers.  ‘Fighting For’  “Always remember what you are fighting for and not who you
are fighting against,” Representative  Elijah Cummings  of
 Maryland  recalled Dingell advising him when he became the top
Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  Dingell became a congressman at age 29 in December 1955
after winning a special election to replace his deceased father,
John Dingell Sr. The younger Dingell was no stranger to the
House: he made his first appearance in 1933 at age 6 after his
father was elected. Later, he served as a congressional page.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican  who counts
Dingell as a “good friend,” in a statement today called the
Michigan Democrat “one of the greats and the very definition of
a man of the House.”  As he reminisced about his career today, Dingell lamented
politicians’ inability to find compromise. The refusal of
elected officials “to insist that our government works” is
hurting the country, Dingell said at an event in Washington
sponsored by the Atlantic.  Eleven presidents have held office during his House tenure.
At a 2005 event honoring Dingell’s 50th anniversary as a
congressman, former President  Bill Clinton  said, “presidents
come and presidents go, and John Dingell goes on forever.”  68 Percent  His southeastern Michigan  district  has been redrawn
numerous times, though Dingell won his 30th term last year with
68 percent of the vote.  Dingell has dealt with adversity. After the 2008 election,
he lost the chairman’s post on the Energy and Commerce Committee
in part because he was close to  Detroit ’s automakers when
Congress was weighing bailouts for the industry. His wife,
Debbie, was a General Motors executive for more than 30 years
before she retired in 2009.  Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat who ran
as a stronger advocate of environmental regulations, moved
against Dingell and ultimately won the votes to take the gavel
on the committee.  “He was always very respectful of me,” Waxman, who
remains the committee’s top Democrat, said in an interview.
“While many people would have expected him to carry a grudge,
he never acted that way.”  Democratic Representative John Larson of  Connecticut  said
Dingell’s 1981 marriage partially smoothed his “curmudgeon”
tendencies, though he hasn’t lost his dry sense of  humor .  Larson described the first discussion he had with Dingell
about the history of the House. “He said to me, ‘young man, let
me tell you this: they bury the bodies warm here.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  