-- Dollar Falls Versus Yen as U.S. Jobs Data Fuel Fed Speculation
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-07T12:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/dollar-falls-versus-yen-as-u-s-jobs-data-fuel-fed-speculation.html
The dollar remained lower against the
yen after a report showed employment growth was more than
forecast last month while the jobless rate unexpectedly
increased, spurring speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
maintain its stimulus programs that risk devaluing the currency.  The U.S. currency strengthened versus the 17-nation euro as
employers in the U.S. added 175,000 jobs in May, according to
the Labor Department. That compares with the median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey of 163,000. The  unemployment rate  rose to 7.6
percent versus a forecast for 7.5 percent. Economists cut their
estimates for how much the Federal Reserve will reduce the
amount of its monthly asset purchases, a Bloomberg survey shows.
The yen advanced, extending its biggest weekly gain versus the
dollar in five years, after Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso
said he had no immediate intention to weaken the currency.  “You’re kind of in no-man’s-land between 165,000 and
200,000” jobs added,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co., said in New York, said before
the report. “I don’t think that changes anything long-term on
the barometer at the Fed. I don’t think they would say this is
big enough or sustained enough for them to start thinking about
tapering.”  The dollar fell 0.8 percent to 96.18 yen at 8:49 a.m. New
York time. The greenback rose 0.2 percent to $1.3226 per euro.
The yen added 0.8 percent to 127.44 per euro.  Jobs Reaction  The dollar dropped versus the euro on May 3 after as a
report showing the U.S. added more jobs than forecast in April
and the jobless rate fell to a four-year low 7.5 percent failed
to deter investor expectations the Fed would sustain monetary
stimulus.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7  Volatility Index , based on
currency option premiums, touched 10.62 percent, the highest
level since June 2012.  The yen touched 95.99 per dollar today, the strongest since
April 4. Japan hasn’t sold its currency to weaken it since 2011,
when it reached a postwar record of 75.35. A stronger currency
hurts the overseas competitiveness of domestic companies.  “We are carefully watching but we don’t have any immediate
intention of taking any action, such as intervention,” Aso told
reporters in  Tokyo .  The Bank of Japan’s stimulus plan announced in April
involves monthly purchases of more than 7 trillion yen in
Japanese  government bonds . The yen slumped more than 20 percent
against the dollar from the middle of November through May amid
expectations of expanded monetary and fiscal stimulus under
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  Japan Markets  Japan ’s shares tumbled and the yen rallied yesterday after
Abe said a legislative campaign to loosen rules on businesses,
the “third arrow” of his revival plan, won’t begin for months.  The Government Pension Investment Fund said today it will
cut its allocation to Japanese bonds to 60 percent from 67
percent. Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare said the
GPIF, the world’s biggest manager of retirement savings, will
increase its allocation of domestic stocks to 12 percent from 11
percent, according to a statement from the health ministry.  The fund will increase its allocation of foreign stocks to
12 percent from 9 percent and for foreign bonds to 11 percent
from 8 percent.  Futures traders increased bets the yen will weaken against
the dollar to the most since July 2007. The difference in the
number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a
decline in Japan’s currency compared with those on a gain, known
as net  shorts , was 99,769 contracts on May 28, versus 95,186 a
week earlier, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  “We’re seeing large unwinding of carry trades and violent
moves in dollar-yen,” said Kikuko Takeda, a senior analyst at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “There’s been both
strong and weak U.S. data so it’s hard to take a one-sided view
of the  U.S. economy  or Fed policy.” A carry trade involves
borrowing in low-interest-rate currencies to buy higher-yielding
assets.  Deutsche Bank AG’s G10 FX Carry Basket index fell 2.8
percent this week, erasing this year’s advance.  The yen has surged 4.7 percent in the past month, the most
among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro advanced 2.2 percent and
the dollar climbed 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  