-- Dollar Strengthens as U.S. Jobs Data Back Fed Taper Speculation
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-07T21:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/dollar-strengthens-as-u-s-jobs-data-back-fed-taper-speculation.html
The dollar strengthened against the
euro after a report showed U.S. employment growth was higher
than forecast last month, sustaining speculation the Federal
Reserve is moving toward reducing its monetary-stimulus program.  The U.S. currency gained versus a majority of its most-traded peers as a Labor Department report showed employers in
added 175,000 jobs in May and the unemployment rate rose to 7.6
percent as the labor force expanded. The yen increased earlier
after Finance Minister Taro Aso said he had no immediate
intention to weaken  Japan ’s currency.  “The initial reaction was a stronger dollar, and I think
that means the market saw this as a bit stronger than they had
been expecting,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “The
number is not strong enough to guarantee that tapering is coming
sooner, and it’s not weak enough to push tapering expectations
even further out.”  The dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.3218 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time. The greenback added 0.6 percent to 97.56 yen.
Japan’s currency fell 0.4 percent to 128.96 per euro.  Futures Positions  Futures traders decreased their wagers that the yen will
decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other large
speculators on a decline in the yen compared with those on an
increase -- so-called net shorts -- was 82,744 on June 4,
compared with net shorts of 99,769 a week earlier.  Futures traders added to bets the pound will decline
against its U.S. peer, giving them their most bearish position
in data starting in 1992. Net shorts on sterling versus the
greenback totaled 77,738 on June 4, versus 74,525 a week
earlier.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7 Volatility Index, based on
currency option premiums, reached 10.62 percent, the highest
level since June 2012.  Electronic foreign-exchange options, Canadian dollar, yen
and open-interest in  Australia ’s currency climbed to a record
yesterday at CME Group Inc., the world’s largest futures
exchange. Overall volume of foreign-exchange futures and options
yesterday was 1.9 million contracts with a notional value of
$238.9 billion, the company said today in a  statement . It was
largest of the year in notional value and the fourth largest day
ever, CME Group said.  Options Trade  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $37.9 billion, compared with $42 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen exchange rate was $14.1 billion, the largest
share of trades at 37 percent. Dollar-Chinese  yuan  options were
the second most-actively traded, at $4.6 billion, or 12 percent.  Yen-dollar options trading was 15 percent more than the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day.
Dollar-yuan options trading was 102 percent more than average.  Canada ’s dollar gained against its U.S. peer as the
nation’s employment rose by 95,000 in May, the most since August
2002. The jobless rate fell to 7.1 percent from 7.2 percent even
as more people joined the workforce, Statistics Canada said in
Ottawa.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.7 percent to
C$1.0197 per U.S. dollar, after gaining as much as 1 percent.  Aussie Drops  Australia’s dollar dropped versus the yen, set for its
worst weekly rout since 2011, before Chinese data tomorrow
forecast to show growth in imports slowed, dimming the demand
outlook for commodities.  The Australian currency dropped 0.4 percent to 92.65 yen
after touching the least since Jan. 2. It’s slumped 3.7 percent
in the five days through today.  Yields on 10-year Australian government bonds tightened to
1.08 percentage points relative to similar-maturity Treasuries,
the narrowest spread since November 2008. Investors have sought
higher yielding assets amid the U.S. central bank’s
unprecedented easing program.  Hungary’s currency gained against the euro for a second day
as industrial output expanded in April for the first time this
year, exceeding economist forecasts and underscoring the
government’s prediction of an economic turnaround.  The forint advanced 0.5 percent to 296.09 per euro.  Jobs Report  The U.S. employment data may be “mildly” positive for the
dollar as it keeps alive speculation that the Fed will reduce
asset purchases and signals the economy continues to grow while
withstanding reductions in government spending, said  Alan Ruskin , the New York-based global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG.  “The tapering story is very much in play,” Ruskin said in
an e-mail. “This data also suggests the economy is holding up
well in the face of fiscal drag.”  Economists cut their estimates for how much the central
bank will reduce the amount of its monthly asset purchases, a
Bloomberg survey shows. Policy makers led by Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke will trim their so-called quantitative easing program
to $65 billion a month at the Oct. 29-30 meeting of the Federal
Open Market Committee, from the current level of $85 billion,
according to the median estimate in the survey of 59 economists
this week.  Fed Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher, one of the
most vocal critics of quantitative easing by the central bank,
this week called for a reduction in monthly asset purchases.  Fed Watch  “Expectations of tapering is a positive for the U.S.
dollar as it means a slowing in the expansion of the Fed’s
balance sheet,” Eric Viloria, a senior currency strategist at
Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said by e-mail. “The May
nonfarm payroll number was better than expected and the increase
in the unemployment rate also coincides with an increase in
labor-force participation.”  The yen advanced, extending its biggest weekly gain versus
the dollar in almost five years.  The Bank of Japan’s stimulus plan announced in April
involves monthly purchases of more than 7 trillion yen ($70
billion) in Japanese government bonds. The yen slumped more than
20 percent against the dollar from the middle of November
through May amid expectations of expanded monetary and fiscal
stimulus under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  Japan’s shares tumbled and the yen rallied yesterday after
Abe said a legislative campaign to loosen rules on businesses,
the “third arrow” of his revival plan, won’t begin for months.  Abe Policy  “The comments from Abe weren’t satisfactory for the
market,” said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency strategist at
UniCredit SpA in Milan. “That’s reinforcing the move higher in
the yen. All markets have been heavily short the yen and so
people have been caught wrong-footed which is forcing heavy
buying. As long as the stock market remains under pressure the
yen can remain firm.” A short position is a bet an asset will
decline.  The yen has added 2.7 percent in the past month, the most
among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro advanced 2.2 percent and
the dollar climbed 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  