-- Domus Delays U.S. Housing Fund IPO as Asian Investors Withdraw
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-06-07T03:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/domus-delays-u-s-housing-fund-ipo-as-asian-investors-withdraw.html
Domus U.S. Multifamily Real Estate
Fund (DMS) , which plans to invest in U.S. housing, extended the
application deadline for its Australian initial public offering
after Asian institutional investors withdrew or reduced orders
for the new shares.  The fund will delay the closing date for its capital
raising for a second time to July 5 from its initial plan for
May 31, said Chief Executive Officer Robert Geringer. It also
expects to reduce the minimum amount it seeks to raise from the
current A$80 million ($76 million), he said, declining to
specify an amount.  “When the Nikkei fell very hard, some of the Asian
investors backed out or reduced their orders,” Los Angeles-based Geringer said in a telephone interview today.
“Particularly when the Australian dollar fell pretty hard
during that time, it made some of the people question what was
going to happen in the world economy.”  Japanese stocks  on May 23 slumped the most since the
aftermath of the March 2011 tsunami as government bond yields
climbed and the Chinese economy showed signs of slowing. The
Australian dollar has fallen 10 percent from a 2013 high of
$1.0598 on Jan. 10 and was at 95 U.S. cents as of 12:46 p.m.
today amid concerns of a decline in demand for commodities and
investor expectations that the U.S. central bank may slow
stimulus.  Falling Demand  Domus, which had received applications for more than A$70
million as of May 24, saw that amount fall as investors backed
out, Geringer said. The fund may lower the minimum amount it is
seeking to raise as many of the Asian institutions who withdrew
their offers are unlikely to return, he said.  Domus was seeking as much as A$100 million, with shares
priced at A$1 each, it said on May 8. Applicants would receive
one option for every four shares they were allotted, exercisable
at A$1 at any time from Jan. 1, 2014 to the third anniversary of
Domus’s listing, it said then.  The  S&P/ASX 200 REIT index  has lost 6.5 percent in the past
month, compared with a 13 percent gain in the first four months
of the year.  “The opportunity still exists when the Australian dollar
is at 95 cents, because everybody thinks it’s going lower, not
higher,” Geringer said. “We delayed it for a week to see how
things went and now we have decided to delay till the 5th of
July to give it a little bit more time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  