-- Dundee Shows REIT No Haven as Bond Yields Rise
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-06-07T20:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/dundee-shows-reit-no-haven-as-bond-yields-rise.html
Dundee Real Estate Investment Trust (D-U) 
and  Calloway REIT (CWT-U)  are bearing the brunt of a rout among real
estate, utility and telecommunications shares as rising bond
yields reduce demand for high-dividend stocks.  Dundee and Calloway are the two worst-performing REITs this
year through yesterday among 14 stocks in the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Capped REIT Index. The index has slid 8.5 percent
since reaching a record high on April 30, three days before a
stronger-than-expected U.S. jobs report sparked a rise in bond
yields and speculation the  Federal Reserve  may begin to slow
monetary stimulus. The index dropped seven straight days through
June 5, the longest skid in three years.  “If you can get a guaranteed return of 4 percent versus a
riskier stock paying a similar yield, obviously you’ll see a
transition,”  Michael Gregory , Toronto-based senior economist
with BMO Capital Markets, said in a phone interview on June 5.
“For those who moved into dividends as a substitute for fixed
income, as rates begin to rise you’ll see flows back into the
 bond market .”  Dividends have provided some relief for investors in
Canadian stocks, which are on track for their third year of
underperformance against U.S. stocks. The broad S&P/TSX
Composite index has risen 6.7 percent in the last 12 months, the
worst performance among 24 developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg. With dividends included, that return rises to 10
percent.  Vincent Delisle, investment strategist with Scotia Capital
Inc.’s portfolio strategy group in  Montreal , said the dividend
trade and hunt for yields is at an end.  ‘Head Fakes’  “Cyclicals will benefit from a rotation out of dividend-paying sectors,” Delisle said in a phone interview on June 5.
High-yielding dividend stocks are “the priciest ones, they’re
all trading at premiums,” he said.  Telecommunications  and utilities have been the two worst-performing industries in the S&P/TSX in the past month, slumping
4 percent and 7.1 percent respectively.  These industries have been dragged down by weakness among
companies including  Canadian Utilities Ltd. (CU) , down 9.1 percent,
and  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , down 7.2 percent in that period.  “We’ve had head fakes in 2010, 2011 and 2012 but this year
bond yields are turning and the upside is for real,” Delisle
said.  Canadian 10-year government bond  yields  have risen 37 basis
points to 2.04 percent since May 2, while yields on the U.S. 10-year Treasury  note  have jumped 45 basis points to 2.08 percent
yesterday.  ‘Step Down’  Ten-year U.S. yields will rise to 2.4 percent by the end of
the year and increase to 4 percent at the end of 2014, levels
not seen since 2008, Gregory estimates.  Yields on 30-year bonds jumped the most in seven months on
May 3 after a government report showed the  U.S. economy  created
165,000 jobs in April, compared with economist forecasts of
140,000 in a Bloomberg survey, and the previous month’s tally
was revised higher.  They continued to rise after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said May 22 the central bank could “take a step down in our
pace of purchases” of Treasuries and mortgage debt it buys
within “the next few meetings.” The Fed has been buying $85
billion in debt a month this year to keep yields low and foster
investment in the U.S.  The Fed has pledged to maintain record-low borrowing costs
as long as the jobless rate remains above 6.5 percent and the
outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  Energy Attractive  “Absent continued disinflation and external shocks, we
think the path of least resistance for bond yields will be a
slight increase to 2.7 percent by year-end,”  Stefane Marion ,
chief economist and strategist with National Bank Financial,
said in a report June 4, referring to the U.S. 10-year yield.
Marion changed his  asset allocation , lowering utilities,
telecommunications and staples stocks to underweight and energy
stocks to overweight.  “We believe that earnings of Canadian energy producers
will find support from the recent depreciation of the Canadian
dollar,” Marion said. The Canadian dollar declined to C$1.03
per U.S. dollar yesterday from around parity on May 8.  REITs receive preferential tax treatment from the
government and invest in income-producing real estate, such as
shopping malls and nursing homes, and pay out most of their
earnings to investors through unit distributions.  Still Borrowing  The REIT index rose 0.5 percent for a yield of 5.23 percent
at 4 p.m. in Toronto today after  Canada  posted the biggest jobs
gain in a decade and U.S. employment rose more than analysts
estimated.  Michael Cooper, chief executive officer of Dundee REIT,
said the rise in market interest rates is not affecting
business.  “We’re able to borrow lots of money at very low rates,”
Cooper said in a phone interview from Toronto today. “I wish
the stock was doing better. We have lots of good days, and we
have some days that aren’t as good. But the integrity of the
business is in great shape.”  Calloway interim Chief Executive Officer Huw Thomas said
the company is stable and the rising yield environment has not
had any impact on their retail tenants.  “We have to manage for the long-term,” Thomas said in a
phone interview today. “I’ve met with a number of unit holders,
and we talked about the market in general and they see all REITs
are down. If Calloway was down substantially and the rest were
flat, I’d get many more calls.”  REIT Spinoffs  Brian Huen, managing partner with Red Sky Capital
Management Ltd. in Toronto, said established REITs are too
expensive, and would rather own them indirectly through holdings
companies such as  Dundee Corp. (DC/A)  or a retailer like Canadian Tire
Corp., which is planning to spin off its real estate holdings
into a REIT. Loblaw Cos. is also crafting a REIT from its retail
properties.  In such a case, investors will get a boost from real estate
holdings that were undervalued while held within a company’s
balance sheet, he said.  “The valuation arbitrage exists and the window of
opportunity is now,” Huen said in an interview by phone June 3.
His firm manages about C$220 million ($216 million). “You don’t
want to do it when values are low. The window of opportunity is
probably for the next six months to a year. You’re still seeing
lots of interest in REITs.”  Want Yield    Companies have raised $782.8 million from six Canadian
initial public offerings this year, including Milestone
Apartments REIT and Agellan Commercial REIT, to account for 58
percent of the $1.36 billion raised from initial offerings, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies raised almost $500 million in seven REIT IPOs
last year, more than any other industry in Canada, the data
show.  “Retail and institutional investors are trying to figure
out a solution to a problem -- they want to lend against a real
asset and get yield for it,” Eric Bushell, chief investment
officer with CI Investments Inc., said in a phone interview from
Toronto. He manages C$40 billion for Signature Global Asset
Management.  “That’s why you have companies like Loblaw’s and now
Canadian Tire spinning out their real estate. They’re
restructuring, which is exactly what we did during the income
trust cycle. The risk is a ’herding’ behavior -- investors are
left with no option but to pursue this strategy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  