-- Hedge Funds Win Collateral Reprieve in SEC Dodd-Frank Shift
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-06-07T21:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/hedge-funds-said-to-win-collateral-reprieve-in-dodd-frank-shift.html
Hedge funds  and asset managers won
relief from Dodd-Frank Act collateral requirements for credit-default swaps under a policy shift disclosed today in letters
posted on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s website.  The letters to banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  revised a measure released in March
that called for some clients to put up double the collateral
dealers post for portfolio margin accounts at Atlanta-based
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  The banks instead will be able
collect collateral from clients according to clearinghouse rules
for six months.  During the six-month period, banks must design their own
models for trading with clients that will then need SEC
approval, the agency said in the letters dated today. The SEC
suggested guidelines, including requiring enough margin to
handle a 10-day liquidation with 99 percent confidence. The
policy affects portfolio accounts with credit swaps tied to
single securities offsetting those tied to indexes.  “The monitoring of counterparty credit risk must include
the prudent setting of exposure limits and mechanisms that would
allow Goldman to limit or reduce the exposure to
counterparties,” the SEC said in its letter to Goldman Sachs.  The change from the March policy may help encourage
clearing of trades under Dodd-Frank, the 2010 regulatory law
that called for most swaps to be guaranteed at clearinghouses as
a way to reduce risk in the financial system. Mandatory clearing
of trades began in March, and a second phase of client clearing
is scheduled to take effect June 10.  ICE, owner of the world’s largest clearinghouse for credit
swaps, Citadel LLC, and other firms have spent more than a year
pushing regulators to support the portfolio-margining system for
client trades.  Other banks receiving the letters dated today were
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Deutsche Bank AG,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , according to the SEC’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  