-- Edison Faces Regulatory Battle Over San Onofre Shutdown Cost
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-06-07T20:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/edison-plans-to-permanently-close-san-onofre-nuclear-reactor-1-.html
Edison International (EIX)  faces a
regulatory battle over who will pay for about $3.4 billion of
costs related to the decision to retire the San Onofre nuclear
plant amid a record number of U.S. nuclear closures.  Southern  California  Edison, the utility unit that owns and
operates what had been California’s largest source of round-the
clock electricity, has a $2.1 billion investment in the two
reactors and may have to refund some of the $1.3 billion
collected from customers since the plant quit producing power in
January 2012, Chief Executive Officer Ted Craver told reporters
today on a conference call.  Four commercial nuclear-power units, including Edison’s
two, have been permanently closed in the U.S. this year, the
highest-ever annual total, according to U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission data. A glut of shale-fed natural gas and government-subsidized wind has upended power-market dynamics and squeezed
margins, making costly repairs uneconomical for some nuclear
operators.  “It no longer makes sense to restart San Onofre,” Craver
said today. Buying power on the open market became the cheaper
alternative because a year of delay cut too deeply into its
operating life, he told reporters. The reactor license
expires in 9 years. Edison was spending $30 million a month
preparing for the restart, he said.  Edison estimates that shareholders will absorb after-tax
costs of $300 to $450 million, although further writedowns are
possible, Chief Financial Officer Jim Scilacci said. The company
hasn’t determined how much it will seek from customers, he said.  Decommissioning Costs  The cost to customers may not be settled until late next
year, Edison said. The company has already asked for a $16
million a year increase to cover the cost of decommissioning the
reactors, Scilacci said on today’s call. The decommissioning
fund is about $300 million short of what’s needed, he said.  Both reactors at the San Onofre plant, about 45 miles (72
kilometers) southeast of Long Beach, were shut in January 2012
after a radioactive leak and the discovery of unusual wear on
tubes that transfer reactor heat to power-generating turbines.  Edison may recover some investment costs from  Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) , maker of the failed plumbing, and from
its nuclear insurer, Craver told reporters. The company has
asked Mitsubishi for $139 million and $234 million from the
insurer, according to a filing.  Regulatory Uncertainty  Uncertainty over when the utility would gain approval from
federal regulators to restart one of its reactors led to the
decision to shutter operations. The company saw a less than 50
percent chance of receiving the approval that it needed by the
end of this year to operate the unit economically, Craver said.  The decision to permanently shut San Onofre came after the
NRC’s Atomic Safety and Licensing Board ordered a hearing on the
company’s plan to restart the least-damaged reactor at 70
percent of full power.  “That’s the ruling that made clear we’re going to have a
much more uncertain process,” Craver told reporters.  Adding to the potential delay is the U.S. Senate’s
confirmation of Allison M. Macfarlane as NRC chairman, Andrew L. Smith, a Houston-based analyst for Drexel Hamilton LLC, said in
an interview.  The committee handling the confirmation is led by Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat who had called for the U.S.
Department of Justice to probe Edison’s attempt to restart the
plant. Boxer’s “greatly relieved” that Edison is closing an
“unsafe” plant, she said in a statement today.  Recouping Costs  The California Public Utilities Commission will decide how
much customers will have to pay for the retirement of the
reactors, which provided almost 20 percent of the power for
Edison’s customers.  The CPUC will decide “as quickly as possible” who will
pay for the shutdown, Michael Peevey, president of the CPUC,
said in an e-mail statement.  Sempra Energy (SRE) , which had a 20 percent stake in San Onofre,
expects California regulators to allow it to recover its $519
million investment from ratepayers, the San Diego-based company
said in a filing today. The company’s San Diego Gas & Electric
Company utility will likely record an after-tax charge of $30
million to $110 million in the second quarter of 2013 related to
the plant.  Shuttered Reactors  Edison should be able to bill ratepayers for its investment
in the plant based on previous commission decisions, Smith from
Drexel Hamilton said today. He rates Edison shares buy and owns
none.  Some of the $529 million Edison charged customers for
replacement power since the plant was shut or the $813 million
charged for operating it when it wasn’t generating electricity,
will have to be refunded given previous rulings, he said.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  decided to shutter its Crystal River Unit
3 reactor in central  Florida  rather than risk spending billions
of dollars on repairs to its cracked containment dome.  Dominion
Resources (D)  Inc. last month closed its Kewaunee nuclear station in
 Wisconsin  after failing to find a buyer for the money-losing
plant.  Edison rose 2.7 percent to $47.61 at the close in New York,
the most since Nov. 30, 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  