-- Lehman Brokerage Customers on Track to Get 100 Percent
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-06-07T14:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/lehman-brokerage-customers-on-track-to-get-100-percent.html
Defunct brokerage  Lehman Brothers
Inc . is on track to pay hedge fund and bank customers in full
after 4 3/4 years in liquidation.  New payments starting today will return 100 percent of
their money to all brokerage customers, trustee James Giddens
said in a statement today. Previously, he said a full payment of
more than $15 billion was likely when the brokerage settled its
disputes with affiliates.  “Distributions from the LBI estate will stand as the
largest return of property in history to former customers of a
broker-dealer following a bankruptcy and liquidation
proceeding,” he said in today’s statement.  Giddens, who previously faced payment demands by  New York 
hedge fund Elliott Management Corp., is liquidating the remnants
of the Lehman brokerage to pay institutional customers after
London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  took over most of the brokerage’s
retail clients and some of the trading and banking businesses.
He has billed the brokerage estate for about $250 million in
fees and expenses for himself and his  law firm , according to
court filings.  The brokerage went into liquidation after the parent
company, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., filed the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008, listing assets of
$639 billion. The former investment bank, which began paying
creditors before the brokerage did, has said it intends to raise
a total of about $65 billion to return about 18 cents on the
dollar to the average creditor.  General Creditors  General creditors of the brokerage, including former
employees, pension funds, institutions, banks, and Lehman
affiliates, will be paid next, Giddens said. He didn’t say how
much, or when he expects to pay them.  “The process of analyzing, objecting to, settling,
and otherwise resolving the  more than 12,000 filed general
creditor claims is well advanced,” according to the statement.  The Lehman brokerage liquidation is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ). The
parent’s bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  