-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline as Brazil Slumps on S&P
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-07T22:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/emerging-stocks-head-for-longest-weekly-losing-streak-in-year.html
Emerging-market stocks capped the
longest weekly slide in a year as Brazilian shares slumped to a
20-month low after the nation’s credit outlook was cut by
Standard & Poor’s.  Turkish (XU100)  equities trimmed this week’s plunge.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa fell to the lowest level since October
2011, extending a decline from this year’s peak to 18 percent,
as Petroleo Brasileiro SA drove commodity shares down.  Samsung
Electronics (005930)  Co., the world’s largest smartphone maker, tumbled
6.2 percent in  Seoul  as JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its profit
estimates. Turkish stocks rallied on speculation the worst
weekly retreat since 2011 was overdone. Poland’s zloty
strengthened the most in almost a year versus the euro.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.4 percent to 980.64,
extending its weekly drop to 2.8 percent. The gauge fell a
fourth week. S&P lowered the outlook on Brazil’s BBB rating,
which is in line with  Mexico ’s and  Russia ’s, citing concern over
sluggish economic growth. Stocks briefly pared losses as data
showed employment in America rose more than forecast.  “The  emerging markets  growth model is coming into
question,” Burt White, chief investment officer who helps
oversee $247 billion at LPL Financial in  Boston , said in a phone
interview. “What the market is looking at in Brazil is the fact
that growth is probably continuing to be not as robust as people
thought.” The U.S. jobs report was “not too hot, not too cold.
It was just what we needed,” he said.  Technology shares  led losses  in a measure of developing-nation stocks among 10 groups, slumping 2 percent. The broad
gauge extended this year’s drop to 7.1 percent, compared with an
9.8 percent jump in the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slid 0.5 percent to $40.69. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 2.1 percent to 24.32.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  slumped 2.4 percent, extending this
 week ’s decline to 3.5 percent. The measure has slumped 15
percent this year amid concern accelerating inflation may curb
the economic recovery and the government’s interventionist
policies will hurt corporate profits. Petrobras, as Petroleo
Brasileiro is known, fell 3.2 percent.  Russian shares capped the biggest advance in three weeks
led by OAO Mechel, which climbed from a four-year low, as oil
rallied for the fourth time in five days. The ruble-based Micex
Index added 2.1 percent, the most since May 17.  Turkey’s Shares  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index
climbed from a six-month low. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he was ready to listen to the demands of anti-government protesters. The lira strengthened for the first time
in three days and bonds gained. Lenders  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi
AS (GARAN)  and Akbank T.A.S. added at least 3.2 percent.  The zloty strengthened from a one-year low reached
yesterday as Poland’s central bank sold foreign currencies on
the market. The rand pared its first weekly gain in five on bets
investors in South Africa’s renewable-energy program are hedging
the costs of importing machinery.  South Korea’s benchmark Kospi Index posted the biggest loss
in almost a year. Samsung Electronics, the country’s most
valuable company fell the most since August 2012. The won
completed its first weekly gain in five amid a surging yen.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.4 percent as economists
forecast data tomorrow will show export growth slowed. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index dropped an eighth day. China’s
financial markets will be shut from June 10 to June 12 for the
Dragon Boat Festival. The Jakarta Composite index capped the
steepest drop in a year. Indian shares fell for a second day as
the rupee’s drop to a one-year low spurred concerns overseas
funds will pare holdings of local shares.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slid 10 basis points to 309 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  