-- Lenovo to Use Acquisition to Help Double Server Share
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-07T05:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/lenovo-willing-to-use-acquisition-to-help-double-server-share.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  said it wants to
double its share of the market for storage equipment and servers
running corporate networks within three years and is open to
using an acquisition to achieve that.  The second-biggest maker of personal computers plans to
expand its share of the server business to between 5 percent and
10 percent during that time, from 2.6 percent in the fourth
quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said in an
interview today in Chengdu,  China .  “Today’s market share is too small,” Yang said. “If we
can get a good acquisition, probably we could speed up the
process.”  Lenovo diversified into smartphones, tablets and home
entertainment to help weather a global slump in demand for PCs.
That helped the company report a 90 percent jump in  profit  in
the three months ended March even as global PC shipments fell
about 14 percent amid a consumer shift to mobile devices from
Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  The company last year allied itself with EMC Corp. to boost
sales of storage equipment. Talks with International Business
Machines Corp. for Lenovo to buy parts of the Armonk, New York-based company’s server division broke down after the two sides
couldn’t agree on a price, a person familiar with the
discussions said May 3.  IBM Talks  Yang, who is attending the Fortune Global Forum, declined
to comment on whether the company held talks with IBM.  Lenovo, with headquarters in Beijing and Morrisville,  North
Carolina , fell 0.8 percent to HK$7.69 at 1:19 p.m. in Hong Kong
trading. The  stock  has climbed 9.5 percent this year, while the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has declined 4.8 percent.  Lenovo was the only one of the top five PC vendors to avoid
a decline in shipments in the first quarter, boosting its share
of the global market to 15.3 percent in the period from 13.2
percent a year earlier, researcher International Data Corp.
reported in April. Lenovo narrowed the gap with market leader
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , which saw its share fall to 15.7 percent
from 17.7 percent.  “The PC market is having a tough year,” Ricky Lai, a Hong
Kong-based analyst with Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd.,
said in a June 5 phone interview. “Smartphones and tablets are
going to have robust demand this year, so Lenovo’s strategy is
to use this to compensate for the downward trend of PC
revenue.”  Smartphone Boost  The company will boost smartphone shipments 72 percent this
year to 50 million units, Yang said at the company’s earnings
conference last month. Tablet shipments this year will rise to
10 million units from 2.2 million last year, he said then.  Expansion of the mobile devices business may be bolstered
by acquisitions, Lai said.  With more than $3 billion in  cash reserves , Lenovo is able
to pursue an acquisition of almost any size to expand in new
business areas, Chief Financial Officer Wong Wai Ming said in a
May 23 interview without identifying any targets. The company
issued a statement June 4 saying it also was considering a
“potential joint venture transaction” in the smartphone
business.  Yang is “confident” the company’s handsets can compete in
mature markets like the U.S., he said today, without revealing
any specific plans.  “We want to win,” Yang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Dexter Roberts in Beijing at 
 droberts34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  