-- Tepco Shares Account for 1-in-10 Traded on Nikkei 225 in May
-- B y   I a i n   W i l s o n   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2013-06-07T02:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/tepco-shares-account-for-1-in-10-traded-on-nikkei-225-in-may.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  accounted
for about one in every 10 shares that changed hands on the
 Nikkei (NKY)  225 Stock Average last month as trading in the operator
of the wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactor soared a second month.  Monthly  trading  reached 6.6 billion shares, four times more
than the 1.61 billion shares outstanding in the utility,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock, the best
performer on the Nikkei, has more than doubled this year.  Trading in the past two months in Tepco, as the company is
known, is at the highest since June 2011 when the Tokyo-based
utility was grappling with the scope of the Fukushima disaster,
data show. The stock soared amid optimism that  Japan ’s Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe was edging closer to allowing the restart of
nuclear reactors idled after the accident.  “It’s speculation, not investment,”  Gavin Parry , managing
director of Hong Kong-based brokerage Parry International
Trading Ltd., said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Among Nikkei-listed companies, Tepco’s volume in May was
exceeded by only  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  The 7.4 billion
shares of Mizuho that changed hands represent about a third of
shares available to trade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The surge coincides with record volume last month for
Japan’s five largest online brokerages as the nation’s shares
rose to the highest levels since August 2008. Tepco, which is
also the world’s  best-performing  utility stock this year, is at
the center of the worst atomic disaster since Chernobyl. It has a
clean-up bill estimated at $108 billion, pays no dividend and
has no profit forecast.  Tepco spokesman Masateru Araki declined to comment.  Compensation Payments  Investors are buying into a company whose 11 trillion yen
in estimated costs from the March 2011 Fukushima nuclear
disaster, including compensation payments, are 14 times the
company’s 763 billion yen ($7.8 billion) market value as of
yesterday’s close in  Tokyo . Combined losses at the company total
2.7 trillion yen for the past three fiscal years. Tepco gave no
earnings forecast this year because it doesn’t know when or it
can restart its reactors.  Japan’s Topix index is down about 17 percent from a high on
May 22. Japan is still the best-performing major equity market
this year, with the Topix up around 23 percent on optimism that
Abe can lead the world’s third-largest economy’s emergence from
15 years of deflation.  Tepco, established in 1951, faces a changing regulatory
landscape in Japan after Abe this week endorsed proposals to
deregulate the electricity industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iain Wilson in Sydney at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  