-- Erdogan Denounces Protest Violence, Says Demands Welcome
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-06-08T16:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/erdogan-slams-protest-violence-says-democratic-demands-welcome.html
Huseyin Celik, deputy chairman of
Turkey’s ruling Justice and Development party, denied opposition
demands for early elections and said the country won’t bow to
financial speculators seeking to profit from the unrest.  Celik, speaking after a more than four-hour meeting of the
party’s executive committee in Istanbul today, said that while
the government would listen to “legitimate demands” from the
people, elections would only take place as planned in 2015.  “There is absolutely no reason that would require early
elections,” Celik said, rebuffing earlier comments from
opposition leader  Devlet Bahceli . The government won’t “bow to
demands from government opponents or the interest rate lobby.”  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who returned yesterday
from North Africa amid protesters’ calls for his resignation,
led the party meeting. The event was brought forward from June
19 after rallies against plans to build on parkland in central
Istanbul turned into anti-government demonstrations.  After several speeches condemning protesters, Erdogan
yesterday spent time defending his government’s democratic
credentials and environmental record. He condemned the
protesters’ methods, saying they were violent, while expressing
readiness to listen to demands voiced democratically.  Thousands of protesters held peaceful vigils against the
government in Ankara and Istanbul yesterday, while police fired
tear-gas canisters to disperse a group of demonstrators who had
set roadblocks on fire in the low-income Gazi neighborhood of
Istanbul, according to a report in Zaman newspaper today.  Alcohol Sales  Protesters have said Erdogan has become too autocratic,
citing police violence, increased religious lessons at schools
and curbs on alcohol sales.  “We’re opposed to violence, terror, vandalism,” Erdogan
said at a conference on  Turkey ’s European Union membership bid
yesterday. “For those who come to me with democratic demands,
I’ll sacrifice my life.”  The conference took place at a central Istanbul hotel,
guarded by a police cordon, and within walking distance of
Taksim Square. The rallies spread nationwide after police used
tear gas and water cannons on May 31 against demonstrators who
had gathered in Gezi Park near Taksim.  “The Prime minister’s time is up,” Bahceli said as he
called for early elections today. “There is need for renewal of
the nation’s will. We are leaving the decision on timing of the
ballot box to the prime minister.”  Enhance Square  Erdogan said yesterday that proposals for Taksim Square
will enhance it, and were publicly available at the time of the
last election in 2011, which he won with about 50 percent of the
vote. Referring to that result, he said his party seeks to
govern for all 76 million Turks.  Yalcin Akdogan, Erdogan’s chief adviser, told Haberturk
television yesterday that the government was “not turning a
deaf ear to demands of people with common sense.”  Akdogan reiterated that the prime minister has dropped
plans to build a shopping mall as part of the proposed
development and instead proposed the construction of a city
museum along with plans to rebuild the replica of an Ottoman
barracks at the Gezi Park site. He said there was need for
consensus and to avoid further tension.  Turkish financial markets rallied on the prime minister’s
more conciliatory tone, paring a slump driven by the protests.
The  benchmark stock index  added 3.2 percent yesterday, though it
still dropped 8.9 percent in the week. Yields on  two-year lira
bonds  fell 23 basis points to 6.55 percent, compared with 6.07
percent a week earlier.  Economic Stability  “Turkey has a lot to lose if prolonged tensions threaten
political and economic stability,” said Gokhan Bacik, a
political scientist at Zirve University in the southern Turkish
city of Gaziantep. “Businessmen are worried.”  Erdogan returned to Turkey in the early morning of June 7
after a four-day trip to North Africa, and was greeted at the
airport by thousands of supporters, the first time that pro-government crowds have taken to the streets since the protests.  Stefan Fule, the EU’s commissioner for enlargement, said at
the Istanbul conference yesterday that Turkey needs a swift and
transparent investigation into excessive use of force by police
during the protests. Erdogan has said a probe is under way.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  