-- EU Carbon Rises to Seven-Week High as Demand Surges at Auctions
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-06-07T16:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/eu-carbon-rises-to-seven-week-high-as-demand-surges-at-auctions.html
European Union carbon permits for
December advanced to a seven-week high as demand climbed in
auctions of allowances this week.  The benchmark futures contract jumped as much as 5.75
percent to 4.23 euros ($5.59) a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London. That’s the highest since April 16,
when the EU Parliament rejected a proposal to help curb a
surplus of allowances. EU permits have gained 67 percent since
the record-low 2.46 euros on April 17, and closed at 4.12 euros.  Germany  sold 4 million carbon permits today after getting
bids for 3.8 times that amount, 35 percent higher than the
average in auctions since October, according to data from the
European Energy Exchange AG in Leipzig, Germany. Demand may be
fueled by utilities hedging increased sales of future power
output, according to Mark Owen-Lloyd, trading director at Clean
Energy Group Ltd.  “The key thing is the auctions are clearing very well, and
the utilities are hedging all their power forward,” said
London-based Owen-LLoyd. Carbon allowances are “also in a
strong uptrend from the post-vote low, so speculative traders
will keep buying dips,” he said.  Power producers from Germany’s EON SE to CEZ AS of the
 Czech Republic  are selling more future production than at any
time in the past five years as the longest slump in electricity
prices shows no sign of ending, data from five utilities
compiled by Bloomberg Industries show. Utilities buy carbon
permits to cover emissions generated from power output.  Surplus Curb  Prices have climbed as lawmakers and nations consider a
change to the region’s emissions-trading law to enable temporary
curbs on the supply of carbon permits. The EU Parliament’s
environment committee is scheduled to recommend next steps on
the draft measure on June 19 before the whole assembly holds a
second vote on it on July 2.  United Nations Certified Emission Reduction credits closed
5 percent higher at 42 euro cents a ton on ICE. The contract has
climbed from a record 20 cents in April.  Emitters can use about 1.64 billion tons of UN carbon
credits to meet EU emissions caps in the 13 years through 2020,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimate published
yesterday.  The prediction is based on the European Commission’s
proposal published June 5 on limits for offset use. The
regulator has said use of offsets in the period will be “some
1.7 billion tons,” according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  