-- EU Fights July Deadline for U.S. Swaps Rule Opposed by Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-07T12:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/eu-fights-july-deadline-for-u-s-swaps-rule-opposed-by-banks.html
The European Union is urging the U.S.
to change course on a planned swaps rules that it says would
leave banks saddled with extra costs and incompatible legal
obligations.  EU regulators are concerned that time is running out for
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission to amend or delay
requirements that stretch beyond U.S. borders, ahead of a July
12 deadline, an EU official said.  The international reach of CFTC swap-trading requirements
has been one of the most controversial elements of the U.S.
Dodd-Frank Act rules, prompting opposition from financial
companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (G)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
as well as EU, Asian and South American regulators.  Jonathan Faull , the commission official responsible for
financial-services rules, wrote last month to CTFC Chairman  Gary Gensler  urging him to allow more time for international talks.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief, will
raise the derivatives rules with officials during a visit to the
U.S. next month, the official said.  The EU is seeking an agreement with the U.S. that its banks
can be exempted from the CFTC rules on the basis that EU
standards are equally rigorous,  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman
for Barnier, said in an e-mail.  “On the great majority of financial-services issues, the
EU and U.S. are very much in line with each other,” Hughes
said.  Incompatible Restrictions  The EU is concerned that banks might face overlapping
reporting requirements and incompatible restrictions on where to
clear derivatives trades in the  $633 trillion  global market,
according to the official, who can’t be named in line with
official policy.  One possible outcome is that the U.S. rules could prevent
trades from being cleared in the EU, in turn activating EU rules
that would prevent them from being cleared in the U.S., placing
banks in a legal quandary, according to the official.  Some finance chiefs have even said they are worried about
travel to the U.S, given that they could be deemed in breach of
its rules and prosecuted, said the official, who did not name
the companies or individuals involved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  