-- EU Nations Aim to Scale Back Energy-Tax Increase, Document Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-06-07T11:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/eu-nations-aim-to-scale-back-energy-tax-increase-document-shows.html
European Union governments want to
scale back a planned increase in fuel taxes as the bloc seeks 
to emerge from a recession, according to a report prepared for 
EU ministers.  EU nations are seeking lower proposed minimum-tax levels
and a new carbon-emissions levy in a draft law that would change
the way the bloc taxes energy, according to the planning
document, obtained by  Bloomberg News . Ireland, which holds the
EU rotating  presidency , prepared the report, dated June 5, ahead
of EU meetings later this month.  The draft energy-taxation law was proposed by the European
Commission, the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm, in 2011 to spur
energy savings and the development of low-emission technologies
as part of the fight against  climate change . The legislation,
which would tax all fuels in the same way, needs the unanimous
backing of EU national governments.  Current European law  sets minimum tax rates for mineral
oils, coal, natural gas and electricity to prevent distortions
of competition between EU countries rather than to promote
environmental goals. Separate EU emissions-trading legislation
imposes carbon caps on power plants and factories. Under the
commission proposal, the energy component and the CO2 element
would be combined to produce the overall minimum level at which
a fuel is taxed.  Governments are considering cutting the levy based on
emissions to 12 euros ($15.90) a metric ton, or eight euros less
than proposed by the commission, reflecting the decline in the
price of allowances in the EU emissions-trading system. The
level would gradually rise to 20 euros by 2024 and the energy
component of the tax would be adjusted accordingly, according to
a proposal by Ireland.  Competitiveness  The presidency also suggested a further adjustment of the
carbon-related component to 9 euros for heating fuels for
business use, according to the document. In the case of motor
fuels, the presidency seeks a link to inflation, the report
showed.  “More development on minimum rates is required to address
remaining concerns of  member states  such as the rates for LPG,
natural gas, coal and kerosene as heating fuels for business
use,” Ireland said in the document.  The member states’ campaign highlights the difficulty the
EU is facing to spur green technologies while protecting the
competitiveness of its industry. The European Parliament in
April rejected a stopgap measure to help carbon prices rebound
from record lows amid lawmakers’ concerns that they would raise
energy prices. EU emission allowances for delivery in December
dropped as much as 87 percent in the past two years to an all-time low of 2.46 euros after the Parliament’s vote.  Under the overhauled energy taxation system, businesses
outside the emissions-trading system as well as households would
pay both the energy component and the emissions element of the
taxes, under the commission’s proposal. Industries in the cap-and-trade system would be spared the emissions element.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  