-- EU Says Countries Must Shoulder Responsibility for Ailing Banks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-07T18:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/eu-says-countries-must-shoulder-responsibility-for-ailing-banks.html
Euro-area states should only be able
to seek direct help for their banking systems from the currency
zone’s firewall fund if their national solvency is at risk, the
European Commission said in a draft report.  Otherwise, the European Stability Mechanism should lend
funds to the affected nation, which would then be responsible
for channelling the money to overhaul its lenders as was the
case for Spain, according to the document obtained by  Bloomberg
News . Direct ESM aid is part of the European Union’s strategy to
shore up its banking system through common supervision and
standards for dealing with failing banks.  A nation with weak banks “will qualify for a direct
recapitalization only if its public finances are very seriously
at risk,” said the undated report intended to accompany
commission plans for centralized bank resolution in the euro
area, scheduled for release in coming weeks.  As the EU struggles with how to restore economic growth and
overcome its sovereign debt crisis, Germany and  France  last week
said work on a banking union to bolster crisis prevention needs
to proceed in a coordinated way, suggesting that guidelines for
ESM direct aid won’t be ready mid-2013 as planned.  Direct Aid  EU leaders agreed last year that the ESM should be
empowered to bypass national authorities and give aid directly
to banks in a crisis. The step, like the broader banking union
plan, was targeted at breaking financial links between banks and
sovereigns.  The EU should confront troubles in its financial system
that led to five euro members seeking rescues, according to the
undated document. “The question of who pays and assumes losses
when a bank is resolved is critical,” it said. “Losses cannot
be legislated away.”  The 500 billion-euro ($661 billion) ESM is expected to
make as much as 60 billion euros available for bank aid,
according to the draft. Taking into account other ESM lending,
this would leave 210 billion euros available for new programs,
and that amount would rise to 270 billion euros by the end of
this year when  Spain ’s bank-aid program ends.  The prospect of direct aid from the ESM will complement
proposals for a Single Resolution Mechanism that will include
roles for the commission, bank supervisors and national
authorities. This mechanism needs its own fund, which will start
out guaranteed by nations and over time be replaced by industry
fees, which also would repay the fund for any losses, the report
said.  Common Fund  The common fund “should have a guarantee and/or credit
line from a public backstop,” the report said. “This could
match the target size of the fund the first year and be
progressively reduced so as to cover only the difference
between the target size of the fund and its actual size.”  The EU should move ahead with all components of the banking
union plan as fast as it can, the report said. To avoid delays
“concluding these steps should however not be conditional on
one another,” the report said.  The draft also said nations will be responsible for any
public funds required before 2015, when EU regulators are
expected to gain powers to force losses on some creditors under
new “bail-in” rules.  EU resolution rules will apply to countries within the euro
area, along with any other nations that sign for joint
supervision by the  European Central Bank . To make the bank
backstop system work, nations could amend the ESM treaty or sign
bilateral arrangements with participating non-euro nations,
according to the document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  