-- European Stocks Post Third Weekly Decline
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-06-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/european-stocks-post-third-weekly-decline.html
European stocks  posted their third
weekly drop amid concern that the  Federal Reserve  may reduce
bond buying as soon as September and as the  European Central
Bank  refrained from announcing new stimulus measures.  Man Group Plc, the biggest publicly traded hedge-fund
manager, plunged 18 percent after reporting a decline in the net
asset value of its flagship fund. Aberdeen Asset Management Plc
tumbled 11 percent. Voestalpine AG climbed 10 percent after
raising its dividend. Elan Corp. gained 5.5 percent after
Royalty Pharma increased its offer for the Irish drugmaker.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 1.8 percent to 295.4, for
the longest streak of weekly losses in two months. The gauge
still rebounded yesterday, trimming a weekly retreat of as much
as 3.4 percent, as investors bet that U.S. data showing an
increase in both hiring and the  unemployment rate  left little
scope for an immediate reduction in stimulus measures.  “The Fed knows the economy is on a sound footing and that
it needs to take some of the financial stimulus away,” Richard Woolnough, who helps oversee $369 billion at M&G Investments in
 London , said in e-mailed comments. He manages the M&G Optimal
Income Fund, which invests in bonds and equities. “It is
basically saying thanks for your custom, please finish up your
drinks and leave the bar.”  Fed Talk  Separate statements from Fed officials earlier in the week
had spurred concern that the central bank may start trimming its
$85 billion monthly bond purchases in September.  Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said in
 Stockholm  that policy makers may end quantitative easing by the
end of the year. Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher ,
who opposed the current round of bond-buying in September as
well as the expansion of the program to Treasuries in December,
reiterated his backing for reducing stimulus.  Fed Bank of Kansas City President Esther George supported
slowing purchases “as an appropriate next step for monetary
policy,” according to the text of a speech.  Also this week, economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG predicted that the Fed could start winding down
its bond-buying program.  Still, Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  on
June 3 said the central bank is committed to the program and
that the economy lacks the strength to justify a reduction.  Watching Economy  In the euro area, the ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged and refrained from announcing any new stimulus
measures. President  Mario Draghi  said on June 6 policy makers
discussed additional steps and stand ready to act if needed.  “People are more concerned about their bond allocations
and about a bond bubble,” said Colin McLean, who helps oversee
$620 million at SVM Asset Management Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Unless
you have a meltdown, that move into equities will go on. You can
worry about how Europe evolves, but the solution is still buying
equities.”  National benchmark indexes declined in all of western
Europe’s 18 markets except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
lost 2.6 percent,  Germany ’s DAX slid 1.1 percent and  France ’s
CAC 40 retreated 1.9 percent.  Man Group plunged 18 percent after saying that the net-asset value of its A Man AHL Diversified fund decreased 6.1
percent last week. UBS AG lowered its recommendation on the
shares to neutral from buy, saying that the fund’s recent
performance will reduce Man’s earnings. A gauge of financial
companies was the worst performer in the Stoxx 600 this week.  Aberdeen Valuation  Aberdeen Asset Management tumbled 11 percent. Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit cut its rating on Scotland’s
largest money manager to underperform, similar to a sell
recommendation, from neutral, saying the stock’s price is
unjustified given slowing earnings growth.  Hochtief AG, Germany’s largest construction company,
dropped 6.9 percent. Berenberg Bank on June 7 cut its
recommendation on the shares to  hold  from buy, citing a
worsening outlook for Australian construction and mining.  Roche Holding AG , the world’s largest maker of cancer
drugs, slid 3.2 percent after a study showed that its Avastin
drug failed to extend the lives of patients with a type of  brain
cancer . The study found no advantage in using the drug as a
first-line therapy against glioblastoma.  Voestalpine AG (VOE)  rallied 10 percent. Austria’s biggest
Steelmaker on June 5 proposed to raise its  dividend  by 10 euro
cents to 90 euro cents a share, exceeding analysts’ forecasts.  Elan advanced 5.5 percent. Royalty Pharma raised its
takeover offer for the drugmaker to $13 per American depositary
receipt plus a contingent value right of as much as $2.50. The
offer was previously $12.50 per ADR.  Johnson Matthey gained 5.6 percent. The U.K. platinum
refiner and producer of auto-catalysts posted underlying pretax
profit that slipped to 389.2 million pounds in the full-year
ending in March, still beating the 379.1 million-pound average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 