-- Former White Sox Scout Gets Year in Prison for Kickbacks
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-07T23:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/ex-white-sox-scout-sentenced-to-year-and-day-in-kickback-case.html
A former  Chicago  White Sox scout,
Jorge Oquendo Rivera, was sentenced to a year and a day in
prison for his role in a scheme to take kickbacks from signing
bonuses paid by the team to Latin American prospects.  Rivera, who pleaded guilty to one count of mail fraud in
2011, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Charles Norgle
in Chicago, said Randall Samborn, a spokesman for acting Chicago
U.S. Attorney Gary Shapiro.  Oquendo, fellow scout Victor Mateo and the Major League
Baseball team’s one-time director of player personnel, David
Wilder, were indicted in 2010 on charges they had extracted
about $400,000 from the bonuses and from Mexican player contract
buyouts.  Kickbacks were collected from 23 players from December 2004
to February 2008, according to the government. The players’
names haven’t been made public. The White Sox won the World
Series in 2005.  Wilder pleaded guilty in February 2011 to a mail fraud
count, admitting that he received a kickback of more than
$20,000 from the signing of a player in  Brazil . Mateo pleaded
guilty to mail fraud a month later.  Oquendo is the first to be sentenced.  He knew Wilder was misleading the team about the amount of
money needed to sign or acquire the players, which induced the
team to overpay and unwittingly fund the kickbacks, according
his plea agreement.  Oquendo’s lawyer, Luis Rafael Rivera-Rodriquez, said in an
e-mail that his client wouldn’t comment on the sentence imposed
by Norgle.  “He respects the court’s decision and recognizes the
court’s wisdom,” the attorney said. “He is glad to place this
matter behind and looks forward to continue his work with the
community by helping kids in baseball tutoring,” Rivera-Rodriguez said.  The case is U.S. v. Wilder, 10-cr-00948, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  