-- Texas Woman Charged With Mailing Ricin to Obama, Mayor
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-06-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/texas-woman-charged-with-mailing-ricin-letters-to-obama-.html
A former actress in Texarkana,  Texas ,
who told federal agents her husband sent ricin-laced letters to
President  Barack Obama  and  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  was
charged with mailing threatening communications.  Shannon Guess Richardson, 35, admitted to “printing the
mailing labels for the three letters and mailing the three
letters –- knowing that they contained ricin,” James
Spiropoulos, an FBI special agent, said in an affidavit filed
yesterday with the complaint in Texarkana, Texas.  Richardson, of New Boston, Texas, was arrested by federal
agents yesterday, according to an e-mailed statement by John M. Bales, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas.
Richardson “continued to deny” that she had ordered the castor
beans used to create the ricin, and claims that her husband,
Nathaniel Richardson, “typed the letters and made her print and
mail them,” Spiropoulos said in his affidavit.  The case against Richardson is the third in less than two
months involving letters with ricin sent to elected officials,
including Obama.  Matthew Ryan Buquet was charged May 22 with threatening
U.S. District Judge Frederick Van Sickle in Spokane, in a letter
sent with ricin. A total of five letters, including ones
addressed to Obama, the Central Intelligence Agency and a U.S.
Air Force base, are part of that investigation, the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation said May 30.  Mississippi Charges  James Everett Dutschke, a former martial arts instructor,
was arrested in  Mississippi  on April 27 and charged with
threatening the president by mail and developing, producing and
possessing a biological agent as a weapon. Dutschke, 41, pleaded
not guilty to the charges on June 5.  A resident of Tupelo, Dutschke was arrested four days after
charges were dropped against a Corinth, Mississippi man whose
initials were on letters sent to Obama, a U.S. senator and a
state judge. That man’s lawyer, Christi McCoy, said in an April
22 preliminary hearing that Dutschke may have tried to frame her
client.  The FBI and the  New York City Police Department  have been
investigating anonymous letters threatening Obama and Bloomberg
that tested positive for ricin. The letters sent to New York and
 Washington  were postmarked May 20 in Shreveport,  Louisiana ,
where mail from northeastern Texas is often handled.  Anti-Gun Group  The probe is also examining similar correspondence to a
staff member at Mayors Against Illegal Guns in Washington.
Bloomberg is co-chairman of the group.  Ricin is made from castor beans and has been used
experimentally in medicine to kill cancer cells, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s
harmful and potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, according
to the CDC.  The mayor of New York is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  Richardson was remanded to custody yesterday after
appearing at the federal courthouse in Texarkana. Prosecutors
asked U.S. Magistrate Judge Caroline Craven to detain her as a
flight risk who poses a danger to the community, according to a
court filing. A detention hearing was set for June 14, according
to court records.  ‘Different Motivation’  “Fortunately, it appears no one was trying to kill or
intended to kill the president or the mayor,” Tonda Curry,
Richardson’s court-appointed lawyer, said in a phone interview.
“Based on the evidence I’ve seen so far, there was a much
different motivation than any public official’s death.”  Curry declined to comment further until she’s had the
chance to review investigators’ interviews with her client.  The Richardsons first came under suspicion May 30, when
Shannon told law enforcement officials in Shreveport that her
husband “was responsible for mailing the recent letters
containing ricin” sent to Obama, Bloomberg and the anti-gun
organization, according to the FBI agent. Based on a partial
book of postage she provided, FBI forensics analysts determined
that stamps from that same book were used on all three of the
tainted letters, which were mailed from the Texarkana area,
which includes New Boston.  Agents received permission to conduct warrantless searches
of the couple’s home and the husband’s car that same day. They
removed castor beans, syringes, bulk lye and a number of
suspicious unidentified substances from the home, along with
computers containing online orders for those materials. Agents
also retrieved a dozen loose castor beans from the trunk of the
car.  Misleading Investigators  Shannon Richardson initially told the FBI she feared her
husband wanted to poison her. When agents questioned Nathanial
Richardson on May 30 at the Red River Army Depot, where he works
on an assembly line, he said his wife wanted to end their
marriage and that “she was responsible for intentionally
misleading investigators” about her role in the scheme.  The FBI re-interviewed Shannon a day later and determined
“she had been deceptive via a polygraph examination” about her
involvement in the scheme, according to the affidavit. When
confronted, she said she had planted the castor beans near her
husband’s  golf cart  and sprinkled ricin powder around his tools
“to ensure that he would be apprehended.”  No castor beans were located near the golf cart, and all
tools that were swabbed by the search team tested negative for
ricin, according to the affidavit. Other materials found in the
home tested positive for the toxin.  Pink Laptop  FBI analysts recovered computer files titled Obama.docx and
muslimbastard.docx saved onto a removable storage device by a
pink Dell laptop computer that belongs to and is used
exclusively by Shannon, the agent said. These files contained
the text of the mailing labels for the three letters as well as
the text of the letter sent to Obama, according to the
affidavit.  The two stored files were accessed from the pink laptop and
from another computer in the couple’s home office shortly after
7 a.m. on May 20, the FBI said. That’s the same day the ricin-laced letters were mailed and when Nathaniel Richardson’s work
schedule indicates he worked a 10-hour shift that began at 6:30
a.m., according to the agent’s statement.  Shannon Richardson, a mother of five sons, played small
roles in the TV series “The Walking Dead” and “The Vampire
Diaries,” along with parts in a half-dozen other TV shows and
Hollywood films, according to her biography on the Internet
Movie Database. She has both teaching and paralegal degrees,
according to IMDB.com.  The case is U.S.A. v. Richardson, 5:13-cr-00014, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Texarkana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  