-- Mexico Holds Key Rate as Inflation Clashes With Weak Growth
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-06-07T15:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/mexico-holds-key-rate-as-inflation-clashes-with-slower-growth.html
Mexico ’s central bank kept its
overnight rate at a record low as above-target inflation limits
the room to stimulate a slowing economy.  Banco de Mexico maintained the overnight rate at 4 percent
today, citing risks that growth will slow further and that the
recent volatility in the  exchange rate  may continue. The
decision forecast by all 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
came after the national statistics agency reported today that
 consumer prices  rose 4.63 percent in the year through May.  Analysts surveyed by the central bank are forecasting for
the first time that 2013 growth will slow to less than 3 percent
after the economy expanded at a slower-than-predicted pace in
the first quarter. At the same time, traders are paring bets the
central bank will cut borrowing costs in the second half of the
year as consumer price increases linger above the 4 percent
upper limit of its target range.  Today’s Banxico statement “weakens my call for a cut,”
 Benito Berber , a New York-based strategist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. who has forecast a half-point reduction in October, said in
an e-mailed message. The central bank “sounds slightly more
worried on inflation.”  Yields on six-month  interest-rate swaps  fell one basis
point to 4.28 percent at 9:33 a.m. in Mexico City, indicating
traders see about a 24 percent chance the bank will lower rates
by December. As recently as May 21, the likelihood was about 68
percent.  Alert  The peso strengthened 0.9 percent to 12.6931 per dollar.
Yields on Mexico’s fixed-rate benchmark government peso notes
due in 2024 fell three basis points to 5.32 percent.  Banxico  “will be alert” to the impact monetary policy in
other countries may have in the domestic economy and will
respond as needed to ensure consumer price increases are in line
with target, policy makers said in the statement accompanying
the decision.  Credit Suisse Group AG pushed back its rate cut forecast to
September from July, saying inflation won’t slow below 4 percent
as quickly as the bank had estimated, according to a May 28
research note. The bank now expects a 25 basis-point reduction
in both September and October, instead of its earlier call for a
single half-point cut in July.  Consumer prices  in May fell 0.33 percent, the first
contraction in a year, while annual inflation slowed for the
first time in four months, the statistics agency said today.  Cold Weather  In the presentation of the central bank’s quarterly report
on May 8, Governor  Agustin Carstens  forecast inflation will
start to slow toward the bank’s target range in June. Prices
breached the target in March after cold weather reduced farm
production.  Consumer price increases will ease faster starting in July
and fall below 4 percent in the third quarter, the central bank
said today.  The Mexican government cut its growth forecast for the year
to 3.1 percent from 3.5 percent on May 17 after expansion slowed
to 0.8 percent in the first quarter. That was less than the 1.1
percent median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg and
the least since gross domestic product contracted 6.2 percent in
2009 in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse.  The peso tumbled 5.3 percent last month as part of a sell-off in developing-nation currencies sparked by speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will roll back asset purchases known as
quantitative easing. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22
the central bank could reduce asset purchases if the U.S. posts
a sustained improvement in economic growth.  Slowing Growth  Analysts have cut their forecasts for Mexican growth this
year in each of the past four monthly surveys by the central
bank, reducing the median estimate to 2.96 percent in its latest
poll published June 3 from 3.55 percent in February.  Carstens said in a radio interview June 5 that slow growth
in Mexico is a “pothole.” There are “significant reasons for
a solid recovery starting in the second half of the year,”
including an improving U.S. economy, Carstens told Radio
Formula.  The U.S., which buys about 80 percent of Mexico’s  exports ,
grew an annualized 2.4 percent in the first quarter, less than
the 3 percent forecast by analysts.  The Fed’s key interest rate of zero to 0.25 percent helped
attract record foreign investment into Mexico’s bond market,
pushing up the peso and prompting Carstens to warn that a sudden
reversal of the inflows could pose a risk to the nation’s
financial stability. Such statements had led economists to
forecast  Banco de Mexico  would cut rates again this year after
lowering them half a point on March 8 to head off a sudden
flight of capital.  Abrupt Reversal  An abrupt reversal of flows is no longer as much of a
concern, according to Carlos Capistran, chief Mexico economist
at Bank of America Corp.  “At the current levels, you cannot argue that the exchange
rate is too appreciated,” Capistran, who predicts the central
bank will leave rates unchanged through year-end, said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City before today’s report.
“Therefore, it’s not hurting exports and this means that
portfolio inflows are not coming at a rate that is worrisome.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 