-- Mexican Currency Rallies Most in Week on Interest-Rate Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-06-07T16:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/mexican-currency-rallies-most-in-week-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
Mexico’s peso advanced the most in
more than a week as the central bank refrained from lowering the
target lending rate.  The currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 12.7315 per  U.S.
dollar  at 11:08 a.m. in Mexico City, and was up by the same
amount since May 31. Today’s advance was the biggest since May
27 on a closing basis.  Traders have pared bets that the central bank will cut
borrowing costs in the second half of the year as annual
inflation has remained above the 4 percent upper limit of the
central bank’s target range. Policy makers maintained the
overnight rate at a record low 4 percent today, citing risks
that growth will slow further and that the recent volatility in
the  exchange rate  may continue.  “The communique really doesn’t say anything about
potential easings,” Luis Estrada, the head of currency and
derivatives trading at Banco Ve Por Mas SA in  Mexico  City, said
in a telephone interview. “It’s very neutral and maybe slightly
on the hawkish side. They’re not really making an emphasis on
any potential easing.”  The peso fluctuated earlier today as the national
statistics agency reported that annual inflation slowed to  4.63
percent in May, still above the central bank’s target. A U.S.
report showed employers added more jobs than forecast. Mexico’s
northern neighbor is its biggest trading partner.  Yields on six-month  interest-rate swaps  declined one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.28 percent, indicating
traders see about a 24 percent chance the bank will lower
borrowing costs by December. As recently as May 21, the
likelihood was about 68 percent.  The yields on benchmark  government bonds  maturing in 2024
climbed three basis points to 5.38 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  