-- Fed’s $5.7 Trillion Gift Imperiled on Yield Rise: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r ,   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-06-07T14:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/fed-s-5-7-trillion-gift-imperiled-on-yield-rise-credit-markets.html
The most relentless surge in borrowing 
costs for U.S. corporate debt in four years is threatening to 
derail this year’s record pace of sales as concern deepens the 
Federal Reserve will curtail unprecedented stimulus.  Yields are climbing for a sixth week from last month’s
record lows and yesterday touched 3.78 percent, the highest
level since September, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield index. U.K. oil-and-gas
services provider  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC)  cited market conditions for
canceling its issue of investment-grade dollar-denominated notes
as sales fell below the 2013 average for a second week.  While the Fed has enabled companies to borrow $5.74
trillion in the bond market since the end of 2008 by suppressing
benchmark interest rates at close to zero percent, debt
investors are becoming more discriminating as policy makers
consider tapering their monthly bond purchases. That may blunt
the record pace of sales, which reached $757.3 billion this
year, after an unprecedented $1.48 trillion of issuance in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Paring Inventories  “Last year we said over and over again that it’s an
issuer’s market and the tables, at least recently, have
turned,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview. “Borrowers are listening to the demand of the
investor.”  Concern that interest rates will rise further has sparked a
sell-off in longer-dated corporate debt, leaving  $146 billion  of
investment-grade bonds in the U.S. with maturities greater than
10 years trading below par, Bloomberg bond index data show. The
discount notes have swelled from less than $30 billion at the
beginning of May.  Dealers sold a net $3.1 billion of investment-grade notes
in the past week, JPMorgan Chase & Co. credit strategists wrote
in a note yesterday. The biggest banks are paring inventories
even as investors absorb $16 billion of new debt issuance in a
weakening market, which is unusual, said the strategists led by
 Eric Beinstein  in New York.  “It may reflect dealers coming into this selloff period
longer than they wished,” the JPMorgan strategists wrote.
“Presumably they are less long now.”  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. fell. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 2.2 basis point to a mid-price of 81.6 basis points as
of 9:43 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, decreased 0.2 basis point to 16.95 basis
points as of 9:44 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as company debentures and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of government securities.  Goldman Sachs  Bonds of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 6 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 9:45 a.m. in New York, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Borrowing costs for the riskiest to the most creditworthy
issuers in the U.S. have climbed from 3.705 percent at the end
of last week after touching a record low 3.35 percent on May 2,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The jump in yields, which averaged 4.07 percent in 2012,
marks the longest streak of increases since the eight weeks
ended Oct. 31, 2008, at the height of the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  The extra yield investors demand to hold company bonds
rather than government debt increased to 228 basis points as of
yesterday from 212 on May 31 after reaching 201 on May 22, the
least since Oct. 16, 2007, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  ‘Overheated’ Market  Sales in 2013 have climbed 17.5 percent from the
corresponding period last year, Bloomberg data show. Offerings
this week of $15.7 billion followed $14.4 billion in the period
ended May 31, a week shortened by the Memorial Day public
holiday in the U.S. Weekly sales have averaged $33.7 billion
this year.  Offerings of junk-rated notes, graded below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s,
accounted for $2.3 billion of the total, the second-slowest week
this year, from $2.6 billion in the prior period, Bloomberg data
show.  “The new issue market is still very healthy, but it got
overheated,” said Josh Witz, co-head of U.S. debt capital
markets at Societe Generale SA in New York.  Petrofac canceled its offering of five- and 10-year bonds
on June 3, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction, who asked not to be identified without
authorization to speak publicly.  Sustained Improvement  The bonds had been provisionally rated Baa1, the third-lowest level of investment grade, by Moody’s, which cited the
London-based company’s presence in “fairly resilient markets”
and its “conservative financial policies” in a report dated
that day.  The five-year notes were marketed at 170 basis points,
after initial price guidance of about 150, while the spread on
the 10-year securities expanded to 200 from about 187.5 basis
points, the person said.  “Despite a reasonable start to the bond launch, during the
course of the trading day, the U.S. credit markets weakened in
light of broader economic concerns so severely that the process
was stopped,” Stephen Malthouse, an outside spokesman for
Petrofac at Tulchan Communications Group, wrote in an e-mail.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told Congress on May 22 that
the central bank’s policy-setting board could start scaling back
purchases in its “next few meetings” if the U.S. employment
outlook shows sustained improvement.  ‘Greater Cost’  Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said June 4 it would be
“prudent” to reduce bond buying, while San Francisco Fed
President John Williams said June 3 that a “modest adjustment
downward” is possible as soon as this summer.  “With the evaporation of excess liquidity being provided
by the Fed, there’s likely to be a greater cost to be extracted
by investors on corporate borrowers,” said Robert Smith, the
chief investment officer at Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory
Services Ltd., which oversees about $10.8 billion. “I’m afraid
of everyone rushing for the door at the same time on the basis
of two or three policy statements.”  Smith said it’s unclear if the economy will grow fast
enough to warrant a reduction in near-term monetary stimulus.  Employment increased more than forecast in May and the
jobless rate climbed from a four-year low as more Americans
entered the labor force, showing the world’s largest economy
weathered the effects of higher taxes and  federal budget  cuts.  Payrolls Report  Payrolls rose 175,000 last month after a revised 149,000
increase in April that was smaller than first estimated, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a 163,000 gain. The
 unemployment rate  rose to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent.  Investment-grade notes have lost 2.11 percent in the past
month, leading to a 0.6 percent decline since year-end on the
 Bloomberg U.S. Corporate Bond Index. (BUSC)   A month after billionaire  Warren Buffett  said he felt sorry
for fixed-income investors with yields so low, bond prices have
tumbled to an average 108.2 cents as of June 5 from as high as
112 cents on the dollar on May 2, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield index.  The $1 billion of 4.5 percent notes due February 2043 from
Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. have fallen to 98.4 cents, the
lowest level since they were issued on Jan. 29, from a record
105.98 cents on the dollar on May 1, Trace data show.  Long-term corporate debt trading at a discount now accounts
for about 15 percent of the $970 billion of such securities
tracked by Bloomberg. On May 1, notes costing less than 100
cents on the dollar accounted for only 3 percent of the total,
which then had a market value of more than $1 trillion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  