-- Marchionne Holds Talks to Push Ahead Fiat-Chrysler Merger
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-06-07T13:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/fiat-in-talks-to-push-ahead-with-chrysler-merger.html
Fiat SpA (F)  is in talks to buy the
remaining stake in Chrysler Group LLC and is pursuing parallel
discussions about refinancing debt of both carmakers.  Sergio Marchionne, chief executive officer of the two
manufacturers, is discussing the purchase of the remaining
shares in Chrysler with the United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust, which owns the stake, to push ahead on a merger
between Fiat and the U.S. carmaker.  “We have been working on the project for a long time,
we’ll try to complete it as soon as possible,” the executive
said today in  Venice .  Marchionne is also talking with banks about refinancing
Chrysler debt as well as Fiat’s 1.95 billion-euro ($2.6 billion)
revolving credit line. Chrysler has a $2.9 billion term loan and
$3.2 billion in secured notes outstanding, according to an April
29 presentation.  Fiat,  Italy ’s biggest manufacturer, has  accumulated  a 58.5
percent holding in Chrysler since 2009 and plans to buy the rest
as it seeks a global presence to compete with  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  The Italian manufacturer is in talks with a
pool of banks for as much as $10 billion in funding for the deal
and for refinancing the companies’ debt, people familiar with
the matter said on May 29.  Marchionne said today that the group had sufficient
resources to buy the Chrysler stake and “no immediate need”
for fresh funds. Fiat doesn’t require $10 billion in additional
financing, the executive said at the annual meeting of the
Council for the U.S. and Italy.  Shares Advance  Fiat  gained  as much as 18 cents, or 3 percent, to 6.09
euros and was up 2.3 percent as of 3:37 p.m. in Milan trading.
The stock has gained 60 percent this year, valuing the automaker
at 7.57 billion euros.  Talks with the UAW trust to buy a 41.5 percent stake are
ongoing, even as the two sides are locked in a legal battle over
the price, he said. Whether an agreement is reached before a
Delaware court decides on the dispute “depends” on the union
trust, Marchionne said.  A merger between Fiat and Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
Chrysler would create a manufacturer grouping the mass-market
Fiat, Chrysler, Jeep and Dodge brands with the Maserati and
Ferrari supercar marques. Fiat will probably wait for a ruling
in the lawsuit about the value of the labor group’s stake before
moving forward, Chairman John Elkann said on May 30.  Legal Dispute  The legal dispute between Fiat and the retiree health-care
trust centers on whether the Italian company should increase its
$139.7 million offer in a call option for a 3.3 percent Chrysler
stake. The trust values the contested holding at a minimum of
$342 million. The Delaware judge overseeing the case said in
April that he’s “kind of leaning” in the trust’s direction.  Under the disputed agreement, Fiat holds options that
require the labor group to sell almost 17 percent of Chrysler.
Fiat is negotiating on the purchase with the trust, which also
has the legal right to push for an initial public offering of
Chrysler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  