-- Former Senator Lieberman Joins Kasowitz: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/former-senator-lieberman-joins-kasowitz-business-of-law.html
Retired Connecticut U.S. senator
Joseph I. Lieberman joined Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP
as senior counsel in New York.  Lieberman, who retired from the Senate after four terms in
January, will focus on independent and internal investigations
and advise clients on public policy, strategic and regulatory
issues.  Lieberman said in an interview that he considered many
firms and chose Kasowitz Benson after a friend,  Colorado  lawyer
Norman Brownstein, suggested it to him. The firm appealed to
Lieberman because of its reputation for fighting hard,
creatively and successfully for its clients and because of the
firm culture, he said.  “It seemed like a fit with my own independent nature, as
evidenced by my political career,” he said. “They are not
exclusively a plaintiffs’ firm or a defense firms. They do white
collar defense work but have had the guts to sue the big banks
over the behavior during the credit crisis and the downturn.”  Lieberman, who was a Democratic vice presidential candidate
and unsuccessfully ran for president in 2004, left the
Democratic party to run and win his seat as an independent in
2006.  During his 24 years in the senate, Lieberman was chairman
of the Committee on  Homeland Security  and Government Affairs,
where he led congressional investigations, including into Enron
Corp.’s collapse, the federal government’s response to  Hurricane
Katrina , the Fort Hood mass shooting, and the attack in
Benghazi, Libya, the firm said.  Before his election to the Senate, Lieberman spent six
years as Connecticut attorney general. He also spent 10 years in
the Connecticut State Senate, including three terms as majority
leader, the firm said.  At Kasowitz Benson, he joins the white collar criminal
defense and investigations practice.  “I will build on my investigative experiences as AG and in
the Senate,” Lieberman said. “It’s the sort of thing I like to
do and there is a demand for it.”  Marc Kasowitz , founder of the firm, said he was pleased to
have wooed Lieberman. The two men’s families knew one another in
New Haven and Kasowitz worked on Lieberman’s first political
campaign in 1970.  “He’s going to be a great addition -- I really think he’s
going to be a magnet for the practice,” Kasowitz said in an
interview.  The practice, which Kasowitz estimates has 20 to 25 lawyers
dedicated to it, has worked on investigations including for MF
Global Holdings Ltd. and Hilton Worldwide Inc.  Kasowitz said he expects Lieberman will be “a natural” at
boosting the firm’s work with overseas companies that have
business, particularly litigation matters, in the U.S.  Kasowitz Benson has more than 375 lawyers, primarily
focusing on complex commercial litigation.  Ken Salazar Joins WilmerHale, Will Open Firm’s Denver Office  Former Interior Secretary and U.S. Senator  Ken Salazar  is
joining Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP as a partner and
will anchor the firm’s new Denver office.  At WilmerHale, Salazar will provide legal, strategic and
policy advice to clients. He will work on energy, environment,
and natural resources issues, and help build on the firm’s work
with Native Americans.  “As an Interior Secretary, United States Senator and State
Attorney General, Ken adds to the firm’s rich tradition of
lawyers who have served at the highest levels of government,”
WilmerHale co-managing partner Robert Novick said in a
statement. “With his deep roots in Colorado, Ken will spearhead
WilmerHale’s new Denver office, extending WilmerHale’s reach
into a region with vibrant energy, natural resources, technology
and financial sectors.”  Salazar, a Colorado native, was U.S. Secretary of the
Interior from 2009 to 2013 and led the government’s response to
the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill in 2010. He also led the 70,000-employee
department in promoting solar-energy projects on federal lands,
overseeing oil exploration off Alaska’s coast and expanding the
nation’s parks network.  He represented Colorado in the  U.S. Senate  from 2004 to
2008. While in office, Salazar served on the Energy and Natural
Resources, Finance and Ethics Committees.  As Colorado attorney general from 1999 to 2004, he oversaw
thousands of civil and criminal cases, including matters before
the Colorado Supreme Court and the U.S. Supreme Court.  The firm declined to immediately provide more information
about the Denver office, which is in the planning stages.  WilmerHale has 1,000 lawyers at 14 offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  News  Christie Names Chiesa Interim Senator as Candidates Line Up  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  named state attorney
general Jeffrey Chiesa as the interim replacement for the late
U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , who died Monday at age 89.  Chiesa, who lives in Branchburg and identified himself as a
registered Republican, will begin June 10, and won’t run in the
special election to complete Lautenberg’s term, Christie said at
a press conference yesterday.  Chiesa has been state attorney general since Jan. 10, 2012,
and previously served as chief counsel to Christie. He was an
assistant U.S. attorney from 2002 through 2009. At law firm Wolf
& Samson, he was a partner in the litigation group.  Lautenberg, a five-term Democrat, who died of complications
from viral pneumonia, had said in February that he wouldn’t run
again in 2014. Christie, a Republican seeking a second term in
November, set an Oct. 16 special election for the Senate seat,
with an Aug. 14 primary.  Chiesa, 47, said he was surprised by the appointment, which
will end Oct. 16, the day of the special election.  As attorney general, Chiesa has targeted issues including
gun and  gang violence , crimes against children and public
corruption, and helped to lead the state’s response to  Hurricane
Sandy , according to Christie’s office.  For more, click here and here.  Deals  Fried Frank Advises Media General on Young Broadcasting Merger  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP is
representing Media General Inc. (MEG) , the television broadcaster
backed by  Mario Gabelli  and  Warren Buffett , which agreed to
combine with New Young Broadcasting Holding Co. in a stock deal
valuing the companies at almost $800 million. Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP is counsel to New Young Broadcasting.  Fried Frank lawyers working on the matter are mergers and
acquisitions partners Philip Richter and John Sorkin, executive
compensation and employee benefits partner Donald Carleen, tax
partner Michael Alter, financing partner Gus Atiyah and capital
markets partner Michael Levitt. Andy Carington is general
counsel to Media General.  The Debevoise team is led by partner Jonathan E. Levitsky
and includes partners Peter A. Furci and Elizabeth Pagel Serebransky.  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP is representing the
independent directors of Media General in the merger.  Gibson
Dunn ’s team is led by Stephen I. Glover, Washington corporate
partner and co-chairman of the firmwide mergers and acquisitions
practice group.  The merger highlights the hastening consolidation in local
TV, driven by the fees stations and broadcast networks are
beginning to extract from cable and satellite operators such as
Comcast Corp. and  DirecTV. (DTV)   Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. (SBGI)  has
spent more than $1.84 billion in the past two years buying local
outlets, expanding its reach to 34 percent of U.S. households,
according to Bloomberg Industries.  George L. Mahoney, president and chief executive officer of
Media General, will lead the new company, which will keep the
Media General name and remain based in Richmond, Virginia. New
Young Broadcasting is based in Nashville, Tennessee.  Media General will have about 89.1 million shares
outstanding once the deal is completed, according to a
statement, giving a market value of about $870 million based on
yesterday’s prices.  With the combination, Media General will own 30 network
affiliated stations in 27 markets, reaching about 16.5 million
U.S. TV households, or 14 percent of the company. The stations
will include 11 CBS affiliates, nine working with NBC, seven ABC
outlets and one with Fox.  Litigation  NCAA’s Latham Lawyers Win Dismissal of Penn Sanctions Suit  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association , represented
by Latham & Watkins LLP, won the dismissal of a lawsuit
challenging sanctions against  Pennsylvania State University  for
its role in the Jerry Sandusky sex-abuse scandal.  The lawsuit brought by Governor Tom Corbett failed to show
a violation of federal antitrust law, U.S. District Judge Yvette Kane said yesterday in her decision throwing out the case.
Corbett said the fines restrained competition in the market for
college sports. The NCAA countered in a presentation to the
judge last month that Corbett’s arguments were insufficient to
serve as the basis of an antitrust claim.  “Each of defendant’s arguments is strong enough to render
the governor’s action under antitrust law a Hail Mary pass,”
Kane said her 28-page opinion. “These arguments are well-founded in the law and require that the governor’s complaint be
dismissed.”  Latham’s Washington-based team was led by partner J. Scott Ballenger, who argued the case, with associate Roman Martinez.
Washington partners Everett Johnson Jr. and Douglas Greenburg
and Brussels/Washington partner Michael Egge also advised on the
matter.  A call to Corbett’s office was referred to General Counsel
James Schultz. Nils Frederiksen, a spokesman for the state
Office of the General Counsel, had no immediate comment on the
ruling.  Wick Sollers, a spokesman for the family of deceased Penn
State head football coach  Joe Paterno , called the decision
“disappointing,” and said in a statement that other litigation
is pending and that the NCAA needs to provide more documentation
for its actions.  Corbett sued the Indianapolis-based NCAA, the governing
body for college sports, in January, challenging a $60 million
fine levied against the university for its failure to prevent
the sexual abuse by Sandusky, who was convicted of molesting
boys when he was a football coach. He was sentenced to a minimum
of 30 years in prison.  The case is Corbett v. National Collegiate Athletic
Association, 1:13-cv-00006, U.S. District Court, Middle District
of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  For more, click here.  Video  Law Firms With Blogs Grow Revenue Faster, Survey Shows  Kevin O’Keefe, founder of the social media company LexBlog,
talks with Sarah Kopit about who’s blogging in the AmLaw 200 law
firms and how those firms are turning blogs into revenue.  The nation’s 200 highest-grossing firms have increased
their blogging so that 78 percent of the firms are
participating, with as many as 660 blogs. Employment is the most
popular topic of blogs, with 91 blogs.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  