-- French Corn Conditions Worsen for Third Week Under Soaking Rain
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-07T16:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/french-corn-conditions-worsen-for-third-week-under-soaking-rain.html
France ’s corn crop, the European
Union’s biggest, deteriorated for a third week as developing
plants lacked sun and as rain almost halted planting in the main
growing regions in the southwest and east.  The portion of French corn rated good fell to 61 percent in
the week through June 3 from 66 percent in the previous period,
while 1 percent of the crop continued to be classified as
excellent, crop office FranceAgriMer reported today.  France’s southwest, center and northeast had more than
double the usual rainfall in May’s last 10 days, U.S. Department
of Agriculture  data  show. Sun and warmth returned this week,
which will aid crops, said Celine Sicard, an analyst at Paris-based InVivo, the largest exporter of French wheat.  “We certainly won’t get to maximum yield levels,” Sicard
said. “However, now that it’s warm, corn will develop in
perfect conditions. The most-recurring limiting factor is water,
and this year that shouldn’t be a problem.”  Maximum temperatures will be about 27 degrees Celsius (80.6
degrees Fahrenheit) in the northeast today, according to weather
office Meteo-France, which predicted some thunderstorms over the
weekend and a mix of sun and rain next week.  Soils across southern and eastern France are  saturated ,
according to the USDA. The city of Bergerac in the Aquitaine
region had 62 hours of sunshine in June’s first six days,
according to Meteo-France. That followed 135 sunshine hours for
all of last month, against 211 hours normally. Aquitaine grew 19
percent of France’s corn last year, the largest share.  Yield Outlook  “A corn plant likes to have its feet in water and its head
in the sun,” Sicard said. “We could maybe even hope for good
yields on the area that was able to be planted.”  Corn sowing was unchanged from a week earlier at 89 percent
of the national area, according to FranceAgriMer. Farmers in
Aquitaine had seeded 80 percent of the planned area as of June
3, up 1 percentage point from the previous week and compared
with 98 percent at the same time a year earlier.  France’s corn production may climb to 16.4 million metric
tons this year from 15.7 million tons in 2012, the International
Grains Council forecast last week, cutting its outlook by
100,000 tons from the previous month.  The crop was rated 77 percent good or excellent in the week
through May 13, according to FranceAgriMer, 15 percentage points
higher than this week.  Alsace Crop  In  Aquitaine , corn judged to be good fell to 66 percent of
the crop from 79 percent in the previous week and none was rated
excellent, according to FranceAgriMer. In Alsace, the second-biggest corn-growing region last year, the portion classified as
good slumped to 56 percent from 61 percent.  The percentage of the corn crop with six to eight leaves
visible increased to 16 percent from 5 percent, and compared
with 51 percent at the same time last year, the report showed.  Spring barley also suffered, with the crop rated good or
excellent falling to 73 percent from 78 percent in the prior
week, according to FranceAgriMer. Soft-wheat and winter-barley
ratings remained unchanged, with 68 percent and 67 percent of
the crops getting top ratings, respectively.  Groupama SA, France’s largest agricultural insurer, said
yesterday it extended the planting date for corn for farmers to
still be eligible for full crop insurance to June 5 from June 1
due to the weather. Flooding affected 70,000 hectares (172,975
acres) of farmland at the end of May, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  