-- Future Capital Fundraising for $250 Million Bioethanol Refinery
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-06-07T14:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/future-capital-fundraising-for-250-million-bioethanol-refinery.html
Future Capital Partners Ltd. plans to
raise 7 million pounds ($11 million) through a sale of equities
to fund the next stage of development of a 160 million-pound
wheat-to-bioethanol refinery in Grimsby, northern  England .  The minimum investment in Future Fuels LLP, established to
develop, build and operate the plant alongside Vireol Ltd., is
50,000 pounds, London-based Future Capital said today in an e-mailed statement. The company anticipates an internal rate of
return after tax of about 40 percent for investors, it said.  The fundraising follows Future Capital’s purchase of a U.S.
bioethanol plant in March that it plans to sell to Future Fuels
so the developer can bring equipment to Grimsby and cut costs by
about 50 million pounds. Proceeds will pay for integration of
new assets into the project, furthering site development and
maintaining the U.S. plant’s assets, according to the statement.  “The market for bioethanol is set to triple in the next
seven years as U.K. government and European Union regulation
focus on renewable transport fuels at the heart of their carbon
reduction strategy,” Piers Denne, director of sales at Future
Capital, said in the statement.  The U.K. plans to get 10 percent of the energy used in road
transportation from renewables such as bioethanol and biodiesel
by 2020. Vehicles contribute as much as 21 percent to its total
greenhouse gas emissions, according to the government. The
Grimsby plant will make about 200 million liters (53 million
gallons) a year, enough to deliver 15 percent to 20 percent of
U.K. transport fuel requirements by 2016, Future Capital said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  