-- Gafisa Swings as Trading Volume Soars on Alphaville Stake Sale
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-06-07T18:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/gafisa-swings-as-trading-volume-soars-on-alphaville-stake-sale.html
Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  swung between losses and
gains after the Brazilian homebuilder agreed to sell a majority
stake in its Alphaville Urbanismo business to a unit of
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and a local partner.  The shares slumped 6.9 percent to 3.79 reais at 2:35 p.m.
in  Sao Paulo , the worst performance on  Brazil ’s Ibovespa index,
after earlier rising as much as 4.9 percent. Trading volume was
3.4 times the three-month daily average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gafisa agreed to sell a 70 percent stake in Alphaville to
Blackstone Real Estate Advisors LP and Patria Investimentos Ltda
for 1.4 billion reais ($654 million), according to a regulatory
filing today. Sao Paulo-based Gafisa posted unexpected  losses  in
the past two quarters as the company overestimated demand for
government-subsidized homes for low-income families.  “The deal allows us to balance the need to raise cash
without having to let go of an asset with very high returns,”
Chief Financial Officer Andre Bergstein said in a phone
interview.  Proceeds will be used to reduce Gafisa’s net debt as a
percentage of assets to 53 percent from 94 percent at the end of
the first quarter, Bergstein said.  Gafisa separately will pay 367 million reais for a 20
percent stake it didn’t already own in Alphaville, ending
arbitration proceedings with the unit’s previous controlling
shareholders, according to the regulatory filing.  The company’s agreement to pay for the stake with cash
instead of shares could lower the chances of extraordinary
dividends for shareholders, according to Credit Suisse AG
analysts including Guilherme Rocha.  “This uncertainty over the use of cash could hinder part
of the upside for the shares in short-term,” the analysts wrote
in a note to clients today.  Alphaville, which focuses on higher-income developments,
was an “important” profit generator for Gafisa, Chief
Executive Officer Alceu Duilio Calciolari said on a May 13
conference call. The unit  accounted  for 24 percent of Gafisa’s
first-quarter revenue, according to a May 10 earnings report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  