-- Gas Rigs Unchanged for Third Straight Week, Baker Hughes Reports
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-06-07T17:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/gas-rigs-unchanged-for-third-straight-week-baker-hughes-reports.html
Natural gas rigs  in the U.S. were
unchanged for a third consecutive week at 354, according to
 Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   Oil rigs  declined by four to 1,406, data posted on Baker
Hughes’ website show. Total energy rigs fell by six to 1,765,
the Houston-based field-services company said.  The number of U.S.  gas rigs  has dropped to less than a
quarter of its peak of 1,606 reached in August 2008 as producers
have focused on crude and liquids. An uptick in gas prices this
year should be enough to lure drillers back into some low-cost
basins, with gas activity expected to recover by next year,
according to Barclays Plc.  “We’re looking at maybe 50 to 100 incremental rigs being
directed toward gas activity,” James C. West, an oil services
and drilling analyst at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investment-banking unit
in New York, said by telephone June 4. “Demand for natural gas
is going to grow pretty quickly, and they’re going to want to
support that demand.”  Natural gas for July delivery rose 0.9 cent to $3.838 per
million British thermal units at 1:06 p.m. on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, up 69 percent from a year ago.  U.S. gas stockpiles  gained 111 billion cubic feet in the
week ended May 31 to 2.252 trillion cubic feet, above the five-year average injection of 92 billion, the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, said
yesterday. Supplies were 3 percent below the five-year average.  More Rigs  WPX Energy Inc. (WPX) , a Tulsa, Oklahoma-based oil and gas
producer, will run seven gas rigs in western  Colorado ’s Piceance
Basin for the rest of this year, up from its initial plan of
five, the company said in a statement June 5.  “Now’s the right time for us to accelerate our natural gas
production and the Piceance is the right place to start,” Ralph A. Hill, WPX’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.
“Natural gas prices are stronger, and this helps lay the
groundwork for our 2014 development.”  The capital expenditures of U.S. oil and gas producers rose
20 percent last year to a record $185.6 billion, primarily
because of tight oil and liquids plays, according to a survey
released by Ernst & Young June 4.  The spending “speaks to the incredible opportunity
unfolding in tight oil from shale formations and the high cost
of developing these unconventional resources,” Marcela Donadio,
Americas oil and gas leader for Ernst & Young, said in a
statement. “Everyone wants in and they are paying a premium to
play.”  Oil Output  U.S. oil output climbed 0.1 percent to 7.3 million barrels
a day last week, EIA data show. Production reached 7.37 million
barrels a day in the week ended May 3, the most since 1992.
Stockpiles slid 6.27 million barrels, the most since December.  Crude for July delivery rose $1.47, or 1.6 percent, to
$96.23 a barrel today on the Nymex. Prices have gained 13
percent in the past year.  Oil futures have  traded as much as  25 times higher than gas
futures this month, compared with a 10-year average of 15 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays said in a June 4 report that exploration and
production spending in the U.S. will increase 2 percent this
year, up from a December forecast of 0.6 percent growth.  The recovery in North America drilling “has taken hold and
will likely gain some momentum,” West said. “There’s optimism
out there among the oil and gas companies and certain oil
services companies are being told by the companies to prepare
for activity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  