-- German Industrial Production Increases Most in a Year
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-07T10:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/german-industrial-output-jumps-most-in-a-year-on-construction.html
German industrial  production (GRIPIMOM)  surged
the most in more than a year in April as construction activity
surged after an unusually long winter damped output.  Production jumped 1.8 percent percent from March, when it
gained 1.2 percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today.
That’s the third consecutive increase and the strongest gain
since March last year. Economists forecast no change, according
to the median of 38 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . From a
year earlier, production rose 1 percent when adjusted for
working days.  The Bundesbank downgraded its outlook for the German
economy today, while pointing to a gradual recovery in the
course of the year. Exports in April rose more than forecast,
supporting the central bank’s view that trade with faster-growing markets in Asia and the U.S. will help offset the
effects of six quarters of recession in the 17-nation euro area.  “The German economy is gradually exiting the weak phase
that it had around the turn of the year,”  Mario Gruppe , an
economist at NordLB in Hanover, said before the release. “It is
however a growth path that has a few potholes in it. It will be
a recovery that now and again has setbacks.”  After the  European Central Bank  left interest rates at a
record low of 0.5 percent yesterday, President  Mario Draghi 
reiterated his view that the region’s economy will still return
to growth this year.  Stocks Fall  European stocks fell today today, as investors awaited U.S.
labor data. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.3 percent at
12:34 p.m. in  Frankfurt , extending the biggest weekly drop in a
year. The euro was little changed at $1.3248.  U.S. payrolls probably grew in May at a similar rate as the
previous month, economists said before a Labor Department report
today.  Elsewhere,  South Korea  said first-quarter gross domestic
product rose 0.8 percent from the previous period, revising the
prior estimate of a 0.9 percent expansion.  Sri Lanka ’s central
bank left benchmark  interest rates  unchanged.  In Europe, Britain’s  trade deficit  narrowed more than
economists forecast in April as imports declined faster than
exports. The goods trade gap was at 8.2 billion pounds ($12.8
billion) compared with 9.2 billion pounds in March, the  Office
for National Statistics  said. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 19 economists was for 8.8 billion pounds.  U.K. Consumers  Separately, the  Bank of England  said in a quarterly report
that U.K. consumers surveyed in May anticipated prices would
increase 3.6 percent over the following year, the same as in
February.  In  Greece , GDP shrank 5.6 percent in the first quarter
compared with the same period a year earlier, the Hellenic
Statistical Authority said in e-mailed statement today. That
contraction is wider than May 15 preliminary estimate of 5.3
percent. Greece (GKGNGDPY)  doesn’t publish seasonally adjusted GDP data or
quarter-on-quarter results.  German manufacturing output rose 1.5 percent in April, with
production of investment goods up 4 percent, today’s report
showed. Construction surged 6.7 percent, while energy output
dropped 1.5 percent.  “After the cold winter, main construction trades are
already showing considerable recovery and catch-up effects,”
the  Economy Ministry  said in the statement. “The prospects for
a good result in the second quarter have thus improved
further.”  Euro Crisis  Growth in the three months through June should be “quite
strong,” the Bundesbank said today, after the economy grew only
0.1 percent in the first quarter. The Frankfurt-based central
bank cut its 2013  growth projection  to 0.3 from the 0.4 percent
predicted in December, and said the economy would grow by 1.5
percent in 2014, down from the previously estimated 1.9 percent.  “Much will depend on whether the economic situation
stabilizes in the euro-area crisis countries and whether
expansionary forces will gradually gain the upper hand there,”
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said in a statement. “A
sustained upturn in the world economy is just as important as a
precondition for the growth path we have assumed.”  With the euro area mired in the longest recession in its
14-year history,  Germany ’s recovery from contraction in the last
three months of 2012 has proven uneven. While business
confidence rose for the first time in three months in May,
factory orders dropped in April.  Car Sales  Audi AG (NSU) , the world’s second-largest maker of luxury cars,
said on May 16 that high-performance models like the RS5, as
well as the new version of the A3 compact, will help propel
sales this year amid intensifying economic headwinds.  After increasing in April, German new car sales resumed a
decline in May, the German Federal Motor Vehicle Office, or KBA,
said on June 4. The European auto market is contracting for a
sixth consecutive year to a two-decade low.  “German industrial data are volatile at the moment but
overall there’s evidence that the hard numbers are beginning to
catch up with the sentiment indicators,” Frederik Ducrozet, an
economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Paris, said before the
report was published. “The economy is on a better footing, but
as it is so export-focused a shock in  Asia  or the U.S. will have
an impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  