-- German Exports Surges Signaling Economic Recovery
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-06-07T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/german-exports-surged-in-april-in-sign-of-economic-recovery.html
German  exports (GRBTEXMM)  rose more than
economists forecast in April, adding to signs that Europe’s
largest economy is gaining strength.  Exports, adjusted for working days and seasonal changes,
jumped 1.9 percent from March, when they gained 0.5 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. That’s the
strongest increase since May 2012. Economists predicted a gain
of 0.1 percent, according to the median forecast of 17
economists in a  Bloomberg News survey . Imports advanced 2.3
percent in April.  German  business confidence  rose for the first time in three
months in May after an unusually long winter delayed a recovery
in Europe’s largest economy. At the same time, factory orders
dropped in April and industrial production  probably  stagnated.
The Bundesbank, which last month said it expects the economy to
gather pace in the current quarter, will publish new forecasts
today.  “Much speaks for the fact that trade will provide positive
impulses in the export-led German economy in the second
quarter,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover.
“Private consumption continues to be robust, while investment
remains weak.”  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi yesterday said
exports are an important growth driver for the euro area, which
is struggling to emerge from the longest recession in its 14-year history. The economy will return to growth by the end of
the year, Draghi said, handing policy makers a reason to hold
back fresh stimulus.  Economic Outlook  After keeping interest rates at a record low of 0.5
percent, the ECB yesterday revised its economic outlook. It now
predicts the 17-nation euro region will shrink 0.6 percent this
year before growing 1.1 percent in 2014, with inflation
averaging 1.4 percent and 1.3 percent, respectively.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest maker of
cement, said on May 8 that first-quarter earnings rose 3.3
percent as North American growth and job cuts helped offset
harsh winter conditions that impeded building in Europe.  Germany ’s trade surplus narrowed to 18.1 billion euros ($24
billion) from 18.8 billion euros in March. The surplus in the
current account, a measure of all trade including services,
dropped to 17.6 billion euros from 20.4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  