-- Greenspan Calls for Tapering of Federal Reserve Asset Purchases
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-06-07T13:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/greenspan-calls-for-tapering-of-federal-reserve-asset-purchases.html
Alan Greenspan , former chairman of
the  Federal Reserve , said the central bank needs to begin
cutting back on its unprecedented asset purchases and move
toward stopping them altogether.  “The sooner we come to grips with this excessive level of
assets on the balance sheet of the Federal Reserve, which
everyone agrees is excessive, the better,” Greenspan said on
CNBC television today. “The issue is not only a question of
when we taper down, but when do we turn? And I think that the
markets may not give us all of the leeway we would like to do
that.”  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  has said
the central bank will buy $85 billion in bonds every month until
the labor market outlook improves “substantially.” Payrolls
rose by 175,000 last month, more than economists forecast, while
the  unemployment rate  edged up to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent,
the Labor Department said today after Greenspan spoke.  Greenspan, 87, said while slowing bond purchases must be an
initial step, a lower rate of asset purchases will still add to
the Fed’s balance sheet, which has reached a  record  $3.4
trillion.  Asked if he thinks the economy is strong enough to drop the
policy, known as quantitative easing, to zero, Greenspan said
“we’ve got to do it even if we don’t think it’s strong
enough.”  The Fed has also pledged to keep  interest rates  near zero
as long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent, the
outlook for inflation between one to two years in the future
doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent and long-term inflation expectations
are “well-anchored.”  Greenspan, who was Fed chairman from 1987 to 2006, said the
central bank will have to proceed cautiously.  “If we do move too rapidly with respect to Fed action, it
will really shock the market,” Greenspan said. “Gradual is
adequate, but we’ve got to get moving.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  