-- Gross Says Jobs Report Suggests Fed Won’t Taper Bond Buying
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-06-07T14:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/gross-says-jobs-report-suggests-fed-won-t-taper-bond-purchases.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said the Federal Reserve is unlikely to
reduce its asset purchases after the unemployment rate climbed
from a four-year low in May.  “I don’t think today’s report says anything about tapering
at all with unemployment going higher and metrics in terms of
the work week and wages being very dour,'' Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s founder Gross said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Mike McKee. Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke “won’t taper. But I think ultimately
in order to get a more normal economy, the Fed has got to move
interest rates up to more normal levels.”  Payrolls rose 175,000 last month after a revised 149,000
increase in April that was smaller than first estimated, Labor
Department figures showed in  Washington . The median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey called for a 163,000 gain. The  unemployment
rate  rose to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent.  Bernanke said during a response to questions following
congressional testimony on May 22 that the Fed could consider
reducing the $85 billion in monthly Treasury and mortgage debt
purchases within “the next few meetings” if officials see
signs of sustainable improvement in the labor market.  Economists cut their estimates for how much the Fed will
reduce the amount of its monthly asset purchases, a Bloomberg
survey shows.  Hourly Earnings  Fed policy makers trimmed their so-called quantitative
easing program to $65 billion a month at the Oct. 29-30 meeting
of the Federal Open Market Committee, from the current level of
$85 billion, according to the median estimate in the survey of
59 economists this week. In a similar survey before the Fed’s
April 30-May 1 meeting, economists expected the Fed to cut
purchases to $50 billion in the fourth quarter.  While Americans are finding work in May, wage gains aren’t
picking up. Average hourly earnings were little changed at
$23.89 in May after $23.88 in the prior month. They were up 2
percent in 12 months ended in May, the same as in April.  “When I see wages flat versus 0.2 percent last month, and
see the work week flat, and see unemployment going up, I see GDP
in the U.S. of 1 to 2 percent,” Gross said. “These employment
problems are structural in nature. They are due to
globalization, demographics, and to technology, the race against
the machine. From a monetary standpoint you recognize that at
some point the quantitative easing and the low interest rates
are distorting capital markets which are critical to the economy
going forward.”  Frozen Fed  Global bonds had their worst month in nine years in May,
led by Treasuries, as investors sold debt in anticipation
central banks will eventually scale back their unprecedented
asset purchases. The selloff left Gross’s  Pimco Total Return
Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s biggest mutual fund with $293 billion in
assets and one of the best performing, trailing 89 percent of
peers in the past month as it declined 2.1 percent.  “This is a muddled middle number when it comes to the Fed
and it comes to markets,” Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco’s chief
executive officer and co-chief investment officer with Gross,
said in an separate interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with  Betty Liu . “It’s not strong enough to give the Fed
assurances of this handoff that everybody wants, the growth
handoff. But it’s not weak enough for it to say it’s going to
increase QE a lot. The Fed is going to look left and right and
left and right and we suspect it is going to be frozen.”  Fund Withdrawals  Gross, who has predicted that the three-decade bull market
in bonds probably ended at the end of April, has raised holdings
of U.S. government debt in his Pimco Total Return to 39 percent
as of April 30, the highest level since July 2010.  Gross’s fund suffered the first client withdrawals since
2011 in May, with clients pulling $1.3 billion from the  fund ,
according to estimates from Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . The
fund declined 0.6 percent this year, trailing 53 percent of
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past
five years, Gross’s fund has advanced 7.6 percent, ahead of 94
percent of rivals.  “We’ve tried to de-risk” and “to reduce carry to reduce
risk, not just to the 10-year Treasury, but relative to the fed
funds rate at 25 basis points,” Gross said. “There is too much
leverage, not just in global economies, but in the financial
system and too little return. As we’ve seen over the last few
months, once currency stability is destructive then the funding
of these traders are at risk.”  Market Volatility  Carry trades are losing the most money in a year on
speculation the Fed will pare stimulus measures and make it
harder to profit from borrowing in low-interest-rate currencies
to buy higher-yielding assets.  Deutsche Bank AG’s G10 FX Carry Basket index fell 3.3
percent last month, the biggest decline since May 2012. Traders
who made 2.2 percent in March by selling U.S. dollars and
investing in assets denominated in the Australian currency in
May lost 7.5 percent.  The carry trade seemed like a sure bet for much of 2012 as
weak economic data in regions including the U.S.,  Japan  and the
euro region led to speculation among investors that central
banks would keep rates low and money pouring in to boost growth.
With those expectations waning, volatility is increasing, which
is bad for the carry trade because it depends on predictable
interest rates across jurisdictions.  It has become more difficult for investors to exit trades,
according to Gross, raising the risk of holding higher-risk
assets.  “It’s definitely not business as usual,” Gross said.
Liquidity as measured by bid-to-ask spreads is getting “wide,
wide and wider” while the size of every bid for debt is getting
“less, less and less. It’s not a panic mode necessarily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  