-- GSW Investors Advised to Vote Against Firing CEO Kottmann
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-06-07T15:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/gsw-investors-should-reject-call-challenging-ceo-hire-iss-says.html
Shareholders of German landlord  GSW
Immobilien AG (GIB)  were advised to vote against the proposed
dismissal of newly appointed Chief Executive Officer Bernd Kottmann, documents obtained by Bloomberg show.  Glass Lewis & Co., the proxy advisory service, said
investors should oppose a no-confidence motion against the CEO
on June 18 while voting to remove Chairman Eckart John von Freyend because of the way Kottmann’s hiring was handled,
according to a report to shareholders. Institutional Shareholder
Services Inc., based in Rockville Maryland, said in a separate
report that investors should support the retention of both men.  “Through a lack of transparency and poor shareholder
engagement, the entire recruitment process has been shrouded in
confusion and speculation,” San Francisco-based  Glass Lewis 
said.  Dutch investor PGGM NV called for the vote on May 15,
saying that GSW’s hiring of Kottmann didn’t follow the correct
procedure. GSW said on March 18 that Kottmann would succeed
Thomas Zinnoecker as CEO on April 16. The appointment was made
about a week after GSW announced Zinnoecker’s departure. PGGM
said the short span between the two events raised questions
about whether the search was thorough.  “We are very surprised Glass Lewis formed an opinion
without contacting us and asking about the background,” Freyend
said today. “The board feels vindicated by the ISS
recommendation.”  Chairman’s Defense  GSW took longer to find a new CEO than the public
announcements reflect, Freyend said. The search began on Feb.
13, before Zinnoecker’s departure was announced, and lasted for
more than four weeks, he said.  “There was a careful and systematic selection process with
clear qualification requirements,’ Freyend said. “There are
differences between the Anglo-Saxon world and the German world;
our processes are often not as formal, and even though we’re
becoming more international, it’s not unusual in  Germany  to hire
a CEO the way we did.”  PGGM has a stake of about 3 percent in GSW, according to an
October 2012 statement.  The Dutch company criticized Kottmann and Freyend for their
track record at  IVG Immobilien AG (IVG) , a German real estate company.
Kottmann worked at IVG from 1997 to 2009, first as chief
operating officer and then as chief financial officer starting
in 2007. The company has lost about 98 percent of its market
value since 2008 and is in talks to restructure more than 3
billion euros ($4 billion) of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  