-- Ibovespa Futures Drop as S&P Revises Brazil Outlook to Negative
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-06-07T12:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/ibovespa-futures-drop-as-s-p-revises-brazil-outlook-to-negative.html
Ibovespa (IBOV)  futures fell, signaling the
gauge may extend a weekly decline, after Standard & Poor’s
revised Brazil’s credit outlook to negative, citing sluggish
economic growth and an expansionary fiscal policy.  State-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3)  and
government-run power utility  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET3) 
may be active as S&P also changed their credit outlook to
negative. Homebuilder  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  might move after agreeing to
sell a stake in Alphaville Urbanismo SA to AE Investimentos,
which is owned by investment funds managed by Patria and
Blackstone.  Ibovespa  futures contracts  expiring in June dropped 1.4
percent to 52,100 at 9:02 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real weakened
0.8 percent to 2.1468 per dollar, heading for its lowest level
in more than four years.  S&P said in a statement yesterday it lowered the outlook on
 Brazil ’s BBB rating, which is two levels above junk and in line
with Mexico and Russia, from stable as forecasts for a third
year of “modest” economic growth and “weaker” fiscal policy
could lead to an increase in the government’s debt levels.  “This review confirms the very negative feeling investors
are having this year about the government’s indebtedness and
Brazil’s scenario of low growth and stubborn inflation,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, an analyst at brokerage firm Futura Corretora,
said in an interview from Sao Paulo.  The Ibovespa has slumped 16 percent from this year’s peak
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and China
has dropped 12 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.2 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with a 10.5 multiple for the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 7.27 billion
reais ($3.4 billion) yesterday, compared with a daily average of
7.71 billion reais this year, according to data compiled by the
 exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  