-- IDFC Joins Goldman in Increasing India Wind Investments
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-06-07T04:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/idfc-joins-goldman-in-increasing-india-wind-investments.html
     June 7 (Bloomberg) -–  IDFC Ltd. (IDFC) , India’s biggest financier
of clean-energy projects, will increase its investment in wind
power, joining Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in adding to holdings in
the nation.  IDFC’s alternative assets arm will invest about 2.5 billion
rupees ($44 million) over the next six months in its Green Infra
Ltd. unit, Raja Parthasarathy, partner at IDFC Alternatives,
said in an interview. That will boost its investment in Green
Infra to 12 billion rupees to help the unit fund acquisitions
before a planned initial public offering, he said.  Goldman Sachs will raise its investment in India’s ReNew
Wind Power Pvt. by $135 million to $385 million, spokesman
Edward Naylor said in an e-mail yesterday. Wind power producers
in  India  are buying smaller companies and consolidating in an
effort to amass larger portfolios that generate cheaper power.  “There are excellent opportunities in the market for
companies with the capital,” Parthasarathy said in the May 31
interview by phone. The additional funding will allow Green
Infra to expand faster by buying already operating wind and
possibly solar assets, he said. “You will see us a lot more
active on acquisitions of operating assets.”  Goldman Sachs agreed to acquire a majority stake in ReNew
Wind for 10 billion rupees in September 2011. The wind producer
plans to have 1,000 megawatts of generation capacity by 2015,
the companies said in a statement at that time.  Planned IPO  New Delhi-based Green Infra, a renewable-energy developer
set up by IDFC in 2008, will consider an IPO once it has
increased capacity, Parthasarathy said.  “To get to the public market, Green Infra needs to be of a
size and scale that will allow for a successful listing,” he
said. That should be in about 18 months as the company raises
operating capacity to 500 megawatts, from 320 megawatts
currently, the executive said.  Selling shares in  Singapore ,  London ’s Alternative
Investment Market or locally are among the possibilities Green
Infra will evaluate, Parthasarathy said. Hyderabad-based  Mytrah
Energy Ltd. (MYT) , backed by IDFC’s infrastructure arm, and the wind
unit of Mumbai-based lender Infrastructure Leasing & Financial
Services Ltd. are also evaluating share sales in Singapore.  IDFC has invested 39 billion rupees in clean-energy
companies, more than the state-backed Indian Renewable Energy
Development Agency, making it the industry’s biggest funder,
according to IDFC.  Those include investments in  Moser Baer India Ltd. (MBI) ’s solar
photovoltaic unit and wind-turbine maker  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ’s SE
Forge unit. IDFC swapped its SE Forge shares into those of the
listed parent two years ago, then sold off its Suzlon stake
recently, Parthasarathy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  