-- High-Yield Funds Post Record $4.8 Billion Outflow, BofA Says
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-06-07T17:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/high-yield-funds-post-record-4-8-billion-outflow-bofa-says.html
U.S.  high-yield  funds recorded their
biggest outflow on record this week, according to  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , as concern that the  Federal Reserve  may ease
stimulus measures began to take hold.  Investors pulled an unprecedented $4.8 billion from funds
that purchase notes sold by companies rated below investment
grade, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank said in a report
yesterday. That was accompanied by outflows from high-grade
funds, the first weekly decline this year, even as leveraged
loans attracted about $1 billion, bringing this year’s gains to
$28.5 billion, a 38 percent increase in assets since the start
of the year, Bank of America said.  Returns on junk bonds have been trimmed by 2.4 percent
since May 22, when Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said the central
bank could slow the pace of its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases, which have fueled investor demand for higher-yielding
assets.  “Investors’ concerns about the effects of Fed tapering on
high-yield assets reached a fever pitch this week,” Barclays
Plc strategists Jeffrey Meli and Brad Rogoff, wrote in a report
today. “This is a reflection of market fears that all risk
asset valuations will be weaker when QE ends.”  ‘Wide, Wider’  Prices of leveraged loans have dropped 0.43 cent this week
to 97.89 cents on the dollar, the biggest weekly decline since
November, according to the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged
Loan 100 Index. Prices on high-yield bonds slumped 1.51 cents to
103.46 cents on the dollar, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  Liquidity in high-yield bonds, as well as in emerging
markets, has dropped over the last week, as measured by bid-ask
spreads, “which are wide, wide, wider,” and the average size
of orders, which are “less, less, and less,” according to  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  “It’s definitely not business as usual,” Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s founder Gross said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Mike McKee . “We’ve noticed a deterioration.”  A typical transaction size has shrunk to $2 million to $3
million, from $5 to $10 million, he said. While investors aren’t
necessarily in  “panic mode,” there’s evidence they’re selling
high-yield exchange-traded funds, Gross said.  Unemployment Rate  Investors  redeemed  3.3 million shares, or about $305
million, from BlackRock Inc.’s $14.2 billion  iShares iBoxx High
Yield Corporate Bond ETF , the biggest of its kind on June 4, its
biggest one-day outflow on record.  The  unemployment rate  climbed from a four-year low to 7.6
percent in May, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Payrolls rose 175,000 last month after a revised
149,000 increase in April that was smaller than first estimated,
the figures showed.  “The economic data are not strong enough to support such
heightened expectations of Fed tapering,” Rogoff and Meli wrote
in their report.  Leveraged loans and  junk bonds  are forms of high-yield,
high-risk debt that carry ratings of less than Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and below BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  