-- Tin Miners in Indonesia Stop Output on Raid Concern, Arsani Says
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-06-07T10:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/tin-miners-in-indonesia-stop-output-on-raid-concern-arsani-says.html
Small-scale traditional tin miners in
Bangka Belitung province,  Indonesia ’s main producing area, have
stopped excavating ore since the end of May because of concern
the police will raid their operations, said Hidayat Arsani,
president of the Indonesian Tin Mining Association.  “The situation is not conducive for the Bangka economy,”
Arsani said in a phone interview from the provincial capital
Pangkalpinang today. “Small miners are the main suppliers of
ores to the independent smelters. If the stoppage is prolonged,
we may have to idle capacity.” The move hasn’t had any impact
on production so far as smelters have stockpiles and can source
ore from their own mines, said Arsani.  The halt adds to concern that supplies from Indonesia, the
world’s largest exporter, will fall this year as the country
imposes tighter purity rules starting next month. The
independent smelters represented 67 percent of supplies from the
country in 2012, according to the Trade Ministry. A drop in
production may help stem a 10 percent decline in tin prices on
the London Metal Exchange this year.  About 2,000 miners rallied in front of the office of  PT
Timah (TINS) , the country’s biggest producer, in Pangkalpinang today,
said Hendra Apollo, a protest coordinator. That followed a
demonstration by 1,500 Timah workers on May 22 against illegal
mining, said Agung Nugroho, the company’s corporate secretary.  Exports Drop   The company has reported findings on unauthorized mining
within its concession to the authority, Nugroho said by phone.
The police will follow procedures and there won’t be any
repressive action, said Indra, provincial spokesman.  Tin for three-month delivery advanced 0.7 percent to
$20,999 a metric ton on the LME today. Shipments from Indonesia
dropped 16 percent to 7,853 tons in April from a month earlier,
the steepest decline in five months, according to government
data. The smelters cut output because of slump in prices.  Exports may fall 19 percent to 80,000 tons this year as the
country imposes higher purity limits, according to the median of
12 estimates in a Bloomberg survey in April. The new rules
increase the tin content of cargoes and reduce lead and cadmium
levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  