-- India’s Phone Market May Finally Consolidate
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-06-07T13:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/india-phone-market-finally-seen-consolidating-real-m-a.html
India ’s cutthroat mobile-phone market
may finally get the consolidation needed to help make carriers
profitable as new takeover regulations near.  Overseas carriers including  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and
 Russia ’s Sistema JSFC are losing money in the world’s fastest-growing mobile-phone industry, after spending a combined $7
billion on Indian airwaves and networks. Wireless companies have
been waiting on new acquisition rules, which the government may
clarify as soon as this month. That could clear the way for
consolidation, possibly halving the number of carriers and
boosting profitability, said PricewaterhouseCoopers.  “What’s certain is that we will see a couple of deals once
the guidelines are released, with the potential for bigger deals
following later this year,” Nitin Soni, associate director and
analyst at  Fitch Ratings  in  Singapore , said in a telephone
interview. “There’s a long list of possibilities.”  Potential targets in a market where calls sell for less
than a cent a minute include  Tata Teleservices Maharashtra Ltd. (TTLS) ,
which provides services in Mumbai, and Aircel Ltd., the Indian
unit of  Malaysia ’s second-biggest mobile-phone operator, Soni
said. Sales of smartphones will triple next year in India, where
there are already more subscribers than the populations of North
and South America, said Euromonitor. Still, operating margins
are the lowest in  Asia , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Desperately’ Needed  India is home to 13 mobile-phone operators, the largest of
which are  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)  Sanjay Kapoor, who was chief executive officer of Bharti until March,
said last year that a rise in call prices -- a development
that’s “desperately” needed -- wouldn’t occur until there are
fewer operators.  In addition to eliminating rivals, deals would also help
companies grab more spectrum -- the airwaves used to transmit
voice and data for mobile devices. India’s  Supreme Court 
canceled 122 mobile licenses last year, citing corruption during
their original allocation, and the government then sought to
auction the spectrum at higher prices.  The airwave cancellations and uncertain acquisition rules
have prevented operators from buying each other, said Harit Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst at Nirmal Bang Equities Ltd.  New Regulations  The new regulations, which the government has said could be
announced this month, may define exactly how much  spectrum
operators  can own in each of the country’s 22 telecommunications
regions, R. Chandrashekhar, India’s former secretary to the
Department of Telecommunications, said in March. The rules could
inflate the price of airwaves to compensate for the difference
between their original purchase price and the cost in recent
auctions, he said.  “Aircel and Tata Teleservices seem to be on the block,”
Nirmal Bang’s Shah said in a phone interview. “From strictly a
regional perspective, that makes sense for Telenor and
Sistema.”  Sistema, controlled by Russian billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov, has plowed about $3.7 billion into its Indian phone
venture since 2008, while Telenor, the Nordic region’s biggest
phone company, has spent about $3.3 billion.  According to PricewaterhouseCoopers, consolidation could
help the carriers’ money-losing Indian businesses, which both
had spectrum reclaimed by the government last year. Telenor
controls 3.7 percent of India’s mobile-phone market, while
Sistema has 1.4 percent, according to March data from the
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India.  Deal Discussions  “The conditions still aren’t right for long-term
profitable growth for all the players,” Mohammad Chowdhury, who
heads the telecommunications practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers
in Mumbai, said in a phone interview. “There’s still a benefit
from further consolidation.”  A Sistema spokesman referred to May 27 comments from its
then-CEO in India, Vsevolod Rozanov, who said he had nothing
specific to say related to acquisitions, especially before any
new takeover rules. Glenn Mandelid, a spokesman for Telenor,
didn’t reply to a text message seeking comment on any plans to
buy assets in India.  In November, people with direct knowledge of the matter
said Telenor, majority owned by the Norwegian government, was in
talks with Tata Teleservices to combine their businesses in
India. Any deal would depend on the takeover rules being
considered by India’s telecom regulator, the people said.  Telenor’s Indian business, which  lost  6.28 billion kroner
($1.1 billion) last year, would more than triple its subscriber
market share by adding Tata Teleservices.  Stock Decline  Tata Teleservices had a 7.7 percent market share in India
as of March.  Today, Tata Teleservices fell 0.7 percent to 7.30 rupees.
The company’s  shares  have tumbled 47 percent in the past year,
cutting its market value to 13.8 billion rupees ($243 million).
Meanwhile, Telenor’s  stock  has increased 35 percent, giving it a
stronger currency for acquisitions.  Tata Teleservices said in an e-mailed statement that it
doesn’t comment on speculation.  While Sistema has already written off about a third of its
$2.8 billion investment in Indian mobile services, the company
plans to spend as much as $1 billion more to expand in India,
ex-CEO Rozanov told reporters April 9. He became chief financial
officer of Moscow-based  Sistema JSFC (AFKS)  this month. Sergey
Savchenko, CFO of Sistema in India, said last year the company
was prepared to spend “billions” on “organic and inorganic
growth.”  Its Indian business  reported  a net loss of 6.44 billion
rupees in the quarter ended in March.  ‘The Bottom’  In the latest 12-month period, Indian mobile-phone
companies with market values higher than $100 million had an
average operating margin of 5.8 percent, the lowest in Asia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are at the bottom of the bad news from a market and
margin perspective,” said Walter Rossini, a  fund manager  in
Milan for Aletti Gestielle Sgr SpA. “There could be an
opportunity to buy the smaller players.”  Aircel, owned by Kuala Lumpur-based Maxis Communications
Bhd., had a market share of 6.9 percent as of March. It may be a
target for Telenor or Sistema, said Soni at Fitch. India’s
Economic Times said in September that Sistema may pay $3 billion
for Aircel and a stake in Maxis. Closely held Aircel has not
publicly released its most recent results.  Maxis CEO Sandip Das didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking
comment on any sale of Aircel. No one answered the phone at
Aircel’s office.  African Exploration  People familiar with the matter said last week that  MTN
Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s largest wireless carrier, was exploring a
potential acquisition in India. The discussions could lead to a
revival of an attempt to link up with  Reliance Communications
Ltd. (RCOM) , the phone company of billionaire  Anil Ambani  that tried
unsuccessfully to merge with MTN in 2008, the people said.  Reliance Communications, India’s third-largest wireless
operator by customers, has seen its shares fall 73 percent since
the talks ended in July 2008. The company now has a market value
of about $4.2 billion.  Representatives for Reliance Communications and MTN
declined to comment on the Bloomberg News report last week.  Total mobile-phone revenue in India climbed 30 percent to
$16.9 billion between 2007 and 2012, as subscribers reached 961
million, market researcher  Euromonitor  estimates.  While the Indian government’s new guidelines on takeovers
may help spur acquisitions, deals that make a lot of sense have
yet to be struck, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “If it were that simple, it would have happened a while
ago,”  Sachin Gupta , a Singapore-based analyst with Nomura, said
in a phone interview.  According to Soni at Fitch, deals are inevitable this time
around, and companies are likely already preparing takeovers in
anticipation of the rules, which will make it easier to value
assets.  “A couple of deals could be possible immediately” after
the regulations are announced, Soni said. “A lot of companies
must be doing the due diligence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  