-- Indians Closer Chris Perez Charged With Marijuana Possession
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-06-07T19:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/indians-all-star-closer-perez-charged-with-marijuana-possession.html
Cleveland Indians All-Star relief
pitcher Chris Perez was charged with marijuana possession after
he told law enforcement agents that drugs and paraphernalia
found in his home were for his personal use.  Perez, 27, and his wife, Melanie, were both charged
yesterday with misdemeanor drug possession, according to
incident and investigation reports released today by the Rocky
River Police Department in  Ohio . The pair were processed and
released on personal bond, police said in the reports.  Law-enforcement agents executed a search warrant on the
home this week after being informed by U.S. Postal Service
inspectors of two packages containing marijuana that were
addressed to Perez’s Rocky River residence. Perez told police
during the search that he had marijuana and drug paraphernalia
for personal use, according to the department reports.  Both Perez and his wife said they were unsure about the
origins of the two packages, which contained 9.65 ounces of
marijuana, according to the reports. Melanie Perez also said
that she doesn’t smoke marijuana.  Terry Gilbert, who is representing Perez and his wife, said
today in a statement that the two intend to plead not guilty.  “We ask that people not rush to judgment,” the Cleveland-based attorney said. “We are confident of a favorable
outcome.”  Nez Balelo, Perez’s agent, didn’t immediately return a
voice message seeking comment on the charges.  Indians General Manager Chris Antonetti said in a statement
that the team was “disappointed.”  “We understand and respect that there is an ongoing legal
process that we will allow to evolve,” he said.  An All-Star each of the past two seasons, Perez is 2-1 this
year with six saves and a career-high 4.32 earned-run average.
The right-hander has been on the disabled list since May 27 with
a sore pitching shoulder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  