-- Indonesian President Approves Tax Breaks on Low-Emission Cars
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-06-07T07:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/indonesian-president-approves-tax-breaks-on-low-emission-cars.html
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono approved tax breaks on low-emission cars, paving the
way for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and affiliate  Daihatsu Motor Co. (7262)  to
widen their lead in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy.  The president signed the Low Cost Green Cars regulation on
May 23, the State Secretary’s office said in a statement on its
website yesterday. The policy will provide tax breaks and
incentives to manufacturers of small, fuel efficient cars, for
the nation’s emerging middle class.  The new rules come as Indonesia is set to overtake  Thailand 
as the region’s biggest car market next year, according to
forecasts from industry researcher IHS Automotive. Demand in
Indonesia, with a population almost twice  Japan ’s 127 million,
is projected to expand faster than in  China  over the next seven
years as a booming economy generates new car buyers.  “The LCGC project would allow  Indonesia  to win new
investments and add volumes to the market,” Ammar Master, an
analyst at LMC Automotive in Bangkok, said in an e-mail.
“Toyota and Daihatsu will have the first mover advantage as
both automakers already have their models ready and were
awaiting” the new rules, he said.  Daihatsu designed the Ayla hatchback to meet the rules of
the program that include fuel efficiency of at least 20
kilometers per liter of gasoline and local assembly. Daihatsu
will also produce a version of the Ayla for Toyota called the
Agya, Toyota said in a  statement  last year.  Fuel Economy  The rules provide cuts on a luxury goods tax amounting to
25 percent for cars that can run 20 kilometers (12 miles) on a
single liter of fuel, 50 percent for 28 kilometers per liter,
and 100 percent for machines managing more than that. That
includes hybrid engines using dual gasoline and gas or biofuels.  Toyota and its affiliates are investing $1.3 billion to
double output in the country whose 250 million people make up
about 40 percent of Southeast Asia’s population and where annual
 economic growth  hasn’t fallen below 4 percent in a decade.
Indonesian demand for light vehicles is expected to grow 88
percent by 2019 from last year’s level, IHS estimates.  “The policy will be important to attract new first-time
car buyers who are more conscious of fuel costs, which are set
to go up as the government begins phasing out its diesel
subsidies,” Master said.  Low cost green cars could account for more than 35 percent
of the 1.8 million passenger vehicles expected to be sold in
Indonesia by 2020, according to Jessada Thongpak of IHS
Automotive.  Customer Shift  Shares in  Indomobil Sukses Internasional (IMAS) , which assembles
and distributes cars in Indonesia, gained 1.9 percent today, its
biggest rise in two months, after the new rule was announced.  “Once the fuel subsidies are officially cut, we expect
customers to shift to more fuel efficient” cars, Bangkok-based
Thongpak said in a telephone interview.  The government has been trying to cut fuel subsidies after
winning a provision to raise prices without parliament’s
approval, and has said the price rise could happen after a
revised budget is finalized in mid-June.  A compensation package for the poor, required by the
president for the fuel price rise to go ahead, has been approved
by a parliamentary commission, according to the State
Secretary’s office. The package still needs full parliamentary
approval. A previous bid to lift fuel prices was rejected by
lawmakers in April last year amid street protests, with any
price rise sensitive ahead of 2014 elections.  General Motors  General Motors Co. began regular production at its
Indonesia plant this year, after halting operations in the
country about seven years ago. The plant, where it makes the
Spin multipurpose vehicle, has the capacity to make 40,000 cars
a year. LMC’s Master expects GM and Nissan Motor Co.’s newly
resurrected Datsun unit to participate in the green car project
as well.  Indonesia is targeting economic expansion of about 6.2
percent to 6.3 percent this year. The outlook for growth, and
 interest rates  kept at a record low 5.75 percent have helped
drive the  benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index up 28 percent in the
past 12 months.  Indonesia’s auto market expanded 25 percent last year,
compared with 4.2 percent for China’s, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Minivans were the most sold segment in
Indonesia, taking up 48 percent of all vehicles last year,
according to LMC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  