-- Insured Losses From Europe Floods Estimated Lower Than 2002
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-06-07T11:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/insured-losses-from-europe-floods-estimated-lower-than-2002.html
The losses insurers face from the
worst flooding in central Europe since 2002 may be lower than
those resulting from the deluge 11 years ago even as the toll on
local economies looms larger.  Insured losses may reach 2 billion euros ($2.65 billion) to
3 billion euros, Michael Klien, an analyst for Nomura in  London ,
wrote in a note to clients today. That compares with 3.4 billion
euros from the floods that submerged towns, villages and
farmlands from northern Germany to  Hungary  in 2002.  The deluge, triggered by unseasonal heavy rainfall, has
left at least 12 people dead as swollen rivers, including the
Vltava, Danube and Elbe, and their tributaries, burst dams and
breached banks. Emergency crews and volunteers are still racing
to fill sandbags and build temporary dikes as the Elbe and
Danube crest northward and eastward, threatening towns the
floods won’t reach until the weekend or early next week. More
rainfall is forecast for the coming days.  “While the severe flooding that has hit central  Europe  is
still ongoing, it seems increasingly likely that losses for
insurers will be lower than for the severe floods of 2002,”
Michael Klien, a London-based analyst with Nomura, wrote in a
note to investors. Anecdotal evidence suggests various factors
including better flood protection will lower the losses, he
said.  Shares Gain  “The yearly budgets for natural catastrophe at most
insurers should more than suffice to cover the flood costs,” he
said.  Munich Re and  Swiss Re (SREN) , the world’s biggest reinsurers,
said it’s still too early to evaluate the current disaster and
related losses. Munich Re shares rose 0.8 percent to 138.75
euros as of 1:25 p.m., while Swiss Re was up 1.7 percent.
 Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s largest insurer, gained 0.3 percent to
113.50 euros.  The Czech Insurers Association yesterday estimated the
country’s flood damage at 7.5 billion koruna ($383 million),
spokeswoman Jolana Ackermannova said by phone, after the Czech
government approved 5.3 billion koruna for immediate flood
relief. In 2002, the insured damages totaled 34.7 billion
koruna, while total damages came to 73 billion koruna, the
association said.  “Many people are making parallels to 2002,” said Clement Booth, a board member at Allianz, in a statement on the Munich-based company’s website. “However, we are not seeing the same
extent of damages yet.”  Economic Toll  Booth attributed part of the reason for the potentially
lower losses to protective work carried out after the last
catastrophe such as anti-flood barriers erected in  Prague  to
shield the Czech capital’s historic center.  Still, the final cost of the floods is likely to be
considerably higher than the insured loss as only limited flood
coverage is available in many of the countries affected.  “The macroeconomic loss will be much bigger than the
insured loss,”  Munich Re  Chief Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard said on June 5.  The economic fallout for Germany alone may exceed the 11
billion-euro damage caused by the 2002 floods, Eric Schweitzer,
the president of the German chamber of trade and industry DIHK,
said in an interview with  Rheinische Post  today.  German farmers face damages as high as 250 million euros as
at least 150,000 hectares of farmland lie under water, the DBV
farmers’ association said in a statement today. Additional
damage of 50 million euros to 80 million euros to buildings and
losses to livestock put the total cost at higher than 300
million euros, it said.  Additional Premium  “Insured losses can be assessed, at the earliest, at the
end of next week,” said Kathrin Jarosch, a spokeswoman for the
German Insurance Association in Berlin.  The 2002 European floods caused 18 billion euros of
economic losses, half of which were attributed to  Germany ,
according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Coverage in Germany depends on the type of insurance
contract, and for home insurance is usually only available on
payment of an additional premium, according to a report by the
European Commission.  “Flood insurance will play a much smaller role in covering
the costs than we might see in the U.K.,” said Mohammad Khan, a
partner at PwC in London who specializes in catastrophes. “In
our most recent severe floods in 2007, around 75 percent of all
losses were borne by the U.K. insurance industry.”  The European Environment Agency estimates that river
flooding costs European Union member states 6.4 billion euros
annually in economic damage and expects this to rise to as much
as 21.5 billion euros by 2100, at constant 2006 prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  