-- Intelsat Practices to Be Probed by FCC After Complaint
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-06-07T19:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/intelsat-practices-to-be-probed-by-fcc-after-complaint.html
The U.S. Federal Communications
Commission said it would explore allegations that satellite
operators including  Intelsat SA (I)  have inhibited competition by
failing to upgrade their gear.  The FCC in an order today said it was looking into
“warehousing,” or tactics to limit capacity and keep
competitors from buying capacity on satellites. Satellite
services provider CapRock Communications Inc. said Intelsat and
other fleet operators haven’t replaced aging satellites on a
timely basis or haven’t installed updated technology, the
commission said.  CapRock, a unit of Melbourne, Florida-based  Harris Corp. (HRS) ,
in 2010 told the FCC Intelsat was engaged in “aggressive, anti-competitive practices” leading to “a drastic increase in
bandwidth prices.”  Intelsat operates “in a fully competitive manner,” Dianne VanBeber, a vice president for the Luxembourg-based company,
said in an e-mailed statement today. “The satellite industry is
fully competitive, as is evidenced by the number of new entrants
to the sector over the past several years.”  The commercial satellite industry has evolved from a
relatively nascent industry three decades ago to today’s mature
industry with more than $168 billion in worldwide revenue, the
FCC said. It said there has been industry consolidation, with
smaller numbers of satellite operators controlling larger in-orbit fleets.  Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for Harris, didn’t immediately
provide a comment on the order.  Intelsat, the world’s largest satellite services business,
began trading in the U.S. in April. Shares were down 10 cents
today to $23.24 at 3:03 p.m.  New York  time.  Intelsat was established in 1964 as the first commercial
satellite-services provider, according to its  website . Its
European competitors include Paris-based  Eutelsat Communications
SA (ETL) , London-based  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT) , and  SES (SESG)  SA, the world’s largest
publicly traded satellite operator, also based in Luxembourg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  