-- Investors Pull Record $12.5 Billion From Bonds, Citigroup Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-06-07T03:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/investors-pull-record-12-5-billion-from-bonds-citigroup-says.html
Investors withdrew a record $12.5
billion from bond funds in the week to June 5, Citigroup Inc.
said, citing EPFR Global data.  The outflows were the first in 24 weeks,  Markus Rosgen ,
Citigroup’s Hong Kong-based chief Asian strategist, wrote in a
note dated today. Investors also pulled $6.2 billion from stock
funds, with $5 billion of that coming from emerging markets and
$1.2 billion from developed nations, he wrote.  Global bond markets posted their biggest monthly losses in
nine years in May amid speculation a strengthening U.S. economy
will allow the Federal Reserve to reduce its monetary stimulus.
 Bill Gross ’s Pimco Total Return Fund, the world’s largest mutual
fund, had redemptions of $1.32 billion in May, the first net
withdrawals since 2011, according to  Morningstar Inc.  There’s concern about possible plans by the Fed to taper
stimulus, Yue Hin Pong, an analyst at Citigroup, wrote in an e-mail today. Bond outflows are “probably not” going to continue
as “people will soon realize this story is overdone,” the
analyst said.  U.S. bond funds suffered their second-worst weekly
withdrawals in more than two decades. Investors pulled $9.1
billion from U.S. fixed-income mutual funds and exchange-traded
funds in the week through June 5, Denver-based Lipper said in an
e-mailed statement. That’s the second-biggest redemptions for a
week since the company started tracking the data in 1992.  Stock Flows  Investors withdrew $1.8 billion from Asian  equities  in the
week to June 5, the most since August 2011, according to Rosgen.
China saw outflows of $834 million, while Asian regional funds
which invest in multiple countries lost $499 million and
investors took out $417 million from Hong Kong, he said.  The MSCI All-Country World Index has fallen 1.2 percent
this week, heading for a third straight decline. Japanese stocks
led the retreat with a 7.8 percent drop. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index has slumped 3.3 percent.  The Fed is purchasing $85 billion a month in Treasuries and
mortgage debt as part of its third round of quantitative easing,
which began after it dropped its benchmark rate to almost zero
to lift the economy out of recession.  The more than $40 trillion of bonds in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index fell 1.5 percent on
average in May.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, said
yesterday it reduced emerging-market positions, while investors
are the most bearish ever on the largest  exchange traded fund 
for emerging-market bonds.  Short interest , a measure of shares borrowed and sold on
speculation they will fall, on the iShares JPMorgan USD  Emerging
Markets  Bond Fund surged to 8.5 million on June 5, according to
data compiled by London-based  Markit Group Ltd. (EMB)  That’s up from
1.9 million on Dec. 31 and is equivalent to 18 percent of the
outstanding shares,  the data showed .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  