-- Lions Prop Healy Cleared of Biting Opponent in Tour Opener
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-07T08:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/lions-prop-cian-healy-cleared-of-biting-opponent-in-tour-opener.html
British and Irish Lions prop Cian
Healy was cleared of biting an opponent in the team’s opening
match on its rugby tour of  Australia  and is available for
selection if he recovers from an ankle injury.  Healy attended a judicial hearing in Brisbane today, and
Judicial Officer Nigel Hampton found insufficient evidence to
support the allegation that Healy bit Western Force scrum-half
Brett Sheehan on the arm during the Lions’ 69-17 win in Perth
two days ago, the Australian Rugby Union said.  “There is no conclusive video evidence of the incident and
post-match it was not possible to distinguish any discernible
bite marks outside of the regular marks usually found following
a rugby match,” Hampton said in his findings. “I cannot find
proven on the balance of probabilities that there was a
deliberate bite here.”  Hampton determined that during a tackle in the 17th minute,
Sheehan’s arm may have come in contact with Healy’s mouth and
due to the pressure of the tackle it is likely that unavoidable
contact between Healy’s mouth and teeth and Sheehan’s arm
occurred. Healy, 25, had faced a minimum 12-week ban had he been
found guilty of a deliberate bite.  Match citing officer, Freek Burger of  South Africa , had
asked Sheehan to provide him with a statement after he made the
biting allegation to referee Glen Jackson on the pitch. The game
was held up while the television match official reviewed replays
to find evidence of any alleged offense, though the game
officials took no action following the review.  Healy Relieved  “I am very relieved that the hearing has cleared me of
such an allegation,” Healy said in comments distributed by the
Lions. “I always maintained that nothing happened and that I
had done nothing illegal. The opposition player’s arm hit me. It
is as simple as that. I am glad that it is all over.”  Ireland prop Healy was later carried off on a cart in the
match after damaging ankle ligaments when he twisted his leg in
a tackle. His status for the remainder of the tour isn’t known.  The Lions, who face the  Queensland Reds  in Brisbane
tomorrow in the second of nine games in Australia, called
England prop Alex Corbisiero into their squad as cover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  