-- Iran Candidate Attacks Jalili’s ‘Stubborn’ Nuclear Diplomacy
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-06-07T19:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/iran-candidate-attacks-jalili-s-stubborn-nuclear-diplomacy.html
A senior adviser to Iran’s Supreme
Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  struck out at nuclear policy
negotiator Saeed Jalili for lacking diplomatic skill in talks
with world powers, giving an unexpected turn to a debate between
contestants before next week’s presidential election.  “You were in charge of the nuclear file for several years
and we haven’t taken a single step ahead,” said Ali Akbar Velayati, foreign policy adviser to Khamenei.“Nuclear diplomacy
means safeguarding rights while decreasing sanctions against
Iran.”  Velayati’s comments mark an unusual public criticism of the
country’s handling of the nuclear negotiations. Today’s program
on state television was intended to present candidates’ views on
local politics and foreign policy. It quickly led to a heated
exchange, with some participants taking direct jabs at others,
unlike the two previous debates on society and economy when
there was a relative consensus on some topics.  Jalili, secretary of  Iran ’s Supreme National Security
Council, has been deemed a possible front-runner in the
elections and headed several rounds of unsuccessful nuclear
negotiations.  He defended his approach in the debate, saying his team had
displayed “strong rationale” in the face of foreign powers’
demands that Iran curtail nuclear development. Iran is a
signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and maintains
its program is for civilian applications.  Diplomacy “isn’t solely about displaying toughness,
stubbornness,” Velayati, an ex-foreign minister, said in the
last debate among the eight candidates before the June 14 vote.
“The art of diplomacy is about give and take.”  Atomic Weapons  Iran is embroiled in political conflict with U.S. and its
Western allies, which accuse the country of seeking to develop
atomic weapons under the cover of a nuclear program. Economic,
financial and energy sanctions spearheaded by the U.S. and
imposed during President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s two terms have
cut Iran’s crude oil exports, weakened its currency, and
contributed to surging inflation.  Khamenei, the ultimate authority in the country, has urged
Iranians to vote massively as a show of support for the Islamic
Republic, saying that he has no favorite candidate. Ahmadinejad
can’t run for a third consecutive term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 