-- IRS Focused First on Tea Party Groups, Employees Say
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/irs-focused-first-on-tea-parties-first-employees-say.html
The Internal Revenue Service’s
tougher scrutiny of small-government groups began with a tight
focus on Tea Party groups in early 2010, according to IRS
employees’ interviews with congressional investigators.  The effort was so concentrated on Tea Party groups that in
addition to putting Democratic-leaning organizations’
applications back in the general pile, the IRS didn’t even give
extra scrutiny to groups identified as conservative.  “It was more narrow than that,” said Elizabeth Hofacre,
who handled the first batch of cases. “It was Tea Party.”  The interview transcripts reviewed by Bloomberg News and
other media organizations, and cited June 2 by House Oversight
and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa, present the
clearest picture so far of what took place in the IRS exempt
organizations division as it considered applications for tax-exempt status.  The transcripts don’t show why IRS employees focused on Tea
Party groups in 2010 and who made that decision. Employees said
some IRS lawyers in  Washington  were involved in processing and
managing the cases.  The effort eventually became a wider search for politically
oriented nonprofits that caused significant delays for the
groups and became a national scandal last month. IRS employees
struggled to get guidance from their supervisors on which cases
to analyze and how to assess them.  The criteria became broader in 2011 and 2012 when the IRS
looked at groups based on other criteria, such as whether they
focused on government spending and debt.  Tea Party  In 2010, “we had a Tea Party case come in, so we used the
word Tea Party,” said Gary Muthert, an employee in the
Cincinnati office that processed applications for tax-exempt
status. He said he conducted some of the first searches for the
groups in the agency’s database.  Muthert said he then broadened his search to include terms
such as “patriots” and “9/12” because had noticed those
words used on Tea Party websites. He said he had been told that
someone in Washington wanted such cases.  The scandal has led to inquiries from six congressional
committees and a Department of Justice criminal probe. Steven Miller, the acting IRS commissioner, was forced out. Lois Lerner, who headed the oversight of tax-exempt organizations,
was placed on administrative leave. Yesterday the IRS announced
a replacement for Holly Paz, who worked for Lerner.  Grass-Roots Organizing  The Tea Party’s model of grass-roots, locally based
organizing presented a challenge for the IRS, which processes
each application individually. Muthert said his 2010 Internet
searches revealed the scope of the potential issue.  “There wasn’t 5 or 10 tea parties,” he said, according to
the transcript. “I noticed that there were hundreds of these
things.”  Not all of the groups applied for tax-exempt status. Those
that did were placed in a separate pile to ensure consistent
treatment, Muthert said, offering an explanation that matched
the one given by Miller at a congressional hearing.  “Over the years we learned that if you have 20 cases come
in that go to 20 different people, there’s no telling what the
result would be,” he said.  Initially those cases went to Hofacre, the other employee
interviewed by congressional staff members. She referred to
herself as a “dumping ground for cases.”  Hofacre said Muthert told her “it was a new topic and the
precedent wasn’t real clear on them.”  Social Welfare  Groups applying for tax-exempt status under section
501(c)(4) of the U.S. tax code must be exclusively operated for
social welfare. The IRS interprets that to mean that groups
can’t have politics -- defined as involvement in elections -- as
their primary purpose.  The Tea Party cases were handled in an unusual fashion,
Hofacre said, because she was given so much direction from a
Washington-based IRS lawyer, Carter Hull, on the wording of
questions to groups that she found it “demeaning.” At one
point, Hull’s supervisor, Steve Grodnitzky, was involved in
editing questions, Hofacre said.  During 2010, she said, she was unable to get answers from
Hull in response to draft letters to groups she had prepared.
She said she had no authority to act without their input.  Some Tea Party cases, she said, should have received full
reviews. Others should have gotten quicker answers.  ‘Irate Taxpayers’  “You are getting calls from irate taxpayers,” said
Hofacre, who has worked for the IRS since 1999. “And I see
their point. Even if a decision isn’t favorable, they deserve
some kind of treatment and they deserve, you know, timeliness.”  Hofacre told investigators that she doesn’t have a party
affiliation and that she hadn’t contributed to or worked for a
political candidate.  Hofacre described the efforts as focused on Tea Party
groups, especially when they started during 2010. In response to
a question about “progressive or liberal causes,” she said she
was sometimes assigned cases like that and sent them to other
employees or to the general case pile.  “I was tasked with Tea Parties and overwhelmed with
those,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  