-- Japan-Focused Hedge Funds Seen Boosting Assets 20% on Abenomics
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2013-06-07T02:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/japan-focused-hedge-funds-seen-boosting-assets-20-on-abenomics.html
Japan-focused hedge funds may see
their assets increase 20 percent this year on expectations that
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies and stimulus measures will
boost growth, according to Eurekahedge Pte.  About $3 billion could be added to the $15.1 billion
managed by hedge funds investing in  Japan  at the end of April,
said Satoshi Iwanaga, chairman of Singapore-based data provider
Eurekahedge, which is hosting the 2013 Asia Hedge Fund Awards
today. Of the increase, $1 billion may come from performance
gains, while investors would allocate the rest, he said.  The increase would be the “first real recovery” since
2005 when funds focused on the world’s third-largest economy
grew 56 percent to $33.6 billion as then Prime Minister
Junichiro Koizumi led banking restructuring to boost growth,
Iwanaga said. The Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Fund Index rose 17.7
percent this year through May as Abe’s policies dubbed Abenomics
weakened the yen, helping exporters and boosting  stocks .  “Japan is finally coming back,” Iwanaga said in an
interview in  Singapore  on June 4. “The Abenomics euphoria has
put a spotlight back on Japan. Investors are after those with
high returns and Japan is where you can find that now.”  While investors withdrew money from the funds in the four
months to January, the pace of redemptions has slowed since then
and performance gains have led to an increase in total assets,
Iwanaga said.  Below Peak  Still, assets at Japan-focused funds are more than 60
percent below a peak of $39 billion in 2006. Since then,
performance lagged and the industry suffered scandals including
covered-up losses at AIJ Investment Advisors Co. last year.  For Asia-ex Japan hedge funds also, the biggest hurdle is
fundraising, Iwanaga said. Assets at these funds peaked in 2008
at $154.7 billion and have fallen to $123 billion following the
global financial crisis in 2008 that was exacerbated by the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Eurekahedge data
show.  “Investors know that Asia is where there is still room for
growth” in hedge funds given the economic prospects in the
region, Iwanaga said. “The problem is that the region’s hedge
funds don’t have the capacity beyond equity-related
strategies.”  Over 70 percent of all Asian hedge fund capital continues
to be concentrated in equity hedge strategies, compared with 27
percent for the global hedge-fund industry, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Abe took office in December pledging a three-pronged
strategy of aggressive monetary easing, fiscal stimulus and
deregulation that investors have welcomed. The benchmark Topix
index has gained 25 percent so far this year, making it the
best-performing developed equity index, even after accounting
for a 16 percent drop in the index since May 22.  The recent drop in Japan’s stock market is expected after
the “rapid run-up amid Abenomics euphoria,” Iwanaga said. The
actual effect of Abe’s policies are yet to be reflected in the
economy, he added.  “The market simply went up too fast,” Iwanaga said. “It
would have been unnatural to keep going at the same pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 