-- Japanese Stocks Pare Drop at Close Before GPIF Briefing
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-06-07T08:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/japan-s-topix-falls-to-two-month-low-as-yen-strengthens.html
Japan’s  Topix index  trimmed declines
at the close before a briefing on changes to the Government
Pension Investment Fund’s assets. Nikkei 225 Stock Average
futures fell after an announcement the fund would increase its
holdings of Japanese stocks by 1 percent.  The Topix dropped 1.3 percent to 1,056.95 at the close of
trading in  Tokyo , after earlier falling 3.5 percent as the yen
surged against the dollar. The Nikkei 225 lost 0.2 percent to
12,877.53, after declining as much as 2.8 percent. The gauge’s
futures sank 1.1 percent to 12,680 in Osaka and lost 1.5 percent
in Singapore.  GPIF, the world’s biggest manager of retirement savings,
will raise its weighting of Japanese equities to 12 percent from
11 percent, while cutting holdings of domestic bonds to 60
percent from 67 percent, according to a statement by the
Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare after the stock market
closed. GPIF oversaw about 112 trillion yen ($1.16 trillion) in
assets as of the end of December.  “It was expected that they would be careful with changing
their allocation to Japanese stocks,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , a
strategist at Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co.,
which oversees the equivalent of $100 billion. “They’re
probably looking at how far stocks have come and their outlook
for growth, and I can’t imagine they’re that bullish.”  Steel producers and rubber-product makers fell the most
among the  Topix’s 33 industry groups . Carmakers and consumer
electronics companies were the biggest drags. A gauge tracking
 real estate  shares, which retreated 26 percent from its April 12
high through yesterday, advanced 3.9 percent. Tokyo Electric
Power Co. gained the most on the Nikkei 225 after falling 23
percent in the past two days.  Earlier Decline  Shares earlier tumbled after the yen rose by the most in
three years against the dollar yesterday. The Japanese currency
extended its gain after Finance Minister Taro Aso said he had no
immediate intention to weaken the currency.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1
percent. The gauge yesterday gained 0.9 percent in New York. A
Labor Department report today is expected to indicate employers
added 163,000 to non-farm payrolls last month, almost equal to
the gain in April. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in
May suggested the central bank could curtail its bond-buying if
the job market improves in a “real and sustainable way.”  “There’s concern about the stability of capital from the
U.S. Fed should they taper off monetary easing, and seeing as we
had such a noticeable weaker-yen, rising-stocks story here,
investors are taking profit,” said Juichi Wako, a Tokyo-based
strategist at Nomura Securities Co.,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage.
“The market has fallen to a level where it would make sense to
buy back shares, but the market sentiment isn’t there yet.”  Futures Tumble  Futures on the Nikkei 225 traded in Osaka and Singapore
fell after the health ministry said the GPIF will increase its
weighting of Japanese stocks by only 1 percentage point.
Japanese bond holdings will be cut to 60 percent from 67
percent, foreign stocks raised to 12 percent from 9 percent, and
foreign bonds boosted to 11 percent from 8 percent.  The fund’s president, Takahiro Mitani, said in February
that the allocation to Japanese government bonds was too great
should interest rates rise as economic growth spurs inflation.  After rallying about 50 percent this year through their
high on May 22, Japan’s main equity gauges plunged and entered
corrections on May 30. As of today, the  Topix (TPX)  has fallen about
17 percent from its recent peak.  Even after the correction, the measures have climbed nearly
24 percent this year to make the country the world’s best-performing major market, on optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and the Bank of Japan can lift the country out of 15 years of
deflation.  Small Caps  The Tokyo Stock Exchange Mothers Index of smaller
companies, which surged 160 percent this year through its May 14
high, sank 11 percent, after plunging 13 percent yesterday.  Stock prices are swinging the most in more than two years,
with a measure of 50-day  historic volatility  on the Topix
jumping to 33.23 today, the highest since after the March 2011
earthquake and nuclear accident. Japan’s broadest equity measure
has swung an average of about 3.8 percent daily since May 23,
when it had the biggest one-day plunge since the disaster.  The Topix fell more than the Nikkei 225, as Fast Retailing
Co., which accounts for about 10 percent of the smaller, price-weighted gauge, advanced 5.6 percent as the biggest support on
the measure.  “There is now a more sobering assessment of Japan and what
it’s likely to accomplish,” Larry Hatheway, chief economist at
UBS AG, said in a Bloomberg TV interview from  Singapore . “For
the immediate short term we have to remain cautious. There’s a
new-found source of volatility in the markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  