-- Japan’s Pension Fund Cutting Local Bonds to Buy Equities
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a ,   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-06-07T23:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/japan-s-pension-fund-cutting-local-bonds-to-buy-equities.html
Japan ’s public pension fund, the
world’s biggest manager of retirement savings, said it will
reduce its holdings of local bonds and buy more shares.  The proportion of assets held in Japanese bonds will be cut
to 60 percent from 67 percent, the health ministry said
yesterday in Tokyo at a briefing to announce changes to the mid-term plan of the Government Pension Investment Fund. The
weighting of local shares will be increased to 12 percent from
11 percent currently. The Health and Welfare Ministry, which
oversees pensions, didn’t give a time frame for the changes.  “It was a negative factor as far as bond supply and demand
is concerned,” said Makoto Suzuki, a bond strategist at Okasan
Securities Co. in  Tokyo , one of the 24 primary dealers obliged
to bid at government debt sales.  GPIF’s shift toward higher-yielding assets comes as it
prepares to fund retirements in the world’s most elderly
population and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe tries to revive the
economy through fiscal and monetary stimulus. Domestic shares
have slid since Abe said on June 6 that a legislative campaign
to loosen rules on businesses, the “third arrow” of his
economic plan, won’t begin for months.  Changes to GPIF’s asset allocation are effective from
yesterday, fund official Masahiro Ooe told reporters. He
declined to elaborate on the timing for completion of the
portfolio changes.  Investing Abroad  Allocations to foreign bonds will rise to 11 percent from 8
percent, while overseas shares will increase to 12 percent from
9 percent, according to a  document  on GPIF’s website.  Nikkei 225  Stock Average futures in  Chicago  rose the most
in two months last night, with the June contract gaining 4.1
percent to 13,240. The Nikkei 225 fell 0.2 percent in Tokyo
yesterday to 12,877.53, while the broader Topix index slid 1.3
percent and is down about 17 percent from its May high.  GPIF, created in 2006, managed 112 trillion yen ($1.16
trillion) as of Dec. 31. It didn’t alter the structure of its
holdings during the worst global financial crisis in 80 years or
in response to Japan’s 2011 earthquake and nuclear disaster.  In an interview in February, GPIF President Takahiro Mitani
the fund may have to reduce its bond holdings and buy
alternative assets to cope with a higher interest-rate
environment under Abe. After a review in April-to-May, any
portfolio changes would begin in early 2014, he said at the time.  Yields Rise  Yields on 10-year Japanese  government bonds  increased 2 1/2
basis points to 0.86 percent in Tokyo, according to Japan Bond
Trading Co. Futures on the notes recovered from a drop in the
afternoon to close at 143.11 on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
highest since May 10.  “The reaction we have seen in the futures market has been
muted,” said Teruyoshi Sotome, a Tokyo-based senior bond
strategist at Mizuho Securities Co., one of the 24 primary
dealers obliged to bid at government auctions. “We shouldn’t
forget the change in GPIF’s portfolio is going to take place
over the long term. The announcement is not a declaration that
they are going to increase foreign investments by large amounts
going forward.”  Japanese households had 1,547 trillion yen in  financial
assets  as of the end of December, according to  Bank of Japan 
data. That compares with 32 trillion yen of debt securities and
106 trillion yen in equities and investments, the data show.  BOJ Buys  Even as GPIF reduces its allocation to JGBs, the Bank of
Japan has stepped up purchases. The BOJ said in April it would
double monthly buying of JGBs to more than 7 trillion yen, and
in May said it would increase the frequency of the operations.  JGBs have lost about 1.64 percent so far this quarter, the
most since the period ended September 2003, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index.  Domestic bonds made up about 60 percent of GPIF’s  assets  at
the end of December, according to a document on its website. The
fund is amending its targets to bring them into line with the
changing value of its holdings, said Hideo Shimomura, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $62 billion in Tokyo as chief fund
investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of
Japan’s largest publicly traded bank.  “They don’t have to touch their assets,” Shimomura said.
“I don’t think this news could affect markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  