-- Jet CEO Kardassis Resigns After Pact to Sell Stake to Etihad
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-06-07T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/jet-air-ceo-kardassis-resigns-after-pact-to-sell-stake-to-etihad.html
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  said its
Chief Executive Officer Nikos Kardassis resigned, less than two
months after the carrier agreed to sell a stake to Etihad
Airways PJSC.  Chief Operating Officer Hameed Ali will lead the airline
until the board identifies a new chief executive, the Mumbai-based company said in a stock exchange  filing  yesterday.
Kardassis, who became CEO of the carrier for a second time in
October 2009, resigned with effect from June 5.  The new CEO faces a challenge to end six years of losses
and pare debt at Jet Airways as competition in  India  is set to
intensify with the entry of  AirAsia Bhd (AIRA) , the region’s biggest
discount carrier. Chairman Naresh Goyal in April agreed to sell
a 24 percent stake to  Abu Dhabi ’s Etihad as he seeks funds
needed to pay for expansion.  Jet Airways fell 2 percent to 453.55 rupees at the close of
trading in Mumbai, before the statement was released. The
benchmark S&P BSE Sensex dropped 0.5 percent.  Kardassis was also the CEO of Jet Airways from 1994 to 1999.
Before returning to the role in 2009, he was a senior vice
president for the North American operations of the carrier,
according to the company  website .  “The timing of Nikos’s exit is a concern,” said Mark D. Martin, chief executive officer of Dubai-based Martin Consulting
LLC that advises airlines. “The challenge for whoever succeeds
him will be to manage the interests of both Jet and Etihad at
the board level and the business objectives.”  AirAsia  Etihad can appoint three directors on Jet’s board,
according to an exchange filing.  India eased aviation investment rules in September to allow
foreign carriers to own as much as a 49 percent stake in local
airlines. In March, AirAsia formed a venture with  Tata Group  to
set up a local low-fare airline. The Malaysian company aims to
start its Indian operations in September.  Jet plans to order more aircraft in an effort to regain
market share from discount carriers. The company is considering
an order for Boeing Co. 737 planes, K.G. Vishwanath, the
carrier’s vice president of commercial strategy, told analysts
in a conference call May 27.  The carrier last month posted a wider-than-estimated
fourth-quarter loss of 4.96 billion rupees ($87 million) as
aircraft lease costs increased and the airline had a one-time
expense. Jet hasn’t posted an annual profit in the six years
through March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  