-- JinkoSolar Rises as Shipments Jump 36% on Japan Demand
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-06-07T20:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/jinkosolar-rises-as-shipments-jump-36-percent.html
JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS) , a Chinese
solar manufacturer, rose the most in more than two weeks as
expanding sales in  Japan  helped boost first-quarter shipments 36
percent.  Jinko’s American depositary receipts climbed 8.6 percent to
$9.20 at the close in  New York , the most since May 20. The
Shangrao, China-based company’s ADRs are each worth four
ordinary shares.  Shipments of solar panels, cells and wafers reached 338.6
megawatts in the quarter, up from 249 megawatts a year earlier,
Jinko said today in a statement. Sales increased 9.7 percent to
1.16 billion  yuan  ($190 million).  Part of that came from Japan, where demand for solar panels
may triple this year. Jinko opened a local office there in March
and has already signed “a few large contracts,” according to
the statement. The company expects Japan to make up 15 percent
of its shipments “in the coming quarters.”  “We continue to expand and diversify our geographic
presence in emerging solar markets such as China, Japan, U.S.,
 South Africa  and India,” Chen Kangping, chief executive
officer, said today on a call with analysts.  Solar installations in Japan may reach 9,400 megawatts this
year, up from almost 2,500 last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The government is promoting wider use of renewable
energy after closing nuclear reactors in response to the March
2011 nuclear disaster in Fukushima.  Jinko’s net loss in the quarter narrowed 64 percent to
128.7 million yuan from a year earlier.  The company is taking measures “to reduce our exposure and
historical reliance on the European market,” which announced
import tariffs on Chinese solar products June 4, Chen said. Once
the largest market for solar panels, JinkoSolar expects sales in
 Europe  to account for less than 20 percent of its shipments in
coming quarters, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  