-- Job Gains Probably Restrained in May Amid U.S. Fiscal Cutbacks
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-07T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/job-gains-probably-restrained-in-may-amid-u-s-fiscal-cutbacks.html
Employers in the U.S. probably
created as many jobs in May as in the month before as higher
taxes and  federal budget  cuts restrained the world’s largest
economy.  Payrolls grew by 163,000 workers after increasing by
165,000 in April, according to the median of 90 forecasts
in a survey by Bloomberg. The unemployment  rate  held at
a four-year low of 7.5 percent, according to the survey.  The pace of job growth has slowed this quarter from the
previous three months as fiscal restraint and weakness overseas
prompt companies to temper hiring plans. While industries such
as  housing  and energy are bright spots for the labor market,
bigger payroll gains will be needed to move Federal Reserve
policy makers closer to scaling back record monetary stimulus.  “It’s not like we’re falling off a cliff, it just feels
like we’re throttling back a bit,” said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “It’s quite amazing the economy is holding up as
well as it is given how hard the fiscal headwinds are.”  The Labor Department will release the jobs figures at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Employment gains averaged 206,000 a month in
the first quarter. Estimates for May payrolls ranged
from 80,000 to 290,000. The agency surveys businesses and
households for the pay period that includes the 12th of the
month. There were five weeks between the April and May survey
periods.  Private payrolls, which don’t include government agencies,
grew by 175,000 workers in May after a gain of 176,000 the prior
month, the survey showed.  Less Hiring  Before today’s report, other data signaled a pause in the
improvement of the labor market. A report based on private
payrolls earlier this week showed companies hired fewer workers
than projected in May. Headcounts at businesses grew by 135,000
last month after a 113,000 gain in April, according to June 5
figures from the ADP Research Institute.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s gauge of factory
employment declined in May to the lowest level in six months.
The group’s measure of employment in non-manufacturing
industries that make up almost 90 percent of the economy fell to
a 10-month low.  Fed policy makers have said they’ll continue their $85
billion-a-month pace of asset purchases until the labor outlook
improves “substantially.” Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren 
and Chicago’s  Charles Evans  have said they want to see the
economy add 200,000 jobs a month before scaling back.  Fed Outlook  Former Fed economist  Vincent Reinhart , who is now chief
U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley in  New York , says that means
policy makers need to see about four months of job growth
averaging at least 200,000 to justify reducing the pace of asset
purchases.  “They’re going to need a substantial run of data to change
course,” said  Ian Shepherdson , chief economist at Pantheon
Macroeconomics in  White Plains , New York. “To actually do it,
the economy not only has to be improved, but it has to be
improved in such a way that it can take the strain of the new
policy. The economy has to be in a position to take it and I
don’t think it is just yet.”  Gross domestic product rose at an annualized rate of 2.4
percent from January through March. Growth will slow to a 1.6
percent pace in the second quarter as the effects of
sequestration take hold, before improving to an average 2.4
percent rate in the second half of the year, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg from May 3
to May 8.  Construction, Energy  At the same time, growth in home construction and energy
has given a boost to companies such as  Fluor Corp. (FLR)  The
engineering and equipment company based in Irving,  Texas ,
projects its global staff will grow from 13,500 to 15,000 by the
end of the year, said Peter Oosterveer, president of energy and
chemicals.  Wage growth remains “modest”, with pay up between 3
percent and 5 percent in  North America  and  Europe , Oosterveer
said at a conference yesterday.  Other companies, from industrial giant  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  to
insurer  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , are adjusting payrolls to cut
costs. Genworth, based in Richmond,  Virginia , will eliminate 400
jobs as low  interest rates  squeeze investment income.  Caterpillar, the largest maker of construction and mining
equipment, has responded to weaker global sales by delaying
capital investments and requiring some employees to take unpaid
leave, said Michael DeWalt, director of  investor relations  for
the Peoria, Illinois-based company.  “Within corporate accounting, treasury, tax, about 90
percent of the people are taking three weeks of unpaid leave
this year,” DeWalt said at a June 5 conference. “A lot of the
actions that we’re taking are all around trying to match the
cost base up with what the reality is of sales.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  