-- KKR, Centerbridge Group Said to Vie With Apax Over Cengage Fate
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-06-07T13:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/kkr-centerbridge-group-said-to-vie-with-apax-over-cengage-fate.html
KKR & Co.,  Centerbridge Partners LP 
and GSO Capital Partners LP are part of a creditor group that
amassed more than $2 billion in  Cengage Learning Inc. ’s senior
debt as it vies with owner Apax Partners LLP to influence the
fate of the publisher, said people familiar with the matter.  The lender group -- which had its first meeting with
Cengage management yesterday -- acquired Cengage’s senior debt
at a discount, giving them a bigger creditor stake than the
publisher’s private-equity owner, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the process is is private. Apax bought
$800 million to $1 billion of Cengage’s loans at a discount, the
people said. The creditor group may seek to convert debt into
part ownership of the publisher, they said.  Other senior creditors in the group include  Oaktree Capital
Group LLC (OAK) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Oak Hill Advisors LP, said the
people. GSO is the credit unit of  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)  London-based Apax hasn’t yet engaged in direct negotiations with other
creditors, and Cengage’s management and advisers continue to
explore alternatives, said the people. Cengage said last month
that it may need to file for bankruptcy as part of its
restructuring efforts.  Cengage faces mounting pressure to restructure $5.8 billion
in debt -- mostly from the 2007 leveraged buyout by Apax -- as
payments come due in less than a month. Lenders are negotiating
the company’s value and how to convert debt holdings into
equity, said the people. A repayment deadline could be extended
by several weeks if talks require more time, they said.  Expanding Talks  Houlihan Lokey is advising the committee of senior secured
creditors, according to the people. Blackstone is advising
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which arranged the loans, on behalf of all
the senior lenders -- a larger group that includes  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , the people said. Rothschild is working for Apax,
according to the people.  Discussions may expand to include more creditors as well as
Apax as soon as next week, said two of the people, because the
company has interest payments due on June 30 and debt principal
on July 5.  Initially, Cengage talked with senior creditors holding
maturities looming this year and next, aiming to extend
repayment deadlines in exchange for more favorable terms -- a
move that would buy time for Cengage’s new management to execute
its turnaround, the people said. Senior lenders, including those
with longer maturities, are now involved, seeking a
comprehensive restructuring covering the entire balance sheet,
according to the people.  Teaching Materials  Cengage, which makes teaching materials for colleges,
schools, libraries and corporations, was acquired by a private-equity group led by Apax from Thomson Reuters Corp. for $7.75
billion. The company said on March 22 that it had drawn down
most of its revolving credit lines and hired restructuring
advisers Alvarez & Marsal and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , as well as law firm
Kirkland & Ellis LLP, raising the prospect of bankruptcy.  Representatives of the creditors and advisory firms
declined to comment or didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment. James McCusker, a spokesman for Cengage, declined to
comment.  Cengage Chief Executive Officer  Michael Hansen  said in
February that Apax had bought a “substantial” amount of the
publisher’s first-lien debt at a discount, a move that gives it
greater influence in restructuring talks. The buyout firm hasn’t
publicly disclosed how much debt it has accumulated. Hansen said
May 10 that the company is seeking to negotiate a
“comprehensive restructuring transaction” with creditors and
may file for bankruptcy after reaching some creditor agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  