-- Nadal Faces Ferrer for Title After Djokovic Thriller
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-09T04:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/nadal-beats-djokovic-to-move-to-french-open-final-no-8.html
Seven-time champion  Rafael Nadal  will
play fellow Spaniard  David Ferrer  in the French Open men’s final
after savoring the “suffering” of a five-set semifinal victory
over Novak Djokovic.  The third-seeded Nadal defeated the top-seeded Serb, 6-4,
3-6, 6-1, 6-7 (3-7), 9-7 in 4 hours, 37 minutes on two days ago
at  Roland Garros  in Paris after trailing 4-2 in the final set.  Nadal, who returned in February from a seven-month break
because of a knee injury, said he much preferred to be sweating
it out on a tennis court than being relegated to the sideline.  “You need to love what you are doing and appreciate every
moment,” Nadal said in a news conference. “I have learned to
enjoy suffering in these matches, because what is much harder is
to be at home in  Mallorca , watching these matches on TV.”  Nadal, 27, faces Ferrer for the title today. The fourth-seeded Ferrer beat  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, 6-1, 7-6 (7-3),
6-2, in the other semifinal. Tsonga was trying to become the
first Frenchman to win the event since Yannick Noah 30 years
ago.  Ferrer, 31, has lost 19 of 23 matches against Nadal.  “I am good, I am not tired, I’ll need that against
Nadal,” Ferrer said in a courtside interview after he reached
his first Grand Slam final without losing a set.  Injury Break  After losing in the second round at Wimbledon to then
100th-ranked Lukas Rosol of the  Czech Republic  a year ago, Nadal
was sidelined while recovering from a partially torn patella
tendon and inflammation in his left knee. The injury forced him
to miss the London Olympics, the  U.S. Open  and the Australian
Open.  The left-handed Nadal hit 61 winners two days ago, seven
more than Djokovic.  “He showed the courage in the right moments and went for
his shots, and when he was break down in the fifth he made some
incredible shots from the baseline,” Djokovic said in a news
conference. “I congratulate him, because that’s why he’s a
champion. That’s why he’s been ruling Roland Garros for many
years, and for me it’s another year.”  Record Attempt  Nadal won his first French championship in 2005 and has
lost just once on the clay in Paris -- in 2009 to  Sweden ’s  Robin Soderling  in the fourth round. He’s trying to become the first
man to win eight Roland Garros titles in the professional era.  Djokovic has now lost five times to Nadal in Paris,
including last year’s final. It’s the only Grand Slam title he’s
yet to win.  “He will win here one year,” Nadal said.  Battling from the baseline in long rallies, they were even
through the first 40 minutes. Nadal then broke serve on a
forehand error and held at love for the second time. Serving at
5-4, Nadal took the set on a return error.  Put under pressure by Nadal’s high-kicking topspin
groundstrokes that left him unable to attack from the baseline,
Djokovic let out a roar after a missed backhand early in the
second set.  Nadal seemed to take control after breaking for a 3-2 lead,
only to drop his own serve for the first time in the next game.
Djokovic later yelped and turned toward friends and family after
he broke serve for the second time with a forehand winner. A
backhand error by Nadal then tied the match at one set each.  Momentum Shift  The momentum shifted as Nadal won five straight games,
going up 2-0 on an overrule by the umpire. Television replays
using the Hawkeye electronic line-calling system -- which isn’t
utilized at  Roland Garros  -- showed the ball had been in.  Down 0-3, Djokovic briefly left the court for a bathroom
break. Serving at 5-1, 40-0, Nadal was docked a point for taking
too much time. The Spaniard then won the third set on a backhand
error.  Nadal was twice unable to take advantage of breaks in the
fourth set. The Spaniard had been two points away from victory
at 6-5 when he shanked a forehand and then dropped his serve on
a forehand winner by Djokovic.  “I had to serve against the wind,” Nadal said. “Tricky
situation. I was too aggressive with my forehand, I tried to hit
a winner.”  Djokovic forced a fifth set when he took the tiebreaker
with a blistering, sliding forehand that landed straight at
Nadal’s feet.  Fifth Set  Nadal lost serve again in the opening game of the deciding
set. Trailing 4-2, he fought back to 4-4. Djokovic then
complained to supervisor Stefan Fransson at 7-6 in the fifth set
about why the court hadn’t been watered during changeovers.  “Was too slippery,” he said. “Difficult to change
direction. I just don’t understand. That’s it. I think that it’s
wrong what they did.”  Nadal later said the umpire had asked him if he wanted the
courts watered.  “Seems like the rule is both players had to agree on
putting water on the court if it’s in the middle of one set,”
Nadal said. “I say, I prefer not. But if they put water, I
wouldn’t have said anything against it.”  Returning serve with the wind at his back at 8-7, Nadal got
to three match points as Djokovic struck a forehand long.
Another error, his 75th of the match, put Nadal in the final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at  celser@bloomberg.net  