-- Naira Declines to Extend Worst Weekly Drop in Year: Lagos Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-06-07T11:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/naira-declines-to-extend-worst-weekly-drop-in-year-lagos-mover.html
Nigeria’s naira weakened against the
dollar, extending its worst weekly performance in a year, amid
speculation the state-owned  oil company  sold limited foreign-exchange to the market.  The currency of Africa’s biggest crude producer fell for a
fourth day as dollar sales from Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp. were less than expected, said  Samir Gadio , a London-based
 emerging markets  strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., the
continent’s largest lender. Yields on domestic bonds due January
2022 rose to their highest since October yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The naira weakened “amid less significant than expected
NNPC flows, weaker confidence, limited capital inflows,” Gadio
said in an e-mailed reply to questions today. “It is likely
that the  Central Bank of Nigeria  will intervene in the market in
the near term and sell dollars directly to the banks to defend
its nominal monetary policy anchor.”  Oil companies , including Abuja-based NNPC, are the second-biggest source of dollars after the Central Bank of Nigeria,
which offers foreign currency at auctions on Mondays and
Wednesdays to maintain exchange-rate stability.  Nigeria’s currency weakened as much as 0.4 percent before
trading 0.3 percent lower at 159.35 per dollar as of 12:25 p.m.
in Lagos, the commercial capital. That extended its weekly
decline to 0.7 percent, the biggest fall since the five days
through June 8, 2012. The yield on the 2022 securities rose 38
basis points, or 0.38 percentage point, to 13.33 percent
yesterday, the highest since Oct. 30, according to the data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Heavily Managed’  “Because the dollar-naira exchange rate is heavily
managed, the unit has not experienced the same type of weakness
against the dollar as displayed by more flexible emerging market
currencies,” said Gadio.  Central bank  Governor Lamido Sanusi
“is likely to take all necessary measures to defend exchange
rate stability during the remainder of his term,” he said.  Nigeria’s central bank shouldn’t rush to cut  interest rates 
even as inflation is forecast to remain within target this year
and it may even raise rates or the cash-reserve ratio if
 government spending  becomes a threat to  price stability , Sanusi
said in an interview last month.  The Central Bank of Nigeria left its  policy rate  unchanged
at a record high of 12 percent on May 21, concerned that
spending was poised to rise as the government battles Islamist
insurgents in the northeast. The bank raised the level of
reserves that lenders must hold in cash to 12 percent from 8
percent in July 2012.  Inflation (NGCPIYOY)  has stayed under 10 percent for
four consecutive months, meeting the bank’s target.  Nigeria’s has $48.4 billion of  foreign-exchange reserves  as
of June 5, according to central bank data. Insparo Asset
Management is “confident” of a strong naira outlook due to the
“willingness” of the Abuja-based regulator to use them to
support the currency and fight inflation, Graham Stock, chief
strategist at the London-based fund, said in an interview
yesterday.  Yields on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due
January 2021 declined 10 basis points to 5.015 percent today.
Ghana’s cedi was unchanged at 2.0015 per dollar in Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  