-- New Jersey Senate Candidates Get Set as Chiesa Appointed
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/new-jersey-senate-candidates-get-set-as-chiesa-appointed.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
picked Attorney General Jeffrey Chiesa as an interim replacement
for deceased U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , while candidates to
succeed him began lining up for a special-election ballot.  Chiesa, a Branchburg resident who described himself as a
conservative Republican, accepted Christie’s offer with a two-word text: “I’m in,” the governor said yesterday.  Chiesa  will
begin June 10, and won’t be a candidate to complete Lautenberg’s
fifth term, which has about 18 months remaining.  The move sets up a truncated and potentially fiery
Democratic primary campaign set to conclude Aug. 13. Newark
Mayor  Cory Booker , who chose to seek the Senate seat in 2014 and
not challenge Republican Christie’s re-election bid in November,
signaled he’ll enter the special-election race. Congressmen Rush Holt is running and  Frank Pallone  has expressed interest.  “Senator Lautenberg had been ill and I knew this day might
come,” Christie, 50, said yesterday at a Trenton news briefing.
“So I didn’t just start thinking about this on Monday. I’d been
thinking about it on and off for some period of time.”  Lautenberg, a Democrat who didn’t plan to seek a sixth
term, died June 3 at 89. The next day, Christie set an Oct. 16
special election for the seat. Democrats have a 700,000 vote
edge over Republicans, giving their candidate an advantage in
October. Most New Jersey voters aren’t members of either party.  No Politics  The governor declined to speculate on potential Republican
candidates, saying politics didn’t enter into his decision on
appointing Chiesa or on setting the special election. Republican
Steve Lonegan, a former mayor of Bogota,  New Jersey , is
gathering signatures to get on the August primary ballot.  Democrats had pushed for holding the election on Nov. 5,
concurrent with voting in the governor’s race. That threatened
to put a popular Democrat such as Booker at the top of the
ballot, potentially increasing voter participation and
diminishing support for Christie and his party’s candidates.  Christie, by setting the dates he did, left would-be
candidates less than a week to gather the 1,000 signatures of
registered New Jersey voters needed to qualify for the August
primary. Whoever wins the seat also faces the prospect of a
second statewide campaign to retain it next year.  Holt, 64, became the first Democrat to formally enter the
special-election race yesterday, asking supporters to sign
ballot petitions for him in an appeal on his website. A nuclear
physicist and five-time winner of the television game show
“Jeopardy!,” he was first elected to the U.S. House of
Representatives in 1998.  West Virginian  Holt, of Hopewell Township, was born in  West Virginia , the
son of a U.S. Senator and the first woman to serve as West
Virginia secretary of state, according to his website.  Booker, 44, is considered the frontrunner for the seat. A
Rhodes scholar and lawyer, he rose from the City Council in 2006
to defeat incumbent Sharpe James for the top job in the
state’s biggest city by population. He won re-election in 2010.  The mayor will “make an official announcement at an
appropriate date,” Kevin Griffis, a spokesman, said yesterday
by e-mail.  Christie said Chiesa, 47, told him he had “no interest in
being a political candidate” after the governor had given him
the interim job on June 4. Chiesa said he was surprised by the
selection.  A Christie appointee, Chiesa began as attorney general in
January 2012. He has focused on gun and  gang violence , crimes
against children and public corruption. He also helped lead the
response to  Hurricane Sandy , according to Christie’s office.  Immigration Debate  Immigration may be the first major issue Chiesa will deal
with in  Washington , as the Senate is scheduled to begin debate
tomorrow on revising U.S. laws governing undocumented
immigrants. Chiesa said that his background as a prosecutor
makes border security a priority, though he hasn’t formed an
opinion on a pathway to citizenship. He said he needs to study
pending issues before weighing in.  Christie, a potential White House candidate in 2016, has
said deporting undocumented immigrants isn’t a “practical
plan,” has argued for a comprehensive rewrite of immigration
laws. He also supports a “clear path” to legalization.  The choice of Chiesa was an attempt by Christie to remain
above the political fray in a state election year and avoid
jilting members of his own party by hand-picking a candidate to
run this fall, said  Brigid Harrison , who teaches law and
government at  Montclair State University .  ‘Safe Appointment’  “This is not surprising and a safe appointment,” Harrison
said. “In addition to appointing a foot soldier who is loyal to
the  Republican Party , the governor succeeded in appointing a
foot soldier that is loyal to him. He won’t do anything
embarrassing or surprising while he’s in Washington.”  The governor, a former U.S. attorney in New Jersey, said he
first hired Chiesa more than 20 years ago, calling him a close
friend now. Chiesa worked for the  Justice Department  for seven
years, served as executive director of Christie’s first-term
transition team, and spent two years as the governor’s chief
counsel.  “There’s very few people in my life that I know better
than Jeff,” Christie said.  State Senate Minority Leader Tom Kean, a Republican from
Westfield, said Chiesa has served “admirably and honorably” in
Trenton and sending him to the nation’s capital is needed as
Congress takes action on several major fronts.  “He is the right man for the job and will be a dignified
voice in Washington to serve the people of New Jersey,” Kean
said in a statement. “Governor Christie’s swift action assures
that the people of New Jersey will not be without a voice in the
 U.S. Senate .”  Chiesa’s term ends Oct. 16, the day of the special
election, according to Christie.  The newly minted lawmaker “is going to be a Christie proxy
in Washington,” said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich
Institute of New Jersey Politics at  Rider University . “It makes
sense the governor would pick one of his closest friends.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  