-- Newcrest to Cut Mine Value by Up to $5.7 Billion on Slump
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-06-07T06:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/newcrest-says-may-book-5-7-billion-charge-this-year-on-mines.html
Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,  Australia ’s
largest gold producer, will write down the value of its assets
by as much as A$6 billion ($5.7 billion) after a slump in
prices, sending its shares down to the lowest in eight years.  The size of the charge on mines including Hidden Valley in
Papua New Guinea, Bonriko in  Ivory Coast  and Telfer in Australia
compares with Newcrest’s market capitalization of A$9.5 billion
at the close and represents about 25 percent of the book value
of its  assets  as of Dec. 31, according to a statement today from
the Melbourne-based company.  The write downs and a plan to cut about 250 jobs were
“painful,” though a necessary response to gold’s decline, a
higher Australian dollar and rising costs, Chief Executive
Officer  Greg Robinson  told analysts on a conference call.  Newcrest, the  worst performing  of Australia’s 20 largest
companies this year, flagged it probably won’t pay a final
dividend for fiscal 2013, will cut corporate costs by 20 percent
and close its Brisbane office, which has about 100 staff.
Investors are fleeing the industry amid rising mining costs,
project delays and the slide in the price of gold, which fell
into a  bear market  in April.  “Newcrest are perennial operational disappointers,”
 Michael McCarthy , chief market strategist at CMC Markets
Australia, said by phone. “Throw in a poor outlook for the gold
price, overall I suspect investors today will be focusing on
that writedown and giving them very little of no credit for any
potential cost savings.”  The stock closed 7.6 percent lower at A$12.35, the lowest
since May 31, 2005. It earlier plunged as much as 15 percent.  Bullion Drop  Gold for immediate delivery was little changed at $1,414.94
at 4:09 p.m. in Sydney. The metal is trading 27 percent below
the record $1,921.15 set in September 2011.  The proposed writedown will have a “material impact on the
2013 financial year statutory accounts,” and follows a review
of strategy in the wake of gold’s slump, the company said in the
statement. Capital expenditure will be cut to A$1 billion from
A$1.5 billion, while exploration will be cut by almost a half to
A$85 million, the company said. Restructuring costs will include
a one-time charge of as much as A$75 million, it said.  “While this plan slows production growth in the near term,
it increases  cash flow ,” Robinson said.  Profit Slide  The company is forecast to report net income of A$556
million in the year ending June 30, according to the average of
15 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. This compares with
A$1.12 billion reported last year.  Newcrest, which has lost 15 percent of its market value
this week, has been downgraded in recent days by banks including
Credit Suisse Group AG, Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG.  The  Australian Securities and Investments Commission  is in
discussions with ASX Ltd., the operator of the country’s largest
stock exchange, “regarding the price move,” in accordance with
usual procedures for large moves in share prices, the regulator
said in an e-mailed statement.  “Some sections of the market were clearly aware of
something happening, though they may not have had the exact same
details,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about A$1.2
billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. Patkar made
a complaint to ASIC.  “You never get a situation where, out of the blue, the
entire street wakes up and decides to downgrade like that,”
said Patkar, who doesn’t hold Newcrest shares.  Decisions made by analysts had been based on information
supplied in company filings and a presentation by Robinson to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch conference in  Barcelona  last
month, Newcrest spokeswoman Kerrina Watson said. “There has
been no selective briefing of analysts,” she said.  Debt Facilities  The writedowns include all A$3.6 billion of goodwill in
Lihir and A$200,000 in Bonikro and impairments totaling as much
as A$2.2 billion for Telfer, Hidden Valley and Bonikro, Robinson
told analysts.  Newcrest’s debt facilities do not include ratings triggers
or gearing covenants, the company said. The producer has
available  debt facilities  falling due in 2017 of $2.6 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s bonds slumped 6.5 percent this quarter as of
yesterday, more than twice the average decline for debt from
investment-grade metals, mining and steel companies, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Production in 2014 will be 2 million ounces to 2.3 million
ounces, the company said. It cut its 2013 production forecast on
March 28 by more than 10 percent to a range of 2 million ounces
to 2.15 million ounces. Newcrest still expects to add between 5
percent to 10 percent to production each year, as it expands
Cadia East in Australia and Lihir in  Papua New Guinea , Robinson
said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  