-- Nigeria Retires Matured Bonds in Move to Curb Local Debt
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-06-07T14:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/nigeria-retires-matured-bonds-in-move-to-curb-local-debt.html
Nigeria  retired matured bonds and
plans to cut domestic borrowing to 500 billion naira ($3.1
billion) next year as part of a move to reduce growing debt,
Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said.  This year’s local borrowing target of 577 billion naira is
expected to decrease next year as  Africa ’s biggest oil producer
retreats from the height reached in 2010, when it exceeded a
target of 867.5 billion naira and sold 1.1 trillion naira of
bonds. Nigeria “for the first time” retired 75 billion naira
of maturing bonds in February and will continue to do so to
reduce debt, Okonjo-Iweala said today in an e-mailed statement.  “No one in government is supportive of a Nigeria that
returns to a high state of indebtedness,” she said. “Our
current approach balances Nigeria’s needs for investment in
physical and human infrastructure with a strong policy to limit
overall indebtedness in relation to our ability to pay.”  Africa’s most populous country of more than 160 million
depends on crude oil exports for about 80 percent of government
revenue and 90 percent of foreign income, according to the
central bank. The benchmark  interest rate  has remained at a
record high of 12 percent since October 2011, as the central
bank tries to curb inflation and support the naira, helping spur
bond demand.  Nigeria’s local debt has grown since it liquidated a
foreign debt of $30 billion in 2006 by paying $12 billion and
getting forgiveness for $18 billion in a deal negotiated by
Okonjo-Iweala. Domestic debt stood at 6.1 trillion naira at the
end of March while foreign debt stood at $6.7 billion, according
to the Abuja-based Debt Management Office.  Under a strategy to run from this year, the government
plans to increase foreign borrowing to about 40 percent of total
debt from current 14 percent, Minister of State for Finance
Yerima Ngama said on May 15. The government will opt for
cheaper, longer-term foreign loans and reduce short-term
domestic borrowing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  