-- Nippon Paper Mulls Power Plant Investment Amid Abe Energy Push
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-06-07T00:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/nippon-paper-mulls-power-plant-investment-amid-abe-energy-push.html
Nippon Paper Industries Co.,  Japan ’s
second-biggest paper producer, is considering a project to build
what would be its largest power plant in Ishinomaki, a port city
north of Tokyo wrecked by the 2011 earthquake.  The project, an example of Nippon Paper’s  drive  to expand
outside its mainstay paper products, represents the kind of
investment Prime Minister Shinzo Abe endorsed this week as part
of efforts to deregulate the electricity industry. Nippon Paper
may eventually sell some of the power generated to customers.  “The energy business presents an opportunity to grow,”
Haruhi Nomura, general manager in charge of energy at Nippon
Paper, said June 5 in an interview in Tokyo. “Our current focus
is on creating more power to sell to customers.”  The company is studying whether to add a 30 billion yen
($301 million) plant fueled by coal and wood at the site of its
Ishinomaki paper factory with output capacity of about 110
megawatt hours, Nomura said. The plan is among many unannounced
projects under consideration to produce power fueled by biomass,
solar and wind, he said.　  The facility is the latest example of the shift occurring
at Japanese paper companies including Nippon Paper and  Oji
Holdings Corp. (3861)  as they compensate for flagging paper sales.
Japan’s paper consumption has fallen 16 percent over the past
five years to 16.2 million metric tons, according to data
compiled by the Japan Paper Association in 2012.  Tokyo-based Nippon Paper, which lags behind only Oji
Holdings in sales, plans to start operating a biomass plant in
March 2015 at its Yatsushiro factory on the southern island of
Kyushu.  Electricity Investment  Abe gave his approval of the trend this week when he
pledged to spur investment in the nation’s electricity industry
to about 30 trillion yen in the next decade.  Nippon Paper is targeting annual sales from energy at more
than 50 billion yen in about five years, according to Nomura. An
energy business division will be set up as of June 27 in an
organizational reform, according to a May 28 company  statement .  The company, which uses energy in paper manufacturing, says
it has power generation capacity of about 1,700 megawatt hours,
among the biggest in Japan outside traditional utilities.  Oji Holdings said in February that it will add a wood-fueled power plant in Miyazaki prefecture on the Kyushu island
by March 2015. The company is also considers a similar power
plant on the northern island of Hokkaido, part of its 60 billion
investment in renewable energy, Shoji Fujiwara, chairman of Oji
Green Resources Co., said in an interview in  Tokyo  last year.  Government Incentives  Government incentives known as feed-in tariffs are proving
one of the main drivers of clean energy in Japan. The program,
introduced in July, requires utilities to pay above-market rates
to companies producing power from renewable energy, with the
added cost passed on to consumers as surcharges.  Nippon Paper hopes to make a decision on whether to build
the Ishinomaki facility by the end of the year, Nomura said.
Sales from the plant would be about 8.5 billion yen a year
should all its electricity be sold to outside customers. Nippon
Paper generated about 18 billion yen in total from electricity
sales in the year ended March 2012, according to Nomura.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  