-- No Child Left Behind School Law Opens Partisan Divide
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-06-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/no-child-left-behind-school-law-opens-partisan-divide.html
No Child Left Behind , the 11-year-old
law governing U.S. schools, was once hailed as a bipartisan
triumph uniting Republican President  George W. Bush  and
Democratic Senator  Edward Kennedy  on improving education.  Now, once again, bitter party divisions are complicating
efforts to change the law, criticized by parents, teachers and
many politicians for an excessive focus on the standardized
testing of students. Efforts to reauthorize No Child Left Behind
have been bogged down since 2007.  This week, Senate Democrats proposed a bill to ease the
law’s provisions while preserving testing requirements designed
to hold schools accountable for all students’ achievement. House
Republicans countered yesterday with a plan to curtail U.S.
involvement. It’s unlikely the parties will come to an agreement
anytime soon, said Maria Ferguson, executive director of
Washington-based  Center on Education Policy , a nonpartisan
research group.  “It’s taken a heck of a long time, and that speaks to
something,” Ferguson said of the six years of attempts to
overhaul the law. “It demonstrates the complicated relationship
this country has with the federal government role in
education.”  Officially called the Elementary and Secondary Education
Act, the law requires schools to show that all students are
proficient on state standardized reading and math tests by 2014.
Schools also must demonstrate yearly progress toward that goal
or risk losing federal money. U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan has said the law’s rigid approach has led to the
narrowing of the U.S. curriculum and dumbing down of schools.  ‘Failed Tenets’  Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat who chairs the Senate
Education Committee, introduced a bill this week that he said
would “replace the failed tenets of No Child Left Behind”
while building on “state-led reforms.”  In many respects, the Harkin bill resembles the approach
that President  Barack Obama  has taken to changing the law.
Frustrated with congressional inaction, Obama has granted
waivers to 37 states and the  District of Columbia , excusing them
from meeting No Child Left Behind’s proficiency deadlines if
they agree to the principles of his education agenda, such as
pledging to turn around the lowest-performing schools.  Standardized Tests  Like the Obama waivers, the  bill  offered by Harkin and
other  Senate Democrats  leaves in place the No Child Left Behind
standardized-testing program, including the reporting of the
results of subgroups, such as minorities, children with
disabilities and those who speak English as a second language.
The bill calls on states to establish goals for those students’
achievement. Civil-rights groups had been pushing to preserve
that kind of accountability in the law.  The Harkin bill also said schools must use students’
standardized-test scores to improve teaching, while it is silent
on whether they should be incorporated into the evaluation of
teachers -- a controversial approach, especially among teachers.
The Obama administration supports their use in teacher
evaluations.  By contrast, House Republicans led by U.S. Representative
 John Kline  of  Minnesota , who chairs the Education and Workforce
Committee, proposed eliminating federal mandates for turning
around troubled schools and letting states determine their own
accountability systems. It would still require testing and the
posting of annual report cards for parents.  Republican Bill  Their bill eliminates more than 70 elementary and high
school programs. It would create new grants to provide money to
states and school districts for their own initiatives to improve
achievement. It would also expand funding for the expansion of
charter schools, privately run public schools. States would be
required to make student achievement a significant part of
teacher evaluations.  The proposed legislation would also limit the authority of
the Education Secretary, specifically prohibiting him from
imposing conditions on states and school districts in exchange
for waivers to federal law -- as Duncan did for the No Child
Left Behind waivers.  “ House Republicans  are determined to put an end to the
Obama administration’s overreach in our nation’s classrooms and
empower communities to fix our broken education system,” they
said in materials introducing the bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  