-- Norway Banks to Hand Nibor Oversight to Bourse After Probe
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-06-07T11:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/norway-banks-to-hand-nibor-oversight-to-bourse-after-probe.html
Norway ’s banks are working on handing
oversight and setting of the nation’s benchmark  interbank rate 
to the stock exchange after a probe into claims of manipulation
was inconclusive.  Finance Norway, which represents banks in the country, is
preparing an agreement with the exchange to take over the
Norwegian interbank offered rate, the Oslo-based association
said in a statement today.  “Nibor is one of the capital markets most important tools
and we see it as a vote of confidence that Finance Norway has
agreed for the bourse to become an independent third party to
calculate the rate,” said Bente A. Landsnes, head of the
exchange, in a separate statement. “It’s very important that
there’s confidence in the rate domestically and internationally
for well-functioning capital and fixed-income markets in
Norway.”  The Financial Supervisory Authority in April recommended an
overhaul of how the rate was shaped. That followed an
investigation after bankers outside the country claimed it was
being rigged. Documents released by the central bank in January
revealed e-mailed complaints from traders around the world going
as far back as 2010.  “The Financial Supervisory Authority of Norway has found
no evidence of rigging, or attempted rigging, of Nibor, but
cannot disprove rigging either,” the regulator said in April.
“The Nibor framework should be strengthened and made more
robust to manipulation. It also needs to be more transparent to
allow for subsequent testing and oversight.”  Ensuring Confidence  Finance Norway today said it would start disclosing the
rate contributions from the banks and establish a control
committee to handle complaints. The number of rates will also be
limited to one week, one month, two-month, three-month and six-month maturities, according to the group.  “Publication of the banks’ rate contributions will
contribute to ensure continued high confidence in Nibor,” said
Jan Digranes, director at the group, in a statement.  In correspondence released in January, a June 2010 e-mail
by a banker, whose name was blacked out, said Nibor fixings
“seem to bear no resemblance to market realities.”  Interbank rates came under international scrutiny after
Barclays Plc was fined a record 290 million pounds ($444
million) in June last year for attempting to rig the London
interbank offered rate and Euribor.  Nibor was linked to as much as 5.8 trillion kroner ($1
trillion) in derivatives in April 2010, according to central
bank documents. Nibor is used as a benchmark for mortgage rates,
corporate bond yields and derivative contracts. It has been
calculated as an average of rates published by a panel of banks
for various maturities, excluding low and high quotes. That
panel is made up of  DNB ASA (DNB) ,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Svenska
Handelsbanken AB, Nordea Bank Norge ASA, SEB AB and Swedbank AB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  