-- NRG Unit Plans $400 Million IPO to Own, Operate Power Assets
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-06-07T20:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/nrg-plans-400-million-ipo-for-unit-to-own-operate-power-assets.html
NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  said a newly created
unit, formed to operate renewable and conventional power assets
and pay regular dividends to shareholders, plans to raise as
much as $400 million in an initial share sale.  The unit, NRG Yield Inc., would acquire and own a mix of
solar, wind and gas-fired generating assets and “pay a
consistent and growing cash dividend,” it said today in a
filing. The company intends to list its shares on the  New York 
Stock Exchange under the symbol NYLD. The number of shares to be
offered and price weren’t disclosed.  NRG, the largest independent U.S. electricity generator, is
expected to retain a majority voting interest in the unit and a
similar economic interest in its assets, the Princeton, New
Jersey-based company said today in a statement. NRG Yield
expects to be “a premier company for investors seeking stable
and growing dividend income from a diversified portfolio of
lower-risk high-quality assets,” it said in the filing.  NRG Yield owns three natural gas or dual-fired facilities,
seven utility-scale solar  power plants , one wind farm, and two
portfolios of distributed solar energy systems, for a total of
1,324 megawatts of capacity. The assets sell electricity under
long-term contracts with “credit-worthy counterparties,”
according to the filing.  Use of Proceeds  NRG Yield plans to use a portion of the proceeds from the
IPO to fund construction of its 250-megawatt  California  Valley
Solar Ranch project that’s expected to be completed in October
2013, the company said. It owns a 48.95 percent stake in the
solar farm, located in San Luis Obispo County, California, which
received a $1.2 billion U.S. loan guarantee.  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s
Pacific Gas & Electric utility has 25-year contracts to purchase
electricity from its two segments.  The unit has a “right of first offer” to acquire NRG’s
interest in four other solar farms and a gas facility. That
purchase would include the remaining stake in California Valley
Solar Ranch, 49.95 percent of  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) ’s Ivanpah
solar-thermal plant and 51 percent of NRG’s Agua Caliente
project, the remainder of which is owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. Ivanpah and Agua Caliente
received similar U.S. loan guarantees.  Bank of America Corp. , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. are managing the offering.  NRG rose 5.7 percent to $27.10 at the close in New York,
the most in more than 10 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  