-- Obama-Xi California Meeting Emphasizes Personal Approach
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-06-07T17:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/obama-xi-california-meeting-emphasizes-personal-approach.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  welcomes
newly minted Chinese President Xi Jinping today to the secluded
gardens of a 200-acre  California  estate for what could be
considered the world’s most important weekend get-away.  Breaking a tradition of choreographed talks between leaders
of the two biggest global economies, the presidents have
scheduled six hours of unscripted meetings, a leisurely dinner,
and, if things go well, perhaps a sunset stroll in the shadow of
the San Jacinto mountains.  The informal, “shirt-sleeve” event is part of Obama’s
effort to redefine a critical international relationship. No
policy breakthroughs are expected from the meetings in Rancho
Mirage today and tomorrow, according to White House aides who
briefed reporters on condition of anonymity.  “I’m used to meetings with the Chinese where you have 20
or 22 people and you have bleachers in the back,” said Jeffrey Bader, who directed East Asian Affairs at the National Security
Council during Obama’s first term. “You have a much more
candid, different kind of discussion in this kind of setting.”  Instead, the White House aides said the gathering will give
Obama and Xi a chance to build personal diplomacy to help reset
relations that have become strained as  China’s economy  expands
and as the U.S. confronts the Chinese government over matters
including human rights and computer hacking.  Rather than focus on the thorny international issues that
have long defined the U.S.- China  ties, Obama and Xi plan to
exchange ideas on how to jointly manage the countries’ long-term
economic and security issues.  ‘Our Challenges’  “I know everybody worries about China,” Obama told donors
gathered last night at the hillside estate of Sun Microsystems
Inc. co-founder Vinod Khosla in Portola Valley, California, for
a Democratic fundraising dinner. “And yet when you look at the
challenges they face and the challenges we face I’d take our
challenges any day of the week.”  Hours before the meeting began, China issued passports to
the family of blind legal activist  Chen Guangcheng  after
previous requests had failed, his brother Chen Guangfu said in a
telephone interview. The family will talk to Chen Guangcheng
about visiting the U.S., he said.  Chen Guangcheng was the focus of a diplomatic episode
between the U.S. and China last year when then-Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  visited Beijing. After four years under
house arrest, he fled to the U.S. embassy days before Clinton’s
visit. Following talks between the two sides, he was issued a
passport and took a fellowship in the U.S., where he now lives.  Domestic Concerns  Before the meeting, Obama will turn his attention to
domestic concerns, using the visit to California to tout the
benefits of his health-care law and encourage Americans to sign
up for insurance. Last night, he wooed Democratic party donors
at fundraisers in  Palo Alto  and Portola Valley, two towns in the
heart of Silicon Valley.  The events came as the Washington Post and Guardian
newspapers reported that some of the technology companies
headquartered in the area, including  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook Inc.,
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , provided the National Security Agency and the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation with access to their servers.
Yesterday, the companies denied the reports.  Obama addressed the controversy in remarks this morning,
saying that Congress has repeatedly approved his surveillance
policies and that his administration has put in safeguards to
ensure that the programs aren’t abused.  “In the abstract, you can complain about Big Brother, and
how this is a potential program run amok, but when you actually
look at the details, I think we’ve struck the right balance,”
he told reporters in  San Jose .  Asia Pivot  Since taking office, Obama has sought to redirect U.S.
attention toward Asia after a lull in interest in the region
during the  Bush administration . Now, with the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan winding down, U.S. military and economic resources
are being shifted to Asia.  As part of that pivot, the administration has spent years
cultivating Xi, who previously served as his country’s vice
president. During the past two years, U.S. Vice President  Joe
Biden  has spent 20 hours visiting with his counterpart. And when
Xi visited the U.S. last year, he met with Obama for 90 minutes,
an unusually long time for a sitting vice president.  The two leaders have no formal events scheduled until the
G-20 in September, so aides decided to find a way for them to
meet sooner. Xi was wrapping up a multicountry tour of Latin
America and Obama was scheduled to be in California for
fundraisers, so they settled on meeting at the  Sunnylands
estate , 120 miles (193 kilometers) southeast of Los Angeles.  Less Formal  The property has a long history of political activity, with
Republican Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and  Richard Nixon  using the
grounds as a place to relax and entertain high-profile guests.  The Chinese president is seen as less formal than his
predecessors, who typically expected the protocol of an official
visit, including a state dinner. At recent meetings with U.S.
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and national security adviser
Tom Donilon, Xi set aside his notes and encouraged his
counterparts to take the conversation beyond talking points,
White House aides said.  During his meeting last week with Donilon in Beijing, Xi
said that China wants a “new type of great power relationship”
with the U.S. Other Chinese officials including General Fan Changlong, vice chairman of the party’s Central Military
Commission, repeated the phrase.  “He’s a different kind of Chinese leader than we’ve seen
in the past,” Bader said. “He’s not someone who needs to be
scripted or likes to be scripted as much as past Chinese
leaders.”  Challenges Remain  Still, even with the change in tone, the issues between the
two nations remain challenging. Economic competition, the
growing threat of Chinese hackers to U.S. companies, the cost of
intellectual property theft, and North Korea’s renewed nuclear
ambitions have long been major sources of tension for the U.S.  For its part, China is suspicious about the U.S. pivot
toward Asia, which includes stationing more Marines in Darwin,
Australia, for what will eventually be a 2,500-member force. On
June 2, U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel went aboard the USS
Freedom, a combat ship that docked in Singapore as part of its
maiden deployment to Southeast Asia.  The combination of a rising  yuan  and a recovering U.S.
economy means that disputes over the currency and the trade
deficit don’t dominate the conversation with China as they did
after the 2008 financial crisis. China is the largest holder of
 U.S. Treasuries , and it’s also a manufacturing hub for goods
sold by American companies including Apple.  Export Growth  China’s gross domestic product expanded at the slowest rate
in 13 years in 2012.  Chinese export growth  -- once the driver of
the economy -- is slowing as the yuan continues to gain in
value, with the U.S. in March posting the lowest trade deficit
with the Asian nation in three years.  Last week, Chinese pork producer Shuanghui International
Holdings Ltd. offered to buy  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  The deal is
valued at $7.1 billion including debt, and, if approved, will be
the biggest Chinese acquisition of a U.S. company.  “The traditional flashpoints between the two countries,
the currency issue and trade have diminished as flashpoints,”
said  Eswar Prasad , the New Century Chair in International Trade
and Economics at the  Brookings Institution , a Washington policy
group. “The real opportunity here lies in the fact that China
and the U.S. now have a commonality of interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  