-- Obama Targets Hispanics for Healthier Exchange Enrollees
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-06-07T17:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/obama-targets-hispanics-for-healthier-exchange-enrollees.html
The Affordable Care Act’s initial
success next year depends on President  Barack Obama ’s ability to
coax at least 2.6 million people who are young and healthy to
sign up for health insurance. Hispanics may be the key.  About one-third of the young and healthy people the
government wants to enroll in new health exchanges live in
California,  Texas  and  Florida , according to the Obama
administration. In California for a meeting with Chinese
President Xi Jinping, Obama used a stop in  San Jose  today to
encourage the uninsured to enroll in the plan.  “We’ve got to make sure everyone that needs health care
can get it and we’ve got to do it the most efficient way,” the
president said standing alongside the leaders of a partnership
with Spanish-language television created to encourage enrollment
in government-run health exchanges. “Quality care is not
something that should be a privilege. It should be a right.”  About 7 million people next year will enroll in private
plans offered through state exchanges set up as part of the 2010
health-care overhaul, a senior Obama administration official
told reporters yesterday. Almost 40 percent of those people need
to be young, healthy adults to balance the cost of insuring
older people at higher risk of illness, said the official, who
asked not to be identified in advance of the president’s speech.  “The assumption is that once we make insurance accessible,
which it isn’t right now, people who are sick and need insurance
the most will be first in the door, understandably,” Larry Levitt, a senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation
research group in  Menlo Park , California, said by telephone.  Consumer Choice  The price of plans available in the exchanges will guide
consumer decisions on whether to buy through the new
marketplaces, Levitt said. California’s exchange said May 23
that rates for a 40-year-old starting in October will be as low
as $219 a month, on average. Federal subsidies will reduce the
premium to as little as zero for people with incomes close to
the poverty level.  “About 2.6 million Californians -- nearly half of whom are
Latinos -- will qualify for tax credits that will in some cases
lower their premiums a significant amount,” Obama said. “You
can listen to a bunch of political talk out there, negative ads
and fear-mongering geared toward the next election, or
alternatively you can actually look at what’s happening in
states like  California  right now.”  Publicity Effort  California officials created a collaboration with Spanish-language television and the California Endowment health-care
foundation to specifically target Hispanic enrollees. About 38
percent of California’s population was listed as of Hispanic or
Latino origin in 2011 U.S. Census Bureau data. Texas has a
similar proportion, while Florida’s is about 23 percent.  Before people can sign up for the plans, they have to know
what options are available, and administration officials have
said they view outreach to the uninsured as crucial for the
success of the exchanges, which are scheduled to open Oct. 1 for
plans that take effect Jan. 1.  At least 25 million people who lack health insurance are
expected to gain coverage by 2023 because of the Affordable Care
Act, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The law
allows states to expand Medicaid, the government-run health
program for the poor, to cover anyone earning close to poverty
wages. For higher-income people who don’t get coverage through
their jobs, the law sets up government-run marketplaces to sell
private insurance policies, in many cases with subsidies for
monthly premiums and cost-sharing.  ‘Some Hiccups’  “There are going to be some hiccups,” Obama said. “But
no matter what, every single consumer will be covered by the new
benefits and protections under this law permanently.”  The administration estimates that about 10.2 million
Hispanics nationwide will be eligible to gain coverage through
the exchanges.  While California is helping with the rollout of the
Affordable Care Act, Republican governors and legislatures in
Texas and Florida oppose the law and aren’t cooperating.  Obama plans to use federal health clinics in those states
that will hire people who will help patients enroll in new
health plans.  The president arrived in California yesterday for
fundraisers in  Palo Alto  and the Portola Valley to benefit
Democratic candidates. Later today, he’ll travel to  Santa Monica 
to attend a fundraising event at the home of  Peter Chernin , a
former News Corp. president, officials said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  