-- Ocean Park to Start Paying Back HK$2.3 Billion Facility in 2021
-- B y   J a s m i n e   N g
-- 2013-06-07T00:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/ocean-park-to-start-paying-back-hk-2-3-billion-facility-in-2021.html
Ocean Park Corp., the operator of one
of  Hong Kong ’s major tourist attractions, has reached an
agreement with the city’s government to begin paying back HK$2.3
billion ($296 million) of debt from 2021 after its current bank
loans are repaid.  The HK$2.3 billion facility will be subordinate to the
company’s existing $720 million of debt, Chief Executive Officer
Tom Mehrmann said in an interview in Singapore, where he was
attending the Asian Attractions Expo.  The loan repayment conditions are “favorable” and “allow
us to continue modest capital investments from cash reserve
while we seek funding for larger investments,” Mehrmann said in
a June 5 interview.  The attractions and amusement industry in the Asia Pacific
region has grown at a faster rate than any other in the world,
according to the  International Association of Amusement Parks
and Attractions . Attendance at both Ocean Park and Hong Kong
Disneyland reached record highs in 2012, aided by investments in
new tourism tourism offerings and a rise in visitors, mostly
from mainland  China , according to the  Themed Entertainment
Association .  Government-owned Ocean Park opened its doors to 7.1 million
guests last year, a 20 percent increase from the year prior,
Mehrmann said, adding he’s “confident” that figure will reach
7.5 million in 2013. Attendance at Hong Kong’s Disneyland
climbed 13 percent to 6.73 million.  Water Park  Ocean Park borrowed $720 million in 2006 to fund a project
that was completed last year. It received a further HK$2.3
billion from the Hong Kong government in February to finance a
new water attraction, Mehrmann said.  The amusement park will add a series of new attractions
over the next four years amid rising competition in  Asia ,
Mehrmann said. Planned additions include two new hotels and a
440,000 square-foot water theme park, according to the company.  Ocean Park  will also install park-wide Wi-Fi and mobile-phone applications which will allow guests to access information
about attractions using their handsets.  Mehrmann said the company intends to spend HK$120 million a
year on maintenance of the park and new attractions, and plans
to increase spending as it pays back its debts.  “Our payment schedules allow us to pay the loan down on
schedule, still achieve a surplus, still make investments, while
modestly growing our cash reserves,” Mehrmann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Ng in  Singapore  at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  