-- Hong Kong Stocks Decline Before U.S., China Economic Data
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-06-07T08:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/hong-kong-stocks-decline-before-u-s-china-economic-data.html
Hong Kong   stocks  fell, with the
benchmark index capping its biggest weekly drop in a year,
before the release of U.S. jobs data that may give guidance on
Federal Reserve stimulus plans. Shares also dropped ahead of
 China ’s inflation and trade reports.  Financials led declines on the Hang Seng Composite Index.
Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s fourth-largest lender by market
value, lost 2 percent as money-market rates jumped.  Cheung Kong
(Holdings) Ltd. (1) , the second-biggest builder in Hong Kong,
slumped 1.8 percent as the city’s property companies extended
their drop.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Asia ’s No. 1
international carrier, fell 3.5 percent on prospects for more
competition, bringing this week’s decline to 5.7 percent.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dropped 1.2 percent to 21,575.26 at the
close, with six stocks declining for each that gained. The gauge
fell 3.7 percent for the week, its biggest such drop since May.
Trading volume was 13 percent higher than the 30-day average.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies slid
1.7 percent to 10,187.27, its lowest close since October.
China’s markets will be shut through June 12 for the Dragon Boat
Festival.  “Everybody’s waiting for the U.S. jobs data, as that’s one
of the factors that gives some guidance to the near-term
economic direction and the potential reaction from the Fed,”
said  Yoji Takeda , head of the Asian equity management team at
RBC Investment (Asia) Ltd., which oversees $1.5 billion. “The
consensus is that China’s growth is gradually slowing. The
market needs to see some kind of government action to revive
sentiment.”  Growth Concern  The  Hang Seng Index  slumped 4.8 percent this year, the
worst performer among major developed markets, amid signs
 China’s economy  is losing steam and concern the Fed will begin
to draw down stimulus. Hong Kong’s benchmark equity gauge  traded 
at 10.3 times estimated earnings, below its five-year average of
12.6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  were little
changed. The gauge climbed 0.9 percent yesterday as investors
weighed the Fed’s stimulus plans before a report on employment
growth today. The U.S. Labor Department is expecting employers
to have added 163,000 to non-farm payrolls last month, compared
with 165,000 in April, based on analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Hong Kong’s developers declined on speculation U.S.
interest rates may rise. With the city’s currency pegged to the
dollar, Fed decisions largely determine local rates.  Developers Drop  Cheung Kong  fell 1.8 percent to HK$103.90. Sino Land Co., a
Hong Kong builder controlled by billionaire Robert Ng, dropped
1.2 percent to HK$11.18.  “The Hong Kong market is very sensitive to U.S. interest
rates historically and property prices are already at high
levels so that’s always a destabilizing factor,” RBC’s Takeda
said.  China’s customs administration will release May trade data
tomorrow. Exports may have grown 7.4 percent from a year
earlier, half April’s reported 14.7 percent, based on the median
 estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of economists. On June 9, the
statistics bureau will release May industrial-output, retail and
inflation data.  A measure of financial stocks had the  biggest drop  among
the Hang Seng Composite’s 11 industry groups.  Bank of China 
slumped 2 percent to HK$3.36. China Minsheng Banking Corp., the
nation’s first non-state lender, fell 1 percent to HK$8.97.
People’s Insurance Company (Group) of China Ltd., parent of the
nation’s biggest non-life insurer, slid 5.7 percent to a record
low of HK$3.61.  Foreign Capital  China’s overnight money-market rate climbed to a 16-month
high on speculation a cash shortage will worsen. The one-day
 repurchase rate  climbed as much as 2.3 percentage points to 8.45
percent in  Shanghai .  “Foreign capital inflows are probably declining,” said
Wang Huane, a senior bond trader at Qilu Bank Co. in Jinan,
capital of the eastern Shandong province. “The People’s Bank of
China has refrained from adding more capital into the financial
system, which worsens the situation.”  Cathay Pacific slumped 3.5 percent to HK$13.66, the
 steepest drop  on the Hang Seng Index. The stock capped its
largest weekly slide in more than two months after billionaire
 Stanley Ho  this week agreed to invest in Jetstar Hong Kong
Airways Ltd., increasing chances the budget carrier will win an
operating license and compete with Cathay.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index declined 1 percent to
21,353. The HSI Volatility Index climbed 5.7 percent to 19.38,
the highest since September, indicating traders expect a swing
of 5.6 percent for the equity benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  