-- Monsanto Sued on Behalf of Farmers Over Modified Wheat
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-06-07T16:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/monsanto-sued-on-behalf-of-farmers-over-modified-wheat.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, was sued by an environmental group and a
 Washington  farm over claims it failed to take steps to prevent
genetically altered wheat from contaminating regular wheat.  Yesterday’s complaint by the Center for Food Safety filed
in federal court in Spokane, Washington, follow a June 3 lawsuit
in  Kansas  brought after wheat modified to withstand St. Louis-based Monsanto’s Roundup Ready weed killer was discovered on a
farm in Oregon last month.  Monsanto field-tested the modified wheat in 16 states,
including Washington, from 1998 to 2005, dropped the project and
never sought U.S. approval to market the wheat for planting,
according to the Washington complaint, filed yesterday.  In May, the U.S. announced that an unauthorized Roundup
Ready genetically engineered trait had been detected in wheat
from an  Oregon  farm.  “Due to Monsanto’s wrongful conduct, soft white wheat
destined for export markets for use in food products has been
rejected for the purposes for which it was intended,” the
Center for Food Safety said in its complaint. “Because
scheduled shipments already have been postponed and canceled,
the presence of genetically engineered wheat has detrimentally
impacted the domestic and global wheat markets and damaged
plaintiffs and other wheat farmers.”  Nine Years  The discovery of the altered wheat in Oregon, nine years
after Monsanto ended an effort to have the wheat approved for
commercial sale, prompted  Japan  to halt imports of western-white
and feed wheat. South Korean millers suspended purchases of U.S.
white wheat, and the  Taiwan  Flour Mills Association said it
wants the U.S. to label cargoes by state of origin.  Kyle McClain, Monsanto’s chief litigation counsel, who said
yesterday that the company hasn’t reviewed the Washington
complaint, called the suit premature.  “The unexplained finding of glyphosate-tolerant wheat in a
few ‘volunteer’ plants in one field on one farm in Oregon is
scant basis for a lawsuit,” he said in an e-mailed statement.
“What appears to be a random, isolated occurrence is the first
report of glyphosate-tolerant wheat in the nine years since
cessation of Monsanto’s commercial wheat development program.”  Detection Method  The European Union, which competes with the U.S. for
exports, said Monsanto provided a method to detect the rogue
strain of genetically modified wheat. The company also has
provided the test to regulators in Japan,  South Korea  and
Taiwan.  Monsanto said the experimental wheat may have gotten into
the Oregon field through an “accidental or purposeful” act.
Monsanto and the U.S. Agriculture Department are investigating
how the genetically modified wheat turned up in Oregon.  Monsanto’s genetic analyses found the variety hasn’t
contaminated the types of seed planted on the Oregon farm or the
wheat seed typically grown in Oregon and Washington state, Chief
Technology Officer Robb Fraley said June 5 on a call with
reporters. The unapproved wheat was found growing on less than 1
percent of the farmer’s 125-acre (51-hectare) field, Fraley
said.  “Monsanto’s process for closing out its original wheat
development program was government directed, rigorous, well-documented and audited,” McClain said in yesterday’s statement.
“Given the care undertaken, no legal liability exists.”  Seeking Redress  Center for  Food Safety  lawyers said in the complaint they
seek to represent all people and entities that grew, owned,
planted or harvested soft white wheat since May 13. The
complaint seeks a court order finding Monsanto negligent,
awarding the plaintiffs compensation for their losses and
requiring Monsanto to decontaminate wheat fields.  A Kansas farmer filed a similar lawsuit in federal court in
Wichita, Kansas, and a lawsuit by Washington growers was filed
federal court in Spokane yesterday.  Dreger Enterprises, a white wheat farm owner in Creston,
Washington, and Wahl Ranch Ltd., a wheat farm in Lind,
Washington, are seeking decontamination of their fields,  farm
equipment  and on-farm storage facilities to prevent future
contamination, according to their complaint.  The Washington cases are Center for Food Safety v. Monsanto
Co., 13-cv-00213, and Dreger Enterprises v. Monsanto Co., 13-cv-00211, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Washington
(Spokane). The Kansas case is Barnes v. Monsanto Co., 13-cv-01218, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas (Wichita).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  