-- Monte Paschi Prosecutors Said to Seek Meeting With Botin
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   S e r g i o   D i   P a s q u a l e
-- 2013-06-07T13:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/monte-paschi-prosecutors-said-to-seek-meeting-with-botin.html
Prosecutors probing  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA ’s purchase of Banca Antonveneta SpA have
asked  Spain  for permission to question  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
Chairman  Emilio Botin  as a witness, four officials with
knowledge of the matter said.  Italian prosecutors sent the request to Spanish authorities
to interview Botin as a person informed of facts related to
Santander’s sale of the unit to Monte Paschi in 2007, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the matter isn’t
public. Botin, who’s not under investigation and isn’t accused
of wrongdoing, may be questioned later this month, one of the
people said.  The prosecutors’ action follows an informal attempt to
interview Botin in  Italy  at the end of January, which he
declined, the people said. Under international law, Spain needs
to give permission for the Italian authorities to question one
of its citizens.  A Santander spokesman in  Madrid  declined to comment on the
matter, while spokesmen at Spain’s Foreign Ministry didn’t
respond to two phone requests for comment. A spokeswoman at the
Spanish Justice Ministry said it wasn’t aware of any request. A
spokesman for the Madrid Regional Court declined to comment.  The investigation, conducted by prosecutors in Siena, is
focused on Monte Paschi transactions to obtain financing to buy
the Italian lender. Monte Paschi bought Antonveneta for 9
billion euros ($12 billion) from Santander, 36 percent more than
what the Spanish lender paid for Padua, Italy-based Antonveneta
two months earlier. Monte Paschi wrote down the acquisition by
4.5 billion euros in its 2011 financial accounts.  Monte Paschi’s former managers, including ex-chairman
Giuseppe Mussari, are being investigated for alleged false
bookkeeping, market manipulation and criminal association.
Prosecutors are also probing the bank’s use of derivatives to
hide losses.  Santander was unchanged at 5.43 euros as of 3:30 p.m. in
Madrid. Monte Paschi fell 0.4 percent to 23.8 cents in Milan.  Italian financial daily  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported today that
Botin could be questioned June 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Sergio Di Pasquale in Milan at 
 sdipasquale1@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  