-- Loomis Sayles Sold Spanish Bonds, Reduced Euro, Yen Holdings
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-06-07T15:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/loomis-sayles-sold-spanish-bonds-reduced-euro-yen-holdings-1-.html
Loomis Sayles & Co. sold all Spanish
securities from its $2.5 billion Global Bond Fund after a rally
in the debt sent yields to a three-year low.  The fund favors highly rated sovereign debt including
Treasuries, German bunds and Finnish bonds, and has retained
some Italian securities, money manager Kenneth Buntrock told
reporters in London. Government bonds accounted for 48 percent
of the portfolio and corporate bonds 20 percent, he said.  “We’ve been opportunistic about buying Italian and Spanish
bonds,” said Buntrock. “There are still problems in the region
and we are concerned about growth. We preferred  Italy  to Spain,
and we don’t own Portuguese, Irish or Greek government
securities in our Global Bond Fund.”  The fund has reduced its holdings of the euro, together
with the yen, to below levels called for by the benchmark it
uses to measure performance, Buntrock said. It’s overweight the
dollar and currencies of Asian countries outside of Japan, he
said in an interview today.  Spain’s 10-year  bond yield  fell to 3.94 percent on May 3,
the least since May 2010, from as high as 7.75 percent on July
25. The additional yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of benchmark German bonds narrowed to 271 basis points
from 650.  “Our decision on peripheral bonds is driven by short-term
factors such as spreads,” Buntrock said.  Yen Short  The yen declined 8.8 percent this year, the worst performer
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as the Bank of  Japan  doubled
monthly bond purchases in April to reach a 2 percent inflation
target. The euro is the best performer, with a 4.1 percent
advance.  “The currency bets are the biggest driver of our excess
returns right now,” said Buntrock. “We’ve been short yen for
years and we are currently around 7 percent underweight.” A
short position is a bet an asset price will drop.  While the Global Bond Fund doesn’t own any Greek debt, the
Boston-based money manager with $194 billion under management,
holds it in its Strategic Income Fund. The bond, which it bought
in February and June 2011, was issued in francs under Swiss law
and will mature on July 5, said Matt Eagan, who manages the
fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  