-- Orban Offers Concessions to EU to Defuse Hungary Concerns
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-06-07T14:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/orban-offers-concessions-to-eu-to-defuse-hungary-concerns.html
Hungary  offered to modify its new
constitution to address some of the European Union’s concerns as
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  seeks to defuse criticism that his
consolidation of power threatens the rule of law.  The government will revoke the right of the head of the
judiciary to reassign cases and replace a passage that would
trigger automatic extraordinary levies in case a court fines the
state, Foreign Minister Janos Martonyi told reporters today,
according to an e-mailed government statement.  Orban, who won a two-thirds parliamentary majority in 2010,
rewrote the constitution over opposition protests, ousted the
chief justice of the  Supreme Court , set up a media regulator led
by ruling-party appointees and named allies to independent
institutions, including the Constitutional Court bench.  The passage of the fourth amendment to the new constitution
in March curtailing judicial authority and limiting campaign ads
in private media rekindled criticism of Orban a year before he
faces elections.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive, in April said
it had “serious concerns” over the compatibility of the
amendment with EU rules.  Germany  and three other countries
proposed cutting funding to member states that violate the
bloc’s democratic values.  Instead of referring to automatic taxes in response to
court rulings in the constitution, the government’s draft would
add a passage to an existing law to allow the government to
impose a levy in case of an “unexpected financial obligation,”
the government said. Martonyi said this is a “satisfactory
solution” to the EU executive as there is no longer a reference
to court rulings, according to the statement.  Advertising Ban  The government is sticking to its election advertisement
ban in private media and will extend that to European Parliament
elections as well, Martonyi said, according to the statement.
Earlier, the government said it would allow such ads for
European Parliament elections.  The Monitoring Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of
the  Council of Europe  on April 25 recommended opening a
“monitoring procedure” on Hungary, citing “deep concerns at
the erosion of democratic checks and balances.” It said this
would be the first time such a monitoring procedure would be
opened with regard to an EU member state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  