-- Orchard Supply Said to Consider Bankruptcy Filing
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r ,   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-06-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/orchard-supply-said-to-consider-bankruptcy-filing.html
Orchard Supply Hardware Stores Corp. (OSH) ,
the chain spun off by Eddie Lampert’s  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  17
months ago, is considering filing for bankruptcy as soon as next
week, said people familiar with the matter.  The chain is also continuing talks with lenders on a
restructuring of about $261 million in  debt  and capital lease
obligations, said two of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the process isn’t public.  Orchard Supply, based in San Jose,  California , said in
October it had hired Moelis & Co. to help refinance its senior
secured loan. It has posted a combined loss of $132.8 million in
the past two years. Lampert and his RBS Partners LP fund
together hold the biggest stake in the company, with about 21
percent of the shares outstanding as of May 13, according to
regulatory  filings .  Several parties are competing to be the stalking horse, or
minimum bidder, for the company’s assets, two people said.  Chris Newman, Orchard’s chief financial officer, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  After earlier rising as much as 36 percent, the shares
closed up 3.1 percent to $3.04 yesterday in New York.  Orchard Supply and its creditors have agreed to waive loan
covenant breaches since October, periodically extending
negotiating deadlines to continue negotiating. The latest
agreement expires June 30.  In a June 3 regulatory  filing , Orchard said that
restructuring efforts may not be successful and may end in
bankruptcy.  Sears, based in Hoffman Estates,  Illinois , bought Orchard
for $415 million in 1996, attracted by the stores’ niche between
mom-and-pops and superstores such as Home Depot Inc. Sears said
at the time it could operate as many as 500 Orchard Supply
stores.  It sold a 20 percent  stake  to Ares Management LLC in 2005
and spun off the remainder in December 2011.  Orchard opened its first store in San Jose in 1931 amid a
two-year drought and the Great Depression as a cooperative for
local farmers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  