-- Morgan Stanley Increases Forecast for Dollar Gains Versus Yen
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-06-07T16:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/morgan-stanley-increases-forecast-for-dollar-gains-versus-yen.html
Morgan Stanley boosted its forecast
for a stronger dollar against the yen, even after the U.S.
currency tumbled yesterday by the most in two years.  The U.S. currency will appreciate to 107 yen by the end of
2013, up from a previous forecast of 105, said  Ian Stannard ,
head of European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in
 London . The greenback fell as much as 3.2 percent yesterday, the
most since Marcy 17, 2011, to 96.97.  Rising U.S. yields will lead to more investment in the
U.S., resulting in a stronger dollar, Stannard said. Yields will
increase as the  U.S. economy  strengthens and the Federal Reserve
scales back its bond-buying monetary stimulus, he said.  “We see the U.S. becoming an investment destination, which
will lead not just to portfolio inflows, but also increased
internal investment, which will lead to increased capital
demand,” Stannard said in a telephone interview. “It’s going to
be a very supportive factor in the longer term.”  The dollar increased 0.5 percent to 97.47 yen in  New York .
The currency rose beyond 100 yen on May 9 for the first time
since 2009 and has since weakened back below the 100-level. The
greenback is the third worst-performing major currency during
the past week.  Investors yesterday unwound the most bearish futures market
 position  on the yen since July 2007, triggering dollar-yen stops
and strengthening the Japanese currency. The yen has declined 11
percent this year against the dollar as The  Bank of Japan  has
increased monetary stimulus to support Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s goal of a 2 percent rate of inflation.  While the dollar may see some more weakness in coming days
as this retracement completes its course, it will resume its
upward trend, according to Stannard.  “Once this correction is complete and the market is
reassured that the underlying themes are still in place, we’re
likely to see the dollar trend resume,” Stannard said.
“Investors will return and use this correction as an
opportunity to re-establish some dollar bullish positions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  