-- Mortgage-Bond Yields Approach 14-Month High After Jobs Report
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-06-07T19:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/mortgage-bond-yields-climb-after-jobs-data-amid-stimulus-concern.html
Yields on  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
mortgage bonds that guide U.S. home-loan rates approached a 14-month high as May employment data failed to allay concern that
the  Federal Reserve  will pare back its unprecedented stimulus.  Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year securities rose 0.06
percentage point to 2.99 percent as of 3 p.m. in New York,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Yields reached 3
percent on June 4, the highest level since April 2012, climbing
from a record-low 1.68 percent in September when the Fed said it
would start  buying  $40 billion of home-loan debt a month to
begin its third round of bond purchases.  The Fed has stoked credit markets through buying $85
billion of the bonds and Treasuries monthly to stimulate the
economy, a program that policy makers have said would remain in
place until evidence emerges of a sustained improvement. While
figures released today showed the jobless rate unexpectedly
climbed from a four-year low to 7.6 percent, payrolls rose
175,000, more than the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  “I don’t think much can be taken away from today’s numbers
in terms of tapering being taken off the table,” Matthew Peterson, a  money manager  in New York at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “We still have
the potential for tapering in September and we still have a
couple of long summer months of employment reports before we get
to that meeting” of Fed policy makers, he said.  “So volatility will continue at least through the
summer,” Peterson said.  Pimco Buying  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, said earlier in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Mike McKee  that
the employment report suggested the Fed won’t taper.  “Today’s report doesn’t say anything about tapering at
all,” Gross said. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  “won’t taper.
But I think ultimately in order to get a more normal economy,
the Fed has got to move  interest rates  up to more normal
levels,” he said.  Pimco has begun to re-enter the mortgage-bond market after
relative yields on the securities widened during the past month,
he said.  The central bank’s debt buying had been pushing down
 mortgage rates , helping property prices rally after a five-year
housing slump and boosting homeowner  refinancing  that’s aided
consumers and banks. With interest rates now rising, it’s no
longer attractive for borrowers to refinance about $600 billion
more of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 30-year loans, JPMorgan Chase
& Co. analysts wrote in a report yesterday.  Mortgage Rates  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to 3.91
percent this week, from this year’s low of 3.35 percent five
weeks earlier and a nadir of 3.31 percent in November, according
to  Freddie Mac  surveys.  Securities in the more than $5 trillion market for housing
debt backed by government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae lost 1.5 percent in May, the most since
April 2004, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The notes declined an additional 0.1 percent this month
through yesterday.  Losses among Fannie Mae’s current-coupon securities, or
those trading closest to face value and the largest target of
the Fed’s buying, have been more extreme, totaling 4.5 percent
since April, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  A measure of spreads on the Fannie Mae current coupon debt
declined for a second day. A Bloomberg index of yields on the
mortgage bonds narrowed about 0.01 percentage point to 1.38
percentage point higher than an average of five- and 10-year
Treasury rates. The gap soared almost 0.3 percentage point from
the end of April to 1.42 percentage point on June 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  