-- Asian Stocks Decline as Japanese Exporters Drop on Yen
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-06-07T11:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/most-asia-stocks-drop-as-yen-surge-weighs-on-japan-shares.html
Asian  stocks  dropped, with the
regional benchmark index heading for its longest streak of
weekly losses in a year, as Japanese exporters retreated after
the yen’s biggest surge in three years.  Japan ’s  Topix index  and Nikkei 225 Stock Average pared
declines as the Government Pension Investment Fund called a
briefing about proposed changes to its asset portfolio. Honda
Motor Co., which gets 83 percent of its sales overseas, slipped
3.9 percent. Newcrest Mining Ltd. slumped 7.6 percent as
 Australia ’s biggest gold producer said it will write down the
value of its mines by as much as A$6 billion ($5.7 billion).  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed at 131.36 as
of 8:21 p.m. in  Tokyo  as gains by the yen increased the value of
Japanese companies in the dollar-denominated measure after the
country’s markets closed. Almost two shares retreated for each
that gained. The gauge is headed for a 2.5 percent decline this
week, its third straight, the longest such run of losses in a
year. Japanese shares have slumped this week after Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe failed to impress investors in a speech
outlining his growth strategy.  “Abe’s growth strategy has already been priced in, getting
rid of buying opportunities,” said Isao Kubo, a Tokyo-based
equity strategist at Nissay Asset Management Corp., which
oversees about 6 trillion yen ($62 billion.) “Japanese shares
and the yen have corrected a lot to the point where some
investors may as well buy the stocks. But we are not seeing
buying because the global market is volatile ahead of a U.S.
jobs report.”  Further Losses  Japan’s  Topix index  closed 1.3 percent lower, paring an
earlier decline of 3.5 percent and taking its losses since a
high on May 22 to about 17 percent. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
lost just 0.2 percent, rebounding from a 2.8 percent drop. Even
after recent declines, Japan’s is the best-performing share
market in the developed world this year.  GPIF, which managed 112 trillion yen at Dec. 31, said after
Japan’s equity markets closed that it will reduce its  holdings 
of local bonds and buy more equities. The proportion of Japanese
shares will increase to 12 percent from 11 percent and foreign
stocks will be boosted to 12 percent from 9 percent, the Health,
Labour and Welfare Ministry said.  “What they’ve reduced in Japanese  government bonds ,they’re
basically taking abroad,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , a strategist at
Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which oversees
the equivalent of $100 billion. “They’ve been trying to get
away from a bias toward Japan, and just because stocks are
rising now doesn’t mean they will so easily change their view.
They are probably looking at how far stocks have come and their
outlook for growth, and I can’t imagine that they’re that
bullish.”  Regional Indexes  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 0.9 percent and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index slid 0.4 percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi
index dropped 1.8 percent, reopening following a public holiday.
 Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  lost 1.2 percent and  China ’s
Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.3 percent.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  were little changed today
after the gauge gained 0.9 percent in  New York  yesterday. A
Labor Department report today is expected to indicate employers
added 163,000 to non-farm payrolls last month, almost equal to
the gain in April. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in May suggested
the central bank could curtail its bond buying if the job market
improves in a “real and sustainable way.”  Fed Stimulus  The MSCI Asia Pacific gauge has fallen more than 9 percent
from this year’s high on May 20 on speculation that improvement
in the  U.S. economy  will lead the  Federal Reserve  to scale back
record stimulus.  The measure yesterday traded at 12.8 times average
estimated earnings, compared with 14.8 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 12.9 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese exporters dropped as the yen headed for its
biggest weekly advance since October 2008. A stronger yen
reduces the value of overseas sales when repatriated.  Honda slipped 3.9 percent to 3,495 yen. Toyota Motor Corp.,
the world’s biggest carmaker, fell 2.8 percent to 5,480 yen.
 Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s second largest television maker, sank
3.6 percent to 721 yen.  Newcrest Mining slumped 7.6 percent to A$12.35 after
announcing the writedown due to a slump in  gold prices . The cut
in value of mines will have a “material impact on the 2013
financial year statutory accounts,” the Melbourne-based company
said today in a statement.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest smartphone
maker, tumbled 6.2 percent to 1.427 million won in  Seoul , the
most since August 2012, after analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
cut profit estimates, citing slowing demand for its flagship
Galaxy S4.  China Rates  Financial stocks led declines in Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Composite Index as China’s money-market rates jumped. People’s
Insurance Company Group of China Ltd., owner of the nation’s
biggest casualty insurer, sank 5.7 percent to HK$3.61.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s top
lender by market value, fell 1.1 percent to HK$5.24.  Among stocks that gained,  Texhong Textile Group Ltd. (2678)  surged
8.4 percent to a record closing high of HK$12.16 after the
fabric maker said earnings may jump.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  