-- Peugeot Sells Asset-Backed Bonds to Boost Auto-Loan Financing
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-06-07T14:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/peugeot-sells-asset-backed-bonds-to-boost-auto-loan-financing.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s banking unit
sold about 470 million euros ($621 million) of securities backed
by French auto loans to shore up finances as it awaits a
decision by the European Union on government bond guarantees.  The sale of asset-backed securities is “part of Banque PSA
Finance’s strategy to diversify its funding sources and to
increase the share of funding from its securitization program in
order to support” Peugeot’s sales, the Paris-based company said
in a statement today.  Peugeot,  Europe ’s second-largest carmaker, secured
financial backing from the French government for Banque PSA
Finance to sell as much as 7 billion euros in bonds to help it
provide competitive auto loans to support sales. The financing
unit sold an initial tranche of 1.2 billion euros in bonds in
March under a temporary approval from the EU.  The French carmaker faces an in-depth examination by the
EU’s antitrust watchdog to check whether its restructuring plans
are in line with state-aid rules.  The European Commission said on May 2 it needed to verify
whether the plan will restore the company’s long-term financial
viability without continued state support and whether the aid
will hurt competition.  Banque PSA Finance, or BPF, was cut one level below
investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service on April 16. The
credit ratings company said that the auto-financing unit can’t
escape the European car-market contraction plaguing its parent.  The securities sold by Banque PSA Finance were carried out
in two tranches. Class A notes were priced at 85 basis points
above  one-month Euribor , while Class B notes were priced at 150
basis points above the interest-rate benchmark.  The bank sold 450 million euros in Class A notes and 19.7
million euros in Class B notes. The Class A notes have an
average 2.7-year life, while Class B notes run on average for
4.9 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  