-- Philippine Bonds Decline on Concern Growth to Stoke Inflation
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-06-07T08:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/philippine-bonds-decline-on-concern-growth-to-stoke-inflation.html
Philippine  government bonds  fell this
week, with the yield on the 2031 notes rising by the most in
almost two years, on speculation quickening economic growth will
stoke inflation. The peso was little changed for the week.  Gross domestic product rose 7.8 percent in the first
quarter, the most in  Asia , while consumer-price gains held at
2.6 percent in May, official data show. The U.S. central bank
will reduce its bond-buying program to $65 billion a month at
the Oct. 29-30 meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee ,
from the current level of $85 billion, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 59 economists this week.  The yield on the 8 percent notes due July 2031 rose 45
basis points, or 0.45 percentage point, this week and 18 basis
points today to 4.63 percent as of 4:28 p.m. in  Manila ,
according to prices from Tradition Financial Services. That was
the biggest advance since the securities were sold in July 2011
and the highest level since March 4.  “The high GDP growth rate and expectations of this being
sustained may put pressure on inflation moving forward,” said
Bunny Bernardo-Recto, vice president at Chinatrust  Philippines 
Commercial Bank Corp. in Manila. “Risky assets were sold off
globally in reaction to the possibility that the Fed will taper
its bond buying.”  The Philippines’ good fundamentals are intact and the
nation may be closer to winning an investment-grade rating from
Moody’s Investors Service, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor
Amando Tetangco said this week.  The peso was steady this week at 42.26 per dollar,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It fell 0.3 percent today after
strengthening as much as 0.4 percent earlier. The nation’s
foreign-exchange  reserves  dropped to a seven-month low of $82.9
billion in May, the central bank reported today.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell nine basis
points to 6.53 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  