-- Phoenix Funding Sinks as Assessments Catch Up to Collapse
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-06-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/phoenix-funding-sinks-as-assessments-catch-up-to-collapse.html
Home prices are soaring in
metropolitan Phoenix. Yet for local governments that depend on
property taxes, the bottom of the market has just arrived.  The net assessed value of property in Maricopa County,
 Arizona ’s largest by population, plunged to $32 billion for
fiscal year 2014 -- the lowest level since 2006 and down from
the peak of $49.7 billion in 2010, county figures show.  The drop, which comes as Phoenix posted the highest annual
home price growth of the 20 cities on the  S&P/Case-Shiller index 
at 22.5 percent in March, reflects market conditions in the
county more than two and a half years ago when the state had the
nation’s second-highest foreclosure rate. It’s impacting the
bonding capacity of some school districts and leading to further
cuts to government budgets already reduced during the recession.  “It becomes harder and harder as you begin to cut into
bone,” said Sandi Wilson, deputy Maricopa County manager,
referring to $82.4 million in cuts tentatively approved by
county supervisors last month as part of a $2.2 billion budget
for fiscal 2014.  Property taxes, one of the main sources of local government
operating revenue, are generally more stable than sales and
income taxes, which can quickly plunge during a downturn. Still,
the lag between changes in the market and when those are
reflected in assessments and  tax collections  means some local
governments are feeling the housing crisis more even as
conditions improve.  ‘Doesn’t Translate’  “All the good news we are hearing doesn’t necessarily
translate into immediate budget relief,” said Rachel Cortez, a
vice president on the local government team for Moody’s
Investors Service in  Chicago . The improving housing market
“won’t necessarily translate into increased property tax
revenue or halt declining property taxes.”  The way taxes are calculated and how often properties are
assessed varies significantly jurisdiction by jurisdiction, as
does the ability to raise rates to offset the drop in values. In
places where assessments are closely tied to market dynamics,
falling valuations “accentuated the downturn,” said Donald Boyd, senior fellow at the  Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of
Government  in  Albany , New York. Elsewhere, the lag in the impact
of the market on tax bills has prolonged the pain, he said.  “What is happening in Arizona is happening in other places
around the country,” Boyd said. “It is widespread.”  In Hazel Park,  Michigan , where the population is about
16,600, taxable property values have fallen 44 percent since
2008. Though voters increased the property tax rate in 2011,
collections still plummeted.  Revenue Falls  General fund property tax revenue in Hazel Park for the
upcoming fiscal year is estimated to fall to $4.5 million from a
peak of $6.7 million in 2009 when the tax rate was lower. Along
with cuts to state aid, the decline has reduced the city’s
general fund to $12.3 million from $14.4 million in 2010, said
city manager Edward Klobucher.  “It’s a staggering hit,” Klobucher said. The city’s
workforce was reduced to less than 90 from 120 and employee
salaries were cut 5 percent, among other measures. “This is a
systemic problem that’s just beating us up.”  Several states, including Michigan, have caps on how much
assessments or property tax bills can rise annually, meaning it
can take a lot longer for local governments to recover revenue.  In Clark County,  Nevada , which includes Las Vegas, the
taxable value of property is up slightly to $144 billion for
fiscal 2014 from $142 billion, according to  county assessor
Michele Shafe . Still, the amount of taxes billed is expected to
fall about $23 million or 1.6 percent county wide, treasurer
Laura Fitzpatrick said.  Increases Capped  The taxes aren’t rising proportionately to assessments in
part because of caps on annual increases in tax bills, which for
owner-occupied homes is 3 percent, Fitzpatrick said.  In Arizona, the loss of property values has cost some
school districts their ability to issue bonds already approved
by voters. The  Higley Unified School District  in Gilbert, east
of Phoenix, recently had to turn to a private non-profit to
finance two new schools even though voters had authorized more
than $70 million in new bonds to pay for them.  The decline in property values sapped the district’s
bonding capacity, which is limited to a percentage of its tax
base. Higley has about $63.5 million in outstanding debt.  “The kids didn’t stop coming and the state didn’t have
money to fund new schools,” said Kevin Hegarty, chief financial
officer for the district, which has 11,000 students, up from
just 900 in 2000 and growing at a rate of 400 to 500 students
per year. “It’s left us in a really bad spot.”  Facing Backlash  In Maricopa County, the  board of supervisors  faced a
political backlash two years ago for raising the tax rate to
offset falling assessments -- even though the total levy still
declined by $21.6 million. Since then, the Republican-controlled
board has kept the rate about the same, taking in $62.4 million
less last year and expecting $32.8 million less for fiscal 2014.  Budget cuts over the past five years included reductions to
funding for the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office, leading to
legal disputes with nationally known Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who
complained the cuts were politically motivated. The ranks of
county government employees across the board have been slimmed 9
percent since fiscal year 2007 and pay has been frozen.  The budget for the coming fiscal year includes merit-based
raises, the first pay increases for employees in six years,
intended to stem high turnover, Wilson said. Costs were reduced
by eliminating the county’s contingency fund, reducing spending
on capital projects and finding other savings, she said.  There’s not much more room to cut, she said. And a voter-approved cap on levies that goes into effect in fiscal 2016
could extend the recovery even more.  “The comeback is going to be slow,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  