-- Pimco Not Ready to Buy JGBs as Japan Inflation Expectations Rise
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-06-07T05:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/pimco-not-ready-to-buy-jgbs-as-japan-inflation-expectations-rise.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
isn’t ready to increase holdings of  Japanese government bonds  as
the nation’s policy makers seek to overcome deflation.  “There’s no need to be in a hurry to buy JGBs at the
moment,” with 10-year yields around 0.8 to 0.9 percent, Tomoya Masanao, head of portfolio management for  Japan  at Pimco, the
operator of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in an interview
in Tokyo. “I used to think the chance of 2 percent inflation in
Japan was close to zero, but now, while the likelihood of that
is not high, it’s certainly higher than before.”  The Bank of Japan decided on April 4 to double bond buying
to more than 7 trillion yen ($73 billion) a month to achieve 2
percent inflation in two years. Consumer prices will probably
rise 0.1 percent this year and 2 percent in 2014, according to
the median estimates of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Japan’s  10-year yield  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 0.845 percent at 1:56 p.m. in  Tokyo  from
yesterday, according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The yield dropped to a record
0.315 percent a day after the BOJ’s April policy decision, then
surged to a 13-month high of 1 percent on May 23.  The central bank is set to buy more than 50 percent of the
debt the government plans to issue this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Historical price volatility  of Japan’s
five-year notes climbed to 0.72 percent today, the highest since
March 2011, according to Bloomberg data based on 60-day reading.  Tail Risk  “The volatility in the JGB market was a surprise to policy
makers,” Masanao said. Abenomics caused a “big secular shift
on how investors look at JGBs,” he said, adding that they
should demand a higher risk-premium with the rising volatility
and the potential “tail risk” of higher inflation.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has pledged to end 15 years of
deflation in Japan with monetary and fiscal stimulus and a
growth strategy to loosen business rules.  Even if Japan succeeds in achieving the price target, the
nominal 10-year yield will probably be less than 3 percent as
policy makers keep monetary policy accommodative, according to
Masanao.  Pimco, which is based in Newport Beach,  California , and is
a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , manages $2.04
trillion in assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  