-- Pinera Pledges Tight Rein on Chile Budget as Copper Income Falls
-- B y   P h i l i p   S a n d e r s
-- 2013-06-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/pinera-pledges-tight-rein-on-chile-budget-as-copper-income-falls.html
Chilean President Sebastian Pinera
pledged to keep a tight rein on expenditure as falling copper
prices and rising costs slash income from the state-owned copper
company Codelco.  The government will receive about $2 billion less this year
from Codelco than it had planned under the budget, Pinera told 
reporters in Santiago yesterday.  “There is a big difference in fiscal income,” Pinera, 63,
said. “That is a new situation. We are looking to design
economic policies that are based on this reality.”  The budget drawn up last year included revenue of 28.2
trillion pesos ($56 billion), with a structural deficit of no
more than 1 percent of gross domestic product. The structural
budget anticipates a copper price of $3.06 a pound, compared
with the $3.35 it has averaged in the past three months in  New
York . Chile is the world's largest copper producer.  Codelco’s contribution to the fiscal coffers is declining
as labor and other costs rise, copper grades decline and prices
weaken from as high as $4.02 per pound last year.  The company will “have to reinvent itself completely,” as
old pits close down and new ones are opened, Pinera said.  “For Codelco to be able to do its mega investment projects
it has to improve its productivity substantially, reduce its
costs and better manage its environmental concerns,” he said.  Earthquake Recovery  Still, the decline in funds from Codelco pales next to the
$16 billion the Chilean government has earned by boosting
economic growth by an extra 2.5 percentage points over the past
three years, Pinera said. That extra revenue also dwarfs the
funds raised through this government’s two tax law changes, one
designed to help rebuild the country after the 2011 earthquake
and the other to boost spending on education, he said.  The government will take all those factors into account
when drawing up a budget for next year, when a new government
takes over, Pinera said. Under Chilean law, Pinera can’t serve
consecutive presidential terms.  Chile’s economy will expand 4.9 percent this year after
growth of 5.6 percent last year and 5.9 percent in 2011,
according to the median estimate of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Sanders in Santiago at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  