-- Portugal Beats Russia to Take Lead in World Cup Qualifying Group
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-06-07T22:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/portugal-beats-russia-to-take-lead-in-world-cup-qualifying-group.html
Portugal  defeated  Russia  1-0 to move
into first place in its qualifying group for the 2014 soccer
 World Cup  in Brazil.  Belgium took sole possession of the top spot in its group
and Bosnia-Herzegovina increased its lead as qualifying resumed
in Europe last night. Italy also improved its lead by drawing
with the Czech Republic as  Mario Balotelli  was sent off for two
yellow cards.  The winners of each of the nine European groups qualify for
the World Cup, with the best eight runners-up going into a
playoff for the remaining four slots.  Helder Postiga scored in the ninth minute in Lisbon as
Portugal overtook Russia at the top of Group F. Portugal has 14
points from seven of 10 games, while Russia is second with 12
points from five games.  Israel, which didn’t play last night, is third with 11
points from six games. Luxembourg and Azerbaijan, also in Group
F, drew 1-1.  Kevin De Bruyne and  Marouane Fellaini  scored as Belgium
beat Serbia 2-1 to sit atop Group A with 19 points. Croatia fell
three points behind after losing at home 1-0 to Scotland on
Robert Snodgrass’s goal. It was Scotland’s first win in seven
qualifiers.  Italy’s 0-0 draw in Prague leaves it four points ahead of
Bulgaria and five ahead of the  Czech Republic  in Group B.
Balotelli was sent off after picking up yellow cards in the 68th 
and 72nd minutes. Malta won 1-0 at  Armenia  in a matchup of the 
bottom teams in the group.  Second-Half Scoring  Bosnia-Herzegovina scored all of its goals in the second
half in routing Latvia 5-0 to maintain its three-point lead in
Group G over Greece, which beat Lithuania 1-0. Third-place
Slovakia drew 1-1 in Liechtenstein.  Ukraine also scored all its goals in the second half of a
4-0 rout in Montenegro that tightened the race in Group H.  Montenegro still leads the group with 14 points, two more
than idle  England . Ukraine, which like England has played one
fewer game than Montenegro, is third with 11 points. Poland is
fourth with nine points following a 1-1 draw in  Moldova .  Austria and Ireland both won at home to pull within five
points of Germany after six games in Group C.  David Alaba and Marc Janko scored as Austria beat Sweden
2-1 in Vienna.  Robbie Keane  celebrated his record 126th game for
Ireland by scoring all the goals in a 3-0 win against the Faroe
Islands in Dublin.  Iceland and Albania each missed a chance to overtake
Switzerland at the top of Group E. Albania drew 1-1 at home with
Norway, while Iceland was beaten 4-2 at home by Slovenia.  Switzerland, which plays Cyprus today, has 11 points,
Albania has 10 points and Iceland nine.  In the only game in Group I, Finland beat Belarus 1-0 for
its first win in qualifying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  