-- Prince Philip ‘Progressing Satisfactorily’ After Surgery
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-06-07T23:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/prince-philip-progressing-satisfactorily-after-surgery.html
Queen Elizabeth  II’s husband, Prince Philip, is “progressing satisfactorily” after undergoing
exploratory surgery in a  London  hospital, Buckingham Palace
announced yesterday.  The prince, also known as the Duke of Edinburgh, turns 92
in two days and has been suffering increasing health problems in
the past 18 months. He was taken on June 6 to the  London Clinic ,
a private hospital, for what Buckingham Palace said was a
planned admittance after abdominal tests. The queen, who is 87,
pressed ahead with her scheduled engagements yesterday, formally
opening the  BBC ’s rebuilt headquarters in London with a live
broadcast.  “His Royal Highness The Duke of Edinburgh has had an
exploratory operation following abdominal investigations,” the
royal household said in an e-mailed statement. “The results
will now be analyzed. At this early stage he is progressing
satisfactorily. Further updates will continue to be issued when
appropriate.”  The duke spent five nights in a Scottish hospital in August
last year with a bladder infection, a recurrence of a complaint
that first required treatment in June 2012 during events to mark
60 years since the queen’s accession to the throne. The duke
also had a coronary stent inserted for a blocked artery in
December 2011 after suffering chest pains, causing him to miss
the royal family’s Christmas celebrations.  Buckingham Palace  has
given no further details of the prince’s current ailment.  The prince began to scale back his royal engagements when
he turned 90. Still, he attended a garden party given by the
queen at Buckingham Palace on June 6, and television pictures
showed him smiling and shaking hands with guests.  Coronation Anniversary  Prince Philip was at the queen’s side four days ago when
she attended a service in London’s Westminster Abbey to mark the
60th anniversary of her coronation, even though he withdrew from
an engagement the previous night after becoming unwell.  The London Clinic, located on Harley Street in the
capital’s  West End , describes itself as one of the U.K.’s
largest private hospitals, with more than 300 consultant
surgeons and physicians.  In 2009, Philip became the U.K.’s longest-serving royal
consort, surpassing the 57-year, 70-day record set by Queen
 Charlotte , wife of King George III, in the 18th and early 19th
centuries.  Queen Elizabeth described Philip on their golden wedding
anniversary in 1997 as “my strength and stay all these years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  