-- Private Equity Firms May Gain After European CLO Rule Change
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-06-07T11:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/private-equity-firms-may-gain-after-european-clo-rule-change.html
Collateralized loan obligation
managers owned by private-equity companies may benefit from the
European Banking Authority’s proposed risk retention rules as
smaller rivals are likely to be squeezed out.  EBA’s  proposal  to prevent CLO managers from bringing in
outside investors to retain 5 percent of a deal will make it
more difficult for firms without ready access to capital to
issue CLOs. Blackstone Group LP, the world’s biggest buyout
firm, became the largest CLO manager in  Europe  in 2011, while
Carlyle Group LP this week increased the size of its first CLO
in the region in five years to 350 million euros ($464 million)
from 300 million euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Managers with wealthy parents such as private-equity
firms are likely to benefit from this proposal because they are
more likely to have access to the necessary capital,” Matthew
Jones, senior director at  Standard & Poor’s  in London, said in a
telephone interview. “They could face less competition for
assets, which may in turn allow them to issue multiple vehicles
over a shorter period of time.”  Private-equity companies have been acquiring CLOs and other
types of credit managers in the past few years to reduce
reliance on buyouts.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and 3i Group Plc are
among the busiest consolidators in the European market, where
the number of CLO managers dropped 25 percent due to
difficulties raising new funds, Fitch Ratings said in a report
April 22.  Biggest Managers  Blackstone’s GSO Capital Partners LP became Europe’s
largest manager of CLOs in late 2011 when it bought Dublin-based
Harbourmaster Capital Management Ltd. London-based 3i bought
Mizuho Investment Management (UK) Ltd. in September 2010. Los
Angeles-based Ares Management LLC agreed in 2011 to acquire
Indicus Advisors, which oversees more than $2 billion in CLO
assets and other credit funds.  About 2 billion euros of deals priced this year in Europe
while at least 1.8 billion euros more are being marketed,
Bloomberg data show. Pace of issuance may be hampered if the
regulatory proposal goes through, denying the region riven by
debt crises a tool to solve the funding problem for corporates.  “It could penalize managers who are typically thinly
capitalized and not in a position to take on large pieces of
equity and could put a constraint to the size and the numbers of
European CLOs,” said Galen Moloney, senior director at  Fitch
Ratings  in London. “Insisting managers have direct equity
exposure in a deal is somewhat severe.”  CLO Equity  CLOs pool high-yield loans and slice them into debt
securities of varying risk and return, typically from AAA
ratings down to B. The lowest portion, known as the equity
tranche, offers the highest potential returns and the greatest
risk because investors are the first to see their interest
payouts reduced when the loans backing the CLOs default.  EBA, the London-based regulatory agency of the European
Union, doesn’t bar credit managers from issuing CLOs which
aren’t compliant with the rules, according to Matthew Cahill, a
London-based partner at law firm Sidley Austin LLP.  GoldenTree Asset Management LP, the U.S. hedge fund
manager, increased the size of a European CLO that doesn’t
comply with the risk retention rules this week to 303 million
euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  More than half of the European CLOs priced this year have
been backed by private-equity companies. These deals include
ALME Loan Funding 2013-1 Ltd., managed by the credit arm of
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , and Grand Harbour I BV, from
Blackstone’s credit investment unit.  “As the proposals stand their effect will likely be to
reduce market liquidity, which is regrettable given the need to
provide credit to stimulate growth at a time when many banks are
deleveraging,” said Nicholas Voisey, a director for London-based Loan Market Association.  Grandfather Clauses  The LMA said it will continue dialogue with EBA and seek
clarity as soon as possible on issues about “grandfathering.”  Grandfather clauses are provisions where old rules continue
to apply for transactions entered into before the new
regulations take effect. The EBA proposal doesn’t provide
guidance on whether the clause will apply to securitization
deals created before 2014, according to Ashurst.  “Bureaucrats and politicians have long been the biggest
threat to the market ,” said Mark Hale, chief investment
officer at Prytania Investment Advisors LLP in  London . “It
would be far better if the official sector would recognize the
strength of the arguments put forward by the private sector and
allow secularization to fulfill its potential as an engine to
power a cyclical recovery across Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  