-- Transamerica Among Insurers in $763 Million Settlement
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-07T21:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/transamerica-among-insurers-in-763-million-settlement.html
Aegon (AGN)  NV’s Transamerica and  New York 
Life Insurance Co. are among 11 insurers that will pay a
combined total of as much as $763 million to resolve a
multistate probe into whether the firms held funds that should
have gone to beneficiaries.  The insurers agreed to make overdue payments plus interest
and to change business practices to reduce the chance for
delays, according to a  statement  today from California
Controller John Chiang, who said beneficiaries in his state will
get about $86.7 million.  State regulators have been scrutinizing insurers over
withholding payments on policies that may have been purchased
decades ago.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
reached deals with state watchdogs last year to pay claims and
said they would use the  Social Security Administration ’s Death
Master File to determine if policyholders have died.  “Too often, insurers have sidestepped their legal
responsibility to make good on insurance policies purchased by
their clients,” Chiang said in today’s statement.  The probe found that insurers held onto death benefits they
should have paid out, continuing to collect premium payments
from the accounts of people who had died, according to the
statement. The largest payment, about $275 million, will come
from Transamerica, a unit of the Hague-based Aegon, according to
a list from Chiang’s office.  Western & Southern  New York Life’s payment will be $110 million and
Cincinnati-based Western & Southern Financial Group Inc.’s is
$165 million, the list shows. Both insurers are owned by
policyholders.  “Any estimate of payments at this time is purely
speculation,” a group of insurers including Transamerica,
Western & Southern and New York Life said in a statement. The
agreement “will help us ensure that the beneficiaries who were
unaware of their life-insurance benefits will be found and will
receive those benefits.”  The payments are $33 million for Richmond, Virginia-based
 Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  and $18 million for  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG) , according to Chiang’s office. Genworth said
the settlement won’t have a material financial impact.  “Genworth has done everything the law and current
regulations ask, and in most cases we have gone beyond that
standard,” Al Orendorff, a spokesman for the company, said in
an e-mail. “This agreement addresses the tiny fraction of life
insurance benefits that have gone unclaimed over the years where
deaths have not been reported to us and beneficiaries have not
come forward to claim life insurance benefits.”  Correct Decision  Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same name,
said, “The controller made a proper and correct decision in not
fining or imposing any fee or penalty on the participating
companies.”  “We have done everything the law and current regulations
ask, and in most cases we have gone beyond that standard,” Tom Hambrick, a Hartford spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Unclaimed life insurance benefits are a “very small
percentage” of total claims, the  American Council of Life
Insurers  said in a statement.  Chiang last year announced a $500 million settlement with
MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, and a $300 million deal
with AIG. Both insurers are based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  