-- Ray Lane Rode Tech Boom Tax-Shelter Wave Broken by IRS
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2013-06-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/ray-lane-rode-tech-boom-tax-shelter-wave-broken-by-irs.html
The dot-com boom of the late 1990s
has come back to haunt former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chairman  Ray Lane .  Lane’s dispute with the  Internal Revenue Service  opens a
window to a mostly bygone era when accounting and law firms
conceived and sold tax-dodging strategies to investors seeking
to avoid taxes on outsized gains from the still-swelling tech
bubble.  The shelters had memorable nicknames, based on acronyms:
Son of BOSS, BLIPS, PICO and COBRA. Lane used one called POPS.  Then the IRS cracked down, triggering the kind of legal
battles with the agency Lane is now embroiled in.  “Most of these types of tax shelters have flushed through
the system,” said Bryan Skarlatos, a tax attorney at
Kostelanetz & Fink LLP in  New York . “The ones like you’re
seeing with Lane are some of the stragglers.”  “It’s not the very last dinosaur caught in the tar pit,
but it’s one of the last,” said Skarlatos, who represents
clients in disputes with the IRS over POPS transactions.  Tax Bill  Lane, also the former president of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and partner
emeritus at venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers, used POPS in an attempt to shield $250 million of income
through what the IRS ruled were “sham” transactions.  Lane, 66, who left Oracle with more than $1 billion in
stock and stock options in mid-2000, has agreed to settle with
the IRS on a tax bill that could be as much as $100 million,
even as he appeals the agency’s ruling in U.S. Tax Court in
Washington. He said he fully paid his tax bill on sale of his
Oracle options.  “My tax advisers put me into an investment,” he said in
an interview. “Somewhere along the way I knew these things were
being questioned by the IRS.”  The investment totaled $25 million, Lane said, and included
an $18 million up-front payment used to fund startups.  A portion of that went to purchase warrants or  stock
options  in five companies, including RocketGas Inc.,
Kleptomaniac.com. and Spectrum Target Detection Inc., according
to a filing in one of at least five U.S. Tax Court cases
involving Lane’s tax shelter investments.  Tech Startups  RocketGas was described in court papers as a business to
“bring services traditionally available only at a gasoline
station to customer’s home or office.”  Kleptomaniac.com was an “e-commerce solutions provider and
e-tailing consultant” to brick-and-mortar retailers and
Spectrum had developed a traffic radar gun that “was expected
to replace traditional speed measuring devices used by law
enforcement agencies.”  “Like most high tech startups which seemed so attractive
in 2000, that high risk, high reward portfolio proved worthless
within three years and petitioner simply seeks to recognize the
real, hard-cash economic loss,” one of Lane’s lawyers argued in
a court filing. Losses for the five companies totaled about $17
million, according to another filing.  The IRS argued that the investments in the companies “were
payments of fees to promoters of listed and/or abusive tax
avoidance transactions.”  Other Investors  Lane and other investors didn’t establish the value of
stock options or warrants in an “amount greater than zero,”
and as a result, no losses were allowable, IRS lawyers wrote.  Lane said the POPS shelter was assembled for him by Sidley
Austin LLP, a Chicago-based law firm, the BDO Seidman consulting
firm and Deutsche Bank AG, he said.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s largest bank, admitted criminal
wrongdoing in 2010 and agreed to pay $553.6 million to avoid
prosecution over its participation in 15 fraudulent tax
shelters, including POPS transactions.  The bank admitted to involvement in at least 1,300 deals,
helping more than 2,100 customers evade about $5.9 billion in
individual income tax on  capital gains  and ordinary income,
according to a settlement agreement with the  Justice Department .  Duncan King , a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank,
and Jerry Walsh, a spokesman for BDO, declined to comment on
Lane’s remarks. Sidley Austin didn’t reply to phone and e-mail
messages requesting comment.  Conspiracy Charge  BDO, now known as BDO USA LLP, said in June 2012 it would
pay $50 million to settle a charge of tax-fraud conspiracy for
helping wealthy individuals evade about $1.3 billion in taxes
from 1997 to 2003.  In 2011, a jury convicted former BDO chief executive
officer Denis Field and three others of more than 20 criminal
counts including conspiracy and  tax evasion .  A judge threw out Field’s conviction after finding that a
juror lied about her past. A re-trial is pending.  POPS stands for Partnership Option Portfolio Securities.  Though it has multiple variations, a POPS transaction, in
general, worked like this: an accounting firm would set up a
series of partnerships, which would typically enter into
transactions called straddles using foreign currencies.  Straddles involve simultaneously taking long and short
positions to offset the investment risks.  Offsetting Loss  The partnership would sell off the position that generates
the gain, which would be attributed to a partner that would be
indifferent to the tax, such as a tax-exempt entity.  That would leave one of the partnerships with the
offsetting loss.  An investor with a big gain somewhere else could then buy
into the partnership and thus take advantage of the loss.  The IRS attacked such transactions for separating out the
losses from the gains.  The IRS case against Lane’s Vanadium Partners LLC mentions
“a series of meaningless steps,” involving a straddle, a
tiered partnership structure and a transitory partner that
allowed “a tax shelter investor to claim a permanent non-economic loss.”  Lane’s attorney, Charles Hodges, disputed the IRS
contention that Vanadium was a sham that “lacked economic
substance.”  In addition to the tech boom, conditions were ripe for tax
shelters in the 1990s because the IRS had eased off enforcement
under pressure from Congress, said Christopher Rizek, a lawyer
at Caplin & Drysdale, a Washington-based  law firm  that
specializes in tax matters.  Wealthy Individuals  “They spent about two years re-organizing themselves,” he
said. “They were intimidated.”  By the mid-2000s more aggressive enforcement resumed.  Wealthy individuals who purchased POPS and other tax
shelters were often identified by the IRS and Justice Department
in probes of the accounting firms and law firms that sold them.  The uproar in Congress over whether the IRS tried to head
off conservative groups from getting non-profit status could
curb challenges to tax shelters again, Rizek said.  Tax lawyers are watching how the agency responds to “this
month’s use as a pinata by Congress,” he said.  “They could be cowed again,” Rizek said. “We’ll see.”  The case is Vanadium Partners Fund LLC v. IRS, 9970-13,
U.S. Tax Court ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  