-- Rdio’s Larner to Step Down as CEO of Streaming Service
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-06-08T00:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/rdio-chief-drew-larner-to-step-down-as-ceo-of-streaming-service.html
Rdio Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Drew Larner is leading a search for a new CEO to expand efforts
to sell combined music and video subscriptions to the streaming
entertainment service.  After a transition period, Larner, who has been CEO of San
Francisco-based Rdio since 2009, will stay on as executive
chairman, he said today in a phone interview.  Rdio, which offers music subscriptions and started a video
service in April, needs a leader with experience expanding
startups to a broad base, Larner said. Since closely held Rdio
began a U.S. advertising campaign at the end of 2012, there has
been an eightfold increase in the number of new users of Rdio’s
music service, he said, declining to provide specific figures.  “Momentum from last year has been tremendous,” Larner
said. “The best person to take this to the next level, it’s
probably someone with a different skill set. I’m a business guy
and a deal guy. The next stage of the company is about building
an enormous user and subscription base, and there are people out
there better at that than I am.”  Korn/Ferry International (KFY)  is managing the executive search
process, Larner said, adding that he has interviewed several
candidates in the past couple of weeks. Janus Friis, the
billionaire co-founder of Skype, is majority owner of Rdio and
remains closely involved in the business, he said.  Larner has worked for Friis for more than a decade, and
they have plans for another startup in  San Francisco  after the
Rdio transition is complete, Larner said.  “Companies often outgrow their founding executive teams,”
Larner said. “Those who get the company off the ground aren’t
always the best at growing the company in the second stage into
a mass-market product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  