-- Rehn Scorns IMF ‘Dirty Water,’ Jabs at German-French Euro Ideas
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-06-07T10:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/rehn-scorns-imf-dirty-water-jabs-at-german-french-euro-ideas.html
European Economic and Monetary
Commissioner Olli Rehn defended the handling of the debt crisis,
accusing critics of dumping “dirty water” on the save-the-euro
effort and shunning German-French proposals to wrest control of
economic management.  Rehn said the  International Monetary Fund , the euro area’s
crisis-management associate since the first Greek program in
early 2010, went astray this week when it accused the  European
Commission  of flubbing the restart of  Greece ’s economy.  “I don’t think it is fair and just that the IMF is trying
to wash its hands and throw the dirty water on European
shoulders,” Rehn said at a conference in Helsinki today. He
said Greek growth was stunted by domestic obstacles, not by the
commission’s failings.  Rehn’s self-defense came as the commission, the European
Union’s Brussels-based executive agency, tries to head off moves
by Germany and France to divert more power over European
economic management to national capitals and away from central
EU bodies.  In a joint paper last week, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President  Francois Hollande  proposed holding more
frequent summits of euro-zone government leaders, appointing a
full-time head of the panel of euro finance ministers, and
downgrading the commission’s planned role in enforcing national
reforms.  Doesn’t Deliver  Rehn said the proposed tightening of government-to-government cooperation would put smaller countries at a
disadvantage by lessening the powers of the commission. “Inter-governmentalism is often called pragmatism, but how can
something be called pragmatic if it doesn’t really work or
deliver?” he said.  The German-French ideas included setting up a range of
economic indicators to monitor product and labor markets in each
country, building on and partly duplicating a “scoreboard” now
used by the commission to detect when national economies are at
risk of overheating.  Rehn, one of the guiding forces behind three years of euro-zone reforms, said that many of the latest ideas from Berlin and
Paris “seem to suggest that the wheel should be reinvented.”  Rehn singled out Hollande for urging stronger euro-area
governance and then lashing out at the commission for making
“well-founded recommendations on long-overdue structural
reforms in  France .” He said he is “a bit perplexed” by the
French flip-flop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  