-- Rhine River Forecast to Open Fully Tomorrow After Flooding
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-06-07T15:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/rhine-river-forecast-to-open-fully-tomorrow-after-flooding-2-.html
The Rhine River is forecast to open
fully to barge traffic overnight after floods and high waters
disrupted shipments for at least five days.  The waterway will probably be navigable along its entire
length from 2 a.m. Berlin time tomorrow, Michael Putzschke, a
spokesman from the German federal water and shipping office in
Mainz, said today in an e-mail.  Shipping was halted on sections of the Rhine upstream from
Koblenz in  Germany  to  Basel  in  Switzerland  this week amid
floods, which were the worst on record in some areas. The
waterway links industrial sites including the Gelsenkirchen oil
refinery operated by  BP Plc (BP/)  and  BASF SE (BAS) ’s Ludwigshafen chemicals
site to Rotterdam, Europe’s busiest port. The river is also
connected to other countries via canals.  “Rhine water levels are decreasing,” Joachim Hessler,
operations manager at barge-owner Maintank
Schiffahrtsgesellschaft mbH, based in Woerth near  Frankfurt ,
said today in an e-mail. “Barges are still occupied with
current trips and are already planned for next trips. We have
received a number of enquiries for barge capacity and this is an
indication that availability is tight.”  The water level at Kaub, Germany, which is about 200
kilometers (125 miles) south of Dusseldorf, fell to 6.59 meters
(22 feet) today, according to data from the German Federal
Institute of Hydrology. That’s down from 7.16 meters on June 4,
which was the highest since at least 2006.  Rates Unaffected  Oil product barge shipments were halted during the floods
this week, causing suppliers to use inventories from storage,
according to Pieter Kulsen, founder of PJK International BV, a
researcher based in Breda,  Netherlands . Barge freight rates
weren’t affected during the closing and may surge when Rhine
traffic resumes, he said today by phone.  Front-month gasoil futures moved into backwardation, where
prompt contracts cost more than later deliveries, on June 4 amid
speculation that the floods would cause temporary fuel
shortages, according to Abhishek Deshpande, an oil markets
analyst at Natixis in London.  June gasoil traded at $875.75 a metric ton, or a premium of
$2.25 to the July contract, as of 3:58 p.m. on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London.  The  rate to transport  gasoil in barges from Rotterdam to
Duisburg, Germany was 5.75 euros ($7.62) a ton today, unchanged
since May 30, PJK data show.  The lower Rhine approaching the Netherlands was navigable
throughout the week, Kulsen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  