-- Riksbank’s Jansson Sees Tough Call on Rates as Growth Weakens
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-06-07T10:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/riksbank-s-jansson-sees-tough-call-on-rates-as-growth-weakens.html
The next interest rate decision will
be tough as the Swedish central bank has to weigh high
unemployment and low inflation against increasing risks of a
housing bubble, said Deputy Governor Per Jansson.  “In the short term we’re seeing a tendency that the
economy will weaken and, along with that, lower inflation,” he
told reporters today in  Stockholm . “We see, if anything, that
the risks surrounding  household debt  and the housing market are
increasing in the sense that  house prices  are showing a tendency
to increase again.”  Jansson in April voted with the Riksbank’s decision to keep
the central bank’s  main lending rate  unchanged at 1 percent for
a second meeting, expressing concerns of a further build-up of
record Swedish household debt. The bank delayed plans to raise
rates by about a year to late 2014 after cutting its  inflation 
forecast, citing a strong krona and the inability of companies
to push through price increases because of weak demand.  Swedish gross domestic product grew an annual 1.7 percent
in the three months through March driven by private consumption
and a build-up of inventories, while net exports and investments
weighed on the expansion.  While  economic growth  was “strong” in the first quarter,
the inventory buildup means there are “risks for a backlash in
GDP going forward,” Jansson said. “It’s not possible to spot a
clear trend” in economic indicators, he said.  Unemployment (SWUERATE)  in the $500 billion Nordic economy matched its
highest level in almost three years at 8.4 percent in April.
Consumer prices fell 0.5 percent compared with the Riksbank’s 2
percent inflation target the same month.  “Sweden is still relatively strong but a few clouds have
appeared lately,” Jansson said. “Unemployment has shown a
small tendency to develop in a worse way. Inflation is of course
low. We had an outcome that was clearly below our forecast,
which is of course worrisome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  