-- Royalty Pharma Raises Elan Offer to $6.7 Billion Plus CVR
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-07T20:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/royalty-pharma-raises-elan-offer-to-6-7-billion-plus-cvr.html
Royalty Pharma, an investor in
royalty streams from pharmaceuticals, raised its offer to buy
 Elan Corp. (ELN)  by 5 percent to $6.7 billion, the second increase in
its attempt to take over the Irish biotechnology company.  The all-cash offer of $13 per American depositary receipt
is higher than a previous bid of $12.50 and compares with the
$12.68 closing price on June 6. The new bid potentially values
each Elan share at as much as $15.50 if the multiple sclerosis
drug Tysabri meets certain sales and development goals, Royalty
Pharma said in a statement today. If all three targets are met,
Royalty would pay a contingent value right of $2.50 a share, for
a total of $8 billion.  Elan Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin, a former Merrill
Lynch & Co. banker, and the rest of Elan’s board are weighing
the latest overture after rejecting the two previous bids. Since
the approach, Martin has announced transactions including a $1
billion investment in  Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s royalties. Elan
shareholders will vote on the proposals on June 17, which will
determine whether Dublin-based Royalty will go ahead with its
unsolicited offer.  “$13 a share is a game changer; it’s a very, very generous
offer,” said Guillaume van Renterghem, an analyst at UBS AG in
London, in a telephone interview. “Frankly I doubt very much
that shareholders will vote positively for any of the Elan
management proposals.”  Shares Rise  Elan rose 6 percent to $13.44 at the close in New York.  The contingent value rights are tied to events including
regulatory approval for expanded use of Tysabri; the achievement
of global sales of $2.6 billion in four consecutive quarters
before Dec. 31, 2015; and the achievement of $3.1 billion in
sales in four quarters by Dec. 31, 2017, Royalty Pharma said.  The offer isn’t conditional on due diligence, Royalty
Pharma said.  “The board of Elan will, as before, in line with its
obligations under Irish Takeover law, assess the Royalty Pharma
announcement and will advise its shareholders accordingly,”
Elan said in a statement today. “In the meantime, Elan
shareholders are strongly advised to take no action in relation
to the Royalty Pharma offer.”  An acquisition by Royalty would enable Elan shareholders to
avoid the risks of Martin’s strategy of reinvesting the $3.25
billion Elan received from  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  for  divesting  its
stake in Tysabri, Royalty said. Elan has said it will pay
investors dividends directly linked to Tysabri sales as a 20
percent share of the royalty received from Biogen.  ‘Frenetic Jumble’  “Elan has undertaken what Royalty Pharma considers to be a
frenetic jumble of value-destructive” transactions intended to
deter Royalty Pharma from pursuing Elan, Royalty Pharma said.  An extraordinary general meeting of Elan’s shareholders is
scheduled for June 17 to consider four transactions proposed
after Royal Pharma’s takeover bid, including the investment in
Theravance’s royalties. Shareholders will also vote on a $340
million takeover of Vienna-based AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals AG,
the spin-out of an experimental drug called ELND005 for
Alzheimer’s disease to Speranza Therapeutics and a $200 million
share repurchase program.  Royalty Pharma urged Elan shareholders to vote against all
four proposals, citing recommendations from proxy advisers
Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Groton
Partners are advising Royalty Pharma. Elan’s financial advisers
include Davy Corporate Finance, Morgan Stanley, Ondra Partners
and Citigroup Inc.  Founded in 1996, Royalty Pharma owns royalty interests in
38 approved and marketed pharmaceutical products. For example,
in 2004, the firm bought Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center’s U.S. royalty interest in Amgen Inc.’s Neupogen drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  