-- Rubber Falls to Seven-Week Low on Strong Yen, Demand Concerns
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-06-07T02:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/rubber-falls-to-seven-week-low-on-strong-yen-demand-concerns.html
Rubber declined for a third day to a
seven-week low as a strengthening Japanese currency reduced the
appeal of yen-denominated contracts and on concern that slowing
economies will cut demand.  The contract for delivery in November on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange fell as much as 1.7 percent to 243.6 yen a
kilogram ($2,514 a metric ton), the lowest level since April 18.
Futures extended losses for this year to 19 percent.  Japan ’s currency appreciated this week after Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe failed to impress investors in a speech this week
detailing his growth strategy. U.S. jobless claims declined last
week before a report today projected to show payrolls grew,
fueling debate over whether the Federal Reserve will scale back
bond purchases.  “Concerns over economic slowdown and the strong yen hurt
the market sentiment,” said Gu Jiong, an analyst at commodity
broker Yutaka Shoji Co. “The weak mood on the Shanghai market
spilled over to Tocom, prompting investors to sell the
commodity.”  China ’s outbound shipments may have grown 7.1 percent in
May from a year earlier, less than half the previous month’s
reported 14.7 percent, based on the median estimate of 34
economists ahead of data due June 8. Import growth probably
slowed to 6.9 percent from April’s 16.8 percent, a Bloomberg
News survey showed.  Rubber for delivery in September on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange was little changed at 18,260  yuan  ($2,975) a ton. Thai
rubber free-on-board dropped 0.3 percent to 87.90 baht ($2.87) a
kilogram yesterday, the lowest level since May 3, according to
the Rubber Research Institute of  Thailand .  Senior officials from Thailand,  Indonesia ,  Malaysia  will
meet next week to discuss measures to limit supply and reduce
price volatility, said Suwit Chaikiattiyos, deputy director-general at Department of Agriculture, who is a Thai
representative in International Tripartite Rubber Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  