-- SEC Improves Regulatory Costs Assessment, Watchdog Says
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-06-07T21:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/sec-improves-regulatory-costs-assessment-watchdog-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has improved how it justifies new regulations after
at least five recent court defeats faulted its use of economic
analysis, according to an audit by the agency’s inspector
general.  The agency specified the reason for regulations, considered
alternatives to rules and integrated economic analysis into the
rule-writing process, SEC Inspector General Carl W. Hoecker
wrote in an analysis of 12 rules proposed or finished during
2012. The analysis was requested by Representatives Darrell E. Issa and Patrick T. McHenry, Republican lawmakers who have been
critical of the SEC’s rulemaking procedures.  The audit shows how the SEC has made progress using cost-benefit analysis since having a rule on board of directors
nominations overturned by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
 District of Columbia  in July 2011. That decision said the SEC
failed to study the cost to companies of fighting shareholders
over a nominee and how it would impact  capital markets .  “The findings of the report confirm our own observations
that the current guidance has strengthened and improved both the
content of and the process for economic analysis in commission
rulemakings,” Craig M. Lewis, the SEC’s chief economist, wrote
in a response to the audit.  Previous Criticism  Issa and McHenry requested the analysis after the decision
by the appeals court and a critical report on SEC cost-benefit
analysis by former Inspector General  David Kotz . A spokesman for
McHenry declined to comment and a spokesmen for Issa didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment.  Today’s report by Omaha, Nebraska-based HDR Engineering
Inc., an outside consultant, says the SEC could improve how it
describes alternatives to regulation and why it can’t always
calculate the benefits of new rules. The report found the SEC
quantified the benefits of regulation in only 1 of the 12 rules
studied by the inspector general.  The audit also provided the SEC with six recommendations,
including determining whether it’s feasible to determine the
average cost and benefits to investors of a new rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  