-- Senators Visit Guantanamo Bay as Hunger Strike Grows
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-07T22:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/senators-visit-guantanamo-bay-as-hunger-strike-grows.html
Two senators joined President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff on a visit to the U.S. detention facility
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, today as a prisoner hunger strike
continues to grow.  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , a Republican, and California
Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a Democrat, traveled to the prison
camp with White House Chief of Staff  Denis McDonough , a White
House spokesman said.  The senators and McDonough were “going to take a look
firsthand at the conditions there” and will “gather some
information to take the next steps that are necessary to finally
close the prison,” spokesman  Josh Earnest  said.  Obama last month renewed his first-term pledge to close the
prison that was created after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks to
hold accused and suspected terrorists. Congress has resisted
efforts to transfer prisoners to other sites, although Feinstein
and McCain have supported efforts to close the prison.  The camp holds 166 prisoners, of whom 104 are considered to
be on a hunger strike and 41 were being force-fed as of today,
according to Army Lieutenant Colonel Samuel House, a prison
spokesman.  The number of hunger strikers has risen since March, when
as few as 14 prisoners were refusing to eat and eight were being
force-fed, according to figures provided by House.  “We continue to believe that it is in our national
interest to end detention at Guantanamo, with a safe and orderly
transition of the detainees to other locations,” the senators
and McDonough said in a joint statement following their visit.
“We intend to work, with a plan by Congress and the
administration together, to take the steps necessary to make
that happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  