-- Serbia Needs to Narrow 2013 Budget Gap to 4.6%, Dinkic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-06-07T13:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/serbia-needs-to-narrow-2013-budget-gap-to-4-6-dinkic-says.html
Serbia  needs to cut spending by about
$1.3 billion and bring this year’s budget deficit to 4.6 percent
of economic output as it seeks to regain investor confidence and
stabilize the dinar.  The  Finance Ministry  submitted to the ruling coalition a
list of cost-cutting measures and incentives for investors for a
quick approval and checks by the fiscal regulator, the
 International Monetary Fund  and trade unions, before making them
public next week, Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said in the
capital Belgrade today.  “We are fully aware that we must cut the deficit by three
percentage points and the goal I’ve set is that the deficit must
not exceed 4.6 percent of gross domestic product,” Dinkic told
reporters.“The economic situation can only be improved if
development measures are implemented simultaneously with strict
savings.”  Dinkic, whose party of technocrats is a junior coalition
partner to the dominant Serbian Progressive Party of former
nationalists and Socialists of late Serbian strongman  Slobodan Milosevic , said “investors expect to see those measures” and a
revised budget will follow by the end of June.  The government should strip unprofitable public companies
of state financing and all parties “needs to agree to give up
on non-productive spending,” said Dinkic, hours before meeting
Premier  Ivica Dacic  and Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic.  Failure to streamline spending by at least two percent of
GDP, or 600 million euros ($793 million), will widen the budget
gap to 8 percent of GDP, or more than double an initial 3.6
percent target, the IMF said on May 22.  Serbia’s 2012 GDP was 29.9 billion euros, according to
Finance Ministry data.  Dinar Fall  The dinar fell three percent against the euro since May 22
and traded at 114.4485 at 2:07 p.m. in Belgrade, its lowest
level since Dec. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield on Serbia’s dollar bond maturing in 2021 rose to 6.1
percent from 5.8 percent yesterday.  Dacic’s Socialists and their coalition partners of the
Pensioners Party don’t want to back any cuts or freezes in
public wages and pensions, while Vucic’s Progressives say they
support tough measures without specifying them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  