-- Sharp Will Complete Share Sale to Qualcomm for 6 Billion Yen
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-06-07T08:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/sharp-will-complete-share-sale-to-qualcomm-for-6-billion-yen.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese TV maker
seeking a return to profit, will sell 6 billion yen ($62
million) of stock to  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  to complete the second part
of a capital alliance for developing displays.  Sharp will sell 11.9 million shares for 502 yen each with
payment to be completed June 24, the Osaka-based company said in
a statement today. The first share sale of about 4.94 billion
yen was  completed  Dec. 27.  Qualcomm, the largest seller of semiconductors for mobile
phones, agreed in December to invest in Sharp, which is trying
to restore its balance sheet amid record losses and dwindling
demand for its TVs. The investment was  conditional  on developing
a plan for mass producing its Micro Electro Mechanical System,
or MEMS, displays and had been scheduled for completion March
29.  “The amount is very limited, but it has a positive effect
in increasing Sharp’s credibility,” said Hideki Yasuda, an
analyst at Ace Securities Securities Co. in Tokyo.  The U.S. chipmaker will be the  third-biggest shareholder 
with a 3.53 percent stake, according to Miyuki Nakayama, a
spokeswoman for Sharp. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., one
of Sharp’s two main creditors, is the company’s biggest
shareholder, data  compiled  by Bloomberg show.  Capital Alliances  Sharp is selling assets and has formed capital alliances
with Qualcomm and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  to raise funds. The
company posted a 545 billion-yen loss in the year ended March 31
and has forecast that net income may reach 5 billion yen in the
year started April 1.  Sharp stock, which has gained 32 percent so far this year,
closed unchanged at 401 in Tokyo  trading  today.  Last month, the maker of Aquos TV released its midterm plan
targeting net income of 80 billion yen and operating margin of 5
percent on 3 trillion yen in sales for the year to March 2016.
The electronics maker will strengthen ties with large customers
for liquid-crystal displays, focus on big-screen TVs and shrink
its overseas solar business during the next three years to boost
earnings, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  