-- Sina, Youku Tudou Ally to Win More Online Video Viewers
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-06-07T11:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/sina-youku-tudou-ally-to-win-more-online-video-viewers.html
Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  said it has agreed
with  Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of China’s largest Twitter-like service,
to collaborate to win more viewers for their online videos on
social media platforms and those using mobile devices.  Sina will promote Youku Tudou’s licensed video content to
its users on Weibo microblog next month in exchange for access
to the library of China’s largest online video company, Youku
Tudou said in an e-mailed statement today. Mao Taotao, a
spokesman for Sina in Beijing, said in an e-mailed response the
company didn’t have anything to add beyond the press release.  The cooperation will help the two companies compete with
 Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , which recently acquired two online video sites.
Revenue from China’s online video business is projected to rise
almost 12-fold to 16.2 billion  yuan  ($2.6 billion) in 2014 from
2009, according to iResearch, a Shanghai-based Internet
consulting company.  “Social media is really important for branding and users’
share of mind,” Dele Liu, president of Youku Tudou, said in a
telephone interview today. “The social platforms are a great
means for gaining users.”  Both Sina and Youku Tudou are expanding on mobile devices.
As many as 76 percent of Weibo’s daily active users access the
service through mobile devices, while Youku Tudou has 170
million daily mobile views.  Youku Tudou and Weibo will cross-promote each other’s
premium members and their content, according to the statement.
User search results for movies and TV dramas will provide direct
thumbnail links to the videos.  Youku Tudou’s content library has more than 4,500 movies
and 2,700 television dramas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  