-- Singapore Online Rules Undercut Financial Hub Status, Group Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-06-07T02:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/singapore-online-rules-undercut-financial-hub-status-group-says.html
Singapore ’s new rules licensing news
websites undercuts its status as a financial hub, Human Rights
Watch said, urging the city to withdraw regulations it says
discourage independent comment.  The rules introduced June 1 cast a chill over the city’s
“robust and free-wheeling” online communities and limit
Singaporeans’ access to independent media, Cynthia Wong, senior
Internet researcher at the New York-based watch group, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Regulation requiring an initial list of 10 sites including
one run by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  to get a license and pay a S$50,000
($40,000) bond to be forfeited if it publishes “prohibited
content” that “undermines racial or religious harmony” has
drawn criticism from opposition groups. The rules don’t curtail
individuals’ freedom of expression online, Singapore’s Acting
Manpower Minister Tan Chuan Jin said this week, adding that the
government is using similar rules for the print media.  “Singapore is placing its status as a world-class
financial center at clear risk by extending its record of
draconian media censorship to the digital world,” Human Rights
Watch’s Wong said. “Websites will be forced into the role of
private censors on behalf of the government.”  The rules seem intended to impose another check on popular
websites rather than to reduce any genuine harms, the U.S. human
rights group said.  Press Freedom  Singapore dropped 14 places in a 2013  press freedom index 
published by Reporters Without Borders, ranking 149 out of 179
countries. It’s ranked one spot after  Russia , and just ahead of
Iraq and Myanmar.  The licensing regime is an extension of rules governing
print media and aimed at managing content of news sites mostly
run by the same parent companies, Tan said on a Channel NewsAsia
panel discussion on June 4. The government also said in a
statement it’s not clamping down on Internet freedom.  More than 150 Singapore websites and blogs blacked out
their content yesterday in protest against the licensing rules,
the Straits Times reported today. Some sites replaced their
home-pages with a black screen saying “Free My Internet,”
others included information about a planned protest at Hong Lim
Park near the city’s financial district tomorrow, the newspaper
said. The protest is scheduled at 4 p.m. tomorrow, according to
the organizer’s  website .  Further regulation is “redundant,” Alan Soon, Yahoo’s
Singapore country manager and managing editor for Southeast
Asia,  said  June 5 on the company’s news site for the city. The
rules have created confusion and unsettled users and the media
industry in the initial few days, he said.  Other sites affected by the rules include those run by
 Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH)  and MediaCorp Pte, the country’s
two biggest media companies. Singapore Press Chairman Lee Boon Yang was a former information minister, while MediaCorp, the
operator of Channel NewsAsia, is owned by Temasek Holdings Pte,
the state-owned investment company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  