-- SNB Foreign-Currency Reserves Rose to Record in May
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-06-07T07:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/snb-foreign-currency-reserves-rose-to-record-in-may.html
The  Swiss National Bank ’s  foreign-currency reserves  rose to a record in May, a month during which
the franc fell against both the euro and dollar.  Holdings increased to 441.4 billion francs ($476 billion)
from a revised 436.1 billion francs in April, the Zurich-based
Swiss National Bank  said  on its website today. The holdings are
calculated according to International Monetary Fund standards at
the beginning of every month.  The SNB, which committed to defending a ceiling of 1.20 per
euro in September 2011, has amassed foreign-currency reserves
equal to about three-quarters of  Switzerland ’s annual economic
output with its efforts to defend the limit.  The increase was fueled by valuation effects and not by new
purchases, said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group
in Munich. “The latest franc depreciation, pushed by
speculation about an increase in the minimum exchange rate and
negative  interest rates , actually brought some relief for the
SNB.”  The franc depreciated 1.3 percent against the euro last
month, breaking through the 1.26 per euro mark for the first
time in two years on May 22, after SNB President Thomas Jordan
said that a shift in the cap and negative rates were in the
central bank’s toolkit. Against the dollar, the Swiss currency
fell 2.5 percent in May.  “We rate the chances of respective SNB action in both
cases as very low in the current environment,” Koch said by e-mail. “A higher minimum  exchange-rate  target faces heavy
resistance from other central banks and would complicate a
future exit. And negative interest rates would possibly even
increase tailwind for the housing boom, indicated by the
experience of  Denmark .”  The franc was little changed against the euro after the
report, trading at 1.2302 at 9:41 a.m. in Zurich. Against the
dollar, it stood at 92.90 centimes.  As of the end of the first quarter, the SNB held 48 percent
of its reserves in euros, 27 percent in dollars, and 9 percent
in yen. The bulk is held in highly rated government bonds with
15 percent in equities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  