-- Spain’s Pensions Taskforce Urges Payout Cuts
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t ,   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-06-07T16:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/spain-s-pensions-taskforce-urges-payout-cuts.html
Spain’s pensions taskforce, set up in
April by Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , said the government
should be ready to cut benefits to protect the stability of the
taxpayer-funded retirement system.  The proposal of the  taskforce  was published by the Labor
Ministry today. It will be sent to a cross-party parliamentary
committee and serve as a basis for discussion by lawmakers.
Rajoy has pledged to change the law by the end of the year even
if he can’t muster support from his political opponents.  Rajoy last week said contributions aren’t high enough to
pay a rising number of pensioners, a situation that last year
led him to tap the nation’s pension reserve fund for the first
time. The European Commission has given  Spain  until 2016 to
tackle the largest  budget deficit  in the European Union.  “First we must pay pensioners and secondly we must make
the system stronger in the future and that’s why we need to talk
about its sustainability,” Rajoy told lawmakers in Madrid on
June 4.  The  taskforce  recommends two new formulas to adjust
pensioners’ monthly payouts, both of which may be applied as
soon as 2014. Labor Ministry data show pensions paid in May
amounted to 7.73 billion euros ($10.2 billion), compared with a
monthly average of 5.66 billion euros in 2007, before the start
of a six-year slump in the euro area’s fourth-largest economy.
Over the same period, the number of pensions paid increased to
9.04 million from 8.33 million.  Inflation Link  Today’s report was endorsed by 10 of the 12 experts
appointed by the government to sit on the taskforce.  The first formula aims to ensure equality between
generations and would adjust benefits for the life expectancy of
retirees. The second would sever the link with inflation and
update payouts so as to ensure the long-term stability of the
system. That may mean reducing benefits, Rafael Domenech, an
economist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  who sat on the
taskforce, said at a press conference in Madrid today.  Domenech said the government should preserve the nominal
value of existing benefits.  The Bank of Spain last month recommended bringing forward
an increase in the legal  retirement age  by two years to  67 ,
currently planned for 2027, and extending the career period
taken into account to calculate pensions. The “sustainability
factor” is among the key additional budget measures the
government must take to secure the country’s credibility gains,
Governor Luis Maria Linde said on May 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  