-- Spirent Rises as Numis Urges Buy on Network Spend: London Mover
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-06-07T11:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/spirent-rises-as-numis-urges-buy-on-network-spend-london-mover.html
Spirent Communications Plc (MGNS) , a maker
of testing equipment for phone systems, rose the most in seven
months as investors bet on a revival in spending on networks and
Numis Securities recommended investors buy the stock.  Spirent (SPT)  climbed as much as 6.5  percent  in  London , the
biggest intraday rise since Nov. 8, and breaking a five-day
losing streak. The Crawley, England-based company was the fourth
biggest gainer on FTSE 250 index.  Spirent “will be moving into an improving business
environment” in the second half, analysts at Numis including
Nick James said in a note today. News from some of Spirent’s
customers is improving and a revival in spending by companies on
network infrastructure “may be in progress,” the securities
company said, upgrading the stock to buy from hold.  Ciena Corp. (CIEN) , a maker of communications-network equipment
for phone carriers and other customers, jumped 17 percent in the
U.S. yesterday after its third-quarter sales forecast topped
analysts estimates. Increased investment in next generation
network infrastructure to help cope with the huge growth in
traffic from the use of smartphones, tablets and other
applications may also help Spirent, according to Numis.  Spirent has historically provided testing facilities for
telecommunications providers such as  BT Group Plc (BT/A) ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   Spirent shares climbed 7.8 pence, or 6.3 percent, to 132.2
pence as of 11:40 a.m. in London. The stock is down 12 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of 850 million
pounds ($1.3 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 