-- Sprint Falls on Report That SoftBank’s Mulling T-Mobile Deal
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-08T02:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/sprint-falls-on-report-that-softbank-considering-t-mobile-deal.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which agreed to
a takeover by Tokyo-based  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  in October, fell the
most in three weeks after Reuters reported that the Japanese
company is discussing an alternative deal with  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)   Sprint shares dropped 1.4 percent, the biggest one-day
decline since May 13, in New York trading yesterday. The stock
has climbed 28 percent this year, boosted by a takeover contest
between SoftBank and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)   Since Dish made a $25.5 billion counteroffer for Sprint in
April, SoftBank has intensified talks with T-Mobile parent
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  about a “plan B” deal, Reuters said,
citing unnamed people familiar with the discussions. In one
scenario, SoftBank could purchase Deutsche Telekom’s 74 percent
stake in T-Mobile, the fourth-largest U.S. wireless carrier,
Reuters reported.  SoftBank, which made a $20.1 billion offer for Sprint, had
been in earlier talks with Deutsche Telekom last year, according
to the report. The Japanese company is looking to buy a U.S.
carrier to aid its international expansion. Dish, meanwhile,
wants to use Sprint to bundle wireless offerings with its
existing satellite-TV service.  Mitsuhiro Kurano, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Softbank,
declined to comment on the report. A representative for
Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile declined to comment.
 Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint, the third-largest U.S.
mobile-phone provider, didn’t have an immediate comment.  Dish’s Approach  Before Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen  made his play for Sprint,
he informally approached Deutsche Telekom about a possible
merger with T-Mobile, people close to the situation said in
April. Dish made the proposal sometime before April 10, when
Deutsche Telekom announced a sweetened bid for MetroPCS
Communications Inc., according to the people. T-Mobile and
MetroPCS completed their merger on May 1.  Earlier today, Sprint said retired Admiral Mike Mullen will
join the board as an independent director following the proposed
deal with SoftBank. Mullen will oversee Sprint’s compliance with
an agreement the company made with U.S. government agencies to
win approval for the transaction.  When Deutsche Telekom agreed to merge T-Mobile with
MetroPCS, the German company pledged not to sell shares of T-Mobile on the stock market for 18 months. The exception is if it
sells the stake all at once to a third party, Deutsche Telekom
Chief Executive Officer Timotheus Hoettges said at a shareholder
meeting in May.  “We are in a position to sell all shares in one go,”
Hoettges said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  