-- Spurs Beat Heat 92-88 to Win Opener of NBA Championship Series
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-07T05:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/spurs-beat-heat-92-88-to-win-opener-of-nba-championship-series.html
Tony Parker  scored 21 points and the
 San Antonio Spurs  defeated the defending champion Miami Heat
92-88 in the opening game of the National Basketball Association
Finals.  Tim Duncan  had 20 points and 14 rebounds for the Spurs at
AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami, while the Heat’s LeBron James
was held to a 2013 postseason-low 18 points. James also had 18
rebounds and 10 assists for his 10th career playoff triple-double and second straight in the Finals.  Parker hit a 16-foot basket as the shot clock expired with
five seconds left last night for the game’s final points.  “I was going down, trying to stay composed and get a shot
off,” Parker said in a televised interview. “LeBron was
unbelievable and  Dwyane Wade  was playing well. We just have to
try to contain them.”  The Spurs, who had nine days off after sweeping the  Memphis
Grizzlies  in the Western Conference finals, had four turnovers
to tie an NBA Finals record low set by the  Detroit Pistons 
against San Antonio on June 16, 2005. San Antonio is 7-1 on the
road this postseason and improved to 5-0 in Game 1 of the title
series. The Spurs are seeking a fifth championship and first
since 2007, while the Heat also won the title in 2006.  After outscoring Miami 9-2 in the opening minutes, the
Spurs played catchup for much of the game until a jump shot by
Kawhi Leonard with seven minutes to play gave them the lead for
good.  “We just weren’t very good offensively,” Heat coach  Erik Spoelstra  said in a news conference. “We just didn’t execute
and they did. Really it came down to a handful of possessions.
Whoever makes those plays wins the game and they did.”  Manu Ginobili  came off the bench to add 13 points for the
Spurs, while Wade contributed 17 points for Miami.  Pacers Hangover  After the teams were separated by one point in the first
quarter, two in the second and each tallied 20 points in the
third, San Antonio outscored Miami 23-16 in the fourth quarter.
James said Miami’s seven-game series against the  Indiana Pacers 
that ended June 3 may have caused the Heat’s slump late in the
game.  “The fourth quarter was the difference and I could see it
on a few of our guys’ faces,” James said in a news conference.
“Felt a little fatigue, still a little banged up from that
seven-game series and they looked like they were rested in that
fourth quarter and they took advantage of that. We had some
mental mistakes.”  Game 2 in the best-of-seven series is June 9 in Miami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  