-- St. Jude’s Durata Backed by Doctor Who Found Riata Flaws
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-06-07T20:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/st-jude-s-durata-backed-by-doctor-who-found-riata-flaws.html
Ernest Lau, a cardiologist at the
Royal Victoria Hospital in  Belfast , Ireland, was one of the
first doctors to identify a defect in  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s
Riata that led to its recall in 2011. Now Lau is telling
colleagues it’s time to embrace the company’s updated device.  Riata, a wire that connects a life-saving defibrillator to
the heart, could break out of its protective coating, putting
patients at risk for inappropriate shocks or leaving them
untreated when a shock was needed. Lau noted the flaw in 2006,
and subsequent tests to patients found the problem occurred in
15 percent. St. Jude pulled the device from the market in 2010,
with U.S. regulators calling it a recall the next year.  The potential risk led Lau and other doctors who implant
the devices to avoid Durata, a newer product from  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based St. Jude that has a similar design and is coated
with a stronger insulation to prevent the problem. The addition
of that coating, known as Optim, compresses the tubing and makes
similar breaches unlikely, Lau said. Further avoiding St. Jude’s
leads may chill future innovation, he said.  “There’s a huge danger of people overreacting,” Lau said.
“Whenever you bring a new product to the market, you take a
quantified risk. If there is a genuine problem we all have to
react to protect the patients. Acting out of irrational fear, if
you keep doing that, we’ll have stagnation. If we stick with the
status quo for eternity, then we’ll never have innovation.”  Isolated Reports  There have been reports about isolated complications
related to Durata, with  articles  in medical journals appearing
in March and June. Larger database reviews, however, have
uncovered few issues with the device, and suggest it is working
as well as rival products from  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)   St. Jude rose 1.7 percent to $43.99 at the close in  New
York . The company has gained 13 percent in the past 12 months.  Lau, an electrophysiologist who has been working for the
past two years on understanding the mechanisms that caused Riata
to malfunction, plans to publish his findings next week in the
journal Pace, according to  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at Wells
Fargo in New York. Based on that work, Lau said he doesn’t
expect to see similar problems with Durata.  “Fundamentally, the Durata and Riata leads are very
different,” Lau said in a telephone interview. “Because I
believe I understand the mechanism now, and I’ve done some
experimental work to test the Durata lead, it doesn’t have the
capacity to develop externalization.”  The newer leads may short-circuit, though the problem
outlined by  Robert Hauser  of the Minneapolis Heart Institute
isn’t common, Lau said. There are ways to implant the device
that can further reduce the risk, he said.  “It’s unlikely that Durata will have internal shorting as
a frequent problem,” Lau said. “I’ve been using the Durata
lead quite a lot and I haven’t seen any internal shorting at
all. With the Riata lead, it was quite common.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  