-- StanChart Sells First Bangladesh-Tied Notes Amid Hunt for Yield
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-06-07T01:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/stanchart-sells-first-bangladesh-tied-notes-amid-hunt-for-yield.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  sold the
first-ever structured notes tied to Bangladesh’s sovereign debt,
as offerings of securities linked to high-yielding emerging-market debt surge.  The lender sold a combined $12.6 million of four-year notes
tied to the nation in four offerings on May 30 and June 3,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The underlying debt,
which had never been used for credit-linked notes, has coupon
rates of 11.25 percent to 11.5 percent, the data show.  Investors hunting for high yields have turned to securities
offering access to emerging-market debt this year amid global
monetary easing. That has led to the first sales of notes tied
to nations from Bahamas to Lithuania to  Honduras , while issuance
connected to such countries as Vietnam and Sri Lanka has surged
to records, according to Bloomberg data.  Valerie Tay, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for  Standard
Chartered , declined to comment on the notes.  Standard & Poor’s  last month kept its rating on
Bangladesh’s sovereign debt at BB-, three levels below
investment grade, citing a low level of economic development and
limited flexibility in fiscal and monetary policy. The
shortfalls are offset by the prospect of economic growth, the
credit agency said in a statement, maintaining a stable outlook
for the country.  Bangladesh’s economic expansion will accelerate to 7.2
percent in the 12 months through June 2014, the country’s
finance minister said in a May 31 interview.  Sales of notes tied to Vietnam surged more than 12-fold to
$188.9 million through May this year from all of 2012, a record
volume for any full-year period, according to Bloomberg data.
Issuance linked to  Sri Lanka  also soared to a record $198
million during the period, the data show.  Credit-linked notes pay investors higher coupons than the
underlying bonds and offer tailored maturities in exchange for
taking default risks of the debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  