-- Stockton No Domino as California Debt Extends Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/stockton-no-domino-as-california-debt-extends-rally-muni-credit.html
What a difference a year makes for
investors in  California  municipal bonds.  Twelve months ago, the city council of Stockton,
California, voted to file for bankruptcy, making it the biggest
U.S. city to seek court protection. After Mammoth Lakes filed
less than a month later and San Bernardino officials voted to go
that route, the extra yield on California issuers reached a six-month high of 1.06 percentage points on bets more localities
would follow suit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The yield penalty has since tumbled to an almost five-year
low of  0.52 percentage point  as widespread bankruptcies in the
most-populous state never materialized. Instead, California this
year earned its first upgrade from  Standard & Poor’s  since 2006
and is set for its first  budget surplus  in almost a decade.  “People realized that it’s not the tip of the iceberg,
these are one-off events,” said John Bonnell, who oversees $4.3
billion in munis in  San Antonio  at USAA Investment Management
Co.  “We view that as a potential opportunity” when investors
shun California local credits because of events such as last
year’s, he said. His California muni  fund  has beaten 93 percent
of its peers this year.  Defying Distress  California’s falling borrowing costs show that investors in
the $3.7 trillion municipal market are focusing on fiscal gains
instead of pockets of local distress. After Jefferson County,
 Alabama , filed a record U.S. municipal bankruptcy in November
2011, investors added money to muni mutual funds for 49 of the
next 52 weeks, Lipper US Fund Flows data show. The county
reached a deal this week with its biggest creditors to exit
bankruptcy.  Fund inflows persisted last year even as Stockton, an
agricultural center of 298,000 east of  San Francisco ; Mammoth
Lakes, a mountain resort town of 8,300; and San Bernardino, a
city of 213,000 east of  Los Angeles , entered bankruptcy within
five weeks starting June 28.  “The dominoes are starting to fall” in California, John Moorlach, an Orange County supervisor, said in a July interview.  Never Happened  The additional bankruptcies never happened. Atwater,
California, declared a fiscal emergency in October, though the
community of 29,000 backed off from seeking Chapter 9 protection
in November after it won concessions from unions.  Since then, California investors have embraced signs of an
economic and fiscal rebound. A Comerica Bank index measuring the
state’s economy reached the highest in almost five years in
March, buoyed by employment and  sales-tax  revenue.  Voters in November approved temporary increases in income
taxes on top earners and raised the sales tax to the nation’s
highest. Two months later, S&P raised California to A, sixth-highest, in part because of the increased revenue.  California will collect $3.2 billion more over three years
than projected by Governor  Jerry Brown , according to the state’s
Legislative Analyst’s Office, though the figure is in dispute.
The budget that Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat, proposed for the
fiscal year beginning July 1 includes an $850 million surplus,
the first in almost a decade.  Doubled Defaults  The state still faces financial challenges. The number of
California issuers added last year to the default database of
Municipal Market Advisors doubled from 2011, said Matt Fabian,
managing director of the Concord, Massachusetts-based research
firm.  Fresno, with a population of about 506,000, is dealing with
a $16 million fiscal 2013 deficit as it tries to avoid seeking
Chapter 9 protection. It has cut about 25 percent of its
employees.  The bankruptcies in Stockton and San Bernardino are
pending, while Mammoth Lakes had its case dismissed in November
after settling the development lawsuit that forced the city to
seek court protection.  Moorlach, the Orange County supervisor, said in an
interview this week that he was “surprised” that more
California cities didn’t file for bankruptcy because they are
“still in a very precarious situation.” He was treasurer after
the county lost $1.7 billion on interest-rate bets and entered
court protection in 1994.  Stockton Precedent  Bonnell and  John Miller  at Nuveen Asset Management said
that while California’s outlook is improving, Stockton still
could set a precedent for distressed municipalities. The city is
trying to force creditors, including bondholders, to take less
principal than they are due.  “If they can take out their pencil and erase some of the
debt, that would be a negative for the muni market,” Bonnell
said. “Historically, muni bond investors have fared very well
when issuers run into financial problems.”  Still, Dan Solender at Lord Abbett & Co. and Mark DeMitry
at OppenheimerFunds Inc. said the state is poised to outperform
the market. California debt has gained 0.3 percent this year,
outpacing the 0.2 percent return on all munis, S&P data show.  Even though California accounts for more issuance this year
than any other state, increased tax rates and fiscal
improvements will generate enough demand, DeMitry said. About
$24 billion of the $142 billion in bonds sold this year have
come from the state, Bloomberg data show.  Tax Tailwind  “There’s certainly more room for outperformance as a
result of these huge tax bills that many Californians will have
to pay,” said DeMitry, who helps oversee $38 billion in munis,
including the best-performing  California fund  among the 91
tracked by Bloomberg. “If they don’t realize it this year, they
will when they pay their tax bills in 2014.”  San Francisco is the set to offer the biggest long-term
issue from California next week, Bloomberg data show. At  2.2
percent (BVMB10Y) , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are the highest since
March 2012, contributing to a slowdown in planned sales.  Issuers have reduced  scheduled offerings  over the next 30
days to about $4.9 billion as of June 6, the lowest since
February, Bloomberg data show.  The benchmark muni yield compares with about  2.08 percent 
for similar-maturity Treasuries. The  ratio  of the yields, a
gauge of relative value, is about 106 percent. The higher it is,
the cheaper munis are compared with Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  