-- Stocks Advance on Jobs Data as Treasuries, Gold Drop
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-06-07T20:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/stocks-gain-on-jobs-data-as-treasuries-commodities-drop.html
U.S.  stocks  gained, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the biggest two-day increase
since January, and Treasuries fell after a better-than-estimated
jobs report signaled the economy continues to expand. The dollar
climbed and oil rose.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  advanced 1.3 percent to 1,643.38 at 4 p.m. in
 New York . The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 1.3 percent. The 10-year Treasury yield rose nine basis points to 2.17 percent and
yields on similar maturity Italian bonds fell the most in two
months. The U.S. currency gained versus a majority of its most-traded peers. Oil climbed to a two-week high, while gold and
silver dropped more than 2.3 percent.  U.S. payrolls rose 175,000 last month after a revised
149,000 increase in April that was smaller than first estimated,
Labor Department figures showed today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for a 163,000 gain. The  S&P 500  is down
1.9 percent since closing at a record on May 21, the day before
 Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested the central
bank could curtail its $85 billion monthly bond purchases if the
job market improved in a “real and sustainable way.”  “It’s the kind of report that doesn’t change the Fed’s
stance in the short term,”  Dan Veru , chief investment officer
at Palisade Capital Management LLC, said via phone. The  Fort
Lee , New Jersey-based firm manages $3.8 billion. “It was a
number that was strong enough to indicate that we’re still
making progress, but the improvements aren’t happening too fast
to warrant the Fed to aggressively taper their bond purchases.”  Labor Market  The improvement in the labor market is a sign companies are
looking beyond fiscal restraint this quarter and are optimistic
enough about the prospects for demand in the second half of the
year. At the same time, bigger job and wage gains are needed to
move Fed policy makers closer to scaling back record monetary
stimulus. The U.S.  unemployment rate  rose to 7.6 percent from
7.5 percent, the report showed.  The S&P 500 has risen 0.8 percent this week. Nine of 10
main industries in the index advanced today, with phone
companies and makers of household goods advancing at least 1.6
percent to pace gains. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, or VIX, lost 9.6 percent to 15.04.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  added 0.9 percent after approving a
new $15 billion share buyback program. Yum! Brands Inc. rose 3.4
percent after UBS AG recommended investors buy the shares. Gap
Inc. advanced 2.7 percent after reporting same-store sales for
May that beat analyst estimates. TiVo Inc. fell 17 percent after
settling a patent dispute for less than estimated.  European Shares  The Stoxx 600 lost 1.8 percent this week. Royal KPN NV
jumped 6 percent after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. raised its
rating on the stock. Ipsen SA rose 2.1 percent after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. advised buying the shares.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said
the Federal Reserve is unlikely to reduce its asset purchases
after the  unemployment rate  climbed from a four-year low in May.  “I don’t think today’s report says anything about tapering
at all with unemployment going higher and metrics in terms of
the work week and wages being very” dire, Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s founder Gross said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Mike McKee .
Bernanke “won’t taper. But I think ultimately in order to get a
more normal economy, the Fed has got to move  interest rates  up
to more normal levels.”  Treasury Volatility  Treasuries have lost 1.7 percent since the end of April,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, amid
speculation the Fed will slow the pace of its asset purchases.
Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch  MOVE index  climbed to 84.75 yesterday, the highest
since June 2012.  Italian 10-year yields fell 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 4.19 percent, the biggest decline since
April 5. The rate on similar-maturity Spanish bonds fell 15
basis points to 4.54 percent, while  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield
rose three basis points to 1.55 percent.  The greenback added 0.5 percent to 97.44 yen. While the yen
fell today, it is poised for a weekly gain versus the dollar
after Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said he had no
immediate intention to weaken the currency.  The zloty advanced the most in 10 months as  Poland ’s
central bank sold foreign currencies on the market to curb
volatility, which set a six-month high. The central bank’s first
market purchases since 2011 helped the zloty advance 1.7 percent
to 4.2419 per euro, the biggest appreciation since Aug. 3, after
slumping to a one-year low yesterday.  Gold, Silver  Gold and silver futures dropped on concern the Fed may
scale back monetary stimulus. Bullion declined 2.3 percent to
$1,383 an ounce on the Comex. Silver retreated 4.2 percent to
$21.745 an ounce. Aluminum, lead, nickel and zinc were also
lower.  “The report gives fodder to both camps in the tapering
versus the no tapering debate, so it means that discussion will
remain alive and well,” Mark Luschini, chief investment
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which
manages about $58 billion, said by phone.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.5 percent, heading
for its fourth weekly decline. The Shanghai Composite Index slid
1.4 percent to a one-month low as money-market rates jumped and
economists forecast a report tomorrow will show export growth
slowed in May. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland
companies listed in  Hong Kong  dropped 1.7 percent, retreating
for an eighth day in the longest losing streak in more than a
year.  Turkish stocks rallied on bets the worst weekly equity
retreat since 2008 triggered by anti-government protests was
overdone. The benchmark  Borsa Istanbul (XU100)  Stock Exchange National
100 Index rose 3.2 percent, climbing from a six-month low. The
index has tumbled since the violent clashes between protesters
and police that began on May 31. The lira strengthened for the
first time in three days and bonds gained today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  