-- Storm Andrea Cancels Flights as It Moves 0ver U.S. East
-- B y   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r
-- 2013-06-07T21:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/storm-andrea-cancels-flights-as-it-moves-0ver-u-s-east.html
Flood watches and warnings were
posted from  Georgia  to Maine as Andrea, now a “post-tropical”
storm, moved swiftly up the Eastern Seaboard with heavy rain and
wind that grounded hundreds of airline flights.  As much as 6 inches (15 centimeters) of rain may fall along
the North American coast before Andrea veers away from land late
on June 9, according to U.S. forecasters. A flash flood warning
is in effect for the New York City area until 7:15 p.m. and a
warning lasts until 2 p.m. tomorrow. A watch for Boston runs
until 10 a.m. tomorrow.  About 450 flights were canceled as of 5 p.m. East Coast
time, with New York’s LaGuardia, Philadelphia International and
Newark Liberty airports most affected, according to  FlightAware ,
a Houston-based tracking service. Delays of 90 minutes or longer
were reported for flights into those airports, plus Boston’s
Logan and New York’s Kennedy International, the  Federal Aviation
Administration  said.  “While widespread flooding problems are not expected in
the Northeast, Andrea will quickly move from the Southeast to
the Atlantic Coast on Friday, bringing tropical downpours and
urban flooding concerns to end the week,” Alex Sosnowski, a
senior meteorologist for AccuWeather Inc., wrote on the  State
College , Pennsylvania-based forecaster’s website.  Andrea, the first storm of the 2013  Atlantic hurricane
season , was 55 miles (88 kilometers) east-northeast of Raleigh,
North Carolina, as of 5 p.m. local time, the  National Hurricane
Center  said. The system’s top sustained winds were 45 mph, down
from 65 mph yesterday.  Moving Fast  The storm was moving northeast at 28 mph, a high speed that
would help limit the amount of time Andrea has to drop rain over
any one spot. The system is no longer considered tropical, with
its center losing definition.  Andrea formed earlier this week in the  Gulf of Mexico  and
moved ashore yesterday in northwestern Florida. It tossed off
tornadoes, flooded roads and knocked down trees as it traveled
northeast over land.  The hurricane center’s  tracking map  shows Andrea crossing
eastern  South Carolina ,  North Carolina  and Virginia, then
entering the Atlantic near Ocean City, Maryland. It will remain
close to shore until making landfall near Falmouth,
Massachusetts, early tomorrow and on Nova Scotia and
Newfoundland later in weekend.  Andrea’s wind speeds will remain at tropical-storm levels
for about 24 hours, the center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlotte  Porter in New York at 
 cporter11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  