-- STX Pan Ocean Files for Court Receivership on Debt, Losses
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   W h a n w o o n g   C h o i
-- 2013-06-07T09:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/stx-pan-ocean-applies-for-court-receivership-in-seoul-on-debt.html
STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670) , South  Korea ’s
biggest commodities shipping line, filed for court receivership
after a drop in rates left it unable to pay off its debt.  STX Pan Ocean’s largest creditor  Korea Development Bank ’s
unexpected decision not to buy the company led to the filing,
the carrier said in an e-mailed statement in  Seoul , where it
filed for receivership. The company also faced a “liquidity
crisis” as it couldn’t raise enough funds because of the slump
in bulk-shipping markets, it said.  Shares of the shipping line, now halted for trading, have
fallen 46 percent in Seoul this year as parent STX Group tries
to sell stakes in businesses including Pan Ocean as rates drop.
The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping costs, has
plunged more than 90 percent since touching a record high in
2008, and any delay in recovery could hurt more companies.  “If the commodities-shipping market remains dreadful, it’s
likely things would turn sour for more shipping companies,”
said Lawrence Li, an analyst at  UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK)  “I
don’t expect in the near term there will be another massive
failure like STX as companies are now becoming more prudent with
their cash management.”  Net debt  totaled 5.37 trillion won ($4.8 billion) at the
end of last year, according to Jang S.J., a company spokesman.
Pan Ocean had $2.2 billion-equivalent of bonds and loans
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company was  unprofitable  in three of the past four
years as commodity-shipping rates sank.  Oversupply  “Oversupply in the industry and the purchase of new
vessels have led to mounting debt and continued net losses,”
STX Pan Ocean said in the statement.  Pan Ocean said on June 5 a decision to seek court
receivership hinged on its request for emergency funding from
Korea Development Bank. STX Group was in talks with the bank on
selling its stake in Pan Ocean, STX said in an e-mailed response
to  Bloomberg News  queries May 29.  “The court receivership doesn’t mean KDB will forsake Pan
Ocean,” the lender’s Executive Director Ryu Heui Kyoung told
reporters today. “The bank will take the role to normalize STX
Pan Ocean if needed.”  The company’s request for court receivership won’t affect
restructuring of other STX Group affiliates and the group will
be reorganized around its shipbuilding business, Ryu said.  Yields Jump  The yield on STX Pan Ocean’s 6.3 percent notes due 2015
jumped 51 basis points to 12.02 percent on June 5, the biggest
one-day rise since May 30 when yields spiked to 11.5 percent
from 9.15 percent, according to quotes from Nice Pricing
Services Inc., a bond-pricing agency in Seoul. Benchmark yields
for AA- rated companies in  South Korea  fell 5 basis points to
3.12 percent today, according to data from the Korea Financial
Investment Association.  Korea Exchange on June 5 set a deadline for STX Pan Ocean
to clarify its position on court receivership or debt
rescheduling by 6 p.m. today. The shares traded down 15 percent
the same day before trading was halted.  South Korea’s Financial Supervisory Service will monitor
the liquidity status and the restructuring of the group’s
affiliates following the developments at STX Pan Ocean, the
agency’s Senior Director General Kim Jin Soo said by phone.  ‘Big Credit Issue’  “The STX Pan Ocean issue is a big credit issue to which
the authorities can only be sensitive toward,” Yoon Yeo Sam, a
Seoul-based fixed-income analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. said
today. “This will make financing more difficult for
companies.”  The drop in shipping rates has hurt other shipping lines as
well.  Last year, Sanko Steamship Co., a Japanese operator of 185
ships, went into bankruptcy protection after failing to reach
agreement with creditors on an out-of-court turnaround. The
company suffered from a drop in shipping rates as it failed to
cut expensive charters fast enough, it said at the time.  Daiichi Chuo Kisen Kaisha (9132) , based in  Tokyo , received a bailout
from its lead shareholder Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. earlier this
year as a drop in shipping rates lead to losses. The shipping
line had about 240 ships in its fleet last year, mainly for bulk
shipping.  Pan Ocean shares slumped by the daily limit 15 percent in
Seoul June 5 and were temporarily halted from Singapore trading
on that day as the company’s Chief Executive Officer Seon Ryung
Bae stepped down “due to personal matters,” according to a
Singapore Exchange filing on that day.  Life Savings  STX Group put its controlling stake in Pan Ocean up for
sale last year amid a rate slump that has caused shipbuilding
orders to fall and forced its three biggest units to seek
voluntary debt rescheduling.  STX Group was founded in 2001 by Kang Duk Soo, who used
life savings from a 27-year career at another South Korean
conglomerate, or chaebol, Ssangyong Group, to build a business
group spanning the manufacture of  cruise ships ,  wind turbines 
and apartment blocks.  The group was built partly by buying financially struggling
companies. In 2001, Kang bought Daedong Shipbuilding Co., then-South Korea’s eighth-largest shipbuilder, which had just exited
court protection, and renamed it STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co.
Kang bought Pan Ocean Shipping Co. three years later while it
was in  bankruptcy protection .  “Since it was expected that it would take more than one
fund injection to save Pan Ocean, KDB probably decided to refuse
STX’s request after considering the uncertainties that lie
ahead,” said Chae Yi Bai, a researcher at the Center for Good
Corporate Governance, a Seoul-based private organization that
monitors South Korean business groups.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Whanwoong Choi in Seoul at 
 wchoi70@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  