-- U.K. Energy Regulator Opens Consultation Into Pricing Indexes
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-06-07T16:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/u-k-energy-regulator-opens-consultation-into-pricing-indexes.html
The U.K.’s Office for Gas and
Electricity Markets has opened a consultation into pricing
benchmarks in the  energy industry  following reports of attempted
price manipulation.  “We would like to ascertain if stakeholders feel that
current arrangements are fit for purpose,” Ofgem said in a
 statement  on its website dated yesterday. “If we were to
conclude that an intervention by Ofgem was needed, our response
could range from facilitation to support effective self-regulation, to a more significant regulatory intervention.”  ICIS, an energy information unit of  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) , said
in April it may change the way it calculates its indexes after
some clients said they mistrust the company’s reporter-led
assessments. Platts, a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. that also
provides gas-price indexes, was raided last month as part of a
European Union antitrust probe into the pricing in the physical
oil market.  ICIS began its own consultation in the wake of accusations
last year by Seth Freedman, a former reporter at the company,
that inadequate training of staff left the pricing mechanisms
for the $1 trillion European gas market vulnerable to
manipulation. ICIS said at the time its employees get
“extensive training” that equips them to challenge the
information they receive. The company reported in September what
it described as irregular trades to regulators. Freedman
notified the Financial Services Authority in October.  Ofgem is wary of regulating the price-reporting agencies
because “scrutiny of the information flows could introduce a
perception of risk” to companies providing data, it said in the
statement. “Regulation should increase the quality of the
information provided, but could reduce the willingness of
parties to provide it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  