-- U.K. April Trade Gap Narrows as Imports Fall More Than Exports
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-06-07T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/u-k-april-trade-gap-narrows-as-imports-fall-more-than-exports.html
Britain’s trade deficit narrowed more
than economists forecast in April as imports declined faster
than exports.  The goods trade gap was at 8.2 billion pounds ($12.8
billion) compared with 9.2 billion pounds in March, the  Office
for National Statistics  said today in London. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists was for 8.8
billion pounds. Exports fell 1.4 percent and imports declined
3.8 percent.  While data this week show the economy is gaining momentum,
today’s figures underline the risks to the recovery from a
recession-stricken  euro zone , Britain’s biggest trading partner.
Exports to the bloc fell 2.3 percent to their lowest level since
February 2011. Net trade acted as a drag on economic growth in
the first quarter.  “It seems unlikely that net trade can significantly help
the U.K. economy in the near term given current ongoing weak
domestic demand in the euro zone and moderate and stuttering
global growth,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global
Insight in London. “The hope is that the overall marked
weakening of the pound earlier in 2013 will increasingly feed
through to boost exports and the beneficial impact of this is
reinforced by global growth gradually improving.”  Exports to the European Union as a whole fell 3 percent.
The decline was partially offset by a 0.2 percent rise in
shipments to countries outside the bloc.  The surplus on trade in services narrowed to 5.6 billion
pounds in April, leaving the overall trade deficit at 2.6
billion pounds compared with a gap of 3.2 billion pounds a month
earlier, the ONS said.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that the euro-area economy will return to growth by the end of
the year, handing policy makers a reason to hold back fresh
stimulus. The ECB kept its benchmark rate unchanged in
 Frankfurt . The same day, the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy
Committee kept its bond-purchase program at 375 billion pounds
and the benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent.  The U.K. returned to growth in the first three months of
the year with expansion of 0.3 percent, and the BOE forecasts
0.5 percent growth in the current quarter. Measures of services
and manufacturing were at the highest in 14 months in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  