-- U.S. to Lead Clean Energy M&A as Solar Stays in Lead
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-06-07T18:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/u-s-to-lead-clean-energy-m-a-as-solar-stays-in-lead.html
The U.S., with 42 percent of the
$37.8 billion in clean-energy mergers and acquisitions activity
last year, will maintain its top spot this year led by solar
energy, the head of CohnReznick LLP’s renewable practice said.  As global investment in renewable energy continues to
increase, the U.S. is expected to remain the most attractive
market for investors due to its recovering economy and
government incentives, Anton Cohen of the New York-based
accounting and consulting company said in an interview
yesterday.  Institutional investors are attracted by the large number
of operating renewable-energy assets being sold by their
original developers, Cohen said.  “They know there is only room to increase the installed
capacity in the U.S.,” he said.  Solar power is the most attractive sector for investors,
Cohen said, ranging from small, rooftop projects to utility-scale plants like the one  Warren Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Co. agreed in January to buy for as much as $2.5
billion.  Solar led a survey of investors as the top sector for
renewable investment, CohnReznick said in a report released this
week. That’s because solar power projects are stable assets
providing predictable returns, said Cohen.  According to the survey, 63 percent of investors are
targeting investment in solar photovoltaic projects, more than
the 45 percent for biomass and 41 percent for onshore wind.  “From an investment perspective, there’s a lot of comfort
with solar and how it works,” Cohen said.  Last year, the U.S. installed 3.3 gigawatts of solar power,
with more than 5 gigawatts expected to be installed this year,
according the the Solar Energy Industries Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  