-- Hungary Industry Expands as Government Predicts Recovery
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-06-07T10:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/hungary-industry-expands-as-government-predicts-recovery.html
Hungary ’s  industrial output  expanded
in April for the first time this year, exceeding economist
forecasts and underscoring the government’s prediction of an
economic turnaround. The forint and stocks gained.  Industrial production rose a workday-adjusted 2.9 percent
in April, the biggest gain since December 2011, the statistics
office in Budapest said today based on preliminary data. The
median  estimate  of 11 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 1.4
percent. Output rose 1.2 percent from March. The country posted
a 700.5 million-euro ($927 million)  trade surplus  in April,
compared with a 523 million-euro estimate in a separate poll.  “There is an underlying turnaround in the Hungarian
economy,”  Zoltan Torok , an analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  in Budapest, said in an e-mail today. “We have
expected such a turnaround to kick in during the course of 2013
anyway, alas only for the second half, however, the statistics
suggest that it has come earlier than we have estimated.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who faces elections in 2014,
has sounded an optimistic tone about the outlook for the
economy, saying May 30 that it’s “one of the most promising in
 Europe .” Gross domestic product may grow 1 percent this year,
according to the premier, whose forecast exceeds the
government’s 0.7 percent projection and the European Union’s 0.2
percent estimate.  Forint Gains  Hungary’s currency gained 0.4 percent against the euro to
296.80 per euro as of 11 a.m. in Budapest, advancing for a
second day. The forint, the best performer among more than 20
emerging-market currencies with a 0.6 percent gain in the past
three months, dropped to a four-week low on June 5 amid investor
concern that the  Federal Reserve  may reduce stimulus as the  U.S.
economy  improves.  The yield on the government’s dollar bonds maturing in 2023
rose six basis points to 5.70 percent. The benchmark  BUX stock
index  advanced 1.1 percent to 19,420.68, gaining for a fourth
day. OTP Bank Nyrt., the nation’s largest lender, jumped 1.7
percent to 4,929 forint.  Hungary’s recovery from a recession has been hampered by
plunging investment and shrinking industrial output in the first
quarter. GDP rose 0.7 percent from the previous three months in
the first quarter, expanding for the first time since 2011.
Economic output declined 0.9 percent from the first three months
of 2012.  Agriculture Expands  First-quarter growth was driven by agriculture expanding
12.3 percent from a year earlier and construction growing 4.2
percent, benefiting from a low base. Still, fixed capital
formation, an indicator of investment, declined 5.6 percent,
industry contracted 3.2 percent and household consumption fell
1.2 percent, the statistics office said yesterday.  A “significant rise” in car exports and a low base last
year contributed to the industrial output boost in April,
statistician Miklos Schindele told reporters today.  April retail sales rising 3.4 from a year earlier, the most
since September 2006, point to “upside risks” to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s estimate of 1 percent seasonally adjusted annual
economic growth in the second quarter, Nora Szentivanyi, an
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , said in an e-mail.  “With only April data at hand and mixed messages from the
May surveys we feel it is too early for us to revise our second-quarter forecast,” she wrote “The markedly stronger retail
sales figure and today’s industrial production print both
suggest that the slowdown in sequential growth might not be as
sharp as we are forecasting.”  Growth Forecast  Hungary’s economy may grow 0.5 percent this year,
Raiffeisen said today, upgrading its forecast from stagnation.
The bank forecasts 1.5 percent growth in 2014, Torok said. MKB
Bank, the local unit of  Bayerische Landesbank , also raised its
2013 GDP forecast today to 0.5 percent, from 0.2 percent,
economist Zsolt Kondrat said in an e-mail.  Orban sacrificed growth in his first two years in office to
bring the  budget deficit  within the European Union limit of 3
percent of GDP and remove the threat of cuts in funding from the
27-member bloc. Measures included Europe’s highest bank tax and
extraordinary corporate levies on industries such as energy,
damaging lending and investment.  The European Commission last month recommended allowing
Hungary to exit budget monitoring for fiscal offenders for the
first time since it joined the bloc in 2004, a move Orban said
was a validation of his economic policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  