-- Urals Exports Plunge as Russia Refiners Keep Oil: Energy Markets
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-06-07T06:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/urals-exports-plunge-as-russia-refiners-keep-oil-energy-markets.html
Russia ’s refiners are processing so
much of the country’s Urals crude that exports via the  Baltic
Sea  have tumbled to the lowest in 20 months, driving prices
close to parity with Brent.  Shipments from Primorsk, Russia’s largest port on the
Baltic, will be 953,000 barrels a day in June, down from a five-year average of 1.4 million, a loading program obtained by
Bloomberg showed. The  grade  sold for 3 cents a barrel less than
Dated Brent in northwest Europe as of June 4, the smallest
discount since August, when it traded at a premium.  The narrowing discount shows how refiners such as OAO
Rosneft are responding to President  Vladimir Putin ’s drive to
encourage plant upgrades and improve fuel quality via a lower
export duty for oil products. Revenue from crude and gas exports
account for more than half of the government budget in Russia,
the world’s biggest energy producer.  “It’s the first time in a very long time that I’ve seen
Primorsk exports below 1 million barrels a day,” Ehsan Ul-Haq,
a senior market consultant at Walton-on-Thames, England-based
KBC Energy Economics, said in a June 5 interview. “In July, I
would expect the flows to return to Primorsk and for the price
to fall again.”  Urals, which typically  costs less  than other grades due to
a higher sulfur content that requires more refining, has
averaged $1.44 a barrel less than Brent in the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The discount was
as much as $2.25 on April 3, the data show. Urals was at $103.15
a barrel yesterday, while Brent settled at $103.61.  ‘Full Tilt’  The price may retreat again in the coming weeks, according
to a majority of crude traders and analysts in a June 5 survey
by  Bloomberg News . Eight of 11 respondents forecast a decline
and three predicted an increase.  The return of Russian refiners following spring maintenance
is also keeping crude away from export markets. The country’s
available oil-processing capacity rose to a 13-week high as of
June 5, data from the Energy Ministry in Moscow show.  “Summer means the refineries go at full tilt,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in  London , said in a
phone interview June 5. “Demand in Russia traditionally peaks
in the third quarter and you can feel the impact, especially in
seaborne exports.”  Russia has prioritized exporting its crude via the Baltic
at the expense of Novorossiysk, its largest  Black Sea  oil port.
OAO Transneft, the nation’s pipeline operator, spent $3.3
billion building the Baltic Pipeline System-2 to Ust-Luga, the
second-largest export terminal on the Baltic.  Baltic Boost  The development added 30 million tons a year in crude
export capacity from the Baltic when the pipeline opened at the
end of March 2012. Urals shipments via Novorossiysk fell 11
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier.  “Russia has been privileging the Northwest Europe market
up to now,” Massimo Vacca, head of  investor relations  at  Saras
SpA (SRS) , the Italian refiner 13.7 percent owned by Rosneft, said by
phone from Milan on June 5. “However, we think the shortage is
just short term while the Mediterranean has long-term structural
issues.”  In May, loadings from Novorossiysk fell to 666,794 barrels
a day, the lowest since January, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Urals in the Mediterranean rose to a premium of 10
cents to Dated Brent on May 10, the highest since August.  “A month ago it was the opposite with the tightness in the
Mediterranean,” said Ul-Haq, a veteran of Vienna-based  OMV AG (OMV) 
with almost 20 years of experience in the oil industry. “It now
looks as though they have diverted crude there rather than to
northwest  Europe .”  ESPO Pipeline  Daily combined exports from Primorsk and Ust-Luga this
month will be lower than at any time since February 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ust-Luga will handle
464,000 barrels a day, down 6.5 percent from May, loading
programs obtained by Bloomberg show.  Exports to Europe are also waning as Russia increases
shipments to  Asia  via the East Siberia-Pacific Ocean pipeline.
Exports of ESPO in June will rise 42 percent from a year earlier
to about 415,000 barrels a day, according to a loading program
obtained by Bloomberg, following an expansion in April.  Under measures introduced in 2011, Russian crude exports
are subject to a 60 percent tax rate, while a single tariff
applies to refined products at 66 percent of the rate due on
crude. That gives companies a bigger incentive to sell products
such as diesel to foreign buyers.  “Due to the design of export-duty system, Russian refining
is implicitly subsidized,” Arsenije Dusanic, an analyst at JBC
Energy GmbH, a Vienna-based researcher, said by e-mail May 29.  Better Fuels  The biggest oil producers in Russia have agreed with the
government to improve the quality of refined products by 2015.
Rosneft, the world’s largest publicly traded oil producer, plans
to spend as much as $14 billion to upgrade its operations,
including 16 new units.  OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest producer, gets margins
of as much as $200 a ton for oil products on the domestic market,
billionaire Vice President  Leonid Fedun  said during an investor
call May 28. Diesel in northwest Europe is currently  trading  at
about $900 a ton, which equates to about $150 a ton, or about 17
percent, more than the equivalent price for Urals, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The domestic market is a premium market for this
company,” as Lukoil cuts exports via the Black Sea, Fedun said.  Putin has called for production to be maintained at more
than 10 million barrels. The country produced 10.48 million
barrels of crude and condensate a day in May, according to
preliminary data from the Energy Ministry’s CDU-TEK sent June 2.
The post-Soviet record was set in November at 10.49 million
barrels a day.  “Production isn’t growing,” VTB’s Kryuchenkov said. “So
when there’s a bump in domestic demand, the oil’s got to come
from somewhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  