-- Turkey’s Bid to Restart EU Talks Comes Under Protest Cloud
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-06-07T15:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/turkey-s-bid-to-restart-eu-talks-comes-under-protest-cloud.html
European Union criticisms of Turkish
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s handling of a week of
anti-government protests raised doubts whether Turkey’s long-stalled EU membership talks will restart as planned this month.  EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule appealed to Erdogan
to observe “the highest possible democratic standards” and
then left an Istanbul conference discouraged that the Turkish
leader didn’t take the hint.  “Disappointed by the lost opportunity at the #Istanbul
conference to reach out to those calling for respect & inclusive
dialogue,” Fule said in a  Twitter post  that was confirmed by
his spokesman.  Turkey’s response to the anti-Erdogan rallies that have
spread nationwide may dictate whether the EU goes ahead with
plans to resume the  membership talks , which have gone nowhere
since mid-2010.  The Irish government said May 27 that it intends to open
talks with  Turkey  in one of the EU’s 35 policy areas before its
six-month EU presidency ends on June 30. Any one of the bloc’s
27 countries could veto the restart.  At the conference, Fule called for an  investigation  into
the excessive use of force by police and admonished Turkish
leaders: “Democracy is a demanding discipline: not only during
election campaigns, but every day.”  In response, Erdogan said a probe is under way, condemned
violent methods used by protesters and expressed a willingness
to listen to demands voiced in a proper democratic way.  Since starting down the EU road in October 2005, Turkey has
begun  talks  in 13 policy areas and completed one.  Croatia , which
began its bid on the same day as Turkey, has finished the
process and will join the EU next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  