-- Turkish Stocks and Bonds Rebound as Erdogan Says Ready to Listen
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-06-07T15:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/turkey-extends-worst-stock-rout-since-2008-with-erdogan-defiant.html
Turkish  stocks  rallied on bets the
worst weekly retreat since 2011 was overdone as Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he was ready to listen to the demands
of anti-government protesters. The lira strengthened for the
first time in three days and  bonds  gained.  “Investors are buying because the prices have come to
reasonable levels,” Onder Turker, a fixed-income trader at
Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “The
political risk is still there and not much has changed, but bulk
flows are changing the markets’ direction.”  The benchmark  Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100
Index (XU100)  surged 3.2 percent to 78,332.59 at the close in Istanbul,
recovering from a six-month low. The index has tumbled 8.9
percent this week, after the violent clashes between protesters
and police began on May 31. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds
dropped 23 basis points to 6.55 percent. The lira climbed 0.9
percent against the dollar to 1.8769.  Erdogan said today in a speech at a European Union
conference in Istanbul that his party serves 100 percent of the
Turkish people and has a record of protecting green spaces. The
government objects to violence that occurred during
demonstrations, not expression of democratic demands, he said.  The premier had earlier dismissed calls to halt a project
to develop Istanbul’s Taksim Square as protests entered the
eighth day.  ‘Soft tone’  “The prime minister has given a reason for his plans for
the first time,” Baris Buyukdemir, general manager at Ceros
Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “His tone
was soft and this is what matters for the markets.”  The benchmark stock gauge’s  relative strength index  rose to
35 from 28 yesterday. A level below 30 suggests to some analysts
the gauge is oversold and poised for a rebound. Ten-day
volatility, a measure of price swings, surged to 74 today, the
highest level since 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Liquidity is very tight in the market and a small number
of sale orders is causing big movements and they are quickly
reversed,” Sercan Kiliclar, a fixed-income trader at  Akbank
TAS (AKBNK) , said in e-mailed comments.  The lira has lost less than 0.1 percent against the dollar
this week in the biggest depreciation among  emerging markets  in
Europe, the Middle East and  Africa  after the Russian ruble and
the Romanian leu. Volatility was the lowest rate among peers
today.  “The state banks are selling dollars, trying to support
the lira, but nervousness is clearly visible in bond and
currency markets,” Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF Global Trading
in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed note.  The Privatization Administration sold $300 million for
liras to make payments due today, its press office in Ankara
said in a phone interview.  Turkey ’s exchange rate will weaken to 1.98 per dollar in
the fourth quarter, according to currency forwards data compiled
by Bloomberg. It will decline to 1.9410 against the dollar in
December, currency futures traded in Istanbul show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  