-- Hutchin Hill Credit Trader Ahmad Said to Leave, Unwind Positions
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-06-07T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/hutchin-hill-credit-trader-ahmad-said-to-leave-unwind-positions.html
Shahraab Ahmad, a credit trader at
Hutchin Hill Capital LP who joined the firm at its 2008
inception, is leaving and has mostly completed liquidating his
$150 million book.  The 37-year-old  money manager  “has decided that he intends
to retire,” New York-based Hutchin Hill said today in a letter
to investors obtained by  Bloomberg News . “We are parting
amicably, we thank Shahraab for his many contributions to the
firm and we wish him the best in his future endeavors.”  Ahmad and his traders began selling positions in corporate
bonds and credit-default swaps in May at the $1.1 billion firm
founded by Neil Chriss, according to four people with knowledge
of the situation.  The hedge fund had sought investors last year for the
Hutchin Hill Liquid Credit Master Fund Ltd. that Ahmad was
managing, two of the people said. The private swaps market has
been shrinking as U.S. rules that seek to curb risk and increase
transparency take effect. Mandatory clearing of swaps, in which
contracts are processed through clearinghouses and backed by
collateral, began in March. A second phase requiring that users
including hedge funds start clearing will begin June 10.  Ahmad didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on his
departure. Nathaniel Garnick, a spokesman for Hutchin Hill at
Sard Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment.  Mark Meenan, a portfolio manager who joined the firm from
Anchorage Capital Group LLC, will continue to oversee credit
trading for the $1 billion Diversified Alpha Master Fund,
Hutchin Hill said in the letter.  Exceptional Trader  Fortune  named  Ahmad one of Wall Street’s top traders in
2011. The magazine called him an “exceptional credit trader”
and quoted an unnamed person who compared his talent with SAC
Capital Advisors LP’s  Steven A. Cohen .  Ahmad was a money manager at  Stamford , Connecticut-based
hedge fund Sailfish Capital Partners LP from 2005 through 2007.
Earlier, he worked at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Hutchin Hill has jumped 10.11 percent this year through the
end of May, according to a person briefed on its returns.
Chriss, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader who later
managed a portfolio at SAC Capital, started the fund with $300
million from Renaissance Technologies Corp. founder  James Simons .  “My strategy does really well in environments where
spreads are really wide, when you can find opportunities at
distressed valuations, or where spreads are very narrow in which
case you get to short opportunities at great valuations,” Ahmad
said in a February interview with Bloomberg Brief. “Now I think
we’re in sort of a middle environment.”  Spreads Tighten  The extra yield investors demand to hold speculative-grade
bonds rather than similar-maturity Treasuries reached 423 basis
points last month, the least in more than five years, before
climbing to 508 yesterday, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index. Spreads on the debt, rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
 Standard & Poor’s , have tightened from a record 2,182 basis
points in December 2008.  The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 sought to regulate the financial
industry after the credit crisis that led to the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and a U.S. rescue of American
International Group Inc.  Gross outstanding credit-derivative contracts have declined
60 percent to $24.8 trillion from a peak of $62.2 trillion in
2007, according to data from the International Swaps &
Derivatives Association and the  Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  