-- Vodafone Open to Verizon Offer If It Beats Status Quo, BofA Says
-- B y   S a m   C h a m b e r s
-- 2013-06-07T12:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/vodafone-open-to-verizon-offer-if-it-beats-status-quo-bofa-says.html
  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  would consider
exiting its wireless venture with Verizon Communications Inc.
only if an offer is better than what the U.K. carrier gets out
of its 45 percent stake, Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts
said after meeting with Vodafone Chief Executive Officer
 Vittorio Colao  this week.  “Vodafone will only sell its U.S. stake if a Verizon offer
beats the status quo,” analysts led by Emmet Kelly wrote in a
report dated today. Vodafone views recent merger and
acquisition-related newsflow from Verizon as “tactical
posturing,” they wrote.  Verizon will probably need to pay a price of $135 billion
to $140 billion to entice Vodafone to sell, the analysts said.
Verizon executives recently told analysts that Vodafone’s 45
percent stake has a fair value of about $100 billion, people
familiar with the matter have said. Citigroup Inc. said this
month it values a possible deal at $120 billion to $135 billion.  Colao sees the U.S. wireless market as remaining
structurally the best market despite the possibility of fiercer
competition from  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s
 T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , the Bank of America analysts said.  Vodafone will receive a dividend of $3.15 billion from
Verizon Wireless on June 25, the venture said last month. Over
the last two fiscal years, Vodafone received about $8 billion in
dividends from the venture.  The tax implications on a potential sale are still a
significant obstacle to a deal, especially with the recent U.K.
tax debates surrounding Apple Inc. and Google Inc., according to
the analysts.  Vodafone shares rose 1.8 percent to 191.50 pence at 1:29
p.m. in London, valuing the company at 93.2 billion pounds ($145
billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Chambers in  London  at 
 schambers7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  