-- Whittier Trust Fund Manager Settles SEC Insider Suit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-06-07T20:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/whittier-trust-fund-manager-settles-sec-insider-suit.html
Victor Dosti, a fund manager at
Whittier Trust Co., settled a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawsuit accusing him of trading on illicit tips on
 Dell Inc. (DELL) ,  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and Wind River Systems Inc. that he
obtained from colleague Danny Kuo.  Dosti, 49, of San Marino, California, and Whittier Trust
agreed to pay almost $1.7 million to settle the claims, the SEC
said. Whittier Trust earned or avoided losses of more than
$724,000 by trading on tips Kuo funneled from 2008 to 2010, the
SEC alleged in a complaint filed today in federal court in
 Manhattan .  Kuo, a former analyst at South Pasadena, California-based
Whittier Trust, pleaded guilty to federal charges and admitted
being part of what prosecutors called a “criminal club” of
fund managers, analysts and insiders at technology companies who
earned more than $68 million by trading on nonpublic information
that they swapped.  “Time and again, Dosti received what he knew was inside
information from Kuo and traded on it to generate illicit
gains,” Sanjay Wadhwa, senior associate director of the SEC’s
regional office in New York, said in a statement.  Kuo, 37, of Diamond Bar,  California , is cooperating with
the U.S. in its investigation of insider trading.  SAC Analyst  The U.S. alleges that some of the illegal tips Kuo obtained
on Dell and Nvidia were passed on by his friends, such as former
SAC Capital Advisors LP analyst Jon Horvath, who last year
pleaded guilty to giving nonpublic information to his fund
manager. Michael Steinberg, who was Horvath’s boss, was indicted
in March on insider trading charges by prosecutors in the office
of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Steinberg, who the U.S. says earned more than $1.4 million
from tips about Dell and Nvidia earnings provided by the
analyst, has pleaded not guilty and is awaiting trial.  According to the SEC’s complaint, Kuo twice in 2008
obtained nonpublic information about Dell’s earnings before the
company’s  quarterly announcements  from Sandeep Goyal, a former
Dell employee. Dosti was able to earn at least $103,000 in one
trade and avoid losses of more than $78,000 before Dell’s Aug.
28, 2008, disclosure that its gross margin was “substantially
worse” than expected, the SEC alleged. Goyal has pleaded guilty
to taking part in the insider trading scheme.  Nvidia Information  In 2010, Kuo obtained inside information about Nvidia and
passed it to Dosti, generating more than $149,000 in profits,
according to the complaint. Illegal tips Kuo obtained on Wind
River allowed Dosti and Whittier Trust to earn more than
$247,000 in 2009, the SEC alleged.  Under today’s settlement, Whittier Trust agreed to pay a
disgorgement, interest and penalties of more than $1.5 million
while Dosti agreed to pay about $159,000, the SEC said.  Kuo was charged last year along with Level Global Investors
LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager Todd Newman. Both men were
convicted by a federal jury in New York of securities fraud and
conspiracy. Newman was sentenced to 4 1/2 years in prison while
Chiasson was sentenced to 6 1/2 years.  Of the eight people charged by the U.S. in the scheme, six
have pleaded guilty to insider trading and are cooperating with
the U.S. Besides Kuo, they include Jesse Tortora, a former
Diamondback analyst; Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, an analyst at
New York-based Level Global; Goyal and Hyung Lim, a former
 Altera Corp. (ALTR)  executive.  Gary Lincenberg, a lawyer for Dosti, declined to comment on
the SEC settlement.  “Our client is very pleased to have this matter finally
behind them,” said Vincent Cappucci, a partner at Entwistle &
Cappucci LLP who is representing Whittier Trust. He said
Whittier Trust didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing as part of the
agreement.  The case is SEC v. Dosti, 13-cv-03897, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  