-- Why the Belmont Is Named for a Rothschild Banking Agent
-- B y   D a v i d   K .   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-06-07T20:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/why-the-belmont-is-named-for-a-rothschild-banking-agent.html
On Saturday, many Americans will tune
in for the 145th running of the Belmont Stakes, the final and
most grueling leg of the  Triple Crown . Few of us, however, know
that the namesake of the race, August Belmont, was a dominant
financial figure of the 19th century.  Belmont  began his career as an agent for the Rothschild
banking house. He was first assigned the Cuban portfolio. As he
left  Europe  off for his posting in 1837, he stopped in the U.S.,
which was in the midst of a major financial panic and where the
Rothschilds’ operations were in disarray. He quickly declared
the U.S. his new base of operations.  Belmont (and the  Rothschild banking house  with him) made a
killing in the subsequent recovery, particularly in the cotton
and tobacco booms, and he consistently aligned himself with the
Democrats, who backed the interests of cotton producers in the
South. In 1860, Belmont managed the unsuccessful presidential
campaign of the Democratic candidate, Stephen Douglas, who
seemed to offer the best chance of preventing the Civil War and
thus keep profits flowing.  Still, once war was declared, Belmont saw that the
Confederacy, or the “cotton states” as he described them, was a
bad bet. Cotton was valuable, and the Confederacy could win, but
the rebels’ financial infrastructure was so undeveloped and
untrustworthy that even victory would be bad for business.
Belmont rebuffed a request from the Confederate President
Jefferson Davis for a $50 million loan. Four Southern states had
repudiated their debts to the Rothschild banking house in the
antebellum period.  Reckless Politicians  “Under the leadership of the most reckless and unprincipled
set of politicians,” Belmont said in 1863, on the eve of the
battle of Gettysburg, “the new Confederacy has no principle of
vitality in her and is sure to fall to pieces again.”  Belmont was more bullish on the Union. “The knowledge that
the war is to be prosecuted with energy and vigor has inspired
confidence and stocks have improved,” he said. In the summer of
1861, Belmont traveled to Europe as an unofficial representative
of the U.S. government at the behest of President  Abraham Lincoln  and Secretary of State William Seward. Belmont couldn’t
convince the Rothschilds to buy Union bonds, but he was able to
convince them that the Confederacy would be a bad investment.  Despite his service to the Union, Belmont remained wary of
fiscal policy emanating from  Washington , particularly an
increase in tariffs and the passage of the  Legal Tender Act  and
the National Banking Act. Belmont deplored the decision by the
Lincoln government to issue the fiat currency known as
greenbacks to help pay for the war, but recognized that there
was little choice. Printing money might lead to inflation, but
borrowing from  New York  banks was laborious and slow. Belmont
worried far more about the rampant wartime speculation,
particularly in railroads, coal and gold.  “Millions are realized by the stockgamblers,” Belmont said,
“while the poor victims will find themselves in the end with a
worthless property on hand.”  He issued a dire warning that anticipated the  Panic of
1873 , which particularly affected investors in the railroads.
“When the crash comes, we fear, it will be a terrible one,” he
said.  Since his arrival in the U.S., Belmont had shown a gift for
predicting the direction of the wind. Having made money in
cotton, he was able make even more backing the war against the
cotton states. Unlike the Rothschilds, who mostly avoided
 government securities  during the war, Belmont made a large
investment in Union bonds that made him quite wealthy.  In 1866, he used part of his fortune to finance the Jerome
Park Racetrack in the Bronx, which hosted the inaugural Belmont
Stakes in 1867.  ( David K. Thomson  is a doctoral student in history at the
 University of Georgia . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
David K. Thomson at  thomsond@uga.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  