-- Woman Said to Be Arrested for Obama, Bloomberg Ricin Letters
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-06-07T18:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/woman-said-to-be-arrested-for-ricin-letters-to-obama-bloomberg.html
A Texas woman was arrested as part of
the federal investigation into ricin-tainted letters sent to
President  Barack Obama  and New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , according to two law enforcement officials.  Shannon Richardson, of New Boston, Texas, was arrested
today, the officials said, and charges probably will be filed
later today, according to one of the officials, who asked for
anonymity to discuss the case prior to an announcement.  The arrest is the latest in a string of ricin-related cases
pursued by federal law enforcement officials in recent weeks.
Individuals in Spokane, Washington, and Tupelo, Mississippi,
have also been arrested and charged as part of investigations
into threatening letters to public officials that have tested
positive for the poison.  The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation and the  New York City
Police Department  have been investigating anonymous letters
threatening Obama and Bloomberg that tested positive for ricin.
The probe is also examining similar correspondence to a staff
member at Mayors Against Illegal Guns in Washington. Bloomberg
is co-chairman of the group.  The letters sent to New York and Washington were postmarked
in Shreveport, Louisiana, on May 20.  Ricin is made from castor beans and has been used
experimentally in medicine to kill cancer cells, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s
harmful and potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, according
to the CDC.  The mayor of New York is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  