-- Won Heads for Biggest Weekly Gain in 18 Months After Yen Surges
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-06-07T02:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/won-heads-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-18-months-after-yen-surges.html
The won headed for its biggest weekly
gain in 18 months as a surging yen brightened the outlook for
South Korean exporters. Government bonds fell on speculation the
Federal Reserve will taper its debt-purchase program.  The yen rose against the dollar by the most in three years
yesterday, easing the pressure on South Korean companies such as
Hyundai Motor Co. that compete against Japanese rivals in
international markets. The Dollar Index, which measures the
greenback against six major trading partners, was steady today
after dropping 1.3 percent yesterday. U.S. payrolls data due
today may provide an indication on whether the Fed will reduce
its bond buying that has spurred fund flows to  emerging markets .  “The weak yen against the dollar was excessive so
investors unwinded their short positions” on the Japanese
currency, said Son Eun Jeong, an analyst at Woori Futures Co. in
Seoul. “The strong dollar dwindled a bit as investors are
waiting for the U.S. jobs data to determine the Fed’s exit
strategy.” A short position is a bet a currency or security
will decline.  The won rose 1.8 percent this week to 1,109.52 per dollar
as of 10:09 a.m. in Seoul, the biggest gain since the period
ended Dec. 2, 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency advanced 0.6 percent from June 5. South Korean markets
were closed on June 6 for a public holiday.  The yen strengthened 3.8 percent to 96.79 per dollar this
week, paring its decline over the past 12 months to 18 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won has dropped 2.1
percent against the Japanese currency since May 31.  Volatility, Bonds  One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
54 basis points, or 0.54 percentage point, this week and 20
basis points today to 8.65 percent.  The won weakened 2.5 percent against the dollar in May as
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told Congress the central bank
could reduce its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases if the
U.S. jobs market improves in a “real and sustainable way.”  South Korea’s gross domestic product increased 1.5 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, the same as in the
preceding three months, according to a revised report released
today in  Seoul .  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due March 2018 rose
five basis points this week and fell three basis points today to
2.94 percent, prices from Korea Exchange Inc. show. The yield
reached 2.97 percent on June 5, the highest level for a
benchmark five-year  security  in five months.  Editors: Andrew Janes, James Regan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  