-- World's Richest Sag $14 Billion as Redemptions Roil Cohen
-- B y   P e t e r   N e w c o m b
-- 2013-06-07T21:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/world-s-richest-sag-14-billion-as-redemptions-roil-cohen.html
The world’s 200 wealthiest people
lost $14 billion from their collective net worth this week as
American employers took on more workers than forecast in May,
helping the world’s largest economy weather the impact of higher
taxes and federal spending cuts.  Hedge fund manager Steven Cohen slipped $500 million,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Cohen’s firm, SAC
Capital Advisors LP, received billions of dollars in withdrawal
requests this week, according to two people who saw the contents
of a June 4 e-mail sent to employees by SAC President Tom
Conheeney.  “We don’t like losing capital, but even with the investors
that are leaving, we still have a stable capital base and have
been performing well this year,” Conheeney said in the e-mail.
Even if the firm ended this year with assets close to where it
was four years ago, “we will still be a good-sized firm.”  SAC employees had expected that clients, who faced a June 3
redemption deadline, would take back most of the $4 billion they
haven’t already marked for redemptions by early next year,
people familiar with the firm said earlier this week. Investors
are exiting as the U.S. government intensifies its probe of
insider trading at the  Stamford , Connecticut-based firm, once
one of the best in the industry, with returns averaging 25
percent since 1992.  Cohen, 56, is ranked 119th on the index with a net worth of
$9 billion.  Jobs Report  Payrolls rose 175,000 after a revised 149,000 increase in
April that was smaller than first estimated, Labor Department
figures showed yesterday in  Washington . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for a gain of 163,000. The unemployment
rate climbed to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent as a surge in the
number of people entering the labor force swamped the number of
positions available.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.78 percent during
the week to close at 1643.38 in New York. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index dropped 1.82 percent, closing at 295.40.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder Bill Gates, 57, remains the
richest person in the world, a title he recaptured three weeks
ago. Gates’s fortune has risen $9.6 billion this year to $72.4
billion as shares of the world’s largest software maker have
soared 34 percent.  The Redmond, Washington-based company unveiled its first
new Xbox in almost eight years on May 21, seeking to position
the console at the center of games and home entertainment
against a growing roster of competitors that includes Apple Inc.
and  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Slim, Buffett  Mexico ’s  Carlos Slim  is $5.5 billion behind Gates. The
telecommunications tycoon’s fortune has fallen $8.3 billion this
year as his main holding, a 44 percent stake in  America Movil (AMXL) 
SAB, the largest mobile-phone operator in the Americas, has
fallen 14 percent.  No. 3 on the Bloomberg ranking is  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
chairman  Warren Buffett . Shares of the Omaha, Nebraska-based
company are up 29 percent this year, elevating the 82-year-old’s
fortune to $61.6 billion.  Investors are driving railroad stocks to the best start to
a year since 2008, in a bet that Warren Buffett is right about
the carriers’ long-term prospects. A 26 percent surge for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Railroads Index in 2013 is outpacing the
S&P 500’s 15 percent jump.  The rail index’s return has more almost doubled the S&P
500’s advance since Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. agreed to
buy Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  Corp. in 2009.  Freddie, Fannie  Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by billionaire John Paulson, 57, has been lobbying for a privatization of Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac to boost the value of preferred shares it
bought. The companies’ common shares have lost about half their
value since peaking last week. Much of the decline came after
Bloomberg News reported that two senators were drafting a bill
under which Fannie and Freddie would be placed into receivership
and liquidated.  If Paulson can profit from an act of Congress, it boosts
the odds that lower-ranking common shareholders might benefit,
too. The billionaire is 110th on the index with a $9.7 billion
fortune.  Europe’s second-richest person, Ikea founder  Ingvar Kamprad , handed his youngest son the chairmanship of the company
that controls the brand and concept of world’s biggest home-furnishings retailer.  Mathias Kamprad replaces Chairman Per Ludvigsson as part of
a generational shift that has been in preparation for years,
Inter Ikea Group said in a June 5 statement.  Ingvar Kamprad, 87, started selling matches to his
neighbors at age five and founded Ikea in 1943. He retired as
chief executive officer of the company in 1986, and has a $53.1
billion fortune.  “I see this as a good time for me to leave the board of
Inter Ikea Group,” the elder Kamprad said in the statement,
adding that he won’t stop working.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Newcomb in New York at 
 pnewcomb2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  