-- WTI Heads for First Weekly Gain in Four After Jobs Data
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-06-07T12:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/wti-crude-heads-for-first-weekly-gain-in-four-on-demand-outlook.html
West Texas Intermediate headed for
its first weekly gain in a month after employment increased more
than forecast in the U.S., the biggest crude consumer.  Futures gained as much as 0.6 percent, and have advanced
3.5 percent this week. U.S. payrolls rose 175,000 last month,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . That was
more than a median forecast in a Bloomberg survey for a 163,000
gain. WTI’s discount to the European benchmark, Brent, widened
for the first time in three days. WTI may slide next week,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  “The U.S. recovery has been broadly on track so far,”
said Amrita Sen, chief oil market analyst at Energy Aspects
Ltd., a consulting company in  London . “The labor market is
healing and the economy is slowly getting better.”  WTI for July delivery rose to $95.27 three minutes after
the release of jobs data, before paring gains to trade at $94.84
a barrel, up 8 cents, in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  as of 1:48 p.m. London time. The volume of
all futures traded was 6 percent above the 100-day average. The
contract rose $1.02 to $94.76 yesterday, the highest close since
May 28.  Brent for July settlement was up 46 cents at $104.07 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $9.08 to WTI,
compared with $8.85 yesterday.  Economic Recovery  WTI has technical support along its 50-week moving average,
around $91.95 a barrel today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Futures have halted intraday declines near this
indicator the past two weeks. Buy orders tend to be clustered
close to chart-support levels.  U.S. employment increased more than forecast in May and the
jobless rate climbed from a four-year low as more Americans
entered the  labor force , showing the world’s largest economy
weathered the effects of higher taxes and  federal budget  cuts.  Payrolls rose 175,000 last month after a revised 149,000
increase in April that was smaller than first estimated, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. The  unemployment
rate  rose to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent.  WTI may decline next week, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Fourteen of 34 analysts and traders, or 41 percent, forecast
prices will retreat through June 14. Twelve respondents, or 35
percent, predicted an increase. Eight projected no change.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will curb
crude shipments through most of this month as demand from Asian
refiners drops during seasonal maintenance, according to Oil
Movements, a tanker tracker. OPEC, which supplies about 40
percent of the world’s oil, will ship 23.7 million barrels a day
in the four weeks to June 22, down 1 percent from 23.93 million
in the previous period ended May 25, the researcher said in an
e-mailed report yesterday.  Tropical Storm  Tropical Storm Andrea is gaining speed after making
landfall in  Florida  yesterday, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said today. The storm, which formed June 5 in the  Gulf of
Mexico , is located 65 miles south-southwest of Savannah,
 Georgia , and is moving northeast at 19 miles per hour, the
center said. The  Atlantic hurricane season  began June 1 and ends
Nov. 30. Forecasters expect more than 12 storms, the 30-year
average, will form in the Atlantic this year.  WTI’s specifications will change as early as the end of
this year to ensure the quality of the world’s most-actively
traded energy contract, according to CME Group Inc., which owns
Nymex. The Crude Oil Quality Association, an industry group,
recommended  adjustments  to the light, sweet grade in 2010 that
will form the basis of the move, Damon Leavell, a CME spokesman
in  New York , said by phone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  