-- Yoma Plans Offices to Hotels in Myanmar Expansion, CEO Says
-- B y   J a s m i n e   N g
-- 2013-06-07T09:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/yoma-plans-offices-to-hotels-in-myanmar-for-expansion-ceo-says.html
Yoma Strategic Holdings Ltd. (YOMA) , which
is building a 9,000-unit housing project in Myanmar, said it
plans to expand by developing hotels and office buildings in
Yangon. The stock surged to the highest in almost 10 years.  The company will also add more large-scale residential
projects, Chief Executive Officer Andrew Rickards said today.
The  stock  climbed 2.1 percent to 98  Singapore  cents at the close
in Singapore, the highest since December 2003.  “Expect us to go into commercial buildings, office
buildings, hotels, all of which are desperately needed in
Yangon,” Rickards said in a Bloomberg Television interview with
Haslinda Amin. Property remains the “only investible asset” in
Myanmar without a stock market and will draw more investors, he
said.  Yoma is expanding its footprint in the country as President
Thein Sein allows more political freedom and loosens economic
controls since coming to power two years ago. Nations including
the U.S. have responded by easing sanctions and companies such
as Ford Motor Co., Marriott International Inc. and  Unilever NV (UNA) 
have entered the country.  “There is a severe lack of quality offices in Yangon,”
said Tan Ai Teng, an analyst at DBS Vickers Research Singapore.
“Given that so many multinational corporations are rushing into
Myanmar, there is a big demand for this and it’s not matched by
adequate supply. No matter how they build, it is still short for
the next one to two years.  More Spending  The nation, among Asia’s poorest, needs to spend $320
billion by 2030 to achieve economic growth of 8 percent a year,
according to a report by McKinsey Global Institute released last
week.  The gain today in  Yoma shares  pushed the increase this year
to 38 percent, compared with the 0.6 percent advance in the
Singapore benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)  Yoma’s primary stock
listing is in Singapore and company has offices in the city-state and in Yangon.  In Myanmar, Yoma is developing the 135-acre Star City about
six miles southeast of downtown Yangon, which comprises more
than 9,000 units of apartments and a retail area targeted at the
middle-class population in Myanmar, the company said in a filing
to the Singapore Exchange last year.  Yoma is also part of a group that’s bidding for one of the
country’s two telecommunications licenses. The group, led by
Digicel Group Ltd., billionaire  George Soros  and Yoma, plans to
invest $9 billion in Myanmar’s new mobile-phone network if it’s
granted a license.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Ng in Singapore at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  