-- LyondellBasell Moving Tax Home to U.K. From Netherlands
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-06-07T14:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/lyondellbasell-moving-tax-home-to-u-k-from-netherlands.html
LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the
world’s largest producer of polypropylene, said it’s moving its
tax residence to the U.K. from the Netherlands to avoid payments
on dividends and gain flexibility in managing cash.  The change is expected to take effect in the third quarter,
Rotterdam-based LyondellBasell said today in a regulatory
filing. The move eliminates a 15 percent withholding tax on
payouts to shareholders, enables more flexibility to fund stock
repurchases, and allows cash from more profitable U.S.
operations to be moved around the world more easily, said  David Harpole , a Houston-based company spokesman.  LyondellBasell joins  Fiat Industrial SpA (FI)  in seeking a U.K.
tax residence for operations headquartered in the Netherlands.
The U.K. has cut its corporate  tax rate  to 21 percent and to
less than 6 percent on profit attributed to offshore arms that
make loans to other units.  LyondellBasell got 57 percent of its 2012 revenue from the
U.S., where it benefits from low-cost natural gas. It has paid
special dividends in each of the past two years and plans to buy
back 10 percent of its shares this year.  “The  tax treaty  between the U.S. and U.K. is more
favorable than tax treaties with other countries,” Harpole said
in a phone interview today.  LyondellBasell said it will be a dual resident in the U.K.
and the Netherlands for tax purposes until its migration to the
U.K. is completed. It will remain incorporated in the
Netherlands and its European operations will remain
headquartered in Rotterdam, the company said. Shareholders’
rights under Dutch law aren’t affected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  