-- Zimbabwe Agrees to IMF Program to Become Eligible for New Loans
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-06-07T13:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/zimbabwe-agrees-to-imf-program-to-become-eligible-for-new-loans.html
Zimbabwe  will agree to the terms of
an International Monetary Fund program to settle its $10.7
billion debt and become eligible for new external borrowing,
Finance Minister Tendai Biti said.  The southern African nation, which has been in default to
international creditors since 1999, has accepted an IMF-monitored plan that will allow it to borrow from the World Bank
and African Development Bank, Biti told reporters today in the
capital, Harare.  “When you continue to default, no one trusts you on the
international market,” Biti said.  Zimbabwe’s economy entered recession and inflation began to
surge after President Robert Mugabe in 2000 backed an often
violent program of seizing white-owned commercial farms and
redistributing them to black subsistence farmers.  The economy is recovering after Biti in 2009 abandoned the
Zimbabwean dollar and adopted foreign currencies including the
euro and U.S. dollar as legal tender to tame hyper inflation the
IMF estimates accelerated to 500 billion percent.  The government forecasts the economy may grow about 5
percent this year from 4.4 percent in 2012.  Zimbabwe’s top court has ordered presidential elections to
be held by July 31. They will end a power-sharing government
between Biti’s Movement for Democratic Change and the Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front, led by Mugabe, following
elections flawed by violence and intimidation in 2008.  A formal letter accepting the IMF program will be sent to
its managing director, Christine Lagarde, next week, Biti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  