-- Zloty Jumps as Polish Central Bank Buys on Market to Curb Swings
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-06-07T18:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/zloty-jumps-as-polish-central-bank-buys-on-market-to-curb-swings.html
The zloty advanced the most in 10
months as  Poland ’s central bank sold foreign currencies on the
market to curb volatility, which set a six-month high.  The central bank’s first market purchases since 2011 helped
the zloty advance 1.7 percent to 4.2419 per euro at 7:57 p.m. in
Warsaw, the biggest appreciation since Aug. 3, after slumping to
a one-year low yesterday. It was the biggest gain among more
than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The zloty’s three-month historic volatility jumped to 6.68 today, the highest
since Dec. 4.  “This absolutely isn’t an attempt to fight the trend or
anything like that,” PAP newswire cited central bank Governor
 Marek Belka  as saying. “There was just a little craziness over
the past few days and we gave it a kick,” Belka was quoted as
saying.  The Polish currency has weakened and zloty  government bonds 
sold off, along with other emerging-market assets, after U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 that
policy makers could reduce stimulus if there were sustained
improvement in the  U.S. economy . The Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank
Polski “sold a certain amount of foreign currency for zloty
this afternoon,” according to an e-mailed statement from the
bank’s press office.  ‘Wrists Slapped’  The Polish central bank isn’t confronting the “overall
emerging-markets trend,”  Rafal Benecki , ING Bank Slaski SA’s
chief economist for Poland, wrote in a note to clients today.  Belka said the central bank doesn’t act “in the interest
of currency-market speculators,” according to PAP. “Somebody
thought they could make money betting on a weaker zloty and got
their wrists slapped,” he was quoted as saying.  The zloty’s historic volatility is the fourth-lowest among
the 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
South African rand’s 13.4 reading shows the greatest propensity
for movement, while the Bulgarian lev is most stable at 2. The
zloty has weakened 3.8 percent against the euro this year,
compared with declines of 1.4 percent by the Hungarian forint
and 1.9 percent by the Czech koruna.  Disorderly, Disruptive  “This is more a case of the NBP letting the market know it
is there, and it would not be appreciative of a disorderly and
likely disruptive sell-off,” Tim Ash, London-based chief
emerging-markets economist at Standard Bank Plc, said in a
research note.  Poland’s central bank entered the  currency market  as a
report showed U.S. employment increased more than economists
forecast, triggering a decline in American government bonds.  The yield on Poland’s two-year government notes fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.87 percent, its
first decline in four days. The rate on the securities set a
record low of 2.50 percent on May 14, down from 3.15 percent on
Dec. 31. The spread over similar-maturity German debt narrowed
seven basis points to 269, falling from a six-week high.  The extra yield on Poland’s dollar bonds over U.S.
Treasuries fell nine basis points to 133, according to data from
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  No Contradiction  Belka said there was no contradiction between the Polish
central bank’s monetary easing and intervening to support the
zloty, according to PAP. Belka’s 10-member Monetary Policy
Council has reduced the refinancing  rate  by 200 basis points
since November to a record 2.75 percent at this week’s meeting.  Poland’s central bank last sold currencies on the market in
2011, according to its previous statements. When asked about a
weaker zloty at the monthly central bank’s news conference in
Warsaw two days ago, Belka said “it’s not a factor we’re
especially concerned about.”  “Taking into account the recent words of Marek Belka and
the condition of the economy -- stagnating growth, minimal
inflation -- these interventions seem hardly understandable,”
BZ WBK SA economists, led by  Maciej Reluga , wrote today in a
note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  