-- Zuckerberg Plans Fundraiser for Cory Booker’s Senate Run
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-06-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-07/zuckerberg-plans-fundraiser-for-cory-booker-s-senate-run.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and his wife, Priscilla Chan, will give Newark Mayor
Cory Booker some help in his U.S. Senate bid, which the New
Jersey Democrat plans to formally announce today.  Booker, 44, will enter the special-election race to replace
Senator Frank Lautenberg, a five-term Democrat who died at age
89 on June 3. The mayor plans events in Newark and Willingboro
Township, according to Kevin Griffis, a spokesman.  Zuckerberg, who hasn’t declared a party affiliation, held
his first political fundraiser on Feb. 14, when he welcomed New
Jersey Governor Chris Christie, a 50-year-old Republican seeking
a second term, to his Palo Alto, California, home. The 29-year-old billionaire pledged $100 million to help  Newark  schools
during a 2010 appearance on Oprah Winfrey’s television show,
alongside Booker and Christie.  “Mark and Priscilla are hosting a fundraiser for Mayor
Booker in the coming days,” Sarah Feinberg, a Facebook
spokeswoman, said yesterday by e-mail. Griffis confirmed the
plan.  Booker is serving his second term as mayor of New Jersey’s
most populous city, with almost 278,000 residents. In 2006, he
rose from the City Council to oust Sharpe James from the top
office and won re-election in 2010. Booker has focused on
reviving the city’s economy and improving its schools.  Business Support  The mayor’s efforts to turn around Newark have drawn
investments from Wall Street financiers, including hedge-fund
manager  Bill Ackman . Audible Inc., a provider of audio over 
the Internet, moved its headquarters to Newark and Booker
will make his announcement at its offices today, Griffis said.  Late last year, the mayor said he was exploring a Senate
run in 2014 instead of challenging Christie’s re-election in
November. Booker’s statements prompted a rebuke from Lautenberg,
who hadn’t said whether he would seek a sixth term. In February,
the state’s senior senator and the oldest member of the upper
house of Congress said he wouldn’t run for re-election.  The mayor is the second Democrat to formally enter the
race. U.S. Representative Rush Holt, a physicist and five-time
winner of the television game show “Jeopardy!,” said on June 6
that he was running. Another Democratic congressman, Frank
Pallone, also has expressed interest. Only one Republican has
entered the campaign, former Bogota, New Jersey, Mayor Steve
Lonegan.  Campaign Funds  Booker has $1.6 million in hand for the campaign, according
to Federal Election Commission filings. That compares with
almost $800,000 for Holt and more than $3.7 million held by
Pallone, FEC records show. Recent reports for Lonegan, who ran
for Congress in 1998, weren’t available on the agency website.  Zuckerberg’s current net worth is estimated at $11.5
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Almost all of
his wealth is in the form of Facebook  shares , which closed
yesterday at $23.29, up 1.4 percent on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  In the New Jersey special election, a party primary vote is
set for Aug. 13, with the final balloting on Oct. 16. The winner
will serve the remainder of Lautenberg’s term, which ends in
January 2015, and faces the prospect of running again next year
to retain the seat after that.  Christie has appointed New Jersey Attorney General Jeffrey Chiesa, a Republican, as an interim replacement to serve until
the special election decides the new occupant of the seat.  National Spotlight  Zuckerberg’s pledge to Newark’s schools helped draw
national attention to Booker, who has almost 1.4 million
followers on the Twitter Inc. website. The mayor was a speaker
at the 2012 Democratic National Convention and helped lead its
platform committee.  Booker is considered the frontrunner for the seat. He’s a
Yale Law School and Stanford University graduate who became a
Rhodes Scholar, earning a degree in modern history from Oxford
University in the U.K.  New Jersey Democrats outnumber Republicans by more than
700,000 registered voters, giving the party an edge. Voters in
the state haven’t sent a Republican to the Senate since Clifford
Case won a seat 1972 and have backed Democrats for president
since 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  