-- MagicJack CEO Sees Revenue Exceeding Estimates: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-12-27T18:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/magicjack-ceo-sees-revenue-exceeding-estimates-israel-overnight.html
MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL)  Chief
Executive Officer Dan Borislow said fourth-quarter revenue will
exceed analysts’ estimates after the Israeli technology company
added a free wireless application.  “We’ve had a breakout year, we’re having a great fourth
quarter,” Borislow said yesterday in a phone interview from
 West Palm Beach , Florida. The company will post quarterly sales
of more than $39 million, he said,  beating  the $38.85 million
mean estimate of two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shares of the company that offers voice-over-Internet
services rose 3.4 percent to $16.26 in New York yesterday,
extending their gain this year to 19 percent.  Bloomberg Israel-
US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the biggest Israeli companies traded in New
York dropped for a fourth day, losing 0.2 percent to 85.50.
 EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  declined to a seven-week low.  MagicJack is benefiting from higher revenue growth after
offering an application that allows customers to make free phone
calls from their smartphones and tablets, Borislow said. The
company said yesterday in a  filing  that its unit, YMax
Communications, settled all disputes with  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  Following the agreement, the company stands a better chance
to come to an agreement with  AT&T Inc. (T) , Borislow said.  Shares of the Netanya, Israel-based company, have plunged
34 percent this quarter, the biggest slump in four years. The
Israel-US gauge is poised for a 1.4 percent decline for the last
three months of the year, paring a 5.2 percent gain in 2012.  “It’s the biggest mystery of my business career,”
Borislow said about the stock plunge.  Bearish Bets  Short sellers have increased bearish bets on MagicJack to a
record. Wagers against the stock have  jumped  tenfold to 12
percent of shares outstanding this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Markit, a London-based research firm.
That’s in the top 10 percent of most-shorted stocks in the
Russell 2000 Index and compares with the equity gauge’s average
of 4.2 percent.  MagicJack raised its 2012 earnings estimate to as much as
$2 per share, compared with an earlier forecast of $1.50 to
$1.80, according to the Sept. 6 statement. The company’s main
product is a device that connects to a computer or to a router
to enable voice calls over the Internet.  Israel, which has a population of similar size to
Switzerland, has 54 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after China.  Yokneam, Israel-based EZchip slid 3.5 percent to $33.49.
Shares in  Tel Aviv  fell 3.9 percent to 123 shekels, or the
equivalent of $32.98, in Tel Aviv today. Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25) 
fell 0.2 percent as options on the gauge expired.  Fiber Network  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) , the holding company that
controls Israel’s biggest land-line provider, tumbled 5.2
percent in New York to $3.48. Shares in Tel Aviv yesterday fell
2.3 percent to 12.59 shekels, or $3.37.  Israel Electric Corp. Ltd., the state-owned utility, said
it will bid for a government contract to build a fiber-optic
network. The company will be competing with  Bezeq Israeli
Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ) , Israel’s dominant land-line operator,
and Hot Telecommunication System Ltd., said Gil Dattner, an
analyst at Leumi Capital Markets, a unit of  Bank Leumi Le-Israel
Ltd. (LUMI)   “It’s a definite potential negative for Bezeq,” Dattner
said in a phone interview yesterday from Tel Aviv. “A third
fiber infrastructure in the country would have a pretty big
impact on the value of Bezeq and Hot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  