-- Al Habtoor Says IPO Delayed on Scarce Investment Prospect
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-12-26T09:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/al-habtoor-says-ipo-delayed-on-inadequate-investment-opportunity.html
Al Habtoor Group LLC, controlled by
billionaire Khalaf Al Habtoor, postponed an initial share sale
because it didn’t see sufficient opportunities to invest the
proceeds and may consider reviving the plan in 2014.  “We didn’t find an opportunity that would give us good
return to give shareholders,” Al Habtoor said in a Dec. 23
interview at his office in Dubai. “We looked at safe markets,
like  Germany  and Britain and we found that in the areas we know,
there is nothing but recession.”  The  company  will rely on cash from operations to fund
projects including a new skyscraper with more than 800 luxury
apartments on a canal in Dubai, he said. Construction of the
tower will start in late 2013 or early 2014 and is set to be
completed two years later. He said a decision hasn’t been made
on whether the 800 homes would be rented or sold.  The company is already building a $1.3 billion hotel
complex in Dubai. Grant Thornton, the accounting firm, valued Al
Habtoor Group, which includes hospitality, real estate and
automotive divisions, at 22 billion dirhams ($6 billion).  Looking for Hotels  The billionaire said he searched markets in eastern and
western Europe as well as  Asia  for hotels, real estate and other
assets and he wasn’t convinced of their earnings potential. He
said the IPO plan was motivated by his desire to ensure the
continuity of his company and not by a need for cash.  “I don’t need to take peoples’ money and put it in the
bank,” Al Habtoor said. “They can do that themselves.”  Trading volumes in Dubai are near a six-year low and global
banks have been cutting staff to reduce costs. Al Habtoor, which
has been weighing an IPO for about 20 years, said it would delay
the share sale on Dec. 18. Economic and political upheaval in
the middle East and  Europe  have also slowed regional share sales
in the past two years.  Al Habtoor said he’s investing about $1.6 billion on
various projects. He’s also considering plans to build a five-
star hotel in Minsk, Belarus. Al Habtoor owns six hotels and has
four more in various stages of construction including the
Waldorf Astoria on an artificial island off Dubai’s coast.  “We will finance from our cash flows and according to the
company’s cash flow strength,” Al Habtoor said.  ’Paper in Drawer’  U.A.E. banks have no appetite to lend currently and “we
don’t want them to embarrass us or have us embarrass them,” he
said. The group will have “surplus” cash flows until 2015 when
it may seek bank loans, he said.  Al Habtoor said he doesn’t plan to get a  credit rating  for
debt instruments. “I don’t believe in bonds to begin with,” he
said. “It’s a paper I can put in a drawer. I don’t like the
whole thing especially going and begging investors for money. I
don’t think we will need that. Not today and not tomorrow.”  The billionaire says cash from operations at the group may
surge by 50 percent to 60 percent by the end of 2016 as most of
the hotels under construction become operational and other
projects reach fruition. Profit next year may climb 10 percent
across the group, he said, without providing details.  Al Habtoor’s 29-year-old auto division is the country’s
sole distributor for Mitsubishi, Bentley and Bugatti. He has 13
showrooms throughout the U.A.E. and a leasing division with
8,000 rental cars. He built the world’s largest repair facility
for Bentley and Bugatti, he said.  In addition, the group owns and runs two international
private schools and has a 27.5 percent stake in contractor
Habtoor Leighton Group, a joint venture formed in 2007 between
Habtoor Engineering and Australia’s  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI)   Al Habtoor, which published its earnings on Dec. 18 for the
first time, said it forecast a 16 percent profit increase this
year to 700 million dirhams compared with 2011.  Grant Thornton ’s evaluation of the business excluded two
hotels, a shopping mall and a theme park in Lebanon as well as
Le Meridien Budapest in  Hungary , Al Habtoor said Dec. 18. It
also left out the value of its holding in Habtoor Leighton Group
and several stakes in some other companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  