-- Aluminum Glut No Bar to Gains as Barclays Says Sell: Commodities
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-12-26T20:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/aluminum-glut-no-bar-to-gains-as-barclays-says-sell-commodities.html
The record glut in aluminum will be
no bar to rising prices because of delays in getting metal from
warehouses, even as Barclays Plc advises investors to sell and
Morgan Stanley says it has the worst outlook of any commodity.  Stockpiles will expand for at least the next four quarters,
reaching a record 8.67 million metric tons by the end of 2013,
or enough to make about 62 million cars, Barclays estimates.
Production will exceed demand by the most since 2009 as output
expands from  China  to  Saudi Arabia , the bank says. Futures will
rise as much as 16 percent to $2,400 a ton next year, the median
of 29 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The gains are forecast as the metal is not always
available. Buyers are waiting about a year to get metal from
warehouses in  Detroit  and the Dutch port of Vlissingen, which
hold the most inventories. As much as 80 percent of stockpiles
tracked by the London Metal Exchange are locked into financing
deals and unavailable to consumers, Credit Suisse Group AG
estimates. That means some customers are paying record premiums
to get supply, according to Platts, a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos.  “You have what I would call an artificial tightness in the
market and that’s created by financing,” said Jeremy Baker, who
manages about $850 million of assets at the Vontobel Belvista
Commodity Fund in Zurich. “If you look at it from a purely
fundamental aspect it is probably one of the metals that is the
least attractive, primarily due to excessive supply.”  Asset Rankings  Aluminum rose 2.7 percent to $2,075 on the LME this year.
Prices will average $2,225 in the final three months of 2013, or
10 percent more than this quarter, the median of 19 estimates
shows. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
climbed 0.2 percent, and the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities gained 13 percent. Treasuries returned 1.98 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Inventories tracked by the LME rose 5.3 percent to 5.23
million tons this year, reaching a record Dec. 21, bourse data
show. Premiums paid for immediate supply in the U.S. Midwest
rose 45 percent this year, while in  Europe  they increased about
80 percent, Platts data show. Buyers have to wait as long as 64
weeks to get metal from warehouses in Detroit and 57 weeks in
Vlissingen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The wait
times at the locations lengthened as total bookings jumped the
most in more than 10 months to 1.95 million tons, the highest on
record, LME data on Dec. 24 showed.  Financing Deals  About 50 percent of global inventories, including those
monitored by the LME, may be tied up in financing deals, Credit
Suisse estimates. The transactions typically involve a
simultaneous purchase of metal for nearby delivery and a forward
sale to take advantage of a market in contango, when contracts
with later delivery months cost more than nearer-dated metal.  Global production will jump 7.4 percent to 51.4 million
tons next year, compared with a 3.4 percent gain in 2012,
Barclays estimates. While  consumption  will advance 6.3 percent,
the most of any industrial metal tracked by the bank, the gap
with supply will widen to 1.66 million tons. Investors should
sell into any rallies, Barclays’ analysts led by London-based
 Gayle Berry  wrote in a report Dec. 14.  “Demand growth for aluminum has been stronger than any
other base metal over the past decade, but it’s done not a lot
for prices because supply has grown so strongly,” Berry said.
“That’s going to be the picture for next year.”  Weakest Outlook  Aluminum has the weakest outlook of 21 commodities tracked
by Morgan Stanley, the bank said in a Dec. 6 report. The
increase in  premiums  caused by financing deals is keeping most
smelters profitable and limiting the output cuts needed to curb
the glut, according to the bank’s analysts, led by  Hussein
Allidina  in New York.. About 1.4 million tons of production
capacity was shut over the past year, not enough to prevent a
sixth consecutive annual surplus, Morgan Stanley estimates.  The European Commission, the executive arm of the 27-nation
European Union, said last month it was discussing the premiums
being paid by consumers and lines at warehouses. The LME changed
its rules this year to speed up deliveries, and that may lower
premiums, diminishing returns for producers.  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said Dec. 18 it may cut the
credit rating of  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. producer, to junk.
Equity analysts are more bullish, predicting a 23 percent
advance in the New York-based company’s shares to $10.56 in 12
months, according to the average of 18 predictions. Alcoa’s
profit will rise to $722.4 million in 2013, from $77.7 million
this year, the  mean  of 10 estimates shows.  Rusal’s Profit  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest producer, will report
an almost threefold gain in profit to $957.4 million next year,
according to the mean of 14 estimates. Shares of the Moscow-
based company will advance 11 percent to HK$5.46 in 12 months,
according to the average of 18 predictions. Rusal’s costs per
ton are $1,936, it said in a presentation Nov. 12.  Some smelters’ margins are being squeezed by rising energy
prices, which Bloomberg Industries estimates account for about
26 percent of production costs. Brent, Europe’s benchmark crude
oil grade, averaged a record $111.67 a barrel this year and
natural-gas futures jumped 12 percent in  New York .  Producers using coal-fired power generation may do better
after prices for the fuel dropped 24 percent this year in the
north-east Chinese port of Qinhuangdao, according to data  from
IHS McCloskey. About 85 percent of Chinese production uses power
derived from coal, according to Wood Mackenzie Ltd., and the
nation accounts for 45 percent of global output.  Car Sales  Stronger demand may help ease the glut. Transportation
accounts for 25 percent of consumption and construction 24
percent, according to CRU, a London-based researcher.  Global car
sales  will rise 2.5 percent to a record 82.77 million units next
year, says LMC Automotive Ltd., a researcher in Oxford,  England .
An average car has about 140 kilograms (309 pounds) of aluminum,
according to the European Aluminum Association.  The  International Monetary Fund  expects global growth to
advance to 3.6 percent in 2013, from 3.3 percent this year. The
economy of the 17-nation euro area will expand again from the
third quarter, based on the median of 30 economist estimates.
China, the biggest aluminum consumer, will keep accelerating for
at least the next two quarters, according to the forecasts.  “The market balances generally don’t matter,” said
 Michael Widmer , a London-based analyst at Bank of America.
“What matters is what is happening on the LME. You just have to
pay up for getting hold of the metal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  