-- Americans Losing Confidence on Obama-Congress Budget Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-26T17:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/americans-losing-confidence-on-obama-congress-budget-deal.html
Americans are losing confidence in
the federal government’s ability to avoid automatic tax
increases and spending cuts scheduled to take effect beginning
Jan. 1, according to a poll released today.  The  Gallup poll  taken Dec. 21-22 showed 50 percent of
respondents saying it was likely and 48 percent saying it was
unlikely that President  Barack Obama  and Congress will avoid the
so-called fiscal cliff.  A week earlier, in a survey taken Dec. 15-16, 57 percent
said they expected a deal and 40 percent did not.  In the latest poll, more than two-thirds of respondents, 68
percent, said the two sides should compromise to reach an
agreement. That’s up from 66 percent in the Dec. 15-16 poll.  Tax cuts initially signed into law by President  George W. Bush  are set to expire at the end of this year. Starting next
month, automatic spending reductions to domestic and defense
programs begin. The combined $600 billion effect would probably
trigger a recession, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office .  The latest Gallup poll also showed increasing support for
Obama and Democratic congressional leaders in the negotiations.
A majority of respondents, 54 percent, said they approved of the
way Obama was handling the talks, up from 48 percent Dec. 15-16,
with 38 percent disapproving, down from 43 percent.  Democrats Gain  The way Democratic congressional leaders are handling the
talks won approval from 45 percent of respondents, while 43
percent disapproved. That’s a reversal from the Democratic
leaders’ earlier 34 percent approval rating and 56 percent
disapproval rating.  More than six in 10 respondents, 61 percent, disapproved of
congressional Republican leaders’ handling of the talks, the
same percentage as in the Dec. 15-16 poll. Their approval rating
declined to 26 percent from 29 percent.  The poll was conducted as House Speaker  John Boehner  of
 Ohio  was forced to withdraw legislation to extend the tax cuts
for everyone with incomes below $1 million, after failing to get
enough support from his fellow Republicans to pass the bill.
 House Republicans  voted to reduce funding for  food stamps  and
other domestic programs to avoid the scheduled cuts in defense
spending.  Before the failed effort, Obama and Boehner had been
negotiating a deal to include about $1 trillion in new taxes,
primarily through letting the Bush tax cuts expire for higher-
income earners, and about the same amount in spending cuts,
including a new inflation measurement that would reduce future
increases in Social Security benefits.  Obama won re-election in November after calling for
allowing the tax cuts to expire for families making more than
$250,000 a year.  The Gallup poll of 1,076 adults had a margin of error of
plus or minus 4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  