-- Analyst Indicted on Insider-Trading Charges Tied to IBM
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/analyst-indicted-on-insider-trading-charges-tied-to-ibm.html
Australian financial analyst Trent
Martin was indicted in the U.S. on charges stemming from an
alleged insider-trading scheme tied to  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s $1.2 billion acquisition of SPSS Inc.  Martin was charged with conspiracy and securities fraud,
federal prosecutors in Manhattan said yesterday in a  statement .
Martin also faces a civil suit over the alleged scheme filed by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Prosecutors and the SEC didn’t identify where Martin worked
when the alleged crimes occurred. According to the SEC’s
complaint, Martin left a New York brokerage in September 2009 to
join a “related” firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , where he
remained until November 2010.  Prosecutors said that Martin, 33, learned confidential
information from a corporate lawyer, not identified in court
papers, who was working on the IBM deal and with whom he was
close friends.  Martin bought SPSS stock based on the information in June
2009 and shared the tip with his  Manhattan  roommate, Thomas
Conradt, who worked as a stock broker, according to the
government. Contradt in turn tipped off his coworker and friend
David Weishaus, who passed the information to two other
unidentified brokers they worked with, prosecutors said.  Press Release  When the companies issued a press release on July 27, 2009,
on IBM’s plan to buy SPSS for about $1.2 billion, or almost $50
a share, SPSS’s share price rose by 41 percent in one day.
Martin and the brokers earned about $1.2 million in illicit
profits from trades based on the information about the deal,
prosecutors said.  Conradt and Weishaus were indicted on charges related to
the alleged scheme on Nov. 29. They have pleaded not guilty to
the charges.  Martin, who was arrested in Hong Kong on Dec. 22, faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted of the most serious
charge, securities fraud.  No information regarding a defense attorney for Martin was
available in court records. A spokeswoman for the Manhattan U.S.
Attorney’s office said the information for the defense counsel
wasn’t yet available.  Martin appeared in a Hong Kong court on Dec. 24 and was 
remanded in custody, the city's justice department said in an 
e-mail. The case was adjourned to Jan. 4 so he can obtain legal 
advice, the department said.  The corporate lawyer regarded Martin as “his closest
friend in New York City” and expected the analyst to keep the
information about the deal confidential, according to the
indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Martin, 12-cr-887, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  