-- United Beats Newcastle to Extend Lead; Rooney Out
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-27T00:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/manchester-united-beats-newcastle-to-extend-premier-league-lead.html
Manchester United  came from behind
three times to beat Newcastle United and extend its English
Premier League soccer lead over Manchester City to seven points.  United won 4-3 at Old Trafford yesterday on goals by  Jonny Evans ,  Patrice Evra ,  Robin van Persie  and a 90th-minute strike
by  Javier Hernandez . City lost 1-0 at Sunderland, while third-
place Chelsea beat Norwich 1-0 and Gareth Bale scored a hat
trick in Tottenham’s 4-0 win at Aston Villa.  Hernandez scored United’s winning goal with a close-range
half-volley from Michael Carrick’s pass. Twenty four of the Red
Devils’ 46 Premier League points at the halfway point of the
season have come in games in which they trailed, according to
Opta Sports.  “It’s a really significant result for us,” United manager
 Alex Ferguson  said in a televised interview. “It puts us in a
good position. As I always say of December, it’s a month that
tells you everything. And when we come to the end of the Wigan
game on January 1, we’ll still be top of the league.”  The record 19-time English champion, which drew with
Swansea last weekend, was without striker  Wayne Rooney  because
of a knee ligament injury that will sideline him for as many as
three weeks, Ferguson said. Striker  Danny Welbeck  and winger
Ashley Young also were unavailable to face Newcastle.  “We are running out of ammunition,” added Ferguson, who
had been unhappy at an own goal given against Evans for
Newcastle’s second score.  Defending-champion City lost ground to United following its
defeat at Sunderland, with  Adam Johnson  scoring the game’s only
goal against his former club.  Missed Chances  “It’s important that our strikers start scoring more
goals, sometimes we take one touch too many,” City manager
 Roberto Mancini  said in a televised interview. “We missed five
or six chances in the first half, and we need to score first in
games sometimes. We can’t recover all the time.”  Juan Mata ’s 38th-minute goal secured the win at Norwich
that keeps Chelsea in third place, four points behind City.  Tottenham climbed up two spots to fourth after Wales winger
Bale scored three times to help Spurs inflict a second straight
heavy defeat on Aston Villa, which was routed 8-0 by Chelsea on
Dec. 23. Jermain Defoe got Tottenham’s other goal.  “He is showing tremendous skills and talent,” Spurs
manager Andre Villas-Boas said of Bale after the forward lifted
his goal tally this season to 10. “He is improving every day.”  Arsenal’s home game against West Ham yesterday was
postponed earlier because of planned strike action by London
Underground train drivers.  Traffic Delay  Queens Park Rangers’ match against West Bromwich Albion was
delayed 15 minutes after the visiting team’s bus got stuck in
traffic in the U.K. capital. West Brom won 2-1, thanks partly to
an own goal by QPR goalkeeper  Robert Green .  Reading moved above QPR on goal difference at the bottom of
the standings following a scoreless home draw against Swansea.
Everton beat Wigan 2-1 and Fulham tied Southampton 1-1.  Jon Walters scored twice as Stoke City rallied to beat
Liverpool 3-1 in the late game and move up to eighth place.
 Steven Gerrard  gave Liverpool a second-minute lead with a
penalty kick before goals by Walters and Kenwyne Jones put Stoke
in front with 12 minutes gone.  Walters sealed the win four minutes into the second half
with his club-record 18th Premier League goal as Stoke extended
its unbeaten league run to nine games.  “This team’s about hard work,” Walters said in a
televised interview. “At 1-0 down, we showed character to get
back in the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Danielle Rossingh at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net  