-- Maruti to Consider Africa Assembly Plant as Exports Ebb
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-12-27T12:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/maruti-to-consider-africa-assembly-plant-as-exports-ebb.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker by volume, is considering setting up
its first overseas assembly plant in Africa as it seeks to
revive flagging exports.  The  company , based in New Delhi, is scouting for new export
markets and Africa is more or less untouched, Chairman R.C. Bhargava said in an interview. Countries that are on the cusp of
motorization may be key to Maruti’s plan of doubling exports in
the next four years as  Europe  struggles to recover from a
slowdown, according to Mayank Pareek, head of sales.  “We will look at local assembly for two reasons,”
Bhargava said. “Firstly, there’s usually a tax advantage. And
second, there’s pressure from governments in these countries to
assemble models locally.”  A local manufacturing facility will help Maruti drive down
costs for buyers and boost sales in these  emerging markets  for
basic models such as the Alto and M800, said Umesh Karne, an
analyst at Brics Securities Ltd., who recommends buying the
stock. Exports as a share of revenue shrank to 10 percent from
two years earlier as sales of its A-Star compact hatchbacks
dwindled in Europe, prompting the automaker to turn to Africa.  “Whenever import volumes rise above a certain threshold,
countries impose duties, so after a certain point, Maruti will
have to look for local assembly,” said Mumbai-based Karne.
“Africa is at the same level where India was about 10-15 years
ago. Basic cars without airbags or other features will allow
Maruti to offer low prices and sell large volumes.”  Shares Advance  Maruti’s shares have surged 61 percent this year,
outperforming the 25 percent gain in the benchmark BSE Ltd.
Sensitive Index, even as a factory lockdown following labor
violence in one of its factories near New Delhi hurt output.  The  stock , rated a buy by 35 of the 63 analysts tracked by
Bloomberg, rose 0.1 percent to 1,482 rupees at the close in
Mumbai. Fourteen advise holding it, while 14 recommend selling.  The automaker may face hurdles setting up any production
facility overseas as a few countries may mandate local purchase
of some components, according to Mahantesh Sabarad, an analyst
with Fortune Equity Brokers  India  Ltd. in Mumbai.  “Setting up an ancillary base will be the biggest
challenge,” said Sabarad. “It will be a whole new learning
experience.”  Europe Demand  Exports as a share of total sales at Maruti have declined
from 15 percent two years ago. Shipments overseas in the year
ending March 31 may stay little changed, Chief Executive Officer
Shinzo Nakanishi said this month, after dropping 8 percent to
127,379 vehicles in the previous 12 months. The numbers peaked
at 147,575 units in the year to March 2010.  Europe, which accounted for 70 percent of Maruti’s exports
three years ago, now contributes to 30 percent as the debt
crisis in the region damped demand. Car sales this year are due
to plunge to the least in the European Union since 1995,
according to auto-industry group ACEA.  Algeria  in northern Africa is the biggest market for
Maruti, followed by Indonesia, Chile and  Australia , Pareek said.
Maruti also sells in  South Africa ,  Morocco  and  Egypt .  “The mix is completely reversed now,” said Pareek. “If
you had conceded that Europe is gone, you would’ve been
finished. The whole idea is take up the challenge and find
alternative markets.”  The  company  is exploring  Colombia  and the  Dominican
Republic  to boost sales, according to its annual report. The
automaker will refrain from setting up factories in countries
such as Indonesia and  Thailand , where parent  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) 
already has manufacturing facilities, Bhargava said.  Best Seller  Local sales at Maruti are set to rebound in the current
financial year after dropping 11 percent in the previous 12
months. The latest version of its best-selling model Alto, which
the company started selling in October, may revive growth to 6
percent, compared with a 1 percent expansion for the industry
forecast by the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  Maruti first started selling the Alto in September 2000,
priced at 300,000 rupees ($5,465) to compete against Hyundai
Motor Co.’s Santro model and defunct Daewoo Motor Co.’s Matiz
hatchback. The new version, introduced on Oct. 16, is 19 percent
cheaper at 244,000 rupees in  New Delhi , making it the company’s
least expensive hatchback after the Maruti 800, which it has
been producing since 1983.  Labor Unrest  Production at Maruti fell after the company shut one of its
factories near New Delhi for about one month following a labor
agitation in July that left one person dead. Maruti has seen its
market share dwindle to about 40 percent from as high as 87
percent in 1998. Closest rival Hyundai commands 19 percent, 15
years after starting production in the southern city of  Chennai .  The carmaker reported second-quarter profit declined 5.4
percent after the monthlong shutdown at its Manesar factory.
Maruti may boost profit to 19.6 billion rupees in the year
ending March 31 from 16.8 billion rupees in the previous 12
months, according to the average of 52 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income  margin before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization may narrow for a third straight year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company reported a margin of 7.8
percent in the year ended March 31.  Maruti, which is planning to start work on a new factory in
the western Indian state of Gujarat in early 2013, may use the
facility to meet some export demand, Bhargava said Dec. 22. The
new factory will be located in the same state as Mundra Port,
which the company currently uses to ship its vehicles overseas.  “If we are doing anything in  Africa , it makes sense to use
the Gujarat factory as it is near the port,” Bhargava said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  