-- Australian Stores See Record Sales With Rates at Lowest Levels
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-12-26T03:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/australian-stores-see-record-sales-with-rates-at-lowest-levels.html
Australia ’s A$249 billion ($258
billion)  retail  industry will see its best-ever month of sales
in December as the cutting of interest rates to record lows
revives flagging consumer sentiment, an industry group said.  Sales on Boxing Day, a public holiday that’s traditionally
one of the busiest in the country’s retail calendar, will rise
2.5 percent from a year earlier to A$1.8 billion, according to a
forecast from the  Australian National Retailers’ Association , or
ANRA. Sales during December, the busiest shopping month of the
year, may total A$28.4 billion, the group said in an e-mail on
Dec. 21.  “Australians are becoming very savvy about sales,” Chief
Executive Officer Margy Osmond said in a phone interview today.
“Merging of the digital sales with the actuality of in-store
activity on Boxing Day is what customers want and it’s going to
be the way of the future. The icon retailers would tell you
their online sales have been very successful and today the
stores are packed.”  Household spending power has been fueled by Australia’s
central bank cutting its benchmark  interest rate  to record lows
this month.  Consumer confidence  that had been negative for 10
out of the previous 12 months rebounded to a 19-month high in
November.  “Christmas sales may turn out to be fairly flat, but it’s
great to think that we might get a spike in this post Christmas
sale period” after the last interest cut, said Osmond.  Sales Rise  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) , the country’s largest department-store
company, posted its first annual increase in quarterly sales
since 2009 Nov. 15, and second-ranked  David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  said
revenue in the period rose for the first time in two years.  The direction of consumer spending is being closely watched
by Australia’s central bank as a slowdown in mining investment
puts pressure on other sectors of the economy to take up the
slack, Reserve Bank of Australia governor Glenn Stevens said in
a Nov. 20  speech  in Melbourne.  “The question will be whether other areas of domestic
demand start to strengthen,” he said. Household spending
behavior is “not amenable to accurate short-term forecasting.”  The slowdown in growth prospects means Australia’s
government probably won’t deliver a pledged budget surplus in
the year through June 2013 as a result of the weaker economy,
Treasure Wayne Swan said in a Dec. 20 news conference.  Best Performance  The 3.9 percent increase in December sales that ANRA
forecasts would be the best performance for that month since
2008, according to data from the Australian Bureau of
Statistics, which showed a 2.9 percent gain last year and a 2.3
percent improvement in 2010. The previous monthly record was
made in December 2011, with sales totaling A$27.3 billion,
according to the bureau, which has  data  going back as far as
April 1982.  Still, the percentage increase falls well behind a long-
term average of about 6 percent growth a year, ANRA spokeswoman
Frith Rayner said by phone from Canberra.  Interest rate cuts didn’t look to be having much effect on
households’ spending habits yet, JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists
led by Stephen Walters said in a note to clients Dec. 14.  “There is little sign of traction from the 175 basis
points of easing delivered so far” the economists wrote. Better
consumer sentiment is “irrelevant without an improvement in
spending, which clearly has not occurred yet,” they wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  