-- Aviation Won’t Face Immediate Threat in Budget Stalemate
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-12-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/aviation-won-t-face-immediate-threat-in-budget-stalemate.html
The U.S. aviation industry won’t
face immediate disruptions if political leaders can’t reach a
deal to avert automatic budget cuts due to start Jan. 2, a
senior Transportation Department official told employees.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  and other agencies
under the department would have the remainder of the fiscal year
that ends Sept. 30 to adjust to budget decreases, John Porcari,
DOT’s deputy secretary, said in an e-mail obtained by Bloomberg.  “This means that we will not be executing any immediate
personnel actions, such as furloughs,” Porcari said.  The effect of the automatic budget cuts and tax increases
known as the fiscal cliff, a phrase used by Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in testimony to Congress in February,
is different from the partial FAA shutdown in 2011 after
Congress failed to reauthorize the agency’s funding, Porcari
said. That action forced the FAA to halt payments for airport
construction and furlough about 4,000 employees for 16 days.  Still, if budget cuts occur over a prolonged period, the
agency won’t escape so easily, according to Porcari and acting
FAA Administrator Michael Huerta. Aviation groups have predicted
that cuts may force thousands of furloughs that could lead to
flight delays and billions of dollars in economic losses.  The FAA would have to reduce its budget of $15.9 billion by
$1.04 billion, or 6.5 percent, if lawmakers don’t come to terms
on a tax and spending package, according to an Office of
Management and Budget report.  Dire Forecasts  “Cuts of this magnitude cannot be implemented without a
significant impact in operations and capacity,” the National
Air Traffic Controllers Association, the union representing
about 15,000 controllers, said in a  report  earlier this month.  The automatic cuts, known as sequestration, would cause a
“very drastic” reduction in agency services, Huerta said in a
speech Sept. 24. The agency would be forced to reduce air-
traffic staffing, slow technology upgrades and disrupt
certification of new aircraft, Huerta said in the  speech .  “They would result in significantly less efficient and
less convenient air travel service for the American traveling
public,” he said.  Porcari didn’t rule out job reductions in his e-mail.
“Should we have to operate under reduced funding levels for an
extended period of time, we may have to consider furloughs or
other actions in the future,” he said.  The agency hasn’t taken any of the steps required before
beginning job cuts, Kori Blalock Keller, spokeswoman for the
Professional Aviation Safety Specialists union, said in an e-
mail. The union, representing FAA technicians, must be notified
before furloughs, Keller said.  Cuts Possible  A  study  funded by the Aerospace Industries Association, an
Arlington, Virginia-based trade association, predicted airline
and cargo flight reductions of as much as 10 percent or cuts to
air-traffic technology projects that could trigger flight delays
for decades.  As many as 132,000 jobs could be lost across the U.S. and
economic losses could reach $40 billion a year by 2021,
according to the study.  Even a short period in which the FAA reduced air-traffic
service would cause difficulties for airlines and cargo haulers
and trigger ripple effects, Stephen Mullin, senior vice
president at  Econsult Corp. , a Philadelphia economic research
firm, said in an interview.  No Guidance  “You could have some potentially tough disruptions for
some segments,” he said of such a scenario. Mullin was the lead
author of the aerospace industry group’s report.  Even without the most dire outcomes, the threat of cuts
will take a toll, Louis Dupart, executive director of the  FAA
Managers Association , which represents 1,600 employees, said in
an interview.  “We will manage with the resources given to us, but the
current significant uncertainty will manifest itself in delayed
personnel actions and contracting,” Dupart said.  So far, the FAA hasn’t given the industry a clear idea of
where it would cut and what effect that would have, Debbie McElroy, an executive vice president with the Airports Council
International-North America, a Washington-based trade group,
said.  “It’s hard to make any assessment,” McElroy said in an
interview.  “We understand that day-to-day operations won’t change
dramatically on Jan. 2, but we remain concerned about the
potential impact on airports and passengers,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  