-- Babylon Gains as Investors Lured by 8-Month Low: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-12-26T14:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/babylon-gains-as-investors-lured-by-8-month-low-tel-aviv-mover.html
Babylon Ltd. (BBYL)  rose to the highest in
almost two weeks as the translation software maker is set to
start a roadshow for a U.S. share sale in early 2013 and after a
drop to the lowest level in eight months lured some investors.  Shares of Babylon, based in the town of Or Yehuda,  Israel ,
added 3.9 percent to 24 shekels, the highest level since Dec.
13, at the close in Tel Aviv. The shares have gained 14 percent
in the last two days. The rally comes after the stock fell to
21.12 shekels on Dec. 24, the lowest level since April, on
concern revenue from its partnership with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  may erode
and on worries a bit to list on the Nasdaq stock market may be
halted.  “With the Nasdaq sale still planned for early next year
and after such a dramatic stock drop, some investors are picking
up the shares,” Eran Jacoby, head of research at DS Securities
& Investments in Tel Aviv, said by phone today. “The Israeli
media has been hyper-speculative about changes on the Google
partnership and there’s been negative news flow about the IPO.
The best thing the company can do right now is expose itself to
U.S. investors.”  The share’s  relative strength index  rose to 45 today from
29 on Dec. 24. The index measures the momentum of a stock’s
movements and a reading below 30 indicates it may soon rise.  Babylon’s stock has slumped 20 percent since the company
said Nov. 25 it planned to start a roadshow for the potential
U.S. initial public offering in early 2013, later than some
investors anticipated. The company said earlier in the month it
will seek to raise $115 million in an offering and that it wants
to list the shares on the Nasdaq stock exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  