-- Baht Declines Most in Five Weeks on U.S. Budget Deadlock Concern
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-12-26T08:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/baht-declines-most-in-five-weeks-on-u-s-budget-deadlock-concern.html
Thailand ’s baht fell the most in
more than five weeks as concern stalled U.S. budget talks will
hamper efforts to revive the global economy reduced demand for
emerging-market assets.  Congress will return tomorrow to resume negotiations aimed
at averting more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases
and spending cuts, due early next year, that could hurt the
world’s largest economy. Huang Guobo, chief economist and
director of the reserves management department at  China ’s State
Administration of Foreign Exchange, said the nation doesn’t plan
large economic stimulus measures, according to comments posted
on Tsinghua University’s website.  “SAFE’s comment suggested that China isn’t going to play
Santa and the U.S. Congress certainly isn’t inclined to do so,”
said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based economist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. “People are getting out of risk.”  The baht weakened 0.2 percent, the most since Nov. 16, to
30.65 per dollar as of 3:19 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has gained 2.9 percent this
year. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, held at 3.55 percent.  Thailand’s economy may grow at least 5 percent next year,
supported by an export recovery and state investment, after
expanding about 5 percent in 2012, Finance Minister Kittiratt
Na-Ranong told reporters in Bangkok yesterday.  The yield on the government’s 3.625 percent notes due June
2023 declined one basis point to 3.53 percent, the lowest level
since Dec. 6, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  