-- Bankia Parent BFA Has Negative Value of $13.8 Billion, FROB Says
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-12-26T20:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/bankia-parent-bfa-has-negative-value-of-13-8-billion-frob-says.html
Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, the
parent of Bankia, has negative value of 10.4 billion euros
($13.8 billion), Spain’s bank-rescue fund said, as it pledged to
recapitalize all the lenders it controls by year-end.  Bankia, BFA’s listed unit, has a negative value of 4.15
billion euros, the FROB rescue fund said in an e-mailed
statement today in  Madrid .  BFA-Bankia (BKIA) , the largest recipient of aid from Spain’s
European bank bailout, is receiving 18 billion euros of public
funds to plug its capital hole. The valuation published today
doesn’t affect the size of that shortfall and will be used to
help determine how much of the bank will remain in shareholders’
hands.  BFA will carry out a capital increase of 13.5 billion
euros, which the FROB will subscribe to using securities issued
by the euro region’s European Stability Mechanism rescue fund.
ESM securities will also replace 4.5 billion euros of Spanish
treasury bills that Spain injected into Bankia in September as a
stop-gap measure.  Bankia will issue 10.7 billion euros in contingent
convertible bonds, which BFA will buy, and which will convert
into ordinary shares early next year as part of a capital
reduction. That process, which will take place alongside burden-
sharing exercises to impose losses on junior debtholders, will
make sure that the “shareholders are the first to bear losses
or restructuring costs,” the FROB said.  Bankia was formed in 2010 from the merger of seven Spanish
savings banks and traded on the stock market last year as part
of the previous government’s efforts to clean up an industry
reeling from real estate losses. The shares have lost 82 percent
since the initial public offering, which depended on the banks’
retail clients.  The European Commission approved last month the
recapitalization plans for the four lenders that will receive 37
billion euros of European aid in the coming days. FROB has
agreed to sell  Banco de Valencia  to  Caixabank (CABK)  SA, while NCG
Banco and Catalunya Banc remain under state control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  