-- Bond Ratings Cuts Advance to Fastest Since ’09: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-12-26T16:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/bond-ratings-cuts-advance-to-fastest-since-09-credit-markets.html
Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service are cutting corporate debt ratings at the
fastest pace since 2009 as a global economic slowdown and record
borrowing erode credit quality.  The ratio of ratings downgrades to upgrades worldwide
climbed to 1.85 this year from 1.23 in 2011, according to S&P
data.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s second-largest carmaker, was
cut three times by Moody’s since March to speculative grade.
 Fort Worth , Texas-based  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  was lowered four steps
this year by S&P to seven levels below investment grade.
Defaults rose to 80 issuers from 52 in 2011, according to S&P.  Europe’s second recession in four years and slowing global
economic growth are helping to push a measure of corporate debt
to earnings to a three-year high, Barclays Plc data show.
Companies from the neediest to the most creditworthy sold
unprecedented amounts of debt at record-low yields in 2012 as
the  Federal Reserve  held  interest rates  at almost zero for a
fourth year in an effort to boost the  U.S. economy .  “We’re going to have an elevated level of negative
outlooks,”  Diane Vazza , head of S&P’s global fixed-income
research, said in a telephone interview. “The companies that
we’re seeing with downgrade pressure are speculative-grade
companies.”  Record Issuance  Companies from  Singapore  to  San Francisco  have sold $3.93
trillion of debt in 2012 to take advantage of yields that fell
to 3.27 percent last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Corporate
& High Yield Index.  The increased borrowing and slower growth have increased
the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization to 1.5 times at non-financial
investment-grade U.S. companies, the highest level since 2009,
Barclays analysts said in a Nov. 16 report.  That ratio is likely to increase in 2013 as companies
facing a “deteriorating outlook” for the economy pursue
transactions intended to boost stock prices, the analysts said.
The 34-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in Paris last month lowered its forecast for growth,
projecting the group’s economies will grow 1.4 percent next
year, less than the 2.2 percent predicted in June.  Fed Stimulus  Even as  credit quality  deteriorated, Fed efforts to push
investors into riskier assets drove unprecedented amounts of
cash into the corporate  debt market , fueling the biggest gains
since 2009.  The securities returned 11.8 percent this year through Dec.
21, the most since the 20.5 percent return in 2009, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose today. The Markit
CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
added 1.1 basis points from Dec. 24 to a mid-price of 94.7 basis
points as of 11:19 a.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Markets were closed yesterday for the
Christmas holiday.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 2.36 basis points to 14.11 basis
points as of 11:20 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are the most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with 18
trades of $1 million or more as of 11:21 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Bonds of RadioShack have declined 19.2 percent this year.
Profitability is being squeezed as the company concentrates on
low-margin mobile phones to fend off competition from online and
discount retailers.  French Guarantees  Peugeot said in July that it was burning through cash at a
rate of 200 million euros ($263.8 million) a month as the
European auto market heads for a 17-year low. The automaker
reached an 11.5 billion-euro refinancing agreement to rescue its
bank unit last week. The deal is part of broader effort to shore
up the automaker’s finances, including 7 billion euros in bond
guarantees from the French state, asset sales and a partnership
with General Motors Co.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation euro region shrank
0.1 percent in the third quarter, the area’s statistics office
in Luxembourg said on Dec. 6. The region is estimated to expand
by 0.38 percent next year, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The ratio of downgrades to upgrades in Western Europe
increased to 8.2 in 2012 from 4.7 last year, according to data
from Moody’s.  Near Zero  The U.S. central bank said on Dec. 12 for the first time
that rates will stay low “at least as long” as the jobless
rate remains above 6.5 percent and Fed economists project
inflation of no more than 2.5 percent one or two years in the
future. The Fed has kept its benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008.  “Companies are borrowing more for general corporate
purposes and they may make an acquisition, they may sit on the
cash,”  Sabur Moini , who manages about $2.5 billion of high-
yield assets at Payden & Rygel in  Los Angeles , said in a
telephone interview. “Those are the kinds of things that
concern” ratings companies, he said, “when companies are just
raising cash and it’s sort of unclear what they’re going to do
with the cash.”  Investors are taking on more risk by buying  junk bonds  that
have lower covenant quality, according to Moody’s. Sales of so-
called pay-in-kind toggle notes, securities that allow the
borrower to make interest payments with more debt instead of
cash, reached $4.9 billion this year, the most since $6.5
billion in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘More Aggressive’  “You are seeing more aggressive deal structures,” Moini
said. “Investors want yield and even if it’s a PIK toggle, CCC
deal at 9 percent, there are buyers for that.”  The relative yield investors demand to hold company debt
rather than sovereign securities shrank to 219 basis points this
year through Dec. 21 from 351 basis points at the end of 2011,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Spreads have
fallen from 657 basis points in December 2008.  Corporate bonds have returned 11.4 percent on average each
year since losing 7.5 percent in 2008.  The default rate for speculative-grade companies fell to
2.7 percent in November from 3.1 percent in October, below the
4.8 percent average since 1983, according to Moody’s. The rate
will “remain below historical averages” next year, Moody’s
analysts led by Albert Metz said in a Dec. 10 report.  “If you look at some of the spreads where these corporates
are trading, you start to wonder how much more of a rally can
you get?” Kenneth Naehu, who helps oversee about $3.25 billion
in assets as head of fixed income at Bel Air Investment Advisors
LLC in Los Angeles, said in a telephone interview. “That
doesn’t mean it’s impossible, you’re just up against levels that
will be difficult to rally from.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  