-- Canada Bank Bonds, China Web, Ukraine Bank: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-12-26T13:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/canada-bank-bonds-china-internet-ukraine-bank-compliance.html
Canadian banks issued a record
amount of domestic debt this year as they rushed to get ahead of
new rules that will make issuing subordinated bonds costlier as
of next month.  Lenders such as  Royal Bank of Canada  and Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce sold C$31.6 billion ($31.8 billion) in domestic
bonds this year, or 11 percent more than in 2011 and the most in
Bloomberg League Tables dating to 1999. So far in December,
banks sold C$4.6 billion in bonds, more than double the amount
from the same period last year, the data show.  Borrowing accelerated before rule changes take effect that
will change the way regulators treat callable subordinated debt,
which banks use to build capital provisions. Beginning Jan. 1,
Canadian banks will no longer be able to issue subordinated
notes as so-called Tier 2 securities, part of a system where
lenders classify capital depending on the ability of the bonds
to absorb losses.  Next year’s issuance of debt by the country’s eight largest
banks will fall as much as 20 percent, said  John Aiken , an
analyst in Toronto at  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Although banks aren’t
restricted from issuing subordinated debt, it won’t be as
economical for them to do so, he said.  Canada’s banking regulator released final Basel III capital
adequacy rules this month that aim to bring the country’s
lenders into line with new global standards beginning next year.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Japan FSA Panel Proposes Tougher Penalties on Insider Trading  The advisory committee of Japan’s Financial Services Agency
has recommended penalties against leakers of confidential
corporate information, including planned share sales.  Brokerages that leak information should be fined the
equivalent of as much as three months of fees earned selling
securities on behalf of the company whose information is leaked,
plus some underwriting fees, the panel said in a final
recommendation paper. The penalties against asset managers that
trade on inside information should be increased to as much as
three months of management fees. The names of brokerage
employees who leak confidential corporate information should be
disclosed in public in egregious cases, the panel said.  The government seeks to win parliament’s endorsement on the
law amendment to stiffen penalties.  Australian Regulators Work On Shadow Banking Rules, The Age Says  Corporate and prudential regulators in Australia will
jointly develop plans to improve regulation of the so-called
shadow banking industry, The Age reported yesterday.  The regulations mark “the final stages of a regulatory
crackdown on finance companies that issue debentures to retail
investors,” according to the newspaper.  The  Australian Securities and Investments Commission  and
the  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority  will “consult
more widely with industry” early in the coming year so as to
better regulate unsecured loans, The Age said.  The proposals include the introduction of mandatory minimum
capital and liquidity requirements for retail debenture issuers.  Dodd-Frank Swap Rules Delayed Six Months for Overseas Trades  The largest Wall Street banks and foreign-based financial
companies won a six-month delay in some swap regulations for
overseas trades, even as they must begin registering with U.S.
regulators by year-end.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the main U.S.
derivatives regulator, voted 4-1 to leave the registration
deadline in place while providing a delay until July 12 for
capital and other requirements for overseas operations of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other banks,
the agency said in a statement. The CFTC also reduced the number
of overseas offices immediately registering.  The international reach of CFTC swap rules has been one of
the most controversial elements of the agency’s Dodd-Frank Act
rules, prompting opposition from financial companies. The agency
has also faced criticism from European and Asian regulators over
the reach of a rule requiring trades to be guaranteed at
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other platforms.  The CFTC is working with international regulators to
determine when overseas rules can be used to substitute
compliance with Dodd-Frank measures.  Under the exemption order, foreign-based banks and overseas
operations of U.S. banks don’t need to count trades they have
with non-U.S. clients to determine whether they cross the
threshold requiring registration with the CFTC. The agency also
sought additional public comment on how to define U.S. entities
and foreign branches of U.S. companies.  Dennis Kelleher, CEO of Better Markets, a Washington-based
organization advocating stricter financial regulation, said the
delay fails to protect U.S. taxpayers.  China Web Stocks Sink on State Rules as E-House Jumps  Chinese equities fell Dec. 24 in New York, after posting
the longest stretch of weekly gains since October, as concern
the government will take stricter measures to control the
nation’s online access sent Internet stocks lower.  The Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress,
China’s lawmaking body, will decide this week on proposed
legislation that would require Web users to register their real
names to gain Internet access, the Xinhua news agency reported
Dec. 23.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of the Twitter-like Weibo service in
China, dropped the most in three weeks and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) 
retreated from a six-month high.  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ) 
surged the most in two weeks.  The People’s Daily newspaper, published by the ruling
Communist Party, has featured during the past week front-page
editorials calling for more regulation of the Web, saying the
“chaotic Internet” needs to be controlled.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., also declined. The ETF has
risen 12 percent this year.  Japan May Expand List of High-Capital Banks, Nikkei Says  Japan may expand its list of banks it requires to maintain
high levels of capital, Nikkei reported, without attribution.  Major trust banks, including Sumitomo Mitsui Trust and
Norinchukin, would be added to the list of Japanese banks
required to maintain the higher levels, according to the Nikkei
report. The proposal recommends a capital ratio 0.5 point higher
than regular banks for the newly designated banks, to be phased
in beginning in 2016.  Mitsubishi UFJ, Mizuho Financial, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
are on the G-20 list of 28 global banks that are to have the 2.5
point surcharge.  Japan’s Financial Services Authority next year will start
evaluation of banks to determine the list.  Russia Plans Tax Law for Off-Shore Projects, Vedomosti Says  Russian government ministries approved a draft tax law for
companies working on the continental shelf,  Vedomosti  reported,
citing an unidentified government official.  The law may be signed by year-end. The draft law doesn’t
contain the amendment proposed by the Natural Resources Ministry
that had added a profit tax for offshore projects, the newspaper
reported, citing Deputy Minister Denis Khramov. The newspaper
said Khramov didn’t elaborate.  The draft included all of the government’s proposed tax
incentives, the paper reported, citing Deputy Energy Minister
Pavel Fedorov.  Companies will pay a mineral extraction tax at five to
thirty percent of the oil price, will be guaranteed a stable tax
regime for 15 years, and will get tax benefits, according to
draft law.  Compliance Action  SouthGobi Says Mongolia Corruption Probe to Look At Licensing  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ)  said the Mongolian  Independent
Authority Against Corruption  is continuing its investigation
into historical licensing issues, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  The Authority will investigate divestment of SouthGobi
licenses to third parties and the involvement and conduct of
government officials. SouthGobi said the authority has concluded
its questioning of its chief legal counsel Sarah Armstrong, and
she is no longer a suspect.  SEC Puts Off Decision on BlackRock’s Copper ETF to February  The Securities & Exchange Commission, the U.S. regulator,
delayed a decision to approve or disapprove  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s
proposed copper exchange-traded fund from Dec. 24 to Feb. 22.  More time is needed to consider comments submitted, the SEC
said in a  notice  dated Dec. 21 on its website. NYSE Arca Inc.
had filed on June 19 a request to list the iShares Copper Trust,
sponsored by BlackRock Asset Management International Inc., the
SEC said.  Melissa Garville, a spokeswoman for BlackRock in New York,
declined to comment Dec. 24 on the SEC’s decision.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. won regulatory approval for the first
U.S. ETF backed by physical copper, according to an SEC order on
its website date Dec. 14. The regulator accepted the proposal
amid remarks from some industrial users that the product may
disrupt the copper market.  Comings and Goings  Ukraine Central Banker Joins Government Amid IMF Loan Talks  Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych  promoted central bank
chief Serhiy Arbuzov to first deputy premier as the government
seeks its third bailout loan from the  International Monetary
Fund  since 2008.  Serhiy Arbuzov, who led  Natsionalnyi Bank Ukrainy  since
December 2010, will be responsible for the country’s finances
and economy, as well as trade, social, tax and agricultural
policies, Yanukovych said in a decree posted on his  website  Dec.
24. Ihor Prasolov, who was head of the central bank’s advisory
council, was appointed economy minister.  The country’s legislature approved  Mykola Azarov ’s return
as prime minister on Dec. 13, after he resigned earlier in the
month due to his election to parliament.  For more, click here.  El-Erian Named by Obama to Lead U.S. Global Development Council  President  Barack Obama  will appoint Mohamed El-Erian, the
chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., to
head the U.S. global development council.  El-Erian, who shares the title of co-chief investment
officer of Newport Beach, California-based Pimco with  Bill
Gross , will be chairman of Obama’s global development council,
which was created earlier this year to advise the president on
ways to promote economic development and good governance in
countries all over the world, according to a Dec. 21 statement
from the White House. El-Erian, 54, will head the council as a
member of the private sector and his role at Pimco won’t change.  El-Erian coined the “new normal” phrase in 2009, which
describes an era of lower returns, heightened government
regulation, diminishing U.S. clout in the world economy and a
bigger role for developing nations. He is the author of “When
Markets Collide,” a 2008 New York Times bestseller, and
regularly writes commentaries on topics ranging from the global
economy to education.  Congressman McHenry to Lead House Investigations Subcommittee  Congressman  Patrick McHenry , a Republican from  North
Carolina , was chosen to lead the House Oversight and
Investigations Subcommittee in the 113th Congress, according to
a statement on his website.  The appointment was made by the incoming chairman of the
Financial Services Committee, Congressman Jeb Hensarling, a
Republican from Texas.  As chairman, McHenry “will provide oversight of the
 Federal Reserve , Treasury, the  Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation , the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
 National Credit Union Administration , the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the Export-
Import Bank,” according to the statement.  Aso Named Japan’s Next Finance Chief as Abe Primes Fiscal
Pump  Taro Aso, a champion of pork-barrel spending when prime
minister, will become Japan’s sixth finance chief in three
years, auguring expanded fiscal stimulus in the world’s third-
largest economy.  Aso, 72, will also serve as deputy prime minister and
financial services minister in Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
administration, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said in
Tokyo today. Fumio Kishida will be foreign minister, while Akira
Amari will be economy minister.  The finance minister’s first task will be to deliver his
party’s pledge of a “large-scale” supplementary budget to
stimulate the economy, which is forecast to shrink for a third
straight quarter. At issue will be averting any sell-off in the
bond market as the nation grapples with debt in excess of twice
the size of gross domestic product.  The incoming Liberal Democratic Party leadership team has
championed both fiscal and monetary stimulus, along with a
weaker  exchange rate  to end Japan’s deflation and restart
growth.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 