-- Chile Raised to 4th-Highest Rating at Standard & Poor’s
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-12-26T20:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/chile-rating-raised-at-s-p-to-fourth-highest-aa-outlook-stable.html
Chile , the biggest copper-producing
nation, had its foreign currency debt rating raised to the
fourth-highest level at  Standard & Poor’s , which cited the
economy’s resiliency amid a global slump.  Chile was already the highest-rated country in  Latin
America  and today’s upgrade to AA- brings S&P in line with
Moody’s Investors Service’s classification.  Fitch Ratings  ranks
the country one level lower at A+. The outlook on S&P’s rating
is stable, the company said in a statement.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to buy Chile’s
dollar bonds due in 2022 rose one basis point today to 66 basis
points, or 0.66 percentage point. The spread on 2019 bonds sold
by  South Korea  was 104 basis points. Chile joins  China  and the
Czech Republic in boasting AA- or equivalent ratings from
Moody’s and S&P.  “Chile has been trading with an implied rating of AA-, so
this ratifies market trading levels,” said Jorge Selaive, an
economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones, who predicted an
upgrade from S&P last month. “It will be a major advantage for
Chilean companies, which should be able to issue bonds at
attractive yields and it’s obviously an additional appreciative
factor for the peso.”  Chile now boasts a AA ratings from two of the three largest
rating companies, which may mean it is eligible to be included
in more investment funds. Some fixed-income funds have rules
that require all assets to have investment-grade ratings from at
least two of the  ratings agencies .  Growth Outlook  Chile’s central bank raised its forecast for economic
growth on Dec. 18 to 5.5 percent in 2012 and as fast as 5.25
percent next year. S&P expects 6 percent growth this year and
5.2 percent next year.  “The upgrade reflects the growing resilience of the
Chilean economy that in turn continues to improve the
government’s capacity for countercyclical policies in the face
of an external slowdown,” S&P wrote.  The cost of protecting Chilean bonds against default for
five years was unchanged at 73 basis points. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere
to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for the  Czech Republic , which is also
ranked AA- at S&P, traded at 64 basis points yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  