-- China Starts Longest Bullet-Train Line, Luring Air Travelers
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-12-26T01:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/china-starts-longest-bullet-train-line-luring-air-travelers.html
China started its 2,298-kilometer
(1,428-mile) high-speed train line, the longest in the world, as
the nation boosts investment in rail networks, intensifying
competition for airlines.  The first train on the Beijing-Guangzhou line left Beijing
West Station at 9 a.m. as scheduled, according to state
broadcaster  China Central Television . The trains will initially
run at a speed of 300 kilometers per hour, reducing the travel
time to as few as eight hours from the previous 21 hours,
according to the rail ministry.  The new line, which will eventually connect to  Hong Kong ,
is part of the nation’s plan to build a 16,000-kilometer high-
speed rail network by 2015, undeterred by a deadly bullet-train
accident last year. The new service may lure air travelers and
prompt  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  and  Air China Ltd. (601111)  to cut
fares, according to Barclays Plc.  “The continued development of the high-speed train network
will marginalize short-haul domestic air routes,” Barclays
analysts Patrick Xu and  Jon Windham  wrote in a note to clients
last week. It will “exacerbate the competition on long-haul
domestic routes and depress margins.”  China has increased spending on rail projects this year as
the government sought to revive growth in the world’s second-
biggest economy. The National Development and Reform Commission,
the nation’s top economic planner, earlier this month approved a
63.7 billion-yuan ($10 billion) subway construction plan in
Changsha city,  Hunan province .  Train Crash  In September, the agency approved subway projects in 18
cities, inter-city rail projects and road construction plans.
Rail construction had slowed last year after 40 people were
killed in a bullet-train crash near the eastern city of Wenzhou.  “China’s central government invested a lot this year in
rail to revive economic growth,” said  James Chung , a Shanghai-
based analyst at  Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  “Fixed-asset
investment can boost growth quickly.”  The line linking capital Beijing with  Pearl River Delta ’s
Guangzhou goes through five provinces from the north to the
south. It also connects to the existing high-speed rail lines
including Beijing-Shanghai and Guangzhou-Shenzhen, according to
the Ministry of Railways.  The fastest bullet-train on the new line has ticket prices
starting from 865 yuan ($139), about 73 percent of the lowest
air fare on the route, Barclays said Dec. 21.  Discount Offers  For Dec. 26 flights between Beijing and Wuhan, a key
destination on the line, China Southern offered a discount of as
much as 53 percent, according to  Ctrip.com , the country’s
biggest travel portal. Air  China  gave a 50 percent discount on
that day, the website showed Dec. 24.  The Beijing-Guangzhou line will also step up competition
for China Southern’s Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo services between
the cities, an about three-hour flight. High-speed train
services in China have lured travelers from flights that often
suffer delays because of airspace restrictions and poor weather.  The nation’s carriers flew 267.5 million passengers in the
first ten months of 2012, 9 percent more than a year earlier,
according to  data  by the aviation regulator. Nationwide rail
passengers rose 4.6 percent to  1.7 billion  through November,
according to the rail ministry. It didn’t provide passenger
numbers for high-speed railways.  In Hong Kong, about 8,000 workers are engaged in the
construction of a HK$66.9 billion ($8.6 billion) 26-kilometer
underground railway, which will run from downtown Hong Kong to
the Chinese border and connect to the Beijing-Guangzhou line,
builder  MTR Corp (66)  said.  Kowloon Terminus  Piling of the underground West Kowloon Terminus has been
completed. Excavation and tunneling works are in progress, MTR,
the city’s subway operator, said in an e-mailed statement. The
Hong Kong section of the express rail link, expected to be
completed in 2015, may carry about 99,000 passengers a day in
2016, it said.  The 11-hectare terminus, which will have customs and
immigration facilities, is located next to the city’s tallest
building  International Commerce Centre . It is also in the
vicinity of the planned West Kowloon Cultural District, an
airport express station and a subway station.  Regional Hub  The link “will facilitate the social and economic
integration of Hong Kong with cities in the Pearl River Delta as
well as other major cities in the mainland,” MTR said. It
“will enhance Hong Kong’s position as a regional hub.”  China’s Ministry of Railways didn’t publish a total
investment amount for the new high-speed line because it was
developed in parts and then connected. The Wuhan-Guangzhou
section, which extends 1,069 kilometers and began operating a
year ago, cost 116.6 billion  yuan .  Another landmark Chinese high-speed railway, the 1,318-
kilometer Beijing to Shanghai link that started operating in
June 2011, cost 220.9 billion yuan.  The ministry said the Beijing-Guangzhou line is “one of
the most sophisticated high-speed railways” in the country.
Disaster prevention and monitoring systems have been
strengthened and a risk control system has been set up to ensure
the network’s safety, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  