-- China Beige Book Signals Limits on Rebound on Loan Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/china-beige-book-signals-limits-on-rebound-as-loan-demand-slips.html
China ’s economic rebound is uneven,
with improvements in retailing, real estate and mining countered
by rising inventories and lower corporate borrowing, according
to a report modeled on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s  Beige Book .  While shopping outlets and services companies are
optimistic, credit conditions signal “this is not yet a period
of strong expansion,” CBB International LLC, a New York-based
researcher, said in an e-mailed summary of its  China Beige Book .  The new Communist Party leadership headed by  Xi Jinping 
aims to sustain the expansion of the world’s second-biggest
economy without fueling property-price gains or adding to banks’
bad-loan risks. The  World Bank  says growth may be as much as 8.4
percent next year after a likely 7.9 percent expansion in 2012,
set to be the weakest pace since 1999.  “The economy as a whole saw an uneven rebound in the
fourth quarter, driven by strength in retail, real estate,
mining and to a lesser extent, manufacturing,” said Leland Miller, New York-based president of China Beige Book
International. “But serious structural issues remain, including
expanding manufacturing and mining inventories and credit-easing
policies that continue to yield increasingly diminished
returns.”  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.3 percent yesterday to
2,219.13, its highest in five months, after wiping out this
year’s losses of as much as 11 percent Dec. 25.  Poly Real Estate
Group Co. (600048)  and  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  climbed at least 1.9 percent as the
Shanghai Securities News reported residency controls in smaller
cities will be loosened.  The next reading on the economy will come from a report on
industrial companies’ profits, due to be released today.  2,000 Businesses  The China Beige Book’s findings are based on a survey of
more than 2,000 businesses and interviews with company
executives, bank loan officers and branch managers. The poll,
which charts comparisons with the previous three-month period,
was carried out from Oct. 26 to Dec. 2. The full report will be
released in mid-January.  Official data painted a mixed picture of the economy in
November, with new loans and exports trailing economists’ median
estimates as industrial output and retail sales exceeded
forecasts. Banks extended 522.9 billion  yuan  ($84 billion) of
local-currency loans.  Iron-ore producers strengthened “sharply” as steel demand
rose from housing, infrastructure and manufacturing, according
to the China Beige Book summary. At the same time, faster gains
in inventories in manufacturing and mining call into question
“just how sustainable this expansion is,” CBB said.  Credit Easing  While credit is still easing, bankers are cautious and
borrowing costs are rising, with fewer companies taking out bank
loans and more turning to so-called shadow lenders, the survey
found. “This mismatch is at the heart of China’s conflicting
stories about stimulus,” CBB said.  China’s growth probably accelerated this quarter after the
government accelerated investment-project approvals, and cut
 interest rates  in June and July. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 34 economists is for a gain of 7.8
percent from a year earlier, up from 7.4 percent in the previous
three months.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  