-- China Vanke May List Shares in Hong Kong, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-26T08:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/china-vanke-may-list-shares-in-hong-kong-credit-suisse-says.html
China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest
developer by market value traded on the nation’s exchanges, may
be planning to convert its foreign-currency denominated shares
for a listing in Hong Kong, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Vanke suspended trading in both its  B shares  and yuan-
denominated A shares from today as the company is “planning
important matters,” according to a filing to the Shenzhen stock
exchange yesterday, in which the company didn’t elaborate.  Vanke would be joining  China International Marine
Containers Group Co. (2039) , the first Chinese company to leave the  B
share market  for the  Hong Kong bourse  where the daily trading
volume is more than 3,000 times larger, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The conversion gives the Shenzhen-based
developer direct access to global investors as funding channels
remain restricted on the Chinese mainland amid government curbs
aimed at stemming speculation that has driven up  home prices .  “This is a long expected move,” Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-
based property analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in an e-mailed
report today, citing Vanke’s earlier indications of the
intention to list in  Hong Kong . “It seems this process has
accelerated after CIMC successfully converted its B shares to H
shares last week,” referring to Chinese companies traded in
Hong Kong.  Tan Huajie, Vanke’s Shenzhen-based board secretary,
couldn’t immediately be reached for a comment on the report.  A listing in Hong Kong will give Vanke a “smoother funding
channel” than Hong Kong-listed Winsor Properties Holdings Ltd.,
in which Vanke bought a 79.26 percent stake in July, said Tian Shixin, a Shanghai-based analyst at BOC International  China  Ltd.  “In a capital intensive industry like real estate, the
more cash you have, the faster you can grow,” she said.  ‘Not Optimistic’  About HK$22.6 million of Vanke’s B shares on average
 changed hands  daily in the past six months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, compared with HK$302.1 billion for
 Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , a Hong Kong traded Chinese
developer that’s less than half the market value of Vanke.  Chinese real estate companies’ funding environment
“remains not optimistic” as new development loans fall,
restricting housing starts and investments even as a rebound in
sales improves their ability to repay debt, Vanke said in its
first-half report on Aug. 6.  China’s B-share markets were set up in 1992 to give local
companies a way to raise funds from foreign investors, who were
banned from buying securities denominated in  yuan . Foreigners
and Chinese individuals are allowed to trade B shares.  Waning Interest  Interest in the B-share market has waned as the government
allowed qualified overseas investors to access the larger, more
liquid A-share market.  Vanke had 1.31 billion B shares, denominated in Hong Kong
dollars, as of Sept. 30, according to the company. The stock has
gained 63 percent this year in Shenzhen trading. Its A shares,
which are seven times as many, rallied 35 percent, compared with
a 0.3 percent gain in the benchmark  Shenzhen Composite Index. (SZCOMP)   “After converting to H shares, China Vanke’s significant
valuation discount to other leading Hong Kong-listed China
property developers should warrant a significant relative upside
for China Vanke H shares,” Du wrote. “We expect a potential
switch for investors from some stocks with rich valuation to
China Vanke H.”  Vanke’s B shares trade at about 8.7 times estimated 2012
earnings, which compares with about 11 times at Hong Kong-listed
 China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , according to BOC
International’s Tian. China Overseas has rallied almost 80
percent this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net  