-- Chinese Scholars Demand Communist Leaders Relax Their Grip
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-27T01:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/china-scholars-demand-ruling-party-relax-its-grip-on-government.html
A group of Chinese intellectuals
wrote a letter demanding the Communist Party end Internet
censorship and ease its grip on the courts, according to a copy
posted on the  blog  of one of the signatories.  The letter, signed by 71 people and posted on the blog of
Peking University law professor Zhang Qianfan, calls for the
party to end its oversight of government personnel decisions,
leave court decisions to judges and lawyers, and allow people to
speak and assemble freely.  The document comes as the Communist Party’s new leaders,
including General Secretary Xi Jinping, have demanded some
reforms including a crackdown on corruption and a halt to
extravagance by government officials. In December, Xi made a
speech urging the party to “behave within the scope of the
Constitution” and “take the lead in observing the law,” the
official Xinhua News Agency reported Dec. 14.  “I don’t think society should simply wait passively for
whatever comes up but we should express our ideas and try to
build a social consensus,” Zhang, who helped draft the letter,
said in a phone interview. “Now is a good time to do something
new and if we miss such a chance then our social problems will
become more serious.”  Xi’s comments about respecting the constitution have “let
us see hopes” of a nation ruled by law, the letter said.
 China ’s constitution enshrines freedom of speech, assembly and
the press, though the party stifles protests that it deems a
threat to its rule.  Later yesterday, the official Xinhua News Agency ran two
stories that addressed two of the issues raised in the letter.
One quoted Chief Justice Wang Shengjun saying he wanted to “put
an end to external meddling in court trials and ensure judicial
independence.”  Liu Yunshan  The other cited Politburo Standing Committee member Liu
Yunshan ordering party organization leaders to reject nepotism,
bribery, “illicit canvassing and vote-buying” in selecting new
officials.  The petition was reminiscent of Charter 08, a petition
seeking similar reforms. One of its organizers,  Liu Xiaobo , was
sentenced to 11 years in prison for state subversion. He was
awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010 for his efforts to promote
democracy and human rights.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said she
hadn’t seen the report and declined to comment.  Petition letters seeking reform have a long tradition in
China. In 1895, a petition signed by imperial civil examination
candidates led to a short-lived period of national cultural and
political reforms that ended when conservative opponents of the
movement beheaded six of its leaders.  Political Changes  Zhang’s letter urged political changes under the leadership
of the party, including a better implementation of direct
elections of people’s delegates at the town and county level. It
didn’t seek an end to the Communist Party’s rule or demand
direct election of state leaders.  “None of this is new and it’s not something that’s really
against the Party’s will,” Zhang said. “They already expressed
their will in the constitution or in the charter of the party
itself.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  