-- China Will Investigate 12 Officials After Deadly Schoolbus Crash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-26T04:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/china-will-investigate-12-officials-after-deadly-schoolbus-crash.html
Authorities suspended 12 officials
after an overloaded minivan crashed in eastern  China , killing 11
children, the deadliest such accident since 19 were killed when
a makeshift school bus rammed into a coal truck last year.  A vice mayor in the town of Guixi and the head of the local
education bureau were among the officials who were suspended and
put under investigation, the official  People’s Daily  newspaper
reported today. Those responsible for the crash will be dealt
with seriously and in accordance with the laws after the
investigation ends, the report said.  The seven-seat school minivan, loaded with 17 people,
plunged into a roadside pond Monday. The crash is the latest in
a series of fatal accidents that prompted Premier Wen Jiabao to
demand more regulation and money for school bus services in
China. The State Council issued a directive in April detailing
standards and qualifications for school vehicles and drivers.  Monday’s crash “has led to concerns about how effectively
the regulation has been carried out by local governments
throughout the vast rural areas,” the state-run English-
language  China Daily  said in an editorial today. “It also shows
that local governments have made insufficient efforts to monitor
the implementation of the relevant state stipulations, a kind of
dereliction of duty.”  Overcrowding on school buses is common in rural China,
where scattered schools are being closed or merged into bigger
ones. Ministry of Education data showed 257,140 primary schools
at the end of 2010, down from 491,273 in 2001. The ministry
called on governments at all levels yesterday to make student
safety a priority and overhaul transport services.  The van was headed to the Chunlei kindergarten and all of
the dead were between four and six years old. The driver of the
van, Zhou Chun’e, also runs the kindergarten and was detained.  Kindergarten Shut  The kindergarten, established in 2004, doesn’t have a
government license and was ordered shut yesterday, the Xinhua
News Agency said.  In November last year, a nine-seat private school van
overloaded with 62 kindergarten children and two adults crashed
head-on with a truck in a rural area in western Gansu Province,
killing 19 of the children and both adults. Early this month, an
incident involving a school bus in Hunan Province killed one and
another in Shandong killed 2.  The families of the victims from Monday’s crash will be
given 480,000  yuan  ($77,100) in compensation, Xinhua reported.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  