-- Crude Rises as U.S. Lawmakers Prepare to Discuss Budget Measures
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-12-26T13:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/crude-rises-as-u-s-lawmakers-prepare-to-discuss-budget-measures.html
Oil rose in  New York  for the first
time in three days as President  Barack Obama  will cut short his
vacation for talks to avert spending cuts and tax increases that
threaten the economy of the world’s biggest crude consumer.  West Texas Intermediate gained as much as 0.7 percent
before Democrats and Republicans convene tomorrow for talks
aimed at avoiding more than $600 billion in automatic measures
known as the fiscal cliff, which are scheduled to take effect
Jan. 1.  Crude stockpiles  in the U.S. probably fell last week to
the lowest in 10 weeks as imports decreased, a Bloomberg News
survey showed. The volume for all WTI contracts was down 87
percent on the 100-day average.  “It is good news that President Obama is cutting his
holidays to negotiate a solution to the fiscal cliff,” Ehsan Ul-Haq, a senior market consultant at KBC Energy Economics in
Walton-on-Thames,  England , said by e-mail. “Thin volumes don’t
represent the overall  market sentiment .”  WTI for February delivery climbed as much as 60 cents to
$89.21 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $89.14 at 12:52 p.m. in London. Futures slid
5 cents to $88.61 on Dec. 24. There was no floor or electronic
trading yesterday because of the Christmas holiday. Prices have
lost 9.8 percent this year.  Brent for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained 80 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
$109.60 a barrel. The number of contracts trading was 83 percent
lower than the 100-day average. The European benchmark crude was
at a premium of $20.46 to WTI after closing at $20.29 on Dec.
24. Brent is up 2.1 percent this year.  Washington Talks  President Obama plans to leave his Hawaii vacation and
return to  Washington  for the budget talks tomorrow, according to
a White House aide who asked not to be identified. Congress will
return the same day.  A failure to reach an agreement on the budget plan would
push the U.S. into recession for the first half of 2013, the
nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  has said.  U.S. crude inventories fell 1.7 million barrels, or 0.5
percent, in the week ended Dec. 21 to 370 million, the lowest
since Oct. 12, according to the median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed before an Energy Department report this week.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 11 a.m. on Dec. 28 in Washington, two days later than
usual due to the Christmas holiday. The industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  will publish separate data on inventories
tomorrow.  Iran Ministry  WTI has fallen in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom deepened the
glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s largest storage hub and the
delivery point for New York futures. That has left it at an
average discount of $17.45 a barrel to Brent this year, compared
with a premium of about 7 cents in the five years through 2010.  Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said
the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council is risking a regional
crisis because of “irresponsible” criticism and its heightened
military focus, according to a report published by the state-run
Mehr news agency today.  The GCC will coordinate air, land, and marine forces under
one structure, Bahrain’s Foreign Minister Sheikh Khalid Bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa said this week. Sheikh Khalid also called
 Iran’s nuclear program  a “very serious” threat.  The GCC, which includes the U.A.E.,  Saudi Arabia , Kuwait,
Oman, Bahrain and Qatar, has accused Shiite-led Iran of
intervening in the internal affairs Arab countries in the
Persian Gulf, home to three fifths of the world’s oil reserves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  