-- Dallas Cowboys’ Brent Indicted Over Fatal Car Crash
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/dallas-cowboys-josh-brent-indicted-over-fatal-dec-8-car-crash.html
Dallas  Cowboys nose tackle Josh
Brent was indicted on a charge of intoxication manslaughter over
a crash that killed a teammate who was riding with him in his
car in a suburb of Dallas, according to prosecutors.  The indictment by a grand jury in state court in Texas
yesterday follows the Dec. 8 crash in Irving that killed Brent’s
friend  Jerry Brown , who was on the team’s practice squad, said
Debbie Denmon, a spokeswoman for the Dallas District Attorney’s
Office.  Brent was released from jail on a $100,000 bond and is
required to wear an ankle bracelet that reads his blood-alcohol
level, Denmon said. Intoxication manslaughter carries a maximum
sentence of 20 years in prison, she said.  Brent’s lawyer, George Milner III, wasn’t immediately
available for comment on the indictment.  The crash happened when the car, which was moving at a high
rate of speed, flipped at least once after hitting a curb,
according to police. Brent had a blood-alcohol level more than
twice the legal limit, the Dallas Morning News reported.  Brown’s Funeral  Brent, who attended Brown’s funeral and has had the support
of Brown’s family, said in a statement after the accident that
he was devastated and would live with the “horrific and tragic
loss every day” for the rest of his life.  At the prompting of Brown’s mother and his teammates, Brent
attended the Cowboys’ Dec. 16 game and stood on the sideline in
street clothes as players, wearing Brown’s No. 53 on their
helmets, shared in a moment of silence. Brent’s appearance drew
criticism from some and two days later the team banned him from
the sideline, according to ESPN.  A defensive tackle, Brent is in his third season in the
 National Football League  after playing at the  University of
Illinois . He had started five games this season.  Brown, who also attended  Illinois , joined the Cowboys’
practice squad on Oct. 24. He had yet to appear on the active
roster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net ;
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  