-- Deadly Winter Storm May Bring 3 Inches of Slush to NYC
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-12-26T20:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/deadly-winter-storm-may-bring-3-inches-of-slush-to-nyc.html
A powerful winter storm that has
killed at least six people in the Midwest and South and grounded
more than 1,500 flights may drop as much as 3 inches (7.6
centimeters) of snow and ice on New York City today.  A winter weather advisory was issued as the storm neared
the area about 3 p.m. because it may start as snow and freezing
rain, said  Tim Morrin , a National Weather Service meteorologist
in Upton, New York. The heaviest amounts are expected in the
Bronx and northern Queens and may be on the ground as workers
are going home for the day, he said.  “We think the winter hazard will be short-lived,” Morrin
said by telephone. “We do anticipate a changeover to rain, and
after dark it will be mostly rain.”  The storm has been dumping heavy snow across the Great
Plains and Midwest and bringing high winds and tornadoes across
the South. At least six people have died, according to the
 Associated Press .  More than 1,500 flights have been canceled around the U.S.,
according to  FlightAware , a Houston-based airline tracking
service.  Air traffic in Philadelphia was delayed more than three
hours, while halts of more than an hour were reported in  Newark ,
New Jersey, at New York’s Kennedy and LaGuardia airports and at
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, according to the  Federal Aviation
Administration’s  website.  Blizzard Warning  A blizzard warning for much as 14 inches of snow and winds
as high as 40 miles (64 kilometers) per hour stretches from
Indiana to Erie,  Pennsylvania , according to the weather service.  At least 16 people were injured yesterday from tornadoes
and high winds that swept from Texas to Alabama, damaging homes,
hospitals and businesses, according to the  U.S. Storm Prediction
Center  in Norman, Oklahoma.  A tornado watch, meaning the destructive storms may form at
any time, was posted until 5 p.m. local time throughout eastern
 North Carolina  and South Carolina, the weather service said. The
agency also issued high-wind alerts along the coast from
northern  New Jersey  to eastern  Massachusetts .  More than 252,000 homes and businesses were without power
in an area that stretched from Houston to New York, according to
utility websites and comments by company spokesmen compiled by
Bloomberg.  Two-thirds of those were in Arkansas, hit by high winds,
thunderstorms and ice yesterday. Areas with the most damage may
be blacked out for a week, Entergy Arkansas, the state’s largest
utility, said today on Twitter.  Power Out  Southern Co.’s Alabama Power had 4,981 customers without
electricity at mid-afternoon, down from a peak of 47,500
yesterday, Freddy Padilla, a company spokesman, said in a
telephone interview.  From 4 p.m. today to 6 a.m. tomorrow, winds in  New York  may
reach 40 mph with gusts as intense as 60 mph, Morrin said. In
addition, New York City, Long Island and coastal Connecticut may
experience some flooding from tides pushed 3 feet to 5 feet
above normal.  “Because this is a classic nor’easter with winds piling
water up, there is a potential for some minor to moderate
flooding,” Morrin said.  The worst will be from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. today and 6 a.m. to
9 a.m. tomorrow when the tides are at their highest, he said.  The track of the storm will spare the large East Coast
cities from Philadelphia to Boston any significant snowfall,
said Gary Best, a meteorologist with  Hometown Forecast Services
Inc . in Nashua,  New Hampshire .  Cities Spared  “If it was farther south and east, the big cities would
get walloped by snow,” Best said. “The farther west and north
of the track you go, that is where there will be double-digit
snowfall amounts.”  Syracuse, New York, may receive as much as 13 inches of
snow by tomorrow and Erie, Pennsylvania, may get 17 inches,
according to  the weather service . Snow falling in  Cleveland 
today cut visibility to about half a mile, according to the
weather service.  “The worst of the storm is going to be in swath from
northern  Ohio  through western New York and northern New
England,” said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc.
in  State College , Pennsylvania. “That is the area that is
probably getting a foot, maybe more.”  Western Massachusetts and Vermont may get 10 to 14 inches
of snow and the ski areas of New Hampshire and Maine may get as
much 18 inches, according to the weather service.  “The ski areas are going to love it, this is great news
for them,” Kines said.  In  Canada , Toronto is forecast to receive about 4 inches of
snow and parts of southern Ontario as much as 6 inches,
according to  Environment Canada .  A winter storm warning has been issued for southern  Quebec ,
where  Montreal  and the Eastern Townships may get as much as 10
inches, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  