-- Don’t Let Vaccine Critics Disrupt Supply to World’s Poor
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-26T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/don-t-let-vaccine-critics-disrupt-supply-to-world-s-poor.html
One of the greatest medical
achievements of our time is at imminent risk of being undermined
by bad science.  Thanks to a  herculean effort  by health advocates, 78
percent of children in low-income countries receive the basic
set of childhood vaccines, covering diphtheria, tetanus,
pertussis, hepatitis B and haemophilus influenzae. This campaign
will be disrupted,  and lives lost , if immunization critics win
their latest battle for an international ban on a vaccine
component that has proved to be safe time and time again.  Groups such as the Coalition for Mercury-Free Drugs and the
 Coalition for SafeMinds  are pressing  their case  before the
United Nations Environmental Program  meets  on Jan. 13 to prepare
a global treaty reducing mercury use. One draft of the treaty
bans the vaccine preservative thimerosol, a compound containing
ethyl mercury. Vaccine critics have continued to link thimerosol
to autism and other disorders, though the researcher who  posited
that connection  in 1998 was found to have  falsified  the data,
and no credible studies have replicated his result.  Those supporting the global ban say that with thimerosol no
longer used in vaccines in the U.S., its continued inclusion in
formulations meant for the developing world amounts to an
injustice.  It’s true that in 1999, with parents claiming that vaccines
had harmed their children, the  Food and Drug Administration 
acted with an abundance of caution  to ban  most uses of
thimerosol.  Since then, however, studies have shown that unlike other
types of mercury, ethyl mercury is not absorbed by the body. And
mounting evidence of the safety of thimerosol-containing
vaccines has won them the support of the  Global Advisory
Committee on Vaccine Safety , the  U.S. Institute of Medicine  and
the  American Academy of Pediatrics .  Why not be extra cautious and remove thimerosol from global
vaccines, just as it was taken out of U.S. doses? The answer is,
doing so would disrupt supplies and make vaccines lethally
expensive.  The need to package, ship and store vaccines contributes to
their cost. Thimerosol reduces those expenses by enabling the
production of some vaccines in multidose vials: The compound
prevents bacterial and fungal contamination when a needle is
repeatedly inserted into a bottle to withdraw doses.  Deployed in 120 countries to immunize 84 million children,
vaccines containing thimerosol  save the lives  of an estimated
1.4 million people every year. The preservative is also used in
wealthy countries for pandemic flu vaccines because multidose
packaging facilitates rapid production and dissemination.  If thimerosol were banned, manufacturers could test other
preservatives. However, the reformulated vaccines would have to
go through new safety and efficacy testing before being
approved, a process that can take a decade or more.  In the meantime, or alternatively, suppliers might package
the relevant vaccines in single-dose vials. Vaccine makers would
have to set up new production lines, which would raise
manufacturing costs  from 200 percent to 500 percent , according
to recent estimates. During that time, output would cease.  Single-dose vials take up more space than their multidose
equivalents, so the same amount of vaccine would require greater
shipping and storage capacity. And because most of the affected
vaccines must be chilled at a constant temperature, the costs
and capacity issues are even greater.  Higher costs would mean fewer children vaccinated, which
would mean more illness and death.  India , for instance, aims to
immunize all 25 million children born each year in the country
with the essential pentavalent vaccine, now provided in a 10-
dose vial at an  average  cost of $1.80 per immunization. With
doses packaged individually costing about $1 more, the same
budget for vaccines would leave 9 million kids unprotected
against basic childhood illnesses. That would be the true
injustice.  Vaccine critics have already invited the  comeback  of
childhood disease in the U.S. by creating geographic clusters of
unimmunized children. At the UNEP meeting, governments must stop
this assault on progress by excluding ethyl mercury from any
ban.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 