-- Egypt’s Mursi Seeks to Quiet Opposition, Boost Economy
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-12-27T08:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/egypt-s-mursi-says-people-voted-for-new-constitution-freely.html
President Mohamed Mursi said  Egypt ’s
new constitution ushered in an era of democracy, reaching out to
his opposition with an offer for dialogue to create the
stability needed to revive an economy hit by political unrest.  Mursi, facing mounting criticism from an opposition
movement concerned that he and the Muslim Brotherhood are
monopolizing power, said he asked Prime Minister Hisham Qandil
to make the “necessary” changes in the Cabinet to address the
needs of the coming period. He saluted both those who supported
and voting against the charter, saying the differences were a
healthy manifestation in a nation moving toward democracy.  The comments yesterday, though sweeping, were vague and
offered little in terms of concrete proposals to overcome the
polarization that has deepened since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster as
Egypt’s leader last year. The unrest is likely to increase as
the opposition gears up ahead of the expected start in two
months of parliamentary elections that will show whether
Islamists can maintain the majority they enjoyed under the now-
dissolved legislature or lose ground to secular opponents.  “We do not want to return to an era of the opinion of
one,” Mursi said in televised comments a day after officials
announced the constitution was approved by 64 percent of those
voting. The new charter, he said, doesn’t allow the president to
be an “absolute master or a tyrannical ruler.”  Ratings Lowered  The two-stage referendum that ended Dec. 22 was preceded by
clashes between Mursi’s Islamist backers and a fragmented
opposition of secularists, minority Christians and youth
activists.  The opposition has rejected earlier calls for a dialogue
and showed little indication of embracing the latest offer, even
as Mursi said there was “no alternative” than to talk.  “The fight against the constitution will continue through
all the democratic mechanisms, whether through protests, sit-ins
and parliamentary elections,” Hussein Abdel-Ghani, spokesman
for the opposition umbrella movement, the National Salvation
Front, was quoted as saying by the state-run Ahram Online.  The Supreme Constitutional Court completed its
restructuring, in line with the new constitution, with the
nation’s top court now made up of 10 members versus 19, the
state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported. No longer included
among the justices listed by MENA as retaining their posts was
Tahani el-Gebali, who had been the source of ire for Islamists.  Junk Rating  The tensions have further roiled an economy battered in the
wake of last year’s uprising, with Standard & Poor’s on Dec. 24
pushing deeper into junk status Egypt’s sovereign rating. The
ratings company cited the current political instability in a
nation where foreign reserves remain almost 60 percent below
their pre-uprising levels. The central bank issued a statement
to offer reassurances it was doing all that was necessary to
guarantee deposits.  The government “is playing its role as best as it can
under difficult circumstances,” Mursi said. New projects and
investment facilities would be offered in the “coming days,”
he said.  “I will exert my utmost efforts, together with you, to
boost the Egyptian economy, which is facing big challenges but
also has big opportunities,” Mursi said.  His critics maintain the constitution, which was hastily
approved by the Islamist-dominated body that drafted it,
enshrines Islamic law at the expense of certain freedoms and
doesn’t reflect the nation’s diversity. Almost 70 percent of the
roughly 52 million eligible to vote abstained from the vote.  Egypt’s constitution is “void as it conflicts with certain
peremptory norms of international law,” such as freedom of
belief and expression, Nobel laureate Mohamed ElBaradei said on
his Twitter account yesterday.  ‘Second Republic’  Mursi said he had passed to the until-now largely advisory
Shura Council, parliament’s upper house, legislative authority
he had held after a court ordered the dissolution of
parliament’s lower chamber. The Council yesterday swore in 90
new members Mursi had appointed days earlier, readying itself
for its new role until the parliamentary elections start.  Many of the changes the government will have to make, such
as curbing subsidies that consume roughly a quarter of
 government spending , are likely to be poorly received in a
nation where, according to government figures, the number of
people living under the poverty line climbed to 25 percent in
2011, compared with 21 percent the previous year.  An effort earlier this month to introduce new taxes on some
items, such as cigarettes, sparked anger and prompted the
government to backtrack from the decision. Mursi vowed the
changes would not affect the poor under what he called the
“second republic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  