-- Egypt Parliament Swears in New Members After Charter Vote
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-12-26T12:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/egypt-parliament-swears-in-new-members-after-constitution-vote.html
Some 90 members of  Egypt ’s upper
house were sworn in today as the until-now toothless body was
poised to take up new legislative authority after Islamist
President Mohamed Mursi signed the new constitution.  The members of the Shura Council were appointed days
earlier by Mursi. The body, that had until now been a
consultative entity, will assume temporary legislative powers
previously held by Mursi until parliamentary elections, slated
to start in 60 days, are held. The swearing-in ceremony was
broadcast live on television.  The council’s new role comes as Egypt continues to be
battered by the aftershocks of last year’s uprising that ousted
 Hosni Mubarak . Standard & Poor’s pushed Egypt’s credit rating
deeper into junk status on Dec. 24, citing political tensions
that have seen Mursi’s opponents clash with his backers over the
constitution. The agency also cut the ratings of three Egyptian
banks today, citing the same concerns.  Critics say the new charter boosts the role of Islamic law
in the Arab world’s most populous country at the expense of
personal freedoms. The charter was approved by the Islamist-
dominated panel that drafted it after a quarter of its members
announced their withdrawal.  Social Tensions  “Political and social tensions in Egypt have escalated and
are likely to remain elevated over the medium term,” S&P said
in a statement. “The increased polarization between political
forces is likely to weaken the sovereign’s ability to deliver
sustainable public finances, promote balance growth, and respond
to further economic or political shocks.”  Reflecting the continuing uncertainty, an administrative
court today rejected an appeal on the dissolution of parliament,
the court said in a faxed statement. Mursi was also slated to
speak to the nation tonight, a day after officials said the
charter was approved with 64 percent backing it.  Almost 70 percent of the 52 million eligible to cast votes
chose not to participate. A fragmented opposition of
secularists, minority Christians, political parties and youth
activist groups has vowed to fight to have the charter revoked.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  