-- Egypt Said to Raise Bond Sale Goal 60% as Unrest Delays IMF
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-12-26T14:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/egypt-said-to-raise-bond-sale-target-60-as-unrest-delays-imf.html
Egypt plans to sell about 60 percent
more  government bonds  next quarter after political unrest
prompted authorities to delay an International Monetary Fund
loan regarded as crucial to regaining investor confidence.  The  Finance Ministry  will seek to sell 26 billion pounds
($4.2 billion) in bonds maturing in three years to 10 years,
compared with about 16 billion pounds sold so far this quarter,
according to an issuance calendar obtained yesterday by
 Bloomberg News  and central bank data. Egypt also plans to raise
134 billion pounds of T-bills due in a year or less.  The plan marks a reversal of the government’s strategy last
quarter to cut long-term debt sales by 49 percent in expectation
of a $4.8 billion IMF loan deal. Public opposition to tax
increases linked to the deal led authorities to delay the loan
this month even as the country, which  Standard & Poor’s  rates at
the same level as  Greece , struggles to finance the  Middle East ’s
biggest  budget deficit . The borrowing plan includes 30.3 billion
pounds of new debt, Bloomberg calculations show.  “Unless we see liquidity inflows from the central bank or
foreign investors, local banks will have to carry the burden of
the extra debt,” Amr Seif, chief dealer at Piraeus Bank Egypt,
said by phone yesterday. “The IMF loan is crucial as a signal
for foreign investors to come back.”  ‘Significant’ Risk  Reducing long-term bond sales last quarter helped push the
average-yield on  three-year notes  down 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 13.89 percent. That compares with a 25
basis-point increase in the  three-month  treasury bill yield to
12.96 percent, according to central bank data on Bloomberg.  Egypt ’s credit rating was lowered by one level at S&P on
Dec. 24 to B-, six steps below investment grade, with a negative
outlook. The rating, which is also on par with  Pakistan , may
face more downgrades should political instability result “in a
sharp deterioration of economic indicators such as foreign
exchange reserves or the government’s deficit,” S&P said.  The agency today cut ratings of state-owned  National Bank
of Egypt  and Banque Misr SAE, as well as  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , to the same junk level as the
state, citing “significant sovereign risk because they hold a
high amount of government debt compared to their equity bases
and earnings capacity.” Shares of CIB, the biggest publicly
traded lender, fell 0.4 percent at the close in Cairo.  Higher Costs  The ratings cut won’t affect IMF loan negotiations and the
country isn’t at risk of bankruptcy, Cabinet Spokesman Alaa El-
Hadidi told reporters in Cairo today.  Egypt’s  foreign-currency reserves  have plunged almost 60
percent since the uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak 
as foreign investors sold their holdings of state debt. The
budget deficit may reach 10.5 percent of economic output in the
fiscal year ending June 2013, according to the median estimate
of seven analysts on Bloomberg. That exceeds forecasts of 6.4
percent and 2.5 percent for like-rated Greece and  Argentina ,
respectively.  The yield on the government’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due
April 2020 fell two basis points to 5.99 percent at 3:53 p.m. in
Cairo, trimming this month’s jump to 81 basis points amid
growing political unrest. The yield is down 201 basis points
this year. The pound, subject to a managed float, weakened 0.1
percent to 6.1788 a dollar, the lowest in eight years. It has
depreciated 1.1 percent this month and 2.4 percent this year.  Egypt will seek to raise 6 billion pounds in one-year and
six-month treasury bills tomorrow, central bank data on
Bloomberg show. “Theoretically, yields should increase again
based on the projected liquidity shortage in the absence of
fresh funds from outside the banking sector,” Seif said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  