-- Empire State Building IPO Vote Can Proceed, SEC Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-12-28T15:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/empire-state-building-ipo-vote-can-proceed-u-s-regulators-say.html
(Corrects story published Dec. 26 to remove reference to
dissident investor in ninth paragraph.)  The company that controls the Empire
State Building can go ahead with a vote to allow the iconic New
York skyscraper to be included in a proposed real estate
investment trust.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued a
“notice of effectiveness” today for the plan to ask about
2,800 co-investors in the tower to approve the conversion of
their interests into units of  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) , a
REIT proposed by  Peter Malkin  and his son Anthony. Empire State
Realty filed in February to raise as much as $1 billion in an
initial public offering.  The determination means the SEC believes the offering
document contains enough information for the investors to make
an informed decision, said Thomas Voekler, an attorney at
Richmond, Virginia-based Kaplan Voekler Cunningham & Frank Plc
who specializes in real estate public offerings. A group of
investors whose parents and grandparents bought shares in the
tower in the early 1960s have challenged the Malkins, saying the
offering shortchanges them.  While today’s filing says nothing about the merits of the
proposed offering, “it’s a very important step,” Voekler said
in a telephone interview. After months of amendments, “the
disclosure document is set where it’s going to be set.”  The Malkins want to consolidate the tower and 18 other
properties they control in  Manhattan  and Westchester County in
New York and Fairfield County,  Connecticut , into a publicly
traded company. Malkin Holdings LLC confirmed that the SEC
declared the offering statement, known as an S-4, effective.  Investor Dissent  The company “will commence its solicitation of investors
in due course,” Hugh Burns, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Empire State Realty hasn’t specified the number of shares
it plans to sell or the  price range . The $1 billion is a
placeholder amount used to calculate fees and may change when
the terms are set.  The Malkins need 80 percent approval from the 3,300 units
held by the co-investors to include the skyscraper in the IPO.
Unitholders of companies that control 1 Grand Central Place,
formerly known as the Lincoln Building, and the Fisk Building at
250 West 57th St. also must approve the plan.  Richard Edelman, a beneficiary who lives in  California  and
runs a  website  critical of the offering, has said the proposal
would deprive unitholders of a reliable income stream that is
poised to jump in value as renovations of the Empire State
Building are completed. The Malkins have challenged him and
other dissidents, saying the planned REIT would reward investors
with liquidity and greater growth opportunities.  “You have people who have held onto certificates that have
been in their family for a long time,” Voekler said. “This
tugs at the heartstrings.”  A separate set of investors agreed in September to settle a
class-action lawsuit challenging the proposed offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  