-- Messianic U.S. Driven by Harvard, Hollywood: French Books
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-12-26T03:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/messianic-u-s-driven-by-harvard-hollywood-french-books.html
Why is the U.S. rejecting the
 International Criminal Court , the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban and
the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea?  Alain Minc would say it’s because the country has an
isolationist streak in its DNA.  Minc, 63, is a successful French businessman, political
guru and author of more than 30 books. His latest, “L’Ame des
Nations” (The Soul of Nations,) examines the leitmotifs in the
behavior of various countries and how they’re anchored in
history.  Much of what he has to say may not be terribly original.
Yet this book serves as a useful reminder of the constant
factors that shape our world.  Minc sees the U.S. as torn between the contradictory
impulses of isolationism and Messianism.  A typical clash between the two occurred after World War I
when President Wilson preached the gospel of his 14 Points
(“God contented himself with 10,” scoffed French premier
Georges Clemenceau) only to be let down by the  U.S. Senate  which
rejected a key point, joining the League of Nations.  Minc is incredulous that more than half the members of
Congress have no passport and have never been abroad, yet the
U.S. acts like the world’s policeman.  He also wonders at the contrast between America’s gigantic
military expenses and the meager results achieved by its recent
wars. The real source of its influence, he says, lies in its
soft power summed up in three words:  Apple (AAPL) , Hollywood, Harvard.  Russian Conflicts  Russia too, Minc believes, is torn between two conflicting
tendencies, to copy the West and to cling to its own distinct
identity.  The country is the largest in the world, he says, yet it
suffers from a persistent encirclement complex, which explains
its enormous frustration after the collapse of the  Soviet Union ,
resulting in the loss of most of the territories conquered by
the czars and the European satellite states subjugated by
Stalin.  Another deep-rooted tradition is Russia’s fundamentally
undemocratic approach to power: What the aristocracy was under
the czars and the nomenclatura under the communists has morphed
into a rapacious oligarchy well connected to the Kremlin.  Minc paints a rosier picture of  Europe .  France  and Germany,
once “hereditary enemies,” have found a way to overcome their
conflicting views of their role in the world.  French Ambitions  For France, which has always tried to punch above its
weight and dreamed of the Rhine as its “natural border,”
Europe has become, in Charles de Gaulle’s words, the
“Archimedean point” of its ambitions.  Germany , on the other hand, which sees itself as a
“Kulturnation” defined by language, not by borders, has found
in Europe a space in which the age-old contrast between Volk
(nation) and Staat (state), which led to Hitler’s irredentist
excesses, can finally be laid to rest.  The European Union, Minc says, is here to stay, despite all
predictions to the contrary, because it envisages itself as a
confederation, not a federal state, so no member is forced to
give up its DNA.  The U.K. is an exception. For centuries, it has been guided
by the principle of “divide and rule” and tried, successfully
in most cases, to prevent one continental power from dominating
the others.  Now, with the continent increasingly integrating, the U.K.
has to make up its mind whether to join the adventure or, true
to its DNA, to remain outside in “splendid isolation.”  “L’Ame des Nations” is published by Grasset (283 pages,
18 euros).  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music, Sam Knight on
business  books  and Patrick Cole on  charity .  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 