-- Fortescue Resumes Iron Ore Expansion as Commodity Prices Recover
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-12-26T22:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/fortescue-resumes-iron-ore-expansion-as-commodity-prices-recover.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , the
 iron ore  producer that raised $4.5 billion in new loans three
months ago, will resume work on its Kings deposit next month
after commodity prices rose and it sold assets.  The resumption will increase production capacity by 40
million metric tons a year once the mine starts in December
2013, taking total capacity to 155 million tons a year, said the
Perth-based company today in a statement.  Australia ’s third-largest iron ore producer put Kings on
hold in September after iron ore prices fell to a near three-
year low of $86.70 a ton as slowing growth in  China , the biggest
consumer, curbed demand. Since then, iron ore has rebounded and
the company has sold assets and started talks to sell a stake in
its rail and port operations, with Macquarie Group Ltd. saying
this week Fortescue will account for about 50 percent of the
growth in global iron ore supply next year.  “The recent improvement in iron ore prices and market
outlook, along with a number of measures undertaken by
Fortescue, including the sale of non-core assets, a reduction in
operating costs and the restructuring of existing bank
facilities, underpinned the decision to complete Kings in the
new year,” Chief Executive Officer Neville Power said in the
statement.  Fortescue fell 0.7 percent to A$4.35 on Dec. 24 before two
days of Christmas holidays. The stock, with nine  buy , seven hold
and four sell recommendations, has risen 1.9 percent this year.
Iron ore last traded at $135.40 a ton on Dec. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  