-- Gasoline Gains as Obama, Congress to Resume U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-12-26T18:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/gasoline-gains-as-obama-congress-to-resume-u-s-budget-talks.html
Gasoline jumped to an eight-week
high as President  Barack Obama  will cut short his vacation to
return to  Washington  tomorrow for budget talks.  Futures rose as Congress will also return to Washington
tomorrow to continue discussions five days before a deadline to
strike a deal to avoid automatic spending cuts and tax increases
known as the fiscal cliff. Negotiations before the Christmas
holiday ended in an impasse.  “The market was surprised that President Obama cut short
his vacation to return to Washington for more negotiations and
is optimistic that some deal will come to pass,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Gasoline for January delivery rose 6.14 cents, or 2.2
percent, to $2.812 a gallon at 12:53 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices touched $2.8243, the highest
intraday price since Oct. 31, and are up 4.7 percent this year.  Gasoline volume was 57 percent below the average of the
past 100 days. Heating oil volume was 59 percent below average.  “The lighter volume does exaggerate moves, but that
doesn’t mean the moves won’t be sustained,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  If Obama and Congress don’t strike a deal, more than $600
billion in tax increases and spending cuts will automatically
take effect Jan. 1, threatening to cause the economy to slip
into a recession.  “That is what has triggered the price gain, but just
because they’re returning doesn’t mean anybody has changed their
minds,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut.  Inventory Survey  The Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories at 11 a.m. on Dec. 28, two days later than usual
because of the Christmas holiday. The department will probably
report that gasoline stockpiles rose 700,000 barrels and 
distillate  supplies declined 1 million barrels, according to the
median estimate of nine analysts in a survey by Bloomberg.  Heating oil for January delivery rose 4.41 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $3.0463 a gallon on the exchange, extending this
year’s increase to 3.8 percent.  The average nationwide cost for regular gasoline was
unchanged at $3.247 a gallon, AAA said today on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  