-- Georgia Judge Temporarily Blocks Midterm Abortion Limits
-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-12-26T17:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/georgia-judge-temporarily-blocks-midterm-abortion-limits-1-.html
A  Georgia  judge granted a
preliminary injunction in response to a request by three Georgia
doctors seeking an order blocking enforcement of laws limiting
availability of midterm abortions to emergencies and instances
where a pregnancy has been deemed “medically futile.”  Judge Doris L. Downs in Atlanta last week granted the
injunction, which stops the measure from taking effect Jan. 1.
Lawyers from the  American Civil Liberties Union  presented the
doctors’ arguments before the judge on Dec. 20, saying the law
violates the state constitution.  “It is unconstitutional on its face,” ACLU attorney Alexa
Kolbi-Molinas told the judge at the hearing. “It is undisputed
that plaintiffs will suffer irreparable harm.”  The measures are part of an act signed into law May 1 by
first-term Republican Governor Nathan Deal, who said then that
the legislation gave additional protection to “unborn babies.”  “The act, which bans nearly all pre-viability abortions
after 20 weeks post-fertilization, infringes on the fundamental
right of a woman to decide whether and when to bear a child,”
and breaches rights enshrined in Georgia’s Constitution, the
ACLU argued in a Nov. 30 complaint.  Federal Right  “This is a case about abortion,” the state said in
opposition papers filed Dec. 13. “It is not, however, a case
about the federal right to an abortion recognized by the United
States Supreme Court in decisions binding on all courts in this
state.”  The doctors’ lawyers are asking the court to find a right
to abortion in the state’s constitution that is separate and
distinct from that found in the federal document, Attorney
General Sam Olens argued in the filing.  “A careful review of the text and history of the Georgia
Constitution will reveal that such a right does not exist,” the
attorney general said.  The case is Lathrop v. Deal, 2012-cv-224423, Superior Court
of Fulton County, Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Beasley  in  New York  at 
 dbeasley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  