-- Gol Surges as Airline Readies Mileage Unit IPO: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-12-26T18:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/gol-surges-as-airline-readies-mileage-unit-ipo-sao-paulo-mover.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) 
surged the most in four years after the unprofitable Brazilian
airline said it may sell stock in its frequent-flier unit to
raise cash.  The shares in Gol,  Brazil ’s second-biggest airline, rose 15
percent to 12.98 reais at 2:38 p.m. in Sao Paulo after rising
earlier as much as 21 percent, the steepest advance since Oct.
2008. It was the biggest gainer today on the country’s benchmark
Bovespa index, which was little changed.  Gol is cutting flights, firing workers and seeking to
renegotiate terms on 1.1 billion reais ($540 million) of bank
debt as it faces rising fuel costs that have led to 1.85 billion
reais of net losses over the past six quarters. The Sao Paulo-
based airline, whose shares tumbled in June to a three-year low,
said Dec. 21 that its occupancy rate last month jumped to 69.1
percent from 64.1 percent a year earlier.  “Gol might be starting a turnaround process,” Banco Itau
BBA SA’s analysts Renata Faber and Thais Cascello wrote in a
note to clients dated Dec. 21.  Banco BTG Pactual (BBTG11)  raised its rating on the stock to buy
from neutral today.  A spinoff of the Smiles frequent-flier program had been one
of Gol’s best near-term options, according to Jansen Moura, a
fixed-income analyst at BCP Securities LLC in Rio de Janeiro.  As a first step the frequent-flier unit will be managed by
a separate company called Smiles SA, according to a Dec. 21
filing. An initial public offering of Smiles would be subject to
market conditions and approval of regulators, Gol said in the
filing.  Rational Routes  The airline also said that revenue generated per seat flown
increased 17 percent in November from a year earlier because it
adopted a “more rational” strategy regarding the number of
domestic routes, according to a Dec. 21 filing.  Banco Santander Brasil SA (BSBR) , the Brazilian subsidiary of
 Spain ’s largest bank, earlier this week put its “underperform”
rating on the stock on review for a possible increase.  “This recovery is stronger than we expected,” the
analysts Pedro Balcao Reis, Bruno Amorim and Renan Manda wrote
in a Dec. 24 note to clients.  Prior to today, Gol’s shares had tumbled 9.6 percent  this
year , compared with the Bovespa’s 7.5 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  