-- Goodwin Procter, Kaye Scholer to Move Offices: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-26T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/goodwin-procter-kaye-scholer-to-move-offices-business-of-law.html
Two law firms announced plans last
week to move offices in their home cities.  Goodwin Procter LLP is relocating its Boston office to a
new waterfront high rise, while Kaye Scholer LLP is moving from
the east side to the west side of Manhattan.  Goodwin Procter signed a letter of intent to occupy all of
the commercial space in a half-million-square-foot tower at Fan
Pier on Boston Harbor. The firm’s 860 attorneys and professional
staff will move to the new space in 2016.  “After closely examining a range of options, we believe
that Goodwin’s move to the ‘Innovation District’ will bring
significant benefits to our employees, the city of Boston and
the firm,” Alex Randall, head of Goodwin’s real estate leasing
practice and lead partner on the project, said in a statement.  The 100-year old firm is now at Exchange Place. The new
location is a 21-acre (8.5 hectare) site that spans nine city
blocks. It’s expected to have eight high-rise commercial and
residential towers.  Meanwhile, Kaye Scholer is leaving its New York offices at
425 Park Avenue after 55 years for a new building on Manhattan’s
West Side. Founded in New York in 1917, the firm has more than
450 attorneys in nine offices in the U.S., U.K., Germany and
China. Its New York office remains the largest, with
approximately 285 attorneys.  The firm signed a 20-year lease with Boston Properties for
the space at 250 West 55th Street, which is still under
construction, and expects to move into its new office in 2014.  Kaye Scholer managing partner Michael Solow said in a
statement: “We decided on this space because of its midtown
location; Boston Properties’ reputation as a landlord that
understands the demands of the legal world; the flexible design
and efficiency of the building; quick access to a multitude of
top-level services and public transportation options; and close
proximity to Central Park, Time Warner Center,  Lincoln Center ,
 Carnegie Hall  and other arts facilities that help make New York
a cultural haven.”  Mayer Brown Partner Durkin Confirmed as U.S. District Judge  Mayer Brown LLP partner Thomas M. Durkin, a Chicago-based
litigator, was unanimously confirmed by the U. S. Senate as a
U.S. district judge for the Northern District of Illinois. He
will be sworn in on Jan. 14.  Durkin was nominated by President  Barack Obama  in May 2012
after being recommended by Senators  Dick Durbin  and  Mark Kirk  of
Illinois.  “Throughout his career, Tom Durkin has demonstrated strong
leadership in his community and a solid commitment to public
service,” Senator Durbin said in a statement. “The non-
partisan  American Bar Association  awarded Mr. Durkin its highest
rating of ‘unanimously well-qualified.’ I couldn’t agree more.”  On the bench of the Chicago-based Northern District, Durkin
will join four former Mayer Brown partners: District Judges
Robert Dow Jr., Gary Feinerman and John Tharp and Magistrate
Judge Sheila Finnegan. Durkin and Dow, Tharp and Finnegan spent
their entire careers in private practice at Mayer Brown.  Durkin has tried more than 55 federal and state jury trials
to verdict. Much of his trial work has focused on business
litigation, along with class action, products liability and
medical device defense, and patent litigation. He has also
handled white-collar criminal matters, especially in the fraud,
tax and public corruption areas. He was assistant U.S. attorney
in the Northern District of Illinois from 1980 to 1993.  “While Tom will be greatly missed by all of us at Mayer
Brown and by the clients he has served so well and faithfully,
we all will benefit greatly from the wise choice made by
President Obama, Senators Durbin and Kirk and the Senate,”
Mayer Brown chairman Paul Theiss said in a statement.  News  SouthGobi Chief Lawyer Cleared of Corruption in Mongolia Probe  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (1878) , controlled by a unit of Rio Tinto
Group, said its chief lawyer, Sarah Armstrong, has been cleared
in a probe by the Mongolian Independent Authority Against
Corruption and is free to leave the country after being
prevented since October.  The coal mining company, based in Vancouver, remains under
investigation for “the divestment of certain SouthGobi licenses
to third parties, and the involvement and conduct of government
officials in connection with this,” according to a statement to
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Dec. 24.  SouthGobi  fell  1.6 percent to HK$15.58 at the early
Christmas-eve close in Hong Kong.  Armstrong is the company’s chief legal counsel.  Lawyers Vie With Chamber of Commerce on Damages Deduction: Taxes  Democrats in Congress are renewing an effort to repeal the
tax deduction companies are allowed to take when a jury slaps
them with punitive damages.  Debate over the issue, which pits  trial lawyers  against the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, may be rekindled in 2013 as part of
comprehensive legislation to overhaul the  tax code , Bloomberg
BNA reported. Representative  Peter Welch , a Democrat from
Vermont, introduced legislation last week to end the tax break.  The deduction became a target after the  BP Plc (BP/)  Deepwater
Horizon spill in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2010 prompted
speculation, which proved unfounded, that the company might reap
a tax benefit from the fallout. The Obama administration has
repeatedly proposed repealing the deduction, arguing that
allowing a tax break contradicts the idea of discouraging the
conduct that led to the awarding of damages in the first place.  “We don’t think any corporation should get a tax break for
atrocious behavior,” said Christopher Scholl, communications
director for the  American Association  for Justice, which
represents trial lawyers.  Under Internal Revenue Code Section 162, businesses are
allowed to deduct punitive damages as ordinary and necessary
business expenses.  Legislation to remove the deduction, which passed the
Democratic-controlled Senate in 2010, has hit resistance in the
Republican-led House, where Welch has introduced similar
legislation in the past.  Defenders of the writeoff, including the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, say that repeal would be the equivalent of creating an
additional federal fine, and that corporations would probably
pass along the added cost to their customers.  Denying deductions for punitive damages “imposes increased
costs on businesses, forcing them to spend more money litigating
claims and thus forgoing their ability to use these funds to
stimulate  job creation  and economic growth,” U.S. Chamber of
Commerce Executive Vice President R. Bruce Josten wrote to
members of Congress in 2010.  The bills are H.R. 6700 and S. 794.  For more, click here.  Deals  China Vanadium Parent Makes Buyout Offer of HK$2.06 Billion  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP led by partners Kay Ian Ng, in Hong
Kong and Gwen Wong in Beijing, advised  China Vanadium Titano-
Magnetite Mining Co. (893) , the largest non-state-owned iron ore
producer in Sichuan province, which said its parent made a
buyout offer of as much as HK$2.06 billion ($266 million).  The company will delist if the offer of HK$1.93 a share in
cash is completed, according to a Hong Kong stock exchange
filing Dec. 20. The buyout by Trisonic International Ltd. is
subject to shareholders’ approval, it said.  China Vanadium said it will delist because of low trading
volume and poor share-price performance. The average number of
shares trading hands fell to 5.3 million in the six months
before the company first proposed the buyout on Nov. 1, from
13.7 million in the first half-year after the stock debuted on
Oct. 8, 2009. The shares have fallen 52 percent since listing.  The stock gained 1.2 percent to close at HK$1.67 on Dec.
19, its last day of trading before suspension.  China Vanadium didn’t disclose its net asset value per
share in the filing. Its net assets attributable to shareholders
were 3.33 billion  yuan  as of June 30, according to the Dec. 20
filing, about HK$4.14 billion at today’s exchange rate. That
gives about a HK$2 NAV per share, based on its 2.08 billion
shares outstanding.  Sapphire Corp. (SAPP)  is acting together with Trisonic in the
buyout offer.  Moves  Tax Attorney Joins White & Williams in New York  John J. Eagan, an attorney who specializes in taxation,
with an emphasis on international, corporate transactional and
tax controversy matters, joined White & Williams LLP as a
partner in New York. Prior to joining White & Williams, Eagan
was a member of Norris McLaughlin & Marcus PA.  Eagan provides general business tax counseling and planning
on issues such as business and tax structures for foreign
investment in the U.S., outbound transactions and controlled
foreign corporation issues, and offshore account compliance
issues. He has represented clients in more than 125 transactions
in a variety of industries and countries, and he advises clients
on effective planning approaches to minimize taxation.  White & Williams has 225 lawyers in nine offices in
Pennsylvania,  New Jersey , New York, Delaware and Massachusetts.  Litigation  Lawyers in $20 Million Facebook Accord Seek $7.7 Million Fee  Lawyers for  Facebook Inc. (FB)  users who negotiated a $20
million settlement with the social network company over claims
that it used subscribers’ names without their permission are
seeking $7.7 million in fees.  California attorneys Robert Arns and Jonathan Jaffe, who
represented five Facebook users suing over the free service’s
practice of using subscribers’ names without their permission to
advertise products in its “Sponsored Stories,” said the fee
was fair given relief provided in the settlement and the risks
they undertook to achieve it, according to a court filing.  Facebook users can claim a $10 payment and the company
agreed to make changes allowing subscribers to opt out of
sponsored stories, according to filings in federal court in  San
Francisco . Facebook, based in Menlo Park, California, also
agreed to revise its terms of use so subscribers can more easily
see when they’re being shown as endorsers of products and games
for which they clicked a “like” button.  U.S. District Judge Richard Seeborg gave preliminary
approval to the settlement. He refused to approve an earlier
settlement that included no money for users and $10 million in
fees for the attorneys.  The case is Fraley v. Facebook Inc., 11-cv-01726, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 