-- Grand Bargain Shrinks as Congress Nears U.S. Budget Deadline
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-12-26T15:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/grand-bargain-shrinks-as-congress-nears-u-s-budget-deadline-2-.html
The deal that seems possible to fix
the U.S. budget is getting smaller and smaller.  Five days before a deadline that would trigger more than
$600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts that could cause
a U.S. recession, Congress will return Dec. 27 amid calls for
action in the Senate.  The politics of progress there are easier than in the
Republican-controlled House of Representatives, which balked
last week at Speaker John Boehner’s plan for tax increases on
income above $1 million. Still, the House would have to sign off
next. Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and President  Barack Obama 
have been unable to agree on the tax-rate increase on top
earners Obama wants or the cuts to entitlement programs that
Boehner sought, complicating the chances of getting a package
done.  “At this point, all they’re looking for is a fig leaf,”
said Stan Collender, a former staff member of the House Ways and
Means Committee and the House and Senate Budget committees who
is now at Qorvis Communications in Washington. “There’s no
grand bargain. There never was.”  Small Deal  The Senate is run by Democrats, and some Republican
members, including Kay Bailey Hutchison of  Texas , have said that
they would favor a small deal on parts of what the president has
sought to avoid raising taxes on the middle class.  The trouble is that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, need to come up with something that also can get
through the House, which has balked at any tax increases. Senate
Republicans don’t want to be on the record supporting higher
taxes unless they know the House also would pass it.  “There’s still a chance for them to get a deal,” said Ron Bonjean, a Republican strategist who formerly served as a
spokesman for House Speaker Dennis Hastert and Senate Majority
Leader Trent Lott. “It grows more unlikely by the day, and
there’s not a lot of days left.”  Obama and Boehner haven’t spoken since the president flew
to Hawaii on Dec. 21, according to a Republican aide who
requested anonymity when discussing the negotiations. Obama
plans to leave for  Washington  today, while his family will
remain in Hawaii, the White House said yesterday. Lawmakers plan
to return tomorrow, the same day Obama will arrive in
Washington.  Fiscal Cliff  Bonjean put the probability of no deal at 75 percent.
Still, he said there’s a chance for one because the president
and Republican leaders want to avoid the “fiscal cliff” -- a
term coined by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in
testimony before the House Financial Services Committee in
February. Tax cuts signed into law by President George W. Bush
and extended by Obama are scheduled to expire Jan. 1, and
automatic spending cuts are scheduled to start next month,
creating the so-called cliff.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  increased 0.01 percent to 1,426.76 at 10:21
a.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  gained 14.43
points, or 0.1 percent, to 13,153.51. Trading in S&P 500
companies was 48 percent below the 30-day average at this time
of day. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond was
1.76 percent at 10:18 a.m. in New York, down two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage points, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  U.S. equity markets were closed for the Christmas holiday
yesterday. The S&P 500 dropped 0.2 percent on Dec. 24 amid
concern policy makers will fail to strike a compromise.  Interim Bill  Before going on vacation with his family, Obama urged
leaders of both parties to put together an interim bill to keep
taxes from rising on middle-income Americans as they work on a
more comprehensive package.  On Christmas day, Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama
greeted troops and their families having dinner at Marine Corps
Base  Hawaii  in Kaneohe Bay. The president thanked the families
for their sacrifices.  Senate Democratic leaders have said they won’t take action
on a fallback plan unless they have assurances from Boehner that
he will bring it up in the House and let it pass with a
combination of Democratic and Republican votes, and from
McConnell that Senate Republicans won’t filibuster it.  “A comprehensive solution to the looming fiscal cliff will
need to be a bipartisan solution,” Reid said on the chamber’s
floor Dec. 21. “No comprehensive agreement can pass either
chamber without both Democrats and Republican votes.”  Deal Possibility  Senator Charles Schumer of New York, the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, told reporters Dec. 21 that “the key to this
is the House.” McConnell wouldn’t “want to have his members
put their necks on the line for a deal that may not pass the
House,” he said.  Schumer and Reid called on Boehner to resume talks with
Obama. Failing to reach a budget deal would push the U.S. into
recession for the first half of 2013, according to the
nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.  “At this point there’s zero percent chance of a big deal
and maybe a 10 percent chance of a small deal before Jan. 1,”
Collender said. He has predicted a no-deal scenario since before
Memorial Day, and said the past two weeks of inaction reinforced
his projection.  At this point, Collender said, whether the Senate moves
first won’t matter.  “Nothing will move House Republicans if they don’t feel
like getting moved,” he said. “They’ve never been swayed by
the Senate before.”  Democrats’ Deal  The remaining option for averting the cliff, he said, would
be if Boehner risks his House speakership to put to the floor a
tax deal that would get a majority of Democrats to support it
and few -- perhaps less than 50 -- Republicans.  “The Republican caucus would never forgive him,” he said.
“The statesmanlike thing to do would be to say, ‘I’m the
speaker of the House, not the head of the Republican party.’
That is the equivalent of never running for speaker again.”  Boehner was selected by his conference as the Republican
nominee for House speaker. He needs an absolute majority of
those present and voting on Jan. 3 -- 217 votes -- to be re-
elected. Republicans will hold 234 seats to begin the 113th
Congress in January. Once re-elected, Boehner will have more
freedom to cut a deal, Collender said.  Edging Closer  Until Dec. 17, Obama and Boehner had been edging closer to
a deal that included $1 trillion each in tax increases and
spending cuts. Boehner had put tax-rate increases on the table
for income above $1 million a year, infuriating some lawmakers
backed by anti-tax Tea Party groups.  That was the proposal he pulled from the House floor on
Dec. 20 rather than see it defeated by his own caucus members.  It’s still possible to reach an agreement before the
deadline. Both Obama and Boehner have offered concessions in
talks, in person and by telephone, since Dec. 5.  The president initially sought $1.6 trillion in new
revenue, including a return to pre-Bush income tax rates for
annual household income over $250,000 a year. The speaker first
rejected any increase in tax rates, instead offering $800
billion in revenue by limiting unspecified exemptions.  After Boehner proposed raising taxes for households earning
more than $1 million a year, Obama countered with a proposal to
raise taxes on more than $400,000 of income.  Obama also has agreed to accept cuts in entitlement
spending on programs such as Medicare, while Boehner has
maintained that new taxes and spending cuts must be balanced on
a one-to-one basis.  In sum, the two have approached the outlines of a plan that
would raise about $1 trillion in tax revenue and cut about $1
trillion in spending.  Republicans are “not going to get what we think is right”
because they don’t control the government and will need to
compromise to avoid the cliff, Hutchison said Dec. 24 on  MSNBC .  Everyone is “going back to the drawing board,” the Texas
senator said. “It’s going to take everyone” to reach a deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  