-- Gulf Finance House Seeks to Exit Investments in India, Tunisia
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-12-26T07:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/gulf-finance-house-seeks-to-exit-investments-in-india-tunisia.html
Gulf Finance House (GFH) , the investment
bank that acquired England’s three-time soccer champion Leeds
United, is seeking to exit assets in  India  and  Tunisia  to enter
high-yield investments, its acting chief executive officer said.  The Manama, Bahrain-based Islamic investment bank this year
started to “partially exit” an infrastructure development
project consisting of technology and energy cities in India’s
Navi Mumbai, Hisham al-Rayes said in a phone interview on Dec.
24. “The total value of the transaction is $1 billion and we’ve
started exiting our clients in 2012 and will continue with the
redemption plan in the new year and onwards.”  The company and its clients, will also seek to gradually
sell stakes in the Tunis Financial Harbour project from next
year, al-Rayes said. “The investment has a total value of $300
million, 10 percent of which is directly owned by us.”  The company emerged from financial difficulties this year
after it restructured more than $200 million in debt, cleaning a
balance sheet that was laden with $2.3 billion in liabilities in
2008.  “We are looking into high-yield, income-generating
properties in  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates ,
especially Dubai,” al-Rayes said. “The due diligence is under
way and the transactions are expected to take place in 2013.”  Gulf Finance is looking for “good opportunities in the
Turkish market” after an attempt to acquire Istanbul-based
Adabank AS failed due to changes in regulatory requirements, he
said.  “Higher 2012 Profit”  “We see the acquisition of Leeds United as an investment
in the defensive sector,” al-Rayes said, declining to disclose
the value of the deal due to a confidentiality agreement. “The
transaction didn’t involve us taking any debt and was fully
financed by GFH Capital and their strategic investors,” he
said, without naming them.  The investment bank, which returned to profit in 2011 with
a net income of $381,000 after a  loss  of $349 million in 2010
and $728 million in the previous year, expects “higher profits
in 2012” bolstered by income from Leeds and other transactions,
al-Rayes said. The first debt payments are due in 2014 according
to the restructuring plans reached with creditors, he said,
adding that the company’s total outstanding liabilities are
about $380 million.  Gulf Finance House  shares  closed down 4.2 percent at 11.5
cents in Manama yesterday. The stock, which is also listed in
Kuwait and Dubai, lost 21 percent this year, compared to an 8.5
percent increase in Bahrain Bourse All Share  Index. (BHSEASI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  