-- Microsoft, Nokia, Black Rain: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-26T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/microsoft-nokia-black-rain-intellectual-property.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest
software maker, won a U.K. ruling invalidating Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc.’s patent protection for technology synchronizing
message statuses across multiple devices.  The 2002 patent owned by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility
unit shouldn’t have been issued because the technology was
obvious to experts in the field at the time, Judge Richard
Arnold said in a decision in London last week. A week-long trial
ended earlier this month.  “The patent is invalid and should be revoked,” Arnold
said during a 30-second hearing. Both companies had received the
written judgment in advance.  The companies are locked in legal battles over patents for
smartphone technology and Microsoft’s Xbox gaming software in
the U.S. and Germany. Microsoft claims all devices that run on
Google’s Android operating system use its technology and is
seeking royalties from Motorola Mobility, which  Mountain View ,
California-based Google acquired in May.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, filed the lawsuit
against Motorola Mobility in London a year ago in a pre-emptive
bid to invalidate the patent before it could be sued for
infringement.  The case is running parallel to Motorola’s lawsuit against
Microsoft over the same patent in Germany, where the companies
are awaiting a decision. Google has said it bought Motorola
Mobility in part because of its patents and history of
innovation in mobile phones.  “We’re pleased the court granted our request to invalidate
Motorola’s patent and welcome yet another step toward clarifying
the cases between our companies,”  David Howard , Microsoft’s
deputy general counsel, said in an e-mailed statement.  Motorola’s lawyer, Zoe Butler of Powell Gilbert in London,
didn’t respond to a call seeking comment on the ruling.
Motorola’s press office didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mailed request for comment.  While the patent in the U.K. trial related to pager
technology from the 1990s, the arguments centered on its
application to newer mobile devices and computers that also rely
on synchronizing messages statuses such as whether an e-mail has
been read by the user, or is unread.  If the patent were valid, Microsoft’s Live Messenger
instant-messaging system and Exchange ActiveSync protocol, used
by the company’s customers to synchronize e-mail statuses across
devices, would have violated the  intellectual property ,
according to the judgment.  The patent in the case had a so-called priority date of
Aug. 31, 1995, when Motorola was creating technology for the
first two-way pager system that would allow message recipients
to respond to communications on the devices for the first time.  The case is Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Mobility Inc.,
case no. HC11C04536,  High Court  of London, Chancery Division
(London).  Nokia Signs Patent-Licensing Deal With RIM, Ending Disputes  Nokia Oyj (NOK) , the Finnish mobile-phone maker struggling to
reverse a slide in sales, agreed to a patent-licensing deal with
BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , ending all legal
disputes between the companies.  RIM will make a one-time and “ongoing” payments to Nokia,
the Espoo, Finland-based company said. Financial terms weren’t
disclosed.  Nokia is trying to add revenue from its patent portfolio as
sales at its unprofitable smartphone unit drop. It may get a
one-time payment of $150 million to $200 million, and about $50
million annually over the next 10 to 15 years, depending on when
the patents expire, according to estimates by Hannu Rauhala, an
analyst at Pohjola Bank Oyj in Helsinki.  Nokia has sold units and assets including its headquarters
to boost its cash position. Its cash reserves have shrunk by
about half in the past five years and will drop below 3 billion
euros by year-end,  Standard & Poor’s  estimated in August. Its
debt is at junk status at the three main rating companies.  In May, Nokia said it filed patent-infringement lawsuits
against Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and ViewSonic
Corp. over inventions in mobile devices including phones and
tablets. The RIM deal signals that the disputes with HTC and
ViewSonic could be settled within six months, Sarkamies said.  The new agreement is less lucrative than the one Nokia
signed with Apple Inc. last year because RIM’s device volumes
are “so small and the BlackBerry maker is going through such
difficult times,” he said.  Both Nokia and RIM are struggling to compete with Apple’s
iPhone and smartphones using Google Inc.’s Android software,
including those from market leader  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
Android and Apple accounted for 90 percent of global smartphone
shipments last quarter, compared with 4.3 percent for the
BlackBerry and less than that for Nokia, according to research
firm IDC.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Gunmaker Black Rain Sues Glockplates.com for Infringement  Black Rain Ordnance Inc. , a maker of semi-automatic rifles,
sued an online dealer of gun parts over trademark infringement.  Glockplates.com  of Brainerd, Minnesota, is accused of
infringing the “Let it Rain!” trademark used by Black Rain. In
a complaint filed Dec. 19 in federal court in Joplin, Missouri,
the Neosho, Missouri-based gun manufacturer says it used that
phrase to surround a biohazard symbol, and that Glockplates.com
is using it without authorization on its website.  The goods that are sold under its mark are “confusingly
similar” to authentic Black Rain products, according to court
papers. The public is confused, Black Rain claims, and is likely
to assume falsely that an affiliation exists between the two
companies.  The Missouri gunmaker claims it is harmed by
Glockplates.com’s actions and its reputation has been tarnished.  It asked the court for an order barring further
unauthorized use of its marks, and for seizure of all allegedly
infringing promotional material. Additionally, it seeks an award
of all of Glockplates.com’s profits derived from the alleged
infringement, together with money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Black Rain also requested that the damages be tripled to
punish Glockplates.com for its actions.  Glockplates.com didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is Black Rain Ordnance Inc. v. Glockplates.com,
3:12-cv-05130-RED, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Missouri (Joplin).  EU Tobacco Directive Permits Nations to Require Plain Packs  The European Commission is proposing revisions to its
Tobacco Products Directive that permits member states to require
plain packaging on tobacco products.  According to a  statement  from the commission, all cigarette
and roll-your-own cigarette packaging must contain a combined
picture and text warning that covers 75 percent of the front and
back of the package.  Australia, which isn’t a member state of the European
Union, was the first nation to adopt a law requiring plain
packaging. The changeover began in October, and now cigarettes
sold in that country may bear photos of a gangrenous limb or a
cancer victim.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Paramount, Puzo Agree to End Lawsuit Over ‘Godfather’ Rights  Paramount Pictures  Corp. and  Mario Puzo ’s heirs agreed to
drop legal action that began when the movie studio sued estate
of the author of “The Godfather” to prevent the publication of
a sequel to the novel about a fictional Mafia family.  The parties voluntarily dismissed the lawsuit, according to
a stipulation filed Dec. 20 in federal court in Manhattan. No
details of any settlement were given.  “The case is settled and we’re very happy about it,”
Bertram Fields, a lawyer for the Puzo estate with Los Angeles-
based Greenberg Glusker Fields Claman & Machtinger LLP, said in
a telephone interview. “Because of the confidentiality
provisions, I can’t disclose the terms of the settlement.”  Paramount, a unit of  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , sued  Anthony Puzo ,
Mario’s son and the executor of his estate, in February to stop
the publication of a new sequel to “The Godfather,” claiming
it wasn’t authorized. The heirs countersued in April to cancel
the contract between the studio and Mario Puzo.  U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan in September denied the
Puzos’ bid to terminate the agreement.  Paramount said in its complaint that after Puzo died in
1999, the company agreed to allow Bertelsmann AG’s  Random House 
to publish one Godfather sequel, “The Godfather Returns,”
which came out in 2004. The estate published another novel,
“The Godfather’s Revenge,” in 2006, without Paramount’s
approval, the studio said. Paramount sued after the estate
announced a plan to publish a third sequel, “The Family
Corleone.”  Richard Kendall , a lawyer for Paramount, didn’t immediately
return a message seeking comment on the dismissal.  The sequel, written by Ed Falco, was published in May by
Grand Central Publishing, a unit of Paris-based Hachette Livre
SA. The terms of an interim settlement reached earlier this year
between Paramount and Puzo stated that proceeds from the book
would be put in escrow pending the outcome of the litigation,
according to court papers.  A notice was mailed to the U.S. Register of Copyrights to
report the termination of the lawsuit, according to a court
filing.  The first “Godfather” film came out in 1972 and won the
Academy Awards for best picture and adapted screenplay, for
which Puzo shared the credit.  Francis Ford Coppola  directed the
three “Godfather” movies.  The case is Paramount Pictures v. Puzo, 12-01268, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  EFF Hires Daniel Nazer From Stanford’s CIS Fair Use Project  The Electronic Frontier Foundation hired Daniel Nazer as a
staff attorney, the San Francisco-based digital rights advocacy
group said in a  statement .  His hiring is funded as part of a $250,000 donation from
Dallas Mavericks owner  Mark Cuban  aimed at improvement of the
U.S. patent system.  Nazer  joins EFF from Stanford Law School’s Center for
Internet and Society where he was a non-resident fellow at the
Fair Use Project. Before that, he practiced IP law at San
Francisco’s Keker & Van Nest LLP.  He has served as a judicial clerk to Justice Susan Kenny of
the Federal Court of Australia and to Chief Judge William K. Sessions III of U.S. District Court for the District of Vermont.  Nazer has an undergraduate degree in philosophy from the
University of Western Australia, a master’s degree in philosophy
from  Rutgers University , and a law degree from  Yale Law School .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 