-- India Extends Export Support as Trade Deficit Weighs on Growth
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-12-26T09:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/india-extends-export-support-as-trade-deficit-weighs-on-growth.html
India extended support for exporters
to tackle the nation’s trade deficit, stepping up efforts to
revive Asia’s third-largest economy.  The government will prolong a policy providing subsidized
credit to some exporters through the 12 months to March 2014,
Commerce Minister Anand Sharma said in New Delhi today. The
measure will be widened to include more businesses, he said.  Indian  exports  have fallen for seven straight months as
Europe’s debt crisis curbs overseas sales, the longest stretch
of declines since the 2009 global recession. The effort to spur
shipments extends a government push since mid-September to boost
the rupee and support economic growth, which the Finance
Ministry predicts will slow to a decade-low this fiscal year.  The subsidized credit program applies to all small- and
medium-sized enterprises, and has been extended to engineering
goods such as hand tools, electrical machinery and boilers,
Sharma said in his briefing. Certain exports through the Export-
Import Bank of India will also qualify, he said.  The rupee, down about 4 percent against the dollar in the
past year, strengthened 0.2 percent to 54.875 per dollar as of
2:53 p.m. in Mumbai, while the BSE  India  Sensitive Index rose 1
percent.  The  trade deficit  was $175.5 billion in January-to-November,
compared with $146.9 billion in the same period a year earlier,
Sharma said. The wider gap is a “cause of concern,” he said.  The government’s so-called interest subvention scheme,
under which exporters get a 2 percentage points discount on bank
lending rates, was extended to toys, sports goods, processed
agricultural products and readymade garments in June.  ‘No’ Demand  It earlier applied to handlooms, handicrafts, carpets and
other small manufacturers. Sharma didn’t specify the cost of the
subsidized credit initiative.  “Whatever steps India takes will not help to revive exports
because there is no external demand from  Europe  or the U.S.,”
said N.R. Bhanumurthy, an economist at the National Institute of
Public Finance and Policy in New Delhi.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s administration snapped
months of policy paralysis in September by curbing energy
subsidies to tackle a budget shortfall and opening industries
including retail to more foreign investment. It also set up a
panel in December to try and speed up infrastructure projects.  Gross domestic product will rise 5.7 percent to 5.9 percent
in the 12 months that began April 1, less than an earlier
estimate of as much as 7.85 percent, according to the Finance
Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  