-- Indian Stocks Advance Most in a Month on Flows; Bharti Jumps
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-12-26T10:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/indian-stocks-advance-most-in-a-month-on-flows-bharti-jumps.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks rallied the most in a
month, led by healthcare and industrial companies, as overseas
investors added to their holdings of domestic shares for a 27th
straight day.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose 0.9 percent
to 19,421.04, the most since Nov. 30, according to preliminary
closing prices in Mumbai.  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) 
increased to a one-week high.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the largest
cell-phone operator, jumped to a two-week high. Larsen & Toubro
Ltd., the biggest engineering company, gained for the first time
in five days.  The Sensex has risen 26 percent this year, headed for its
biggest annual jump since 2009, as government steps to open the
economy to foreign investment lured offshore funds. Overseas
funds were net  buyers  of domestic stocks for a 27th day on Dec.
21, the longest stretch of net purchases since a record 41-day
streak through Oct. 27, 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If you want to look at the market in  India , 50 percent is
determined by what’s happening globally due to cross-country
flows,” Sanjay Dutt, a director at Quantum Securities Ltd. in
 New Delhi , told Bloomberg India TV today. “The global picture
is much more optimistic than what we expected it to be, even in
the very short term.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 13 percent this year as
of yesterday as U.S. and Chinese economies showed signs of
recovery and central banks around the world took action to shore
up growth. The Asian equities benchmark is trading less than 1
percent from its highest close for the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in  Mumbai  at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  