-- Iran Says ‘Irresponsible’ GCC Raises Regional Tensions
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-12-26T12:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/iran-says-irresponsible-gcc-raises-regional-tensions.html
Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman
 Ramin Mehmanparast  said the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council
was risking a regional crisis with its unfounded criticisms and
heightened military focus.  The GCC this week announced it will coordinate air, land,
and marine forces under one structure, Bahrain’s Foreign
Minister Sheikh Khalid Bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa said after a meeting
of heads of state in Manama. Sheikh Khalid also called Iran’s
nuclear program a “very serious” threat.  “Certain countries, by making irresponsible comments, are
advancing toward creating tension and crisis in the region,”
Mehmanparast said in a report published today by the state-run
 Mehr  news agency.  Iran’s nuclear program is in line with “international laws
and conventions and in particular, those of the International
Atomic Energy Agency,” Mehmanparast said. He said the country’s
Bushehr nuclear facility has “the highest international
standards.”  While IAEA officials routinely inspect  Iran ’s declared
nuclear facilities, such as enrichment plants at Natanz and
Fordo, existing treaty arrangements don’t compel the country to
open up peripheral facilities.  “Iran’s nuclear program not only is a security threat to
the region, but also an environmental threat,” Sheikh Khalid
said.  The relationship between the Islamic Republic and the
agency has grown increasingly acrimonious since Iranian
officials accused the IAEA of spying on behalf of Western
powers.  Iranian Invitation  Iran has several times invited countries in the region to
visit its Russian-built Bushehr nuclear plant as a show of
goodwill, Mehmanparast said today.  The IAEA has identified its top goal in Iran as being a
visit to Parchin, a sprawling military base about 30 kilometers
(19 miles) southeast of Tehran. The IAEA says it was given
intelligence information showing Iran may have constructed a
blast chamber for testing nuclear-weapons components at the
site. Iran says the evidence given to the IAEA by unnamed
countries was forged, that it hasn’t worked on developing an
atomic weapon and its nuclear activities are aimed at securing
energy and for medical research.  The GCC, which includes the U.A.E., Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait ,
Oman, Bahrain and Qatar, has also accused Shiite-led Iran of
intervening in the internal affairs of Arab countries in the
Persian Gulf, home to three-fifths of the world’s oil reserves.  “Regional countries, by diverting the responsibility for
their domestic problems to outside, are fleeing from
realities,” Mehmanparast said. “This isn’t a correct method to
address people’s demands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  