-- Mississippi Receding Faster Than Expected, Shippers Say
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-12-26T22:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/mississippi-receding-faster-than-expected-shippers-say.html
Water levels in the  Mississippi 
River south of St. Louis are falling faster than anticipated,
requiring more urgent action to keep the nation’s busiest
waterway open, according to a group of shipping companies.  Debra Colbert, senior vice president of the  Waterways
Council Inc. , said the U.S.  Army Corps of Engineers  now projects
river levels may fall to a point at which many tugboats can’t
operate by Jan. 3 or Jan. 4. Previous estimates indicated that
the river would remain navigable until at least the middle of
the month, she said.  “The problem is the window to do anything about this is
closing quickly,” Colbert said today in a telephone interview.  Shippers carry about $7 billion in goods including crude
oil and grain on the Mississippi in December and January.
Tugboat and barge operators have warned that thousands of jobs
in  Illinois ,  Missouri ,  Louisiana  and other states in the
country’s midsection were at risk if the river shuts down, and
they’ve asked  Washington  to find ways to increase the flow.  Most tugboats need about 10 feet of water to operate
effectively. By the end of next week, only vessels with a draft
of no more than 8 feet will able to run through the area of the
river near Thebes, Illinois, 128 miles (206 kilometers) south of
St. Louis, Colbert said. The draft is the distance from the
surface of the water to a boat’s lowest point.  “Only a handful can navigate at 8 feet,” Colbert said.
Lower than that, “We’re effectively shut down.” That point
could be reached around Jan. 12 or Jan. 13, she said.  Pessimistic Assessment  Colbert said the Arlington, Virginia-based group received
the more pessimistic assessment from the Corps in an e-mail on
Dec. 24. The forecast apparently doesn’t include precipitation
estimates from a storm that today dumped snow in parts of the
Midwest.  The council is repeating calls for President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to release more water from the Missouri River,
the Mississippi’s largest tributary.  The Army Corps has rejected those calls, saying releasing
more water from reservoirs along the Missouri would put
drinking-water supplies and wildlife at risk and may raise
hydropower electric bills.  The Corps has released water from Carlyle Lake in southwest
Illinois to add about 6 inches of depth to the lowest point on
the Mississippi.  Corps officials have said they thought tugboats and barges
would be able to continue to operate on the river.  ‘Cautiously Optimistic’  “We remain cautiously optimistic that if we do have any
interruptions, it will be short in duration as we continue to
maintain a safe and reliable navigation channel,” Major General
John Peabody, the Corps’ Mississippi Valley Division commander,
said in a statement released yesterday. The Corps is also
looking at the possibility of additional releases from other
reservoirs, Peabody said.  Michael Petersen, a Corps spokesman in St. Louis, said he
wasn’t aware of the Dec. 24 forecast cited by the Waterways
Council.  The agency is also working to remove rock formations near
Thebes to provide tugboats more room to operate.  Mississippi River barge traffic is slowing as the worst
drought since the 1930s combines with a seasonal dry period to
drop water levels, prompting shippers, including  Archer-Daniels-
Midland Co. (ADM)  and AEP River Operations LLC, to seek alternatives.  The Waterways Council and the American Waterways Operators,
an Arlington, Virginia-based trade association representing the
tugboat and barge industry, earlier this month estimated that
Mississippi River traffic supports about 20,000 jobs and
generates $130 million in wages for states along the waterway in
December and January alone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  