-- Italian Bonds Seen Weathering Political Confusion: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-12-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/italian-bonds-seen-weathering-political-confusion-euro-credit.html
Italian bond yields at two-year lows
show investors are confident the rally that started after  Mario Monti ’s appointment as Prime Minister will survive an election
political pundits say is tough to call.  Monti ruled out running in the Feb. 24-25 vote at a Dec. 23
press conference, while saying he would “consider” being the
prime-ministerial candidate for a party that adheres to his
economic agenda. The technocrat leader said his economic policy,
and not just a European Central Bank backstop, has helped lower
Italy’s 10-year  borrowing costs  by more than 250 basis points
since he came to power 13 months ago.  Monti’s decision comes weeks after former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  reversed a decision to stay out of the race,
before offering to stand aside if Monti would lead a coalition
of “moderates.” Berlusconi is now campaigning against the
Monti government, and both of them are seeking to combat surging
support for anti-austerity, comic-turned-politician Beppe
Grillo.  “It’s the most unpredictable election probably in the
entire postwar period,” Federigo Argentieri, a political
science professor at John Cabot University in  Rome , said in a
Dec. 23 telephone interview. “It’s not clear at all.”  Political Upheaval  The political upheaval hasn’t derailed a debt-market rally
that sent  Italy ’s 10-year yield to 4.35 percent last week, the
least since December 2010. The rate has fallen from about 7
percent on Nov. 16 of last year, when Monti was sworn in to lead
a government of non-politicians. The additional yield investors
demand to hold the bonds over comparable German bunds narrowed
to 289 basis points, or 2.89 percentage points, on Dec. 19, from
519 basis points in November 2011.  “So far the impact of recent political developments on the
Italian government debt market has been muted,” Barclays Plc
analysts Fabio Fois and Giuseppe Maraffino wrote in a client
note on Dec. 24. “Demand from investors has been solid across
maturities and broad based among investor classes. The current
positive momentum for the Italian paper should continue.”  Achieving a stable government that can keep a lid on
borrowing costs is critical in a country that has the euro-
region’s second-biggest debt load after  Greece  and must sell an
average of more than 1 billion euros a day of bonds and bills
next year. The market will provide an indication of demand for
the securities as Italy sells as much as 11.75 billion euros
($15.5 billion) of six-month bills and zero-coupon notes today,
followed by 6 billion euros of five- and 10-year bonds tomorrow.  Pimco Purchases  Political headlines may cause volatility in Italian yields,
 Andrew Balls , head of European  portfolio management  at Pacific
Investment Management Co., the manager of the world’s largest
mutual fund, said in a Dec. 19 interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with  Guy Johnson . “At wider yields
we’d want to buy more Italy,” he said.  While Monti said in his Dec. 23 end-of-year press
conference that it was his fiscal rigor and so-called structural
reforms that helped rein in borrowing costs, the nation also
benefited from an ECB pledge to safeguard the euro. The
country’s bonds are up 16 percent since July 25, the day before
ECB President  Mario Draghi  said he would do “whatever it
takes” to keep the currency bloc together. He followed that in
September with the outline of a plan to buy bonds of nations
struggling to bring down borrowing costs.  Merkel’s Praise  Italy’s policies won Monti praise from German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, though they have deepened the
country’s fourth recession since 2001.  The measures have also pushed a growing chunk of the
electorate to support the anti-austerity Five Star Movement.
Beppe Grillo’s party would win 18 percent of the vote, according
to a Dec. 10 poll by ISPO Ricerche. That compared with less than
10 percent for the coalition of three centrist parties running
on a pro-Monti platform.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party had 16 percent, while
Italy’s  Democratic Party , which also backed Monti’s government,
led with 33 percent, which may not prove enough to win a working
majority in parliament.  “The markets are too complacent and they don’t appreciate
Italy’s long-term political sclerosis, the probable absence of a
strong majority after the election, the tendency of Italian
politicians to speak well but act badly, and a worsening of the
actual recession that could bring Greek-like problems,” Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $180 million at Glendevon King Asset
Management in  London , said in a Dec. 24 e-mail.  Grand Coalition  An inconclusive outcome in the election may prove to be
Monti’s best path to a second term. Italy’s election law makes
it difficult for any party to win a working majority in the
Senate even if they gain clear control in the lower house, the
Chamber of Deputies, meaning the vote risks producing a hung
parliament.  Such a result may necessitate a sort of “grand
coalition,” with pro-Monti factions within the Democratic Party
and Berlusconi’s People of Liberty joining with the centrist
parties that are openly supporting Monti in the election to form
a government with Monti as its leader, John Cabot University’s
Argentieri said.  “We will get a government that is acceptable to the
market,”  Luca Jellinek , head of European fixed-income strategy
at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, said in a phone
interview on Dec. 18. “The so-called Monti agenda has made
progress but it is incomplete. Italian bond yields will continue
to fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  