-- Kingfisher Air Fails to Give Funding Details in Revival Plan
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-12-26T11:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/kingfisher-air-fails-to-provide-funding-details-in-revival-plan.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier that grounded flights because of a cash crunch, failed
to provide a funding plan to the nation’s aviation regulator in
its proposal to revive operations.  The revival plan Kingfisher submitted to the authorities
earlier this week is “only a wish,” Aviation Minister Ajit Singh told reporters in New Delhi today. The airline’s parent UB
Group hasn’t provided any assurance of funding, he said.  The Directorate General of Civil Aviation will hold talks
with Kingfisher’s creditors and airport operators before
deciding on the proposal, Singh said. The carrier, controlled by
liquor tycoon  Vijay Mallya , has been seeking cash for more than
two years and said it’s in talks with possible investors,
including Etihad Airways PJSC.  Kingfisher has also applied to have its operating license
renewed. The license was suspended in October after the airline
halted services because of a strike by engineers and pilots
demanding seven months of unpaid salaries. They agreed to return
to work after management pledged to pay the arrears.  The plan presented to the DGCA includes the money needed to
support the revival, Kingfisher spokesman Prakash Mirpuri said
in an e-mail. The company will show the availability of funds as
soon as the regulator is satisfied with the proposal, he said.  The aviation regulator had earlier said that the carrier
must provide a “concrete and reliable” revival plan to have
its license restored.  Shares of Kingfisher  fell  0.3 percent to 15.90 rupees at
close of trading in Mumbai. The stock has dropped 24 percent
this year.  The carrier plans to restart operations in a phased manner
using its own funds, according to a plan the company submitted
to bankers on Dec. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  