-- Korean Won Gains, Bonds Fall as Overseas Funds Buy More Stocks
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-12-26T06:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/korean-won-gains-bonds-fall-as-overseas-funds-buy-more-stocks.html
South Korea ’s won advanced and
 government bonds  fell, sending the 10-year yield to a five-month
high, as funds based abroad boosted holdings of local stocks.  International investors  bought  more shares than they sold
every day this month, taking net purchases for December to $3.3
billion. The yen weakened to a 20-month low against the dollar
as Shinzo Abe was approved as  Japan ’s prime minister by the
lower house amid speculation he will push for further monetary
stimulus. South Korea’s president-elect Park Geun Hye said
government bonds need to be sold to fulfill election pledges,
Yonhap News reported. The  Kospi index  closed little changed
after rallying as much as 1 percent.  “Overseas investors’ net purchases of Korean stocks and
cross trades of selling the yen and buying the won are the
biggest issues in the  currency market  preventing the won from
weakening,” said Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-based currency analyst
at Woori Futures Co. “With financial institutions entering
book-closing mode, not many investors are betting aggressively
on one position.”  The won appreciated 0.1 percent to 1,073.28 per dollar at
the close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This year’s 7.4 percent advance is the biggest among  Asia ’s 11
most-traded currencies. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, fell
20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 4.75 percent. It
was 13.55 percent at the end of 2011.  The won also gained as some exporters converted their
overseas earnings, according to Han Sung Min, a Seoul-based
currency trader for Busan Bank. Local financial markets will be
closed on Dec. 31.  Consumer Confidence  South Korea’s  consumer confidence  index was steady at 99 in
December, unchanged from the previous month and indicating
pessimists outnumber optimists, the central bank said in a
statement today.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due September
2017 rose three basis points to 3.05 percent, Korea Exchange
Inc. prices show. The 10-year yield rose three basis points to
3.23 percent, the highest level for a similar-maturity benchmark
 note  since July 16. The one-year interest-rate swap advanced one
basis point to 2.82 percent.  “With not much supportive news for bonds, we’re seeing a
rapid bear-market steepening move in the curve,” said Lee Gil Won, a Seoul-based bond trader for  Shinhan Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  