-- KT Makes Non-Binding Bid for Vivendi’s Maroc Telecom
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2012-12-26T07:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/kt-corp-submits-non-binding-bid-for-vivendi-s-maroc-telecom.html
KT Corp. (030200) , South Korea’s second-
largest mobile-phone carrier, submitted a preliminary bid for
 Vivendi (VIV)  SA’s stake in Moroccan carrier  Maroc Telecom SA (IAM)  as it
aims to expand in  Africa .  The bid, made Dec. 17, is non-binding, Kate Kim, a
spokeswoman for Seongnam-based KT, said by phone today. Paris-
based Vivendi is seeking to sell its 53 percent stake in Maroc
for about 5.5 billion euros ($7.3 billion), the Korean-language
Economic Daily reported earlier.  KT is focusing on expanding in  emerging markets  including
Central America and Africa after agreeing to sell its 80 percent
stake in Russian carrier New Telephone Co., the Korean company
said last year. KT shelved its plan to buy 20 percent of Telkom
South Africa Ltd. in June after the South African government
opposed the sale.  “Since the Korean telecom market seems highly saturated,
KT has long been looking to expand its business overseas,” Choi
Yun Mee, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities, said by phone
today. “Wired and wireless markets also seem excessively
saturated in some developed countries, such as the U.S. and
 Europe , so KT has no choice but to seek other opportunities in
 emerging markets  like Africa.”  KT  fell  1.5 percent to close at 37,500 won in Seoul
trading, while South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index was little
changed. The stock has gained 5.2 percent this year.  France Telecom  A price of 5.5 billion euros for Vivendi’s stake represents
a premium of about 17 percent based on the 8.9 billion-euro
market value of Maroc’s Paris-listed shares. That compares with
an average premium of 27 percent in global telecom deals of at
least $1 billion over the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Other potential bidders for Vivendi’s stake include  France
Telecom SA (FTE) , Qatar’s Qtel, and Etisalat, Reuters reported Dec.
12. Vivendi has hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  to
explore a sale of Maroc, people familiar with the matter have
said.  Maroc, based in Rabat,  Morocco , is  30 percent   owned  by the
Moroccan government, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morocco’s wireless market is saturated, with a penetration
rate of 113 percent in 2011, Bloomberg Industries analyst Erhan Gurses said in a report on Oct. 8. As a result, average revenue
per user is declining and Maroc’s earnings may worsen, according
to consensus estimates cited by Gurses. Political risks in the
West African nation are also likely to weigh on the stake sale,
Gurses wrote.  Maroc’s revenue fell 1 percent to 15.2 billion dirhams
($1.8 billion) in the first half of this year, the company said
July 24.  KT’s Profit  KT posted third-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates
on new subscribers to faster fourth-generation service and
earnings from its leasing unit. Net income rose 46 percent from
a year earlier to 372.3 billion won ($347 million), the company
said Nov. 5. That exceeded the 218.9 billion-won average of 19
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “KT reaped quite a big profit after selling its stake in
Russian telecom, so it may have confidence in acquiring stakes
in telecom firms elsewhere,” Shinyoung’s Choi said.  Vivendi Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou has pledged to overhaul
the Paris-based company and is considering divestments and
restructuring to boost the stock. The owner of record company
 Universal Music Group  and phone operators in France, Morocco and
Brazil has gained 4.9 percent this year.  Brazil Unit  Vivendi has hired Rothschild and Deutsche Bank AG to study
strategic options for its Brazilian phone operator GVT, two
people familiar with the matter said in August. Vivendi may sell
the company or a stake, or propose an initial public offering,
one of the people said at the time. Vivendi acquired GVT for
$4.18 billion in 2009.  France Telecom , the largest French phone company, is
potentially interested in Maroc under “very numerous
conditions” including price and any asset overlap, Chief
Financial Officer Gervais Pellissier said this month.  Qtel is also looking “very closely” at Morocco, and a
stake in Maroc “might be in play,” the Qatari company’s Chief
Strategy Officer Jeremy Sell said Oct. 7.  Separately, KT filed a shelf registration today with
 Japan ’s  Finance Ministry  allowing it to sell as much as 100
billion yen of Samurai bonds. The registration, which takes
effect Jan. 8, is valid for two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  