-- Natural Gas Rises as Cold Spell Boosts Demand for Heating Fuels
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-12-26T19:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/natural-gas-rises-as-cold-spell-boosts-demand-for-heating-fuels.html
Natural gas futures gained in New
York for the first time in three days as freezing weather
spurred demand for heating fuels.  Gas rose 1.4 percent as Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland , predicted below-normal temperatures from the
Northeast into the Midwest in the next six to 10 days. About 50
percent of U.S. households use gas for heating. January options
expired today and the futures will expire tomorrow.  “The forecasts for the coming week are providing a little
bit of support for next week across the eastern half of the
country,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Without strong
heating demand, the market is going to have trouble sustaining
any rallies.”  Natural gas for January delivery rose 4.6 cents to settle
at $3.392 per million British thermal units on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Gas has climbed 13 percent this year,
heading for the first annual gain since 2007. Futures trading
volume was 55 percent below the 100-day average.  January $3.35 puts were the most active options in
electronic trading on the Nymex. They fell 2.9 cents to 0.1 cent
on volume of 1,250 lots at 2:18 p.m.  Winter Storm  A powerful winter storm that spawned tornadoes from  Texas 
to  Alabama , killing at least three people and leaving thousands
without power, is bringing heavy snow to the Midwest and
threatening rain and high wind in the East, according to the
 National Weather Service . Winter storm warnings are in effect
from  Illinois  to  Maine , the service said.  The low temperature in Chicago tomorrow will be 28 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 2 Celsius), 8 above the usual reading, before
dropping to 2 below normal at 17 degrees on Dec. 31, according
to AccuWeather Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania . New York
City’s low may be 1 above normal tomorrow at 30 degrees before
dropping to 22 degrees, 6 below average.  “The colder temperatures that are on the way will not only
increase heating demand but also power demand, and to an extent
industrial demand because they have to heat their facilities,”
Aaron Calder, senior market analyst at Gelber & Associates in
Houston, said in a note to clients today. Outages at nuclear
power plants are about 8,000 megawatts above normal, he said.  Nuclear generation in the lower 48 states gained 0.2
percent from yesterday to 90,411 megawatts, or 89 percent of
capacity, according to U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission data
compiled by Bloomberg. Output was 5 percent lower than a ago
with 11 of 104 reactors offline.  Nuclear Plants  Shut reactors may increase consumption of natural gas and
coal to generate electricity. Power plants account for 36
percent gas demand in the nation, according to the Energy
Department.  U.S.  gas stockpiles  may have declined by 84 billion cubic
feet last week, based on the median of three analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year average drop for the period
is 140 billion, department data show.
     Inventories totaled 3.724 trillion cubic feet in the week
ended Dec. 14, 10 percent above the historical average for the
week, the department said last week. The  supply surplus  has
widened since dropping to 4.5 percent four weeks earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  