-- Oil Rises as Obama Cuts Short Vacation to Resume Talks
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-12-26T20:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/oil-rises-as-obama-cuts-short-vacation-to-resume-talks.html
Oil advanced to a two-month high in
New York as the dollar slipped against the euro and President
 Barack Obama  planned to leave for Washington to resume talks to
avert spending cuts and tax gains that threaten the economy.  Crude rose 2.7 percent and the dollar approached an eight-
month low against the euro before lawmakers return to discuss
ways to avoid more than $600 billion in automatic measures that
will take effect Jan. 1. Gains accelerated after United Arab
Emirates security forces arrested members of a cell that was
planning to carry out terrorist attacks.  “The dollar is getting hit, which is having an impact on
all of the commodities, especially oil,” said John Kilduff, a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “The euro is back above $1.32, an important
level. Oil is also getting a boost from some of the stories
about terror threats.”  Crude oil for February delivery climbed $2.37 to $90.98 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Oct. 18. Trading volume for West Texas
Intermediate futures contracts was down 33 percent from the 100-
day average. Prices have dropped 7.9 percent this year.  There was no floor or electronic trading yesterday because
of the Christmas holiday.  Brent oil for February settlement rose $2.27, or 2.1
percent, to $111.07 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe . The number of contracts trading was 70 percent lower
than the 100-day average. The European benchmark crude was at a
premium of $20.09 to WTI, down from $20.19 on Dec. 24.  Technical Breakout  Oil in New York topped the 100-day moving average for the
first time since Oct. 22. The average was $90.68 today.
Technical analysts use historical patterns and tools such as
moving averages to predict price movements.  “We were poised technically for this gain after Monday’s
session,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Trading volume
was very light until 9 a.m. when it picked up with the open of
floor trading. The target was the 100-day moving average of
$90.68 and we made it.”  Obama planned to leave for Washington today from his
Christmas vacation in  Hawaii , while his family will stay behind,
the White House said yesterday. Lawmakers plan to return
tomorrow, the same day Obama will arrive in Washington.  “The president has come back early and that has raised
hopes,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in St. Louis, which oversees
$1.4 billion. “It’s probably a knee-jerk reaction because I
don’t know who he has to negotiate with.”  CBO Warning  A failure to reach an agreement on the budget plan might
push the U.S. into recession for the first half of 2013, the
nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has said.  The dollar fell as much as 0.5 percent to $1.3254 per euro.
A weaker dollar increases the appeal of dollar-denominated
commodities as an investment. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
of 24 raw materials rose as much as 1.7 percent, led by gains in
crude oil and gasoline.  UAE officials said members of the group had obtained
equipment and materials to carry out their attacks, according to
WAM, the country’s official news agency. Saudi Arabia assisted
in uncovering the terrorist cell, WAM said.  Security forces arrested “a cell from the deviant group,
comprising citizens from both countries, that was planning on
carrying out actions that infringe on the national security of
both countries and sisterly nations,” the news agency said.  Iranian Comments  An Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman,  Ramin Mehmanparast ,
said the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council is risking a
regional crisis because of “irresponsible” criticism and its
heightened military focus, according to a report published by
the state-run Mehr news agency today.  The GCC will coordinate military forces, Bahrain’s Foreign
Minister Sheikh Khalid Bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa said this week.
Khalid also said  Iran ’s nuclear program is a “very serious”
threat. The council, includes the UAE, Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait ,
Oman, Bahrain and Qatar. Arab nations in the Persian Gulf, home
to three fifths of the world’s oil reserves.  U.S. crude inventories fell 1.7 million barrels last week,
according to the median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg before an Energy Department report.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly data at
11 a.m. on Dec. 28 in  Washington , two days later than usual
because of Christmas. The industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute will publish its stockpile figures tomorrow.  WTI has fallen in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom deepened the
glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s largest storage hub and the
delivery point for New York futures. That has left it at an
average discount of $17.45 a barrel to Brent this year, compared
with a premium of about 7 cents in the five years through 2010.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 288,642
contracts as of 2:38 p.m. Volume totaled 77,204 contracts on
Dec. 24, the lowest level since January 2007. Open interest was
1.48 million, the lowest level since Nov. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  