-- Oji Pushes Biomass Power to Tap Japan’s Renewables Subsidies
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-12-27T02:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/oji-pushes-biomass-power-to-tap-japan-renewable-energy-subsidies.html
Oji Holdings Corp. (3861) , the world’s
largest corporate user of renewable energy, plans to sell clean
power in Japan to take advantage of government subsidies and
counter a sales slide in mainstay paper products.  Oji, the second-biggest paper producer by revenue, plans to
spend 20 billion yen ($234 million) to build two so-called
biomass  power plants  fuelled by wood on the northern island of
Hokkaido and the southern island of Kyushu, Shoji Fujiwara,
chairman of Oji Green Resources Co., said in an interview.  It plans to start selling electricity from the units in
about three years as part of a 60 billion yen investment in
renewable energy, including solar, geothermal and hydro. Oji
joins companies such as mobile phone provider  Softbank Corp. (9984)  to
battery maker GS Yuasa Corp. in renewable energy investment
after the government incentive program started on July 1 to help
cut reliance on atomic power after last year’s Fukushima nuclear
disaster.  “So far renewable energy has been used internally, but we
intend to aggressively promote sales from now on,” Fujiwara
said in the interview. “We have a long history of biomass power
generation and own the operation technology and see this as an
advantage.”  Potential customers for power from the two plants would
include  Kyushu Electric Power Co. (9508)  and  Hokkaido Electric Power
Co. (9509) , with potential sales of 2 billion yen a year to each
utility, Fujiwara said.  Bark Power  Oji,  founded  in 1873, began biomass power generation at its
Tomakomai newsprint plant in 1910, using bark from pulped logs
as fuel, according to its website and Fujiwara.  The spread of mobile devices and a shrinking population has
curbed demand for paper in  Japan  by about 16 percent over the
past five years, prompting Oji to look for new sources of
revenue and to pare costs. The company last month said it would
cut 2,000 jobs, or 10 percent of its domestic workforce over
three years, mostly by not replacing all retirees.  Both bark and waste liquor from paper manufacturing are
regarded as biomass fuel and among sources to cut dependence on
fossil fuels to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Oji has its own
power generation equipment at paper plants and already sells
extra electricity to utilities, Fujiwara said.  A government task force forecast in September that enough
electricity could be generated to serve 4.6 million households
by tapping Japan’s unused biomass, including  food waste  and
timber from thinning out forests. That would be equivalent to 5
percent of the nation’s greenhouse gas emissions, the  task force 
concluded.  Oji Holdings rose 14 yen, or 5 percent, to 294 yen as of
11:09 a.m. in Tokyo trading, paring its decline this year to 26
percent. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained as much as 1.4
percent.  Incentives  The government incentive program, known as a feed in
tariff, requires utilities to pay above-market rates to
companies producing power from renewable energy, with the added
cost passed on to consumers as surcharges.  The tariff for power derived from unused wood for this
fiscal year through March is 33.6 yen a kilowatt hour for 20
years compared with 14.59 yen industrial users paid for
electricity during the 12 months ended in March 2012. The tariff
for solar is 42 yen, the highest among industrialized countries.
The tariff for wind is 23.1 yen and geothermal is priced as much
as 42 yen for 15 years.  Oji is considering two more solar projects in Hokkaido’s
Tomakomai city and Tokushima prefecture on the southwestern
island of Shikoku, Fujiwara said. It plans to start a solar
plant in Hokkaido’s Shiranuka town in August next year, with
annual output capacity of 1.4 gigawatt hours, Oji said Nov. 22.  For hydro power, the company will renovate plants in
Hokkaido to boost capacity by 20 percent to 1.2 million gigawatt
hours by March 2016, Fujiwara said.  Oji said in June it’s examining the potential to produce
geothermal power from its forest in Biei town of Hokkaido,
together with general contractor  Kajima Corp. (1812)  The project would
take about 10 years, Fujiwara said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  