-- Emerging-Market Stocks Gain on Commodity Rebound, Profit Outlook
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-26T22:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/most-emerging-market-stocks-rise-led-by-technology-companies.html
Emerging-market equities rose for a
third day as higher commodities’ prices bolstered material
stocks and earnings prospects improved for companies from  China
Steel Corp. (2002)  to  Aeon Thana Sinsap Thailand Pcl. (AEONTS)   China  Steel climbed the most in a year in Taipei on
improving metal demand while Aeon Thana jumped to a record in
Bangkok after quarterly profit surged. Brazilian electric
utility Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA was the biggest gainer on
the developing nation index while OAO Transneft,  Russia ’s oil
pipeline operator, advanced. The  State Bank of India Ltd.  rose
as overseas investors added to their holdings of domestic shares
for a 28th straight day.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.1 percent to
1,046.65 in  New York . Oil surged to a two-month high and the
Standard & Poor’s  GSCI gauge of 24 commodities  rallied the most
in a month as President  Barack Obama  returns to  Washington  to
resume talks aimed at averting spending cuts and tax increases
that threaten the world’s largest economy.  “Investors are hoping U.S. lawmakers will compromise and
resolve the fiscal cliff before the deadline,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at Manila-based  BDO Unibank
Inc. (BDO)  “For the meantime, stocks with solid growth stories will
enjoy investors’ attention and outperform the market amidst this
U.S. uncertainty.”  The MSCI’s  emerging-markets  gauge is set for a 14 percent
gain this year, beating a 13 percent advance in the MSCI World
Index, a measure of developed nations’ stocks. The 21 nations in
the developing gauge send about 17 percent of their exports to
the U.S. on average, World Trade Organization data show.  Trading Volumes  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.8 percent as overseas
investors added to their holdings of domestic shares.  Thailand ’s
 SET Index (SET)  climbed 0.3 percent to the highest since February 1996
after the nation’s exports exceeded forecasts. The  Philippine
Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  gained 0.2 percent to a record.  Hong Kong ’s
market was closed.  The  Kazakhstan Stock Exchange Index (KZKAK)  declined 1.6 percent.
Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slipped less than 0.1 percent and Ukraine’s
UX Index gained 0.4 percent. In the  Middle East , Dubai’s  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  added 0.6 percent and  Egypt ’s  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  fell
0.3 percent.  The  100-day volatility  for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
fell to 10.76, the lowest since 2005. A gauge of material stocks
in the index advanced 0.7 percent, pushing its multiple to 15
times estimated earnings, compared with 12 times for the broader
index and 13.7 for MSCI World, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Eletropaulo, Gol  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, added 0.3
percent to $43.31 while the  Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, dropped
jumped 5.7 percent to 21.71.                           China Steel climbed 3.6 percent, the biggest advance since
November 2011. Some Taiwanese steel plants will remain operating
during the Chinese New Year as demand for the metal improves,
the Commercial Times reported.  Eletropaulo jumped 7.2 percent in  Sao Paulo  as the utility
announced a dividend payment, and  Cia. Energetica de Minas
Gerais SA  declined 9.5 percent, the most in three months, as the
deadline expired to receive a $769 million dividend from the
Brazilian electric utility.  Airline  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4)  rallied 16
percent after reporting that revenue generated per seat flown
increased 17 percent in November from a year earlier.  Tradewinds Offer  Transneft gained 2.5 percent as Urals crude, the chief
Russian blend, reached the highest in two months. OAO Rosneft,
the country’s largest oil producer, advanced 1.3 percent.  Aeon Thana Sinsap jumped 3.7 percent to the highest close
based on prices going back to December 2001. The Thai consumer
loans unit of  Japan ’s biggest credit-card company said yesterday
it swung a third-quarter profit versus a loss a year earlier.  Tradewinds (Malaysia) Bhd (TWI) , a palm oil and rice producer,
jumped 15 percent, the largest gain since June 2007. Perspective
Lane (M) Sdn. and three other companies, which collectively own
45.1 percent of Tradewinds, jointly offered 9.30 ringgit a share
for the rest of the company they don’t own.  State Bank  of  India  gained 1.7 percent and  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest cell-phone operator, rose 2.9 percent.
Overseas funds were net buyers of domestic stocks for a 27th day
on Dec. 21, the longest stretch of net purchases since a record
41-day streak through Oct. 27, 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Chinese Developers  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , China’s second-largest
developer by market value, climbed 2 percent to the highest
since November 2009 in  Shanghai , amid speculation the
government’s urbanization plan will support housing demand.  “Developers are gaining on the government’s call to use
urbanization as a new engine for growth,” Gao Jian, an analyst
at  Northeast Securities Co. (000686) , said by phone.  In Dubai,  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , an investment bank controlled
by the emirate’s ruler, surged 15 percent, the biggest rally
since January 2009. Shuaa spokesman Oliver Schutzmann said the
stock is undervalued and investors “see this as an opportunity
to get in” as the company trims losses.  The yen weakened beyond 85 a dollar for the first time
since April 2011 amid expectations Japan’s new government will
push for more cash infusions to bolster the economy. Among
emerging currencies, the  Thai baht  and Indonesian rupiah slid.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries  gained  two basis point, or 0.02
percentage point, to 268, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  