-- Houston Spots Offer Sea Urchin, Foie Gras Breakfast: Food
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-12-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/houston-spots-offer-sea-urchin-foie-gras-breakfast-food.html
A generation ago, hungry Houstonians
out on the town might have tucked in to a belt-loosening pile of
barbecue or Tex-Mex would have sufficed.  Those standard dishes are still available in abundance in
the U.S.’s fourth most-populous city. But waves of immigrants
and a growing cosmopolitanism have transformed this port city.  Today, you’re just as likely to find sea urchin and
guanciale pizza (at  The Pass and Provisions , one of the newest
hot spots) and fragrant, fiery Thai specialties.  For a taste of  India  there’s  Pondicheri  or  Indika . For
prize-worthy Italian, there’s  DaMarco Cucina e Vino .  Huynh 
serves a solid lineup of Vietnamese home-style dishes.  To satisfy Houston’s changing palate,  Michelin star -seeking
chefs groomed in kitchens from  Napa Valley  to New York have set
up shop here.  Here are some more places worth checking out:  Foie Breakfast  Triniti Restaurant and Bar  chef Ryan Hildebrand, a  Culinary
Institute of America  grad, serves progressive American dishes
that pop with flavor, like Texas quail and deviled lobster.  Try the $19 foie gras breakfast with fluffy donut holes,
Hildebrand’s signature dish. The buttery duck liver, accompanied
by a tiny pancake, egg and a fragrant sausage patty, will change
your notion of what breakfast after dark should taste like.  At 2815 S. Shepherd. Information: +1-713-527-9090;
 http://www.trinitirestaurant.com .  Chef’s Counter  Chef Justin Yu’s  Oxheart , which opened in March, brings the
tasting menu-only trend to Houston’s fine-dining landscape.  Book a seat at the chef’s counter and you can watch Yu, a
Napa veteran, chief baker Karen Man (Yu’s wife and French
Laundry alum) and his cooks plate your dishes in the tiny
kitchen seconds before they bring them to you.  The $75  tasting  menu’s highlights include a sweet squash
dumpling and a tartare of smoked beef leg in kombu gel.  Sommelier Justin Vann will match wines to your dishes.  At 1302 Nance St. Information: +1-832-830-8592;
 http://oxhearthouston.com .  Character Cast  Chef Chris Shepherd calls his menu at  Underbelly  “The
Story of Houston Food.” Its current cast of characters includes
a $50 slow-roasted pork collar, a $44 whole roasted chicken and
$14 Korean braised goat with dumplings. The catch of the day,
whole or filleted, is a strong option most nights.  At 1100 Westheimer Road. Information: +1-713-528-9800;
 http://underbellyhouston.com .  Decadent Lobster  At the sleek, popular Japanese grill  Kata Robata , tucked in
a mini mall, give sushi a break and try the fresh hamachi with
jalapeno slices, a decadent lobster with macaroni and cheese or
the 72-hour slow-cooked Kobe beef skewers.  At 3600 Kirby Dr. Information: +1-713-526-8858;
 http://katarobata.com .  Octopus Tacos  Hugo’s  octopus-and-lobster tacos take the now-familiar fish
taco one sublime step further. Its all-you-can-eat Sunday brunch
with more than 20 choices is a good way to sample Hugo’s
approach to Mexican standards in one visit.  At 1600 Westheimer Rd. Information: +1-713-524-7744 or
 http://www.hugosrestaurant.net .  Roadside Joint  Don’t judge the year-old  Roost  by its rustic exterior,
befitting of a roadside cafe in  Wyoming . Chef Kevin Naderi’s
farm-to-table menu elevates mundane dishes such as braised beef
cheeks, pan-seared scallops and its daily catch from the sea.
The roasted cauliflower with bonito flakes is one of the city’s
best vegetable dishes.  At 1972 Fairview St. Information: +1-713-523-7667;
 http://www.iloveroost.com .  French Texas  France native Philippe Schmit, who paid his dues at New
York’s Le Bernardin, puts a Texas brand on French classics. Duck
confit is served with mushrooms and bacon;  hanger steak  is first
slow-cooked sous vide and then slapped on the grill.  For casual dining and people watching, try the first-floor
lounge, open until 1 a.m. on weekends.  At 1800 Post Oak Blvd. Information: +1-713-439-1000;
 http://www.philippehouston.com   Playful Creations  At  Uchi , James Beard Award-winning chef Tyson Cole shakes
up the sushi-restaurant concept with adventurous and playful
creations. Notables include the Jar Jar duck (with kumquat,
endive and rosemary smoke) and tuna sashimi with goat cheese.  At 904 Westheimer Rd. Information: +1-713-522-4808;
 http://uchirestaurants.com/Houston .  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Sam Knight  on books and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 