-- Overseas Shipholding Executives Sued Over Debt Offering
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-26T19:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/overseas-shipholding-executives-sued-over-debt-offering.html
The state of Indiana sued directors
and officers of  Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSGIQ)  on behalf of
investors in a $300 million debt offering over accounting
inaccuracies that helped lead to the company’s bankruptcy
filing.  The state accused the shipping firm’s board members and
executives, as well as underwriters on the offering including
Citigroup Inc.,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (HSBA)  of
violating U.S. securities law, according to the complaint filed
Dec. 24 in  New York  federal court.  Overseas Shipholding, the largest U.S. tanker operator,
sought  bankruptcy protection  in November less than a month after
disclosing that its financial statements from 2009 through the
first two quarters of 2012 failed to include certain tax
liabilities. Offering documents for the notes also contained
inaccuracies, according to the complaint.  “The impact of the defendants’ admissions on debt
purchasers was devastating,” lawyers for the state said in the
complaint, regarding the disclosures about the accounting
inaccuracies. By Nov. 20, the 8 1/8 percent senior notes were
trading roughly 75 percent below the offering price,
“inflicting substantial harm on plaintiff and class,”
according to the complaint, which was filed in  Manhattan .  Board Resignation  The accounting inaccuracy disclosures and bankruptcy filing
followed an announcement by the New York-based company on Oct. 3
that board member G. Allen Andreas had resigned over a
disagreement with the board “in reviewing a tax issue,”
according to the complaint. Andreas is named as a defendant in
the suit.  On Nov. 21, a separate investor in the senior notes, Paul
Otto Koether IRA Rollover also filed a class action on behalf of
Overseas Shipholding debt investors in Manhattan state court.
The investor alleged that underwriters are liable for damages as
much as the amount of the securities each handled in the
offering.  Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and HSBC, which acted as book
runners, together handled $225 million of the notes, receiving
total fees of about $4 million, according to the state court
suit.  The case is  Indiana  Treasurer of State v. Andreas III, 12-
cv-9363, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The state court case is Paul Otto Koether IRA
Rollover v. Arntzen, 654037/2012, New York Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  