-- How AT&T and Verizon Manipulate Your Smartphone
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-12-26T23:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/how-at-t-and-verizon-manipulate-your-smartphone.html
The two kinds of  Internet-access 
carriers, wired and wireless, have found they can operate
without competing with each other. The cable industry and AT&T-
Verizon have divided up the world much as Comcast and Time
Warner did; only instead of, “You take Philadelphia, I’ll take
 Minneapolis ,” it’s, “You take wired, I’ll take wireless.”  At the end of 2011, the two industries even agreed to
market each other’s services. Comcast and Time Warner Cable will
bundle Verizon Wireless services with their own, and by 2015 the
cable companies will have the option of selling mobile services
under their own brands.  The deal came about because a cable industry joint venture
primarily owned by Comcast, with Time Warner Cable and Bright
House Networks (another cable distributor) participating,
controlled a substantial portion of public airwaves that the
companies had licensed during a Federal Communications
Commission auction in 2006;  Verizon Wireless  gets that spectrum
for $3.6 billion in exchange for intertwining its business with
that of Comcast and Time Warner.  This made eminent sense. In most of the areas served by
Comcast and Time Warner, Verizon’s FiOS -- the only real
competition for wired Internet access -- isn’t present. (Comcast
and FiOS overlap in only 15 percent of Comcast’s physical
market; Time Warner and FiOS overlap in just 11 percent of Time
Warner’s.) By cooperating, Verizon Wireless implicitly promises
not to spread FiOS service any farther, and Comcast and Time
Warner promise to stay out of the wireless business. Meanwhile,
much-smaller Cablevision will have to keep competing: It
overlaps with Verizon FiOS installations in 40 percent of its
market.  Highly Profitable  Both the wired and wireless Internet-access businesses are
concentrated and highly profitable. AT&T and Verizon Wireless
together control two-thirds of the wireless marketplace and
generate 80 percent of its revenue, while enjoying profit
margins of about 40 percent. Sprint and T-Mobile trail far
behind, and the barriers to entry for any new national player
are probably insurmountable.  The major wireless carriers, like the major cable
distributors, have enough market power to raise prices at will:
AT&T and Verizon often  increase fees  in concert, as in early
2010 when they required all their customers using feature phones
to adopt data plans. In 2011-12, first AT&T and then Verizon
Wireless ended unlimited data plans for new users and instituted
overage penalties. AT&T and Verizon subscribers who bought Apple
iPad tablets found that they were using up their monthly data
allotments within hours and paying hefty additional fees.  Devices are central to this story. By 2012,  about half  of
American mobile subscribers had a smartphone. In an ideal world
-- one that followed the classical model of Internet access --
they could all be used like little computers to contribute to
the creativity and invention that is the Internet.  This model of communications is based on a tradition of
nondiscriminatory transport of information. In the 1970s and
1980s, the FCC, worried that phone companies might control
nascent data-processing services, drew a line between transport
(conduit) and content, and instructed the phone companies to
stay in the transport box. Any devices meeting published
technical standards had to be allowed to attach to the network
without asking permission from the network-service provider.
This model made the Internet and World Wide Web possible.  The smartphone-tablet explosion began in a radically
different environment, however. In early 2007, the FCC
deregulated the Internet access services they provide. Wireless
voice services are still formally provided on a common-carriage
basis, but the FCC has avoided imposing on them most of that
regulatory scheme -- particularly price regulation.  Since then, Verizon and AT&T have found a variety of ways
to ensure that only smartphones and tablets they approve can be
used on their networks, that each device is tied to a particular
subscriber, and that no device can easily be used on any other
network.  Capacity Problem  Wireless can never match wired in capacity to download a
lot of data -- for instance, to make a video call; because of
interference and other constraints, there’s only so much data
that can be sent through the air. A fiber-optic or cable wire is
20 to 100 times as fast as a 4G wireless connection, and as
those wireless connections are shared by more people, they only
get slower. Wireless carriers can’t add more spectrum, because
relevant frequencies have already been allocated to others. They
could speed things up by building more cellular towers, but that
would be an enormous expense -- one that a provider with no
competition is not eager to undertake.  In any case, the telephone companies are not trying to
compete with wired Internet access. Even though most of their
business assets are wires, Verizon and AT&T are focusing wholly
on wireless. As Americans have dropped their land-line phones,
and as the moat around the cable companies’ high-speed wired
data-distribution has grown wider, there’s little payoff in
digging up streets to lay fiber-optic cables.  Given the inherent capacity limitations of wireless
networks, Verizon and AT&T will claim (and have claimed) that it
is essential that they prioritize the tidal waves of data
flowing to users’ handsets. They have to be choosy, they say,
because their networks can handle only so much video traffic.
This is why Verizon fought so hard in late 2010 against
extending network-neutrality mandates to wireless Internet
access; if the company had to treat all bits of data equally, it
couldn’t charge for online video and other premium services.  And so, in the wireless world, as in the cable-distribution
marketplace, the carriers can favor some kinds of data over
others -- and get two streams of revenue. Subscribers pay fees
not only for service and content but also for things such as
network activation and early termination. And programmers will
pay for the right to reach those subscribers.  Apple’s Role  Just one other oligopolist keeps the carriers on their
toes: Apple, which takes a 30 percent cut of the revenue
generated by its preapproved  applications .  AT&T has enough subscribers to demand (at least in limited
ways) that Apple treat it well. From 2007 to 2011, AT&T was able
to use its enormous number of wireless subscribers to get an
exclusive on the iPhone. The company also spent a great deal of
money subsidizing iPhone purchases so that consumers would lock
themselves into long-term contracts.  At the same time, publishers of newspapers, music, films,
books and games have come to see the iPad, iPhone and similar
devices as potential saviors -- as a way to reintegrate their
content with a guaranteed delivery network that can track,
bundle and charge for access. Between 2010 and 2011, revenue
from mobile apps for the iPad tripled, to $15 billion, according
to marketing research firm Gartner Inc., and will climb to
almost $60 billion by 2014.  The cable distributors, particularly Comcast, have been
watching the wireless world carefully, not wanting to be left
behind. In 2010, Comcast found a way to hang on to subscribers
who wanted to watch television on their new tablets. It dumped
the Comcast brand; relabeled its “TV Everywhere” service
“Xfinity”; created apps for the iPad, iPhone, Kindle Fire,
Xbox and whatever else came along; and told its pay-TV
subscribers that they were getting a free app. The result: a
seamless, Comcast-branded experience across TV, Internet and
mobile.  Subscribers took to the Xfinity iPad application at once,
with more than a million downloads in a few months. And if
consumers eventually decide that the speed of a conventional
wired cable Internet connection is not worth what Comcast
charges for it and move to a wireless connection, Comcast can
still be represented by its popular content. By early 2012,
Comcast’s revenue per subscriber was up to an astonishing
average of $143 a month, an increase of almost 140 percent over
10 years.  Now, the communications industry is at a point of
equipoise. Each of the major actors is too big for any of the
others to swallow or crush. Profits are climbing, allowing the
companies to pay ever-higher dividends. Cash is piling up;
investment in infrastructure is down, because there is no
competitive pressure to increase it. Increasingly, poor and
rural people are being left behind or relegated to second-best
wireless substitutes for high-speed Internet access. But those
zippy iPad apps look just great.  ( Susan Crawford  is a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government
and  Harvard Law School . She is a former special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  for science, technology and innovation
policy. This is the second in a  series  of three excerpts from
her new book, “Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and
Monopoly Power in the New Gilded Age,” which will be published
Jan. 8 by Yale University Press. The opinions expressed are her
own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or @scrawford on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 