-- Pakistan Arrests Suspects After Attack on Leader Sparks Violence
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-12-26T10:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/pakistan-arrests-suspects-after-attack-on-leader-sparks-violence.html
Pakistan  said it arrested several
suspects involved in yesterday’s murder attempt on a political
leader in Karachi, an attack that sparked sectarian violence and
killed 16 people in the nation’s commercial capital.  “I cannot disclose the number but we have made several
arrests,” Sharfuddin Memon, adviser to the government of  Sindh 
for home affairs, said in a telephone interview. He confirmed
the death toll in yesterday’s violence, adding the situation
“is under control.”  Aurangzaib Farooqi, leader of the hardline  Sunni Muslim 
organization Ahle Sunnat Wal Jamaat, survived an attack
yesterday by gunmen, prompting his party to demand a day of
mourning, the Dawn newspaper  reported . Farooqi received a bullet
wound to the thigh, while five of his guards and chauffer were
killed in the shootout. Ensuing violence across the city claimed
the lives of 10 others.  People with bamboo shafts and some with pistols took to the
streets after television channels reported the news of the
attack. Armed men fanned across the city during which 10 people
were killed, either in reaction or related to the attack, the
daily said.  Businesses remained closed today in Karachi after Farooqi’s
party called for the day of mourning. Trade unions said they
will refrain from opening shops, while transportation
representatives said they will keep off roads after two of their
vehicles were set on fire by protesters.  Religious and ethnic clashes have claimed over 8,000 lives
in Karachi since 2008, Geo television reported last week. The
city, the largest in Pakistan with about 20 million residents,
is home to Urdu-speaking migrants who settled there after the
1947 partition from  India , and ethnic Pashtuns fleeing army
operations against militants in the country’s north.  President Asif Ali Zardari is in the city to commemorate
the fifth anniversary of the death of his wife, former Prime
Minister  Benazir Bhutto , who was assassinated in a gun and bomb
attack on Dec. 27, 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  