-- Peso Yield Premium Lures Union in Upgrade Bet: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-12-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/peso-yield-premium-lures-union-in-upgrade-bet-southeast-asia.html
Philippine peso bonds will beat the
nation’s dollar debt in 2013 as investors lured by the chance of
an investment-grade rating favor the higher-yielding notes,
according to Union Investment Privatfonds and  Jyske Bank A/S. (JYSK)   The 4.95 percent local-currency securities due January 2021
that were sold internationally yield 3.37 percent, compared with
2.3 percent for similar-maturity dollar debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The peso is the best-performing Southeast
Asian currency this year, with a 6.5 percent rally against the
dollar, and will gain 3.7 percent in 2013, according to the
median estimate of 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  President  Benigno Aquino  signed a law to increase tobacco
and liquor taxes on Dec. 20, prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to
raise the country’s credit-rating outlook from stable to
positive a few hours later. Aquino has cut the  budget deficit ,
cracked down on tax evaders and made progress in tackling
corruption since he took office in 2010, while the Philippine
economy grew 7.1 percent in the third quarter, the fastest pace
in  Southeast Asia .  “A switch from  U.S. dollar  Philippine debt to peso
 government bonds  makes sense since you have a better yield and a
low-volatility currency makes this switch quite attractive,”
Sergey Dergachev, senior portfolio manager in  Frankfurt  at Union
Investment Privatfonds, which oversees $8.5 billion of emerging-
market debt globally, said in an e-mail. “I foresee a chance of
more than 50 percent since the country did a lot on the fiscal
side,” he said, referring to the odds of a credit-rating
upgrade next year.  Low Volatility  Philippine local-currency notes have returned 2.8 percent
since the end of September, compared with 1.7 percent for dollar
bonds, according to indexes tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc. That
follows three quarters in which the global securities
outperformed the peso-denominated ones.  One-month implied volatility for the peso, a measure of
expected exchange-rate movements used to price options, has
dropped 3.35 percentage points to 4.4 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 5.7
percent for the rupiah and 10 percent for  India ’s rupee.  The  Philippines  imposed limits on currency forward 
positions at banks yesterday to restrain the surge in the peso 
that threatens exports. The cap for non-deliverable currency 
forwards at local banks is 20 percent of capital, and 100 
percent for foreign lenders, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas 
Governor Amando Tetangco said in a briefing in  Manila  yesterday.
Banks have two months to comply with the new rules, he said.  Investment Grade  Moody’s Investors Service raised the Philippines’ debt
rating to Ba1, one step below investment grade, on Oct. 29. S&P
assigned the country its top junk rating in July, following a
similar assessment by  Fitch Ratings  in June 2011. S&P cited
improved governance and public finances when it changed its
outlook on Dec. 20.  The nation is “only half a step” away from exiting junk
status, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said Dec. 20. The sin
tax may raise 184.3 billion pesos ($4.5 billion) over the next
four years, he said in an e-mail on Dec. 11.  The  budget  deficit was 115.74 billion pesos in the January-
through-October period, well under the full-year target of 279
billion pesos, or 2.6 percent of gross domestic product. The
shortfall was 3.5 percent in 2010 and 2 percent in 2011. The
Philippines recorded a  balance-of-payments  surplus of $2.2
billion in November, the most since July, official data show.  Sin Tax  “If revenue-enhancing measures such as the sin tax afford
the authorities the fiscal space to improve the quantity and
quality of public investment spending, and that leads to a
higher sustainable GDP growth trajectory, it would be positive
for the ratings,” Philip McNicholas, Fitch’s Hong Kong-based
director of  Asia  Pacific Sovereigns, said in a Dec. 11 e-mail.  Barclays Plc, which recommends clients reduce holdings of
Philippine dollar debt and buy more of the global peso notes,
predicts Aquino’s reforms, the robust growth and its balance-of-
payments surplus will see the nation win its first investment-
grade rating in the second half of 2013.  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Philippine
dollar debt over Treasuries fell 114 basis points this year to
194 basis points, less than the 2.59 percentage points average
for developing Asia, an HSBC index shows.  “Philippine dollar bonds trade at spreads much tighter
than higher-rated emerging-market countries,” Avanti Save, a
sovereign credit analyst in  Singapore  at Barclays, Britain’s
second-biggest bank by assets, wrote in an e-mail on Dec. 18.
“At current low yields, Philippine dollar bond returns are
likely to be anemic in 2013.”  Monetary Policy  The central bank has cut the overnight borrowing  rate  by
100 basis points this year, banned foreign investors from its
special-deposit accounts and ordered lenders to provide more
funds to cover risks on non-deliverable currency forwards.
Forwards are agreements in which assets are bought and sold at
current prices for settlement at a later specified time and date.
Non-deliverable forwards are settled in dollars rather than the
underlying asset.  “Our in-house fund holds both dollar and peso global bonds
and we like the long-term peso issues particularly,” Patrick Bengzon, a senior emerging-market bond trader at Silkeborg,
Denmark-based Jyske Bank, the nation’s third-largest lender,
said in a Dec. 12 interview. “There’s peso appreciation and
lower yield prospects. But it’s also a question of how tolerant
the central bank is for peso strength versus the other Asian
currencies.”  Barclays predicts the peso will strengthen 4 percent to
39.5 over the next 12 months,  Prakriti Sofat , its Singapore-
based regional economist, said on Dec. 18.  ‘Continued Jawboning’  “Over the medium term, we remain constructive on the
peso,” she said. “In the near term, we believe the central
bank’s continued jawboning and the risk of macro-prudential
measures are likely to make market participants a bit cautious
on the peso, particularly given the worsening global risk
sentiment.”  The cost of protecting Philippine five-year debt against
non-payment has dropped 94 basis points to 100 basis points this
year, while that for  Indonesia  fell 83 basis points to 124,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Philippine economy will probably grow 6 percent to 7
percent next year and 6.5 to 7.5 percent in 2014, Economic
Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said on Dec. 18. The
nation’s jobless rate dropped to 6.8 percent in October, the
lowest in a year, official data showed on the same day.
Inflation slowed to 2.8 percent in November, the slowest since
June, official data show.  “There’s growing interest in investment in the Southeast
Asian nations due to their economic outperformance, including
the Philippines,” said  Tsutomu Soma , manager of the investment
trust and fixed-income business unit at Rakuten Securities Inc.
in  Tokyo , said in an interview on Dec. 12. “Some institutional
investors can’t buy non-investment grade bonds. When the
Philippines is upgraded, I am sure there will be quite strong
demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  