-- Philippine Peso Drops by Most in Three Weeks Before Inflow Rule
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-12-26T08:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/philippine-peso-drops-by-most-in-two-weeks-before-inflow-measure.html
The Philippine peso fell by the most
in almost three weeks before the central bank announces an
additional regulation to manage capital inflows.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will unveil at least one
prudential measure before year-end, Governor Amando Tetangco
said in a Dec. 14 interview, adding that  capital controls  won’t
be necessary at this stage. U.S. lawmakers said they were losing
confidence that Congress and President  Barack Obama  can reach a
deal to prevent more than $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts from taking effect on Jan. 1.  “There’s risk-off sentiment on the U.S. problems with the
fiscal cliff and on the domestic front the peso is affected by
concern on the central bank’s measure,” said Radhika Rao, a
Singapore-based economist at Forecast Pte. “It’s unlikely that
the BSP will do anything harsh, so I don’t think the peso will
reverse its appreciating course.”  The peso dropped 0.2 percent to 41.167 per dollar at the
close in  Manila  from Dec. 21, data from Tullett Prebon Plc
showed. That was the biggest drop since Dec. 6. The currency
touched 41.170, the weakest level since Dec. 14, and has
strengthened 6.5 percent this year. Financial markets were shut
on Dec. 24 and 25 for public holidays. The peso will advance to
40.8 by the end of the first quarter and to 39.8 by the end of
2013, Rao predicted.  Currency Forwards  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, declined 19 basis
points to 4.21 percent. It was 7.75 percent at the beginning of
the year.  The BSP may announce the new measure today, Deputy Governor
Nestor Espenilla said on Dec. 20. The monetary authority banned
overseas investors from its special-deposit accounts and ordered
lenders to provide more funds to cover risks on non-deliverable
currency forwards earlier this year. Plans to further cap the
contracts are “under consultation with banks,” Espenilla said.  The Bureau of the Treasury is scheduled to announce the
nation’s first-quarter debt auction plan this week, as well as
budget figures for November.  Government bonds  fell. The yield on the 8 percent notes due
July 2031 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
5.58 percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  