-- Philippines Joins Korea in Restraining Currency Gains: Economy
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-12-27T04:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/philippines-imposes-currency-forward-caps-to-restrain-peso-surge.html
The  Philippines  intensified efforts
to contain a surging peso, joining South Korea in clamping down
on currency forward positions as monetary stimulus in the
world’s biggest developed economies spurs capital flows to  Asia .  The Southeast Asian nation imposed a ceiling for non-
deliverable currency forwards for local lenders at 20 percent of
capital, and 100 percent for foreign entities,  Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas  said yesterday. South Korea said in November it would
tighten caps on currency forward positions at banks.  The peso is the best performer in Asia after the Korean won
this year, as Philippine growth exceeding 7 percent last quarter
lured investors seeking better returns amid  interest rates  near
zero and monetary easing in  Europe , the U.S. and  Japan .
Excessive currency appreciation may hurt sales by exporters and
service providers, complicating policy makers’ efforts to shield
their economies from an uneven global recovery.  “We know the risk that it poses to the economy given that
the Philippines is still quite trade dependent,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd. “For many Asian countries the question is how are they
going to simultaneously manage capital flows and at the same
time, if there are inflation risks, tackle these risks as
well.”  South Korea’s government today lowered its growth forecasts
for this year and for 2013, as Europe’s debt crisis caps demand
for the nation’s exports. Gross domestic product will expand 3
percent next year, the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement in
Sejong, less than the 4 percent predicted in September.  Philippine Growth  In the Philippines, GDP expanded 7.1 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, helping stoke a gain of more than 6 percent
in the peso versus the dollar this year. That’s the biggest jump
after the won’s 7.5 percent increase among 11 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  While President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing spending and
seeking investment in roads and airports to spur expansion,
create jobs and reduce poverty, Economic Planning Secretary
Arsenio Balisacan said last month the peso’s rise is a worry and
will hurt exporters and overseas remittances.  “The current domestic operating environment has been
greatly impacted by capital flows from overseas,” Governor
 Amando Tetangco  said in  Manila  yesterday.  Yen Falls  Most Asian currencies in the group tracked by Bloomberg
have climbed this year against the dollar, with the Indian rupee,
Indonesia’s rupiah and the yen the only decliners. Japan’s yen
is the region’s worst performer with a drop of more than 10
percent as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pressures the central bank
to boost cash infusions.  Currency gains are eroding competitiveness, the Business
Processing Association of the Philippines said in a statement
this week. In contrast, the weakness of the rupee has provided
 India  “with a meaningful cost advantage,” said association
president Benedict Hernandez.  The outsourcing group said that in a survey last week, 46.7
percent of respondents said it’s been tougher to hit revenue
targets while 40 percent said they lost some business to other
destinations. Business-process-outsourcing revenue may reach $25
billion by 2016 from $11 billion in 2011, Aquino has said,
indicating the industry may soon match the importance of
remittances. Cash transfers from Filipinos overseas are
estimated by the central bank to climb to $22.2 billion in 2013.  China Profits  Elsewhere in Asia,  China  reported a gain in industrial
companies’  profits  in November that may help to fuel an economic
acceleration. The nation’s rebound is uneven, with improvements
in retailing, real estate and mining countered by rising
inventories and lower corporate borrowing, according to a report
modeled on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s  Beige Book .  While shopping outlets and services companies are
optimistic, credit conditions signal “this is not yet a period
of strong expansion,” CBB International LLC, a New York-based
researcher, said in an e-mailed summary of its China Beige Book.  Hong Kong  is due to give November trade data today, while
Italy reports on business confidence and the latest readings on
the  U.S. economy  include jobless and home-sales data and the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  The Philippine currency will probably gain 3.7 percent in
2013, according to the median estimate of 22 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Peso bonds will beat the nation’s dollar debt
in 2013 as investors lured by the chance of an investment-grade
rating favor the higher-yielding notes, according to Union
Investment Privatfonds and Jyske Bank A/S.  Tobacco Tax  President Aquino signed a bill to increase tobacco and
liquor taxes on Dec. 20, prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to raise
the country’s credit-rating outlook from stable to positive a
few hours later. Aquino has cut the  budget deficit , cracked down
on tax evaders and made progress in tackling corruption since he
took office in 2010.  The peso weakened 0.1 percent to 41.217 per dollar as of
11:23 a.m. in Manila today, according to  Tullett Prebon Plc. (TLPR)  It
fell the most in almost three weeks before Tetangco’s briefing
yesterday. The benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange Composite
Index (PCOMP)  advanced 0.2 percent to a record high yesterday and
declined this morning.  Earlier this year, the central bank ordered lenders to
provide more funds to cover risks on forward transactions and
banned overseas investors from its special-deposit accounts.
Capital controls won’t be necessary at this stage, Tetangco said
this month.  ‘Ensure Continuity’  The currency forward limits announced yesterday will be
reviewed after six months, Tetangco said. More banks will be
able to participate in the forwards if they have certain
licenses, he added. Banks have two months to comply with the new
regulation, he said.  Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars
and are favored by many investors because funds don’t have to be
deposited and registered locally.  “We want to ensure continuity of monetary and financial
stability while discouraging regulatory arbitrage,” Tetangco
said in a Dec. 14 interview. “We will definitely consider more
macro prudential measures as needed.”  Bangko Sentral has cut the  overnight rate  by 100 basis
points this year to bolster economic expansion and restrain
currency gains. It held borrowing costs at 3.5 percent this
month, even as  inflation  slowed to 2.8 percent in November.
Consumer prices may rise 2.6 percent to 3.5 percent in December,
Tetangco said yesterday.  In  South Korea , authorities capped transactions at branches
of overseas lenders at 150 percent of equity, compared with 200
percent earlier, while the ceiling for domestic banks was cut to
30 percent from 40 percent. The changes took effect on Dec. 1,
with a one-month grace period to Jan. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at   cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  