-- Rejection of InterMune’s Drug Told Early to FDA Advisers
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-12-26T21:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/rejection-of-intermune-s-drug-told-early-to-fda-advisers.html
Three members of an independent
advisory panel say they received as much as a day’s notice in
May 2010 before U.S. regulators rejected a drug from  InterMune
Inc. (ITMN) , now tied to an insider trading probe of SAC Capital
Advisors LP.  InterMune’s  shares  fell 5.4 percent the day before the
company announced the rejection, at a time when the panel
members knew the product was doomed. Others at the company and
at the  Food and Drug Administration  were aware of the rejection
too, and there’s no evidence the 11 panelists did anything
wrong. The members reached by Bloomberg said they hadn’t been
contacted by U.S. authorities and weren’t aware of a probe.  The information they received, though, demonstrates how
broad the potential for leaks can be. Federal investigators are
looking at trades in Intermune that SAC, the $14 billion hedge
fund run by  Steven A. Cohen , made in the first half of 2010, a
person familiar with the matter has said. It shows more people
beyond the company and the FDA had the information about the
drug’s impending rejection.  The FDA “said they were calling just so that I wouldn’t be
surprised when the news came out that they had made a decision
contrary to the panel’s recommendations,”  David Mauger , a
professor at Pennsylvania State University’s College of Medicine
in Hershey, said in an e-mail. “They have never called me
following any other meetings.”  Drug Rejection  Two months earlier, the advisory panel voted to support
approval of Brisbane, California-based InterMune’s drug, a
treatment called Esbriet developed to be used against idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis, a rare  lung disease . The final FDA decision,
announced by the company after the close of trading on May 4,
2010, overturned that recommendation. The panel members wouldn’t
identify the FDA employee who called them. InterMune shares
 plunged  75 percent on May 5, 2010.  Erica Jefferson, an FDA spokeswoman, said the agency would
have no comment on whether panel members got notice of the
rejection. The FDA requires that advisory panel members adhere
to confidentiality rules for market-sensitive information they
get as part of their roles, she said.  The other panel members either didn’t return phone calls or
e-mails, or couldn’t be reached.  William Calhoun , a pulmonary specialist at the  University
of Texas  in Galveston who was on the panel, said he, too, had
been told of the rejection before the company announced the
action after the close of regular trading on May 4, 2010.  Questioning Panelists  Calhoun also said he had earlier refused to answer
questions from investors seeking an inside view on the panel’s
potential vote at a time when he was reviewing the FDA staff’s
confidential report on the drug.  Advisory panels like the one Calhoun sat on review the
FDA’s staff report on a drug and vote whether they think the
product is safe and effective. While the FDA isn’t required to
follow the panels’ recommendations, the advisers’ votes often
move markets.  The “investors were probing,” Calhoun said in a telephone
interview. He said he didn’t recall which investors he talked
with. When they asked Calhoun how the panel might vote, “my
response to them was, ‘You never know what the committee is
going to determine,”’ he said. “My stance has been that if
I’ve gotten it directly from the FDA, it’s confidential.”  Panelists  generally are given packets of information in the
weeks before their advisory meetings that include studies and
analysis by FDA staff members, Jefferson said. The staff’s
report is then released a day or two before the panel meeting.  Staff Report  On March 5 before the market opened, the FDA released a
staff report on InterMune’s drug that was less critical than
expected. The news sent the shares up 59 percent. Five days
later on March 10, after the advisory panel voted to recommend
approval of the drug, shares leaped another 65 percent.  Federal investigators are looking at SAC’s InterMune trades
in the first half of 2010, some of which were handled by Nikej
Shah, said the person who asked not to be identified because the
matter wasn’t public. Shah, a former SAC portfolio manager, has
declined to comment on the probe.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, said on
Dec. 10 that the firm wasn’t aware of any investigation
involving trades of InterMune.  SAC bought 1.9 million shares of InterMune in the first
quarter of 2010, after holding none in the prior two quarters,
and held 10,983 shares at the end of the second quarter of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  InterMune fell 1.1 percent to $9.96 at 4 p.m. in New York
trading. The stock has fallen 21 percent this year.  Insider Cases  Since 2007, 97 people charged or sued by U.S. regulators
for  insider trading  allegedly gained an edge from secret
information about drugs, devices and the companies that make
them, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Last month, Cohen, 56, the billionaire who runs the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based hedge fund, was directly linked to a
trade in another insider prosecution, which the government
described as the “most lucrative” ever uncovered.  His hedge fund was also told last month by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that the agency may pursue
civil fraud claims related to alleged insider trading by former
SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, who traded stocks of
drugmakers Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC, earning $276 million for
the fund.  Consultant Tip  Authorities said Martoma was tipped off by Sid Gilman, a
 University of Michigan  researcher who was a paid consultant for
the hedge fund manager while he served on a safety committee
overseeing a clinical trial of an experimental Alzheimer’s drug
being developed by Elan and Wyeth, now owned by Pfizer Inc.
Martoma was indicted Dec. 21 on charges of conspiracy and
securities fraud.  Since the government’s five-year crackdown on insider
trading began, at least six current or former SAC employees have
been tied to allegations of insider trading, of which three have
pleaded guilty to federal charges. Cohen hasn’t been accused of
any wrongdoing, and he has said he acted appropriately in making
the Wyeth and Elan trades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  