-- Richmond Fed Service Firm Survey for December (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-12-26T15:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/richmond-fed-service-firm-survey-for-december-text-.html
The following is the text from the
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s service sector activity survey
for December.  Overview  Service sector activity slowed in December, according to
the latest survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Big
ticket sales dropped this month, contributing to a fall in
retail revenues. Inventories rose slightly. In addition, shopper
traffic diminished and retailers indicated a more negative
outlook for sales over the next six months. At non-retail
services businesses, revenues flattened. In contrast to retail
merchants, services providers remained optimistic about business
prospects in the first half of the new year.  Labor indicators in the service sector weakened in
December. The number of employees fell at both retail and non-
retail establishments. While average wages grew on pace with a
month earlier at services-providing firms, retail wages
declined.  Price growth in the broad service sector hovered near
November’s moderate pace. However, survey respondents expected
somewhat faster overall price growth during the next six months.  Service Sector  Service sector revenues declined in December, with the
index slipping to −2 from November’s reading of 7. Employment
remained on a downward trajectory, with the index subtracting
six points to settle at −12. Additionally, average wage growth
waned, softening that index to 5 from last month’s 9. Looking
ahead six months, survey respondents expected no change in
demand for goods and services; the index finished seven points
below last month’s reading at 0.  Retail Firms  Retail sales dropped in December, dragging November’s index
down twenty-seven points to a reading of −13. The index for
shopper traffic also dropped into negative territory, ending at
−18, following November’s 23. Furthermore, big-ticket sales
withered, pulling that index down seventeen points to −31 this
month. Retail inventories rose slightly, with the index at 6
following last month’s reading of −1. Merchants expected a weak
market in the first half of the new year. The index for expected
product demand fell to −24 in December from −3.  Retail employment declined this month, with the index for
the number of employees falling to −21 from the previous reading
of −13. The index for average wages lost twelve points, settling
at −4.  Services Firms  Revenues were nearly flat at non-retail services firms. The
index finished at a reading of 1, compared to last month’s 4.
Services providers trimmed their payrolls; the index for the
number of employees dropped two points to −8 in December.
Average wage growth remained constant, however, keeping the
index at 7 for a second month.  Looking ahead six months, non-retail firms continued to
anticipate solid demand for their services. The expectations
index shed just one point from last month’s reading, ending the
December survey period at a reading of 8.  Prices  Overall service sector prices grew nearly on pace with last
month, rising at an annualized 1.13 percent rate. In November,
prices advanced at a 1.16 percent rate. Separately, retail
prices slowed somewhat to a 1.41 percent growth rate, compared
to last month’s 1.84 percent pace. Non-retail services prices
grew at a 0.99 percent annualized rate, compared to 1.01 percent
growth in November.  Expectations were for overall quicker price change during
the next six months. Survey respondents looked for annualized
price growth of 1.73 percent, whereas in November, they expected
prices to rise at a 1.68 percent annualized pace.  Non-retail services providers anticipated a 1.67 percent
rate of increase, compared to their November outlook for 1.53
percent price growth. In contrast, retailers expected future
prices to grow more slowly than in November’s outlook.
December’s expectation was for a 2.20 percent rise, compared to
the 2.43 percent rate expected last month.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  