-- Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for December (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-12-26T15:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-december-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s manufacturing sector activity
survey for December.  Overview  Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region
advanced for the second straight month, according to the
Richmond Fed’s latest survey. Looking at the broad indicators of
activity, new orders were virtually unchanged, shipments grew
more slowly, and employment declined. Other indicators were
mixed. Capacity utilization turned positive, while backlogs fell
further. Moreover, the gauge for delivery times inched higher,
while finished goods inventories grew at a slightly slower pace
and growth in raw materials inventories edged higher.  Looking forward, assessments of business prospects for the
next six months were less optimistic in December. An increasing
number of contacts anticipated slower growth for most indicators
with the exception of  capital expenditures , which grew at a rate
slightly above November’s rate.  Survey assessments of current prices indicated that raw
materials prices grew on par with November, while finished goods
prices grew at a slightly slower rate. Over the next six months,
respondents expected raw materials prices to grow at a slightly
quicker pace compared to their outlook of last month, while they
expected finished goods prices to grow at a slower rate than
they had anticipated a month earlier.  Current Activity  In December, the seasonally adjusted composite index of
manufacturing activity -- our broadest measure of manufacturing
-- lost four points, settling at 5 from November’s reading of 9.
Among the index’s components, shipments fell five points to 6,
the gauge for new orders was almost unchanged at 10, and the
jobs index turned negative, losing six points to −3.  Other indicators varied. The index for capacity utilization
moved higher, adding six points to 3, while the backlogs of
orders slipped two points to end at −11. The delivery times
index picked up three points to 3, while our gauges for
inventories were mixed in December. The raw materials inventory
index gained three points to finish at 24, while the finished
goods lost seven points to 12.  Employment  Labor market conditions edged lower at District plants in
December. The manufacturing employment index turned negative,
losing six points to settle at −3, and the average workweek
indicator lost four points to end at −2. However, the wage index
held steady at 10.  Expectations  In the current survey, contacts were generally less
optimistic about their future business prospects than they
reported a month ago. The index of expected shipments lost eight
points, ending at a reading of 20, and the new orders index
dropped thirteen points to finish at 12. Backlogs moved down
nineteen points to 0 and capacity utilization fell eight points
to 4. Vendor lead-time declined thirteen points to −3, while
readings for planned capital expenditures added five points to
end at 9.  District manufacturers’ hiring plans were mixed in
December. The index for expected manufacturing employment gained
two points to finish at 2, while the average workweek indicator
fell eleven points to −5. Furthermore, the index of expected
wages shed seven points to end at 21.  Prices  District manufacturers reported that raw materials prices
increased at an average annual rate of 2.01 percent, in line
with November’s reading of 1.99 percent. Finished goods prices
rose at a 1.57 percent pace, slightly below November’s reading
of 1.72 percent.  Looking forward, respondents on average expected that the
prices they pay will advance at a 2.54 percent pace, somewhat
above November’s outlook of 1.95 percent. Contacts looked for
finished goods prices to increase at a 0.87 percent annual rate,
slightly below last month’s expectation for a 1.29 percent pace.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  