-- Russia Has No Plans to Give Cyprus Loan on Risk, Storchak Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s ,   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-12-26T09:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/russia-has-no-plans-to-give-cyprus-loan-on-risk-storchak-says.html
Russia  has no plans to grant a 5
billion-euro ($6.6 billion) loan requested by Cyprus because the
risks are too great to be assumed by a single creditor, Deputy
Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said.  “We have no specific plans or instructions to do so,”
Storchak said in a Dec. 24 interview in Moscow. “It’s obvious
that no single creditor can work with Cyprus alone,” he said.
“Anyone who steps up on an individual basis to finance that
country’s government or to help recapitalize its banks would be
taking an enormous risk.”  Cyprus, whose  public debt  is forecast to reach 89.7 percent
of gross domestic product this year, in late June became the
fourth euro-area nation to request a financial rescue since a
2010 bailout of  Greece . In addition to seeking aid from its
euro-zone partners and the  International Monetary Fund , Cyprus
asked Russia for a fresh loan after borrowing 2.5 billion euros
last year.  A bailout deal with the euro area and IMF will be signed by
Feb. 12, Kathimerini reported on Dec. 22, citing Thomas Wieser,
who heads the group of officials that prepare meetings of euro-
area finance ministers. Cyprus may need as much as 17.5 billion
euros, almost the size of its economy, to pay its bills and
recapitalize banks, Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said on Nov.
22.  Russia would consider giving financial assistance to Cyprus
as a part of international rescue package after the euro area
takes a unified stance on aiding the island, President  Vladimir Putin  said on Dec. 21 in Brussels.  Communist President  “While we don’t exclude taking part, as the president
said, we’re not major creditors,” said Storchak, who oversees
Russia’s debt and international financial cooperation. If a
group of lenders were formed to help Cyprus, it would be based
on Cyprus’s membership in the European Union, he said.  Russia’s current loan to Cyprus, which matures in 2016, was
intended to help communist Cypriot President Demetris Christofias stabilize his government’s finances. Cypriot
lawmaker Stavros Evagorou said on Oct. 13 that the government
was seeking to extend the loan.  Bilateral financial lending to foreign states should be
treated as a commercial transaction, where the creditor expects
to be repaid, Storchak said. More often, countries seeking
financial assistance are in need of grants, though politicians
are reluctant to say so openly, he said.  Russia will also refrain from lending to  Syria , which is
mired in a civil war and is unlikely to meet any long-term
financial commitments, Storchak said. “Offering loans would be
somewhat exaggerating the given borrower’s ability to repay in
the current circumstances.”  Civil War  Syrian Deputy Prime Minister Qadri Jamil, who oversees the
country’s economic affairs, led a delegation to Russia in
August. Syria has asked its Soviet-era ally for financial
assistance, though the  Finance Ministry  isn’t involved in
official talks, Storchak said. More than 44,000 people have died
in the war since March 2011, according to the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights .  “Giving this loan would mean closing our eyes to the
prospects of those who are in power there now. They have big
problems, a civil war,” Storchak said. “In terms of ways we
might help, humanitarian aid should be the first priority, while
some form of grant would be second.”  Iran , which has been hit by U.S. and EU sanctions, hasn’t
sought any Russian financial assistance, Storchak said. “Of
course they feel uncomfortable. Isolation takes its toll. Our
financial agencies have almost no interaction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  