-- Solars Lead Best Rally in a Week on Investments: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-12-26T22:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/solars-lead-best-rally-in-a-week-on-investments-china-overnight.html
Chinese solar companies rose the
most in seven days in New York on prospects the nation’s
urbanization plan will bolster new energy demand in 2013.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in New York surged 1.3 percent to 96.92
yesterday, extending gains this year to 7.6 percent.  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s biggest solar-panel maker,
jumped to the highest in five months and  Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. (YGE)  rallied the most in two weeks after saying its
product ranked second-best in a test of products by 11 global
manufacturers.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  climbed the most in three months as it
starts new voice applications and Pactera Technology
International Ltd. climbed to a six-week high.  China’s urbanization, which Vice Premier Li Keqiang
promoted this month as a driver for economic growth, is expected
to spur 40 trillion  yuan  ($6.4 trillion) of investment by 2020,
the Southern Metropolis Daily reported on Dec. 25, citing a
draft plan by the nation’s top planning agency. The government
confirmed this month a second round of subsidies to more than
100 developers of solar projects as well as feed-in tariffs to
support the industry.  “What these programs do in  China  is creating domestic
demand,” Dave Smith, the portfolio manager of the Gabelli Green
Fund, said by phone from Purchase, New York yesterday. “It’s
positive for stock prices in the short term because they give a
sense of confidence that these companies will be generating
higher volumes.”  ETF Advances  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.8 percent $39.47
yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.5 percent
to 1,419.83 as U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Congress prepared
to resume budget talks and retailers slumped after the Christmas
holiday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares added 0.3
percent to 2,219.13, as a three-day increase pushed up the gauge
to the highest level in more than five months. The measure has
climbed 0.9 percent for the year. The Hong Kong stock market was
closed for holidays.  Suntech, the world’s biggest solar-panel producer based in
the Jiangsu province of China, jumped 7.6 percent to $1.27, the
highest price since July 30.  Trina Solar Co. (TSL) , China’s third-
largest manufacturer, advanced 4.9 percent to a two-month high
of $4.46.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  rallied 3.4 percent to $1.2, the most in
a week.  Yingli’s Ranking  Yingli, China’s fourth-largest solar maker based in Baoding
of Hebei province, soared 7.2 percent to $2.39 for the steepest
advance since Dec. 12.  The company said one of its solar module product ranked
second-best among 14 similar products in an energy-yield test
among 11 manufacturers from  Europe , North America and Asia,
according to its statement yesterday.  Baidu, owner of China’s biggest online search engine, added
4.8 percent to $101.45, rising the most since Sept. 14.  The Beijing-based company has designed a speech recognition
application similar to Apple Inc.’s Siri voice-command tool and
is scheduled to start selling it this week, the WantChina Times
 reported  yesterday, citing DoNews, a Chinese news website
focusing on the technology industry.  Pactera Technology, based in Dalian city of China, surged
7.3 percent to $7.96, the highest level since Nov. 13.  The company said its board approved a plan for the company
to buy back as much as $30 million of its shares over the next
12 months, according to its Dec. 21 statement.  Elong Inc. (LONG) , the second-largest online travel agency in
China with more than 70 percent of revenue from hotel booking,
dropped 5.6 percent to $15.12 in New York, the biggest decliner
on the Bloomberg China-US index.  China’s tourism revenue from overseas visitors dropped 3
percent to $3.9 billion in November from a year earlier, the
nation’s tourism administration said on its  website  on Dec. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  