-- U.A.E. Arrests Members of Terror Cell Planning Gulf Attacks
-- B y   I n a l   E r s a n   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-12-26T15:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/u-a-e-arrests-terror-cell-planning-gulf-attacks-wam-says.html
The  United Arab Emirates , in
coordination with Saudi Arabian officials, said it arrested
members of a terror cell that was planning to carry out attacks
in the two oil exporting nations and the broader region.  Officials arrested “a cell from the deviant group,
comprising citizens from both countries, that was planning on
carrying out actions that infringe on the national security of
both countries and sisterly nations,” the official  news agency 
said.  Oil rose on concern about security in  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s largest crude exporter, and the U.A.E., which holds 6
percent of global proven crude reserves. Saudi Arabia
intensified a crackdown on al-Qaeda in 2004 after militants
struck an oil installation and stormed a housing complex in the
city of al-Khobar, killing 22 foreign workers.  “This is something quite new,” Khalid al-Dakhil, a
politics professor at King Saud University in  Riyadh , said in a
phone interview. “The collaboration between Saudi and U.A.E.
militants is unusual. Also, the fact that this was going to
happen in the U.A.E. -- it isn’t a country where terrorism
attacks are usual. Saudi Arabia, Yemen and  Egypt  are more known
for terrorism, not the U.A.E.”  U.A.E. authorities said members of the group had obtained
equipment and materials to carry out their attacks, the official
WAM news agency said today.  Oil Rises  Saudi Arabia commonly refers to al-Qaeda affiliated
militants as being part the so-called deviant group. The
suspects will be tried in court, WAM said.  Crude oil for February delivery climbed $2.13, or 2.4
percent, to $90.74 a barrel at 9:20 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. Trading volume for West Texas Intermediate
futures contracts was down 42 percent from the 100-day average.  Saudi security forces detained more than 100 terror
suspects in March 2010, and some were accused of plotting
attacks on energy installations and military sites in the east
of the country.  The kingdom’s security forces in August arrested members of
a terrorist cell in Riyadh planning to target security forces,
residents and public facilities, the  Saudi Press Agency  reported
at the time.  Six Yemeni nationals, with connections to terrorist groups
outside the country, were arrested after preparing and testing
explosives near the kingdom’s capital, the official Saudi agency
said Aug. 26.  ‘External Elements’  U.A.E. authorities said in September they have arrested
more than 50 Islamists who were conspiring against the state and
allegedly had links to “external elements.”  Most of those detained belong to a domestic Islamic group
known as al-Islah. Al-Qaeda has no known affiliations with local
Islamist groups in the  Persian Gulf  that are politically active.  Anwar Gargash, the minister for foreign affairs, said on
Aug. 26 that the so-called Arab Spring has emboldened Islamist
groups in the region.  “The arrest of various Islamist activists in the U.A.E. is
not an event to celebrate,” Gargash wrote in a column posted on
the website of the Abu Dhabi-based  The National  newspaper. “The
dynamics of the Arab spring have created various challenges in
different societies. The political success of Islamic parties in
many Arab lands has emboldened their protégés.”  Some Islamists have attacked the U.A.E. because of its
religious tolerance, Gargash said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  