-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Increase as Fiscal Cliff Talks Waver
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-26T21:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-little-changed-as-budget-talks-waver.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for a third day as budget talks wavered in  Washington ,
offsetting data that showed home prices climbed by the most in
more than two years in October.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.5 basis points to a mid-price of 95 basis points at 4:15 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The lack of a resolution on a deal to avert the so-called
fiscal cliff is increasing concern that failure to craft an
agreement will slow the economy, impairing corporate balance
sheets and hindering companies’ ability to repay debt. President
 Barack Obama  plans to leave his Hawaii vacation today and return
to Washington, a White House aide said yesterday. Congress will
return tomorrow to continue negotiations on a budget.  “Issue one, two and three remain what’s going to happen
when people get back to Washington and the fiscal cliff,”  John Donaldson , director of fixed income at Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based Haverford Trust Co., said in a telephone interview.
“That’s priority number one for pretty much everybody. I don’t
think there’s enough time for anything other than a Band-Aid.”  Home Prices  The lack of progress in Washington helped offset an advance
in home prices. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in
20 cities climbed 4.3 percent from October 2011, the biggest 12-
month advance since May 2010, the group said today in New York.
The median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected a 4 percent gain.  U.S. holiday sales growth slowed by more than half this
year, MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse said yesterday. Retail
sales increased by 0.7 percent from Oct. 28 through Dec. 24, the
research firm said, without providing a dollar figure. Sales
grew at a 2 percent pace in the same period a year ago.
SpendingPulse tracks total U.S. sales at stores and online via
all payment forms.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt narrowed 1
basis point to 5.13 percentage points today, led by spreads on
the bonds of technology companies, which dropped 3 basis points
to 5.81 percentage points, Bloomberg data show. High-yield,
high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s . A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 7.5 basis points to 483.2 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  