-- Treasuries Head for Lowest Average Annual Yield on Record
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-12-26T22:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/u-s-yield-versus-germany-approaches-eight-month-high.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
yields toward the lowest average annual yield on record, as U.S.
leaders prepared to resume talks on a budget stalemate that may
push the world’s biggest economy into recession.  Bonds extended gains after Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  said he’ll take measures to postpone a U.S. default
when the statutory debt limit is reached Dec. 31. President
 Barack Obama  plans to return to Washington tomorrow from a
holiday vacation as a year-end deadline looms to avert more than
$600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts.  “We’re coming to the edge of the cliff, and time is
running out,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New
York of government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “We’ve
seen Treasuries start to grind higher over the last week or so.
If it really starts to look into the first week of January that
these guys aren’t moving, either side, and we’re really not
making any progress, then I can certainly see a significant move
in Treasuries.”  Benchmark U.S. 10-year  yields  fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.75 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They have averaged
1.79 percent this year, the lowest on record. The price of the
1.625 percent security maturing in November 2022 increased 6/32,
or $1.88 per $1,000 face value, to 98 27/32.  The 10-year yield has climbed from the record low of 1.38
percent reached in July. It compares with the average of 3.66
percent for the past decade.  Yield Curve  Two-year Treasuries yielded 0.27 percent, and 30-year bond
yields declined two basis points to 2.92 percent.  About $84 billion of Treasuries  changed hands  today,
according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S.
government debt . The daily average this year is $239 billion.  The  yield difference  between U.S. 10- and two-year notes
shrank to the least in almost two weeks even after data showed
 home prices  climbed in October by the most since 2010. It was
1.49 percentage points, the narrowest on a closing basis since
Dec. 14.  The yield  gap , called a yield curve, plots the rates of
bonds of the same quality but different maturities. It steepens
when yields on shorter-maturity notes fall, those on longer-term
bonds rise, or both. The gap typically narrows when investors
anticipate slower economic activity and demand less compensation
on expectations of limited inflation.  Trading in Treasuries was  closed  in  Japan  and stayed shut
in the U.K. for Boxing Day, according to the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association. It took place as usual in New
York after being shut yesterday around the world for Christmas,
according to the website.  Five Days  Congress will return to session tomorrow with five days
before the budget-agreement deadline under the terms of the
August 2011 accord that raised the U.S. debt ceiling.  The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the automatic tax
boosts and spending reductions may cause a  recession  next year.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , and Obama
have been unable to agree on the tax-rate increase on top
earners Obama wants or the cuts to entitlement programs that
Boehner seeks. The two haven’t spoken since the president flew
to  Hawaii  on Dec. 21, according to a Republican aide who
requested anonymity when discussing the negotiations.  “People are certainly concerned about the fiscal cliff,”
said Guy Haselmann, an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Bank of  Nova Scotia , one of the 21 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. “Even if there is a deal, what does a deal mean,
and how watered down is it going to be? We’re going to make all
the hard decisions next year, so uncertainty just hangs over the
marketplace.”  Debt Limit  Geithner, in a letter to congressional leaders, said the
Treasury will take “extraordinary measures” to create about $200
billion in headroom under the debt limit, he wrote. While
usually that would last about two months, there’s “significant
uncertainty” because of unresolved tax and spending policies,
he said.  “They’re right to make it an issue now,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist in  New York  at the primary
dealer BNP Paribas SA. “Given intransigence over the fiscal
cliff, it bothers me that they don’t have more progress on the
debt ceiling, too, because that’s not that far behind.”  Treasuries have returned 2 percent this year on an
annualized basis, set for the worst performance since a 3.7
percent loss in 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Indexes. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares has
returned 15 percent on a similar basis, including reinvested
dividends, amid signs the  U.S. economy  is improving.  U.S. government securities have lost 0.3 percent this
quarter and 0.7 percent this month, Merrill Lynch data show.  ‘Relatively Stable’  “Longer-term  interest rates  have the potential to rise,”
 Tony Crescenzi , a portfolio manager and strategist at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California , said in
a television interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Michael McKee  and Sara Eisen. “One wants to avoid issues or
underweight issues over 10 years in maturity.”  In the short term, yields will be “relatively stable,” he
said, even as the inability of fiscal policy makers to bridge
differences in the budget talks is draining confidence from the
economy, Crescenzi said.  The Fed plans to  buy  as much as $5.25 billion of Treasuries
tomorrow maturing from December 2018 to November 2020, according
to the New York Fed’s website. The operation is part of the
Operation Twist program, under which the central bank replaces
shorter-maturity notes in its holdings with longer-dated debt.
The program is scheduled to expire at year-end.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S.
cities increased 4.3 percent from October 2011, the biggest 12-
month advance since May 2010, the group said today in New York.
The median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected a 4 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  