-- Venezuela VP Nicolas Maduro Can Issue Debt, Seize Assets
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-12-26T21:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/venezuela-s-maduro-can-issue-debt-expropriate-assets.html
President  Hugo Chavez  gave Vice
President Nicolas Maduro the right to authorize debt sales and
seize assets as Maduro described the Venezuelan leader’s health
as “difficult and complex” following an operation for cancer.  The resolution, which was published in the Official Gazette
on Dec. 21 and distributed online today by local news website
 Noticias24 , also gives the vice president the power to approve
changes to  Venezuela ’s annual budget and accept or reject
proposals submitted by government ministers.  Chavez, who has not appeared in public since flying to Cuba
16 days ago for his fourth cancer operation, said on Dec. 8 that
voters should elect Maduro to protect his legacy if he is unable
to remain in office. The self-proclaimed socialist gave orders
on economic policy by telephone from  Havana  that Venezuela’s
Cabinet was set to discuss starting yesterday, Maduro said on
Dec. 24.  “The decree published in the Gazette and the phone call
with Maduro makes you think that the government is ready to take
measures for an economic adjustment,” Barclays Plc analyst
Alejandro Arreaza said today in a telephone interview from  New
York .  The Venezuelan government’s victory in gubernatorial
elections on Dec. 16 has increased the chances that it will
devalue the bolivar “sooner rather than later,” Arreaza and
fellow Barclays analyst Alejandro Grisanti said today in an e-
mailed note to clients.  Absorbing the Cost  “The government may be willing to absorb the political
cost of a devaluation now and avoid having to do it at the
beginning of a possible new administration,” Arreaza and
Grisanti said.  Venezuelan dollar bonds have returned 45.51 percent in
2012, the second-biggest return in  emerging markets  after the
 Ivory Coast , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
index. Bonds have rallied on speculation that Chavez will be
unable to complete his term in office after winning elections on
Oct. 7.  Chavez and his vice president talked for about 20 minutes
on Christmas Eve, Maduro told state television that day. The
former paratrooper has taken a “few steps” as he undergoes
physical therapy in Havana and is maintaining “progressive
improvement,” Maduro said in a separate broadcast today.  The government may opt to devalue only the  exchange rate 
used on the Central Bank-administered SITME exchange and leave
the  Finance Ministry ’s Cadivi exchange rate for priority imports
untouched, Arreaza said.  “If the government devalues, it’s possible that we won’t
see too many debt offerings from the government or state oil
company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  next year, just as in 2012,”
he said. “But if they delay a devaluation, the volume of
issuance will be greater than in 2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  