-- Vietnam Government to Discuss Plans to Resolve Bad Debt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-26T10:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/vietnam-government-to-discuss-plans-to-resolve-bad-debt.html
Vietnam ’s government will discuss
detailed plans tomorrow to resolve bad debt in the banking
system as the country seeks to revive an economy that expanded
at its slowest pace since 1999.  Government ministers and the central bank will meet
tomorrow to plan the establishment of a debt asset management
company “to resolve bad debt and help spur businesses,” Prime
Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said at a meeting in Hanoi today. The
company may help resolve about 100 trillion dong ($4.8 billion)
of bad debt, according to a posting on the government website.  Dung has identified the debt overhang at banks as an
obstruction to  economic growth , which slowed to 5.03 percent
this year. Foreign investment pledges fell 15 percent this year
and Vietnam’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service
as weakened lenders and state-owned enterprises limited room for
policy makers to boost expansion.  “We want to keep macroeconomic stability next year with
slower inflation and higher growth,” Dung said at today’s
meeting, which reporters were allowed to observe. “This will
require effort from every ministry and province.”  The government will strive next year to attract foreign
investment, the prime minister said.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam is working on a plan next year to
bring down the banking system’s bad debt by about half, central
bank GovernorNguyen Van Binh said in the government posting.
That will be achieved through the debt asset management company
as well as a central bank plan for lenders to resolve about 40
trillion dong to 50 trillion dong of non-performing loans using
their loss provisions.  Politburo Discussion  Bad debt at Vietnamese lenders stood at 8.82 percent of
total lending as of Sept. 30, Binh said last month. Binh will
discuss tomorrow the plan to resolve bad debt and restructure
lenders with the Politburo, the highest decision-making body of
the Communist Party, according to Dung.  Dung also instructed Binh to manage  money supply  and policy
interest rates in order to achieve the  inflation  target of 6
percent to 6.5 percent in 2013.  Ministries will also need to help companies to reduce
unsold stockpiles, particularly vacant properties, to revive the
market, Dung said. The central bank will also help businesses
through its refinancing tools, Binh said.  Dung instructed relevant ministries to increase inflation
surveillance next quarter and ensure sufficient supplies of
goods to contain price gains during the lunar new year holiday
season.  He stressed the need for the country to attract investment.
Pledged investment into Vietnam dropped to $13 billion in 2012
after the Foreign Investment Agency revised figures for the last
two years. Disbursed foreign investment fell 4.9 percent to
$10.5 billion.  “It’s also crucial for us to draw more foreign investment,
so we need to significantly improve the business environment and
make us more competitive in the region,’ Dung said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  