-- Vietnam’s Bonds Rally Most Since May After Rate Cut; Dong Stable
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-26T08:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/vietnam-s-bonds-rally-most-since-may-after-rate-cut-dong-stable.html
Vietnam ’s five-year bonds gained by
the most since May after the central bank reduced interest rates
for THE sixth time this year to spur economic growth. The dong
was little changed.  The State Bank of Vietnam cut its  refinancing rate  to 9
percent from 10 percent with effect from Dec. 24, according to a
statement on its website on Dec. 21. It lowered the  discount
rate  to 7 percent from 8 percent. Lower funding costs would
boost demand at government debt auctions, according to Hanoi-
based Viet Securities Co. The State Treasury will offer 2
trillion dong ($96 million) each of five- and three-year bonds
and 3 trillion dong of two-year notes at a sale tomorrow,
according to the Hanoi Stock Exchange website.  “The primary market is forecast to continue to be active
with high success rates,” Viet Securities analysts including Ha
Thi Thu Hang and Nguyen Thanh Khiem wrote in a research note
yesterday. “The rate cuts will drive more capital of financial
institutions into the primary market.”  The yield on the five-year notes fell 23 basis points, or
0.23 percentage point, to 9.53 percent, according to a daily
fixing from banks compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest drop
since May 10. It was at 12.55 percent at the end of 2011.  The central bank’s rate adjustments aim “to help companies
cope with difficulties in production and business,” it said in
the statement. A “stable money market and improving liquidity
at banks” provided room for the reductions, according to the
statement.  The dong was steady at 20,840 per dollar as of 2:07 p.m. in
Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank
fixed the  reference rate  at 20,828, unchanged since Dec. 26 last
year, according to its website. The currency is allowed to trade
as much as 1 percent on either side of the rate.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  