-- W.W. Grainger to Pay U.S. $70 Million for False Claims
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-12-26T22:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/w-w-grainger-to-pay-u-s-70-million-for-false-claims.html
W.W. Grainger Inc. (GWW) , a hardware
supply distributor, agreed to pay $70 million to resolve U.S.
allegations it submitted false claims under contracts with the
 General Services Administration  and the U.S. Postal Service.  The GSA discovered through an audit that Grainger hadn’t
given accurate or complete information to government purchasers,
causing the U.S. to pay excessive amounts for the company’s
products, the Justice Department said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The settlement also resolves allegations under the  False
Claims Act  that  Lake Forest , Illinois-based Grainger didn’t
offer as big discounts to the U.S. Postal Service as to
commercial customers for sanitation and maintenance supplies,
the department said.  “Misrepresentations during contract negotiations undermine
the integrity of the government procurement process,” said
Stuart F. Delery, who heads the department’s Civil Division.
“The  Justice Department  is committed to ensuring that
government purchasers of commercial products receive the prices
to which they are entitled.”  Grainger had signed up to participate in the GSA’s so-
called Multiple Awards Schedule program, which provides the
government and other GSA-authorized purchasers with a
streamlined process for procurement of commonly-used commercial
goods and services. To get in on such a contract, companies must
agree to disclose their commercial pricing policies and pledge
to give the government the lowest price they offer their best
customers.  Long Dispute  Grainger said in an e-mailed statement its long-standing
contract dispute with the federal government centered on
disclosure language in GSA and USPS contracts that were
implemented 10 years ago  “Grainger maintains it complied with the disclosure
requirements and the contracts in all material respects, and the
settlement does not contain any admission of wrongdoing by the
company,” the company said in the statement.  The case was filed in the Eastern District of  Wisconsin ,
according to the department. The filing wasn’t available through
electronic court records. 