-- Wells Fargo Wins Order Reversing Overdraft Fee Ruling
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-12-26T22:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/wells-fargo-wins-order-reversing-overdraft-fee-ruling.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  won its bid to
throw out a judge’s order that it pay  California  customers
$203 million for manipulating debit-card transactions to boost
overdraft fees.  The decision, issued today by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
San Francisco, reverses a lower-court order requiring Wells
Fargo to cease its practice of charging overdraft fees based on
its posting in high-to-low order customers’ debit-card
transactions. The bank’s practice is a “federally authorized
pricing decision,” the appeals court ruled.  The three-judge panel also returned the case to the
district court, finding that Wells Fargo is liable for fraud
violations of California’s unfair competition law. The lower
court was directed to determine what damages, if any, Wells
Fargo must pay.  Customers alleged in the 2007 complaint that San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo changed the way it treated daily debit
transactions and cash withdrawals in 1999 so that transactions
with the highest dollar amount posted first, rather than in the
order they occurred.  Warned Customers  The practice, which customers alleged was intended to boost
revenue from overdraft fees, led to account holders overdrawing
funds by small amounts multiple times a day, according to the
complaint.  Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. bank by market value, had
argued to the appeals court that customers were warned about the
practice, which was stated in account agreements and allowed by
the  Federal Reserve  and other national bank regulators.  Today’s decision “largely reaffirms Wells Fargo’s
position,” bank spokesman Ancel Martinez said in an e-mailed
statement. “We look forward to resolving the remaining
issues,” he said.  Michael Sobol, a lawyer representing plaintiffs in the
case, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  The case is Gutierrez v. Wells Fargo, 10-16959, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  