-- Twitter Saps Productivity, Facebook Makes You Fat
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-12-26T23:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/twitter-saps-productivity-facebook-makes-you-fat-caroline-baum.html
Ever since the invention of the
wheel in  Mesopotamia  around 3500 B.C.,  technological innovation 
has been improving our lives. Because new devices and processes
help us produce more (output) with less (labor input), prices
fall, real wages rise and we are all better off. If there is a
free lunch in this world, it’s  productivity growth .  There is even an economic school of thought, known as  real
business cycle theory , which views technology shocks as the main
driver of the business cycle: not the central bank, not fiscal
policy, not animal spirits or expectations.  Technology, in fact, is always equated with good: More is
better.  Don’t get me wrong. I’m all for progress, but I keep
wondering if some of the latest innovations are productivity-
enhancing or just a pure waste of time.  For example, every time I’m in  Manhattan , I marvel at the
number of people crossing the street or sitting down to lunch
with a friend without taking their eyes and fingers off their
electronic devices. I can even predict the effect such
interconnectivity will have on the individual psyche. Twenty
years from now, sociologists and psychologists will publish
studies about how the teenagers of today, addicted as they are
to texting abbreviated word forms, have trouble relating to one
another. Educators will bemoan the inability of the youth of
America to write.  ‘Alone Together’  I didn’t have to wait 20 years. Sherry Turkle, a professor
at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , described this
phenomenon perfectly in an April 21  New York  Times article
titled, “ The Flight from Conversation .” She called it “alone
together.” It encapsulated everything I had been thinking about
for years.  “We live in a technological universe in which we are
always communicating,” Turkle, a psychologist, wrote. “And yet
we have sacrificed conversation for mere connection.”  Social networking is just such an alone-together pursuit.
Last year, Bloomberg journalists were encouraged to set up
Twitter accounts. I reluctantly complied. I don’t have a
Facebook page, was never tempted to create one and didn’t
understand the value of letting friends know that I was eating a
peach or walking the dog.  At first I restricted my tweets to  my column  and blog
posts. I never looked at Twitter in between. Then I started
interacting with people, and it became contagious, more like a
game. Who was retweeting my posts? How many followers did each
tweet produce? What was my tweet-to-follower ratio?  My most
attention-grabbing tweet  was something snarky I wrote on Nov. 14
during L’Affaire Petraeus: “Both Petraeus & Broadwell were
married. Yet now she’s his ‘mistress.’ Do we have an equivalent
word in English for him?”  I got dozens of suggestions and 50 new followers. But what
was the value? It seemed like a huge distraction from my work.
If we as a nation are twittering or frittering our lives away,
surely it must be manifesting itself in the statistics.  To find the answer, I decided to go to the source on  labor
productivity : the Bureau of Labor Statistics. I asked one of the
economists who works in that division if he could help me
determine how my personal productivity was being affected by
tweeting. Once I became an expert, I was sure I could
extrapolate the results to the universe at large.  You probably guessed: It’s not that easy. In its monthly
calculation of output per hour worked, or  productivity , the BLS
uses revenue, or nominal sales, as a proxy for output. That
revenue is then adjusted for price changes.  Total hours worked, which businesses report to the BLS each
month, is used as a proxy for labor input.  Productivity is
computed  from the two numbers.  Unadjusted Quality  What about the effect on the quality of my work? If I’m
spending more time tweeting and less researching and writing my
column, surely the quality suffers.  Goods can be adjusted for  quality changes:  something the
BLS does each month to determine what part of the change in the
price of a consumer good is due to improved quality. It’s harder
with services industries and is almost impossible for my output.
(Readers, however, have no problem providing instantaneous
qualitative assessment: It stinks.)  The good news is, until my slacking off starts to affect
Bloomberg LP’s sales, my personal productivity isn’t captured in
the statistics. The bad news is, I may lose my job.  The difficulty of capturing the Twitter effect in the
aggregate data notwithstanding, the productivity-sapping side of
social networking doesn’t stop there. A  recent study  by Keith
Wilcox, an assistant professor at  Columbia Business School ,
found that Facebook was making people fat. Yes, fat. It seems
that social networking improves self-esteem and, in so doing,
reduces control over our choice of snacks.  The study said nothing about the effect on productivity.
That’s a leap I’m taking. To the extent that obesity and its
secondary effects require treatment, it means less time devoted
to work.  Does that make sense? I think I will share that idea with
my Twitter followers and see what they think. Then I’ll get back
to work.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 