-- Yapi Kredi Sigorta’s Sale Seen Enhanced by Pension Spinoff
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-12-26T14:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/yapi-kredi-sigorta-seen-adding-value-with-pension-unit-spinoff.html
Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS (YKBNK) , the Turkish
bank part-owned by  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , may add value in the sale of
insurer  Yapi Kredi Sigorta AS (YKSGR)  by spinning the pensions unit off
amid government incentives to encourage savings.  “The more attractive asset here is the pensions unit,”
Ates Buldur, an analyst at Credit Suisse Securities Ltd. in
Istanbul, said today by phone. “Private pensions in Turkey
offer substantial growth, with the government building a new
system.”  Yapi Kredi Sigorta, which owns 99.9 percent of pension fund
manager Yapi Kredi Emeklilik, said last week a new company will
be set up to own the life and pensions unit after parent  Yapi
Kredi bank  put the insurance units up for sale. Yapi Kredi
controls 94 percent of Yapi Kredi Sigorta, according to the
bank’s website.  Turkey ’s new law on pensions, which goes into effect in
January, stipulates that the government will match 25 percent of
individual contributions to pension plans. The law also exempts
contributions from a 15 percent withholding tax on financial
gains. The measures aim to lure more individuals to private
pensions in an effort to increase Turkey’s savings rate. At 12.7
percent of  gross domestic product , the savings rate is at its
lowest since 1980, according to a  World Bank  report. It compares
with  China ’s 53 percent.  Valuable Assets  Private pension holdings by individuals were 20.1 billion
liras ($10.5 billion) on Dec. 26, or about 2.5 percent of
Turkey’s gross domestic product, according to the latest data
from the pension monitoring center’s  website . Yapi Kredi
Emeklilik is the fourth-largest pension fund manager in the
country, with 2.6 billion liras of assets under management.  “With Turkey being a growth market and both units being
valuable assets, I would think global players would show strong
interest,” Recep Demir, an analyst at Garanti Yatirim Menkul
Kiymetler AS, the investment arm of  Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s
largest bank by market value, said today in a telephone
interview. “The units may fetch $1 billion.”  Yapi Kredi Sigorta generated 959.4 million liras of
premiums in the first 10 months of 2012, up 21 percent from a
year-ago and had a seven percent market share, according to
 Insurance Association of Turkey’s  website.  The pension and non-life units together had an enterprise
value of 1.3 billion liras at the end of the third quarter of
2012, according data compiled by Bloomberg. With a market
capitalization of 1.7 billion liras, the price-to-earnings ratio
was 22, while  Anadolu Hayat Emeklilik AS (ANHYT) , Turkey’s largest
pension fund, had a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.  Aksigorta AS (AKGRT)  was the latest Turkish non-life insurer to
attract a foreign buyer, with Brussels-based  Ageas (AGS)  buying a 31
percent stake for $220 million from  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding
AS. (SAHOL)  in February last year. The U.S. insurer  Cigna Corp. (CI)  bought a
51 percent stake in Finansbank’s pensions and life insurance
unit Finans Emeklilik & Hayat for 95.6 million euros ($125.2
million) in November.  Yapi Kredi Sigorta shares traded 1.2 percent higher at
16.45 liras at 3:33 p.m. in Istanbul today, taking their gain
this year to 71 percent. That compares with a 52 percent
increase in Turkey’s benchmark ISE-100 Index. Yapi Kredi bank
shares were unchanged at 5.22 liras.  “The parent Yapi Kredi Bank increased its sales options
with this separation,” Demir said. “Different institutions
will be interested in the different units and with more
flexibility, their value is bound to increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  