-- U.S. Stocks Drop as Retailers Slump; Yen Falls on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   P a u l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-12-26T21:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/yen-breaches-85-a-dollar-as-abe-takes-rein-asian-stocks-advance.html
U.S. stocks fell for a third day as
lawmakers prepared to resume budget talks and retailers slumped
after the Christmas holiday. The Japanese yen weakened to the
lowest level since September 2010 amid speculation the new
government will act to bolster the economy.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.5 percent to
1,419.87 as of 4 p.m. in  New York . The yen retreated 1 percent
to 85.63 per dollar, declining against all of its 16 major
counterparts. Oil jumped 2.7 percent to a two-month high after a
report that the United Arab Emirates arrested terrorists
planning on carrying out attacks in the region. The S&P GSCI
Index of 24 raw materials increased 1.3 percent and copper
climbed 1.5 percent.  U.S. lawmakers convene tomorrow for budget talks aimed at
avoiding more than $600 billion in tax gains and spending cuts
scheduled to take effect Jan. 1. Shinzo Abe, whose  Liberal
Democratic Party  won a landslide victory in the Dec. 16
election, said today his government’s mission is to restore a
strong economy.  “It’s a stalemate,”  Scott Armiger , a  money manager  at
Christiana Trust in Greenville, Delaware, said in a telephone
interview. Christiana Trust oversees $14 billion. “With the
fiscal cliff, the questions are how bad will the deal be or will
they just extend it and let the new Congress address it?”  Trading in  S&P 500 (SPXL1)  companies was 34 percent below the 30-
day average at this time of day. European markets were closed.  Retailers Slump  Nine out of 10 groups in the S&P 500 retreated. Coach Inc.
and  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  declined at least 2.7 percent as
consumer discretionary stocks fell. Apple Inc., the world’s most
valuable company, slipped 1.4 percent as technology companies
posted losses.  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF)  gained 2 percent as
raw-material stocks advanced.  Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner  have been unable to
agree on tax-rate increases for top earners or cuts to
entitlement programs, complicating the chances of getting a
package done. Before going on Christmas vacation, Obama urged
leaders of both parties to put together an interim bill to keep
taxes from rising on middle-income Americans as they work on a
more comprehensive package.  U.S. home prices climbed in the year to October by the most
in more than two years as the real-estate market rebounds and
contributes to the U.S. economic recovery. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities increased 4.3 percent from
October 2011, the group said. The median forecast of 30
economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a 4 percent gain.  Holiday Sales  U.S. holiday sales growth slowed by more than half this
year after gridlock in  Washington  soured consumers’ moods and
 Hurricane Sandy  disrupted shopping, MasterCard Advisors
SpendingPulse said. Retail sales grew by 0.7 percent from Oct.
28 through Dec. 24, the research firm said yesterday, without
providing a dollar figure in the billions. Sales grew at a 2
percent pace in the same period a year ago.  The yen has tumbled 13.7 percent this year, the biggest
drop among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar is the
second-worst performer with a 2.8 percent slide, while the euro
has lost 0.6 percent.  Oil climbed as much as 3.1 percent in New York. U.A.E.
security authorities said members of the terrorist group had
obtained equipment and materials to carry out their attacks,
according to the country’s official news agency.  Saudi Arabia 
assisted in uncovering the terrorist cell, WAM said.  Copper Mines  Copper capped the biggest gain in almost four weeks after
workers rejected a wage proposal at  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s
Escondida mine, the world’s biggest source of the metal. Plant
and mine-shift workers “unanimously” rejected the proposal on
Dec. 22, according to their union. A failure to reach an
agreement may strain world supplies next year as workers can
legally go on strike once the deadline for compulsory
negotiations expires on July 31.  The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points
to 1.75 percent. Trading in the notes opened as usual in New
York after being shut for Christmas in the U.K. and Japan today,
and around the world yesterday. European and U.K. bond markets
remain closed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Armstrong  in London at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  