-- Dollar Falls as House Sets Deficit Session, Damping Haven
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-12-27T22:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-26/yen-is-near-27-month-low-before-japan-data-on-consumer-prices.html
The dollar fell to an almost eight-
month low against the euro as the Republican-controlled House of
Representatives planned a Dec. 30 session as part of efforts to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  The U.S. currency erased losses earlier today after
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said policy makers didn’t have
time to resolve the deficit-reduction stalemate that threatens
the nation with recession, fueling haven demand. The 17-nation
euro climbed after French  consumer confidence  unexpectedly
improved and Italian business sentiment increased. The yen
reached a 28-month low against the dollar as John Taylor,
founder and chairman of New York-based currency hedge fund FX
Concepts LLC, said Japan’s currency may weaken to 90 per dollar
for the first time since June 2010.  “The U.S. dollar is responding to headlines regarding the
fiscal cliff,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain
Capital Group LLC in New York, said by e-mail. “The buck is
currently reversing earlier gains after reports that the U.S.
House is planning an evening session on Dec. 30.”  The dollar fell 0.1 percent to $1.3236 per euro at 5:05
p.m. New York time, after weakening as much as 0.5 percent. It
reached $1.3308 on Dec. 19, the least since April 3. The yen
dropped 0.6 percent to 86.10 per dollar, touching the weakest
level since Aug. 16, 2010.  Japan ’s currency declined 0.7 percent
to 113.99 per euro.  Winners, Losers  South Africa’s rand has gained 5.1 percent this month
against the U.S. currency, the biggest increase of the
greenback’s major peers. The yen has declined 4.2 percent.  This year, the South Korean won has advanced 7.5 percent as
the yen has fallen 10.7 percent.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, was little changed at 79.625, after falling as much as
0.3 percent.  “I would attribute it to the fiscal cliff, but also
lackluster year-end trading,” Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  The House will convene the evening of Dec. 30 as lawmakers
seek to resolve a budget impasse, Majority Leader Eric Cantor
said today in a message posted on Twitter. The House may meet
through Jan. 2, Cantor of Virginia said. The first votes on Dec.
30 are planned at about 6:30 p.m., Cantor said.  Budget Talks  President  Barack Obama  and U.S. Congress return to
 Washington  to resume negotiations over the fiscal cliff of more
than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts
set to take effect next month. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said there’s “significant uncertainty” around tax and
spending policies, according to a letter sent to congressional
leaders yesterday.  The yen slumped after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was
approved as prime minister yesterday by parliament. His Liberal
Democratic party won a landslide victory in lower house
elections on Dec. 16, pledging to weaken the currency.  Japan’s  consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.1
percent in November from a year earlier, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s report. The  Bank of
Japan (8301) ’s inflation target is 1 percent.  Yen depreciation to “86.5 would be about as high as we’d
go in this cycle,” Greg Anderson, the North American head of G-
10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a
television interview on Bloomberg Surveillance with Sara Eisen
and Alix Steel. “We’ve had risk-on and we’ve hard risk-off days
due to the fiscal cliff over the last month, and it hasn’t
seemed to matter. The yen weakens every day.”  Extreme Move  The yen’s 14-day relative strength index dropped to 18.8
against the dollar today and dropped to 19.8 versus the euro. A
reading below 30 indicates an asset’s decline has been too rapid
it is poised to rise.  An index of French household sentiment rose to 86 in
December from 84 in November, the first monthly increase since
May, the national statistics office Insee said. Economists
forecast an unchanged reading of 84, according to a Bloomberg
survey. A gauge of Italian business climbed to 88.9 from 88.5,
according to Rome-based national statistics institute Istat.  The euro’s 14-day index of relative strength reached 70.6
to the dollar. A level of more than than 70 signals its rally
may have been too far, too fast.  The euro has appreciated 3 percent in the past three
months, the second best performer of 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes
after the Swiss franc. The yen tumbled 10.7 percent and the
dollar fell 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  