-- Domingo Mourns Dolphins in Met Enchantment: Manuela Hoelterhoff
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-01-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/-enchanted-island-casts-spell-on-domingo-met-crowd-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Looking like a Christmas
ornament that has come to befuddled life, Placido Domingo
lumbers into view at the world premiere on New Year’s Eve
of “The Enchanted Island” at the  Metropolitan Opera .  He plays Neptune, who in this beguiling production is
an aging deity presiding over too much water and too many
creatures.  I’ve even lost track of my dolphins, Domingo wails.
Humans have polluted my world.  “I’m old, I’m irritable, I’m weary,” the tenor
continues, scowling at a visitor who has approached seeking
help in finding a vessel bearing passengers who must be
shipwrecked to further the plot.  “Go scour the oceans yourself,” Neptune mutters.  High above him, four mermaids wave their tails.  The cheerful scene, inspired by Busby Berkeley,
Liberace and Louis XIV, is a high point of this over-the-
top baroque-style comedy concocted by the clever British
writer Jeremy Sams.  Drawing on Shakespeare’s “The Tempest” and “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream,” Sams conjured up a two-act opera
set on a mysterious island ruled by Prospero, a twisted
magician, who was banished here with his daughter Miranda.  This used to be the happy home of the witch Sycorax,
until Prospero stole her sprite Ariel, turned her son
Caliban into his slave and forced her into a dark corner of
her realm. He also broke her heart.  Understandably, revenge fuels every aria she sings,
and there are many.  Where Am I?  All the while, shipwrecked couples come and go
searching for their mates, thwarted by magic spells,
potions and gargantuan vines.  Those two theater magicians, Phelim McDermott and
Julian Crouch, who last produced “Satyagraha” at the Met,
make the story come alive with rain-pelted little boats and
ridiculous encounters.  “How should I know?” sings Hermia to a confused
Helena at one point. “I’ve been stuck in a cave.”  Or is Helena singing to Hermia? So many waterlogged
divas scrambling along the beach.  Everyone sings ornate arias plucked from works by
Handel, Vivaldi, Rameau and lesser composers to fit the
situation.  Following olden conventions, these arias are often
repeated with more ornaments. Perhaps the program should
come with dragon-blood potions to get us through Act I,
which is very long.  Famed baroque specialist William Christie helped
select the music and conducts the show with expected
enthusiasm. He is, after all, the founder of  Les Arts
Florissant  and chief publicist for Lully.  Men in Skirts  If works like “Atys” drive you crazy with their
ritual displays of mincing twits in feathered head-toppers
and flouncy skirts, you will adore “Island” which is at
least intentionally funny.  I especially loved Luca Pisaroni, the sweetly pathetic
Caliban, who lurches frequently into view looking for mom
or the enchanted Helena.  “We talked and walked for hours, and picked wild
flowers. It wasn’t just botany, it was chemistry!” he sobs
from underneath his splendid hat after Helen remembers she
really loves someone else.  Everyone wears terrific assemblages of feathers,
flowers and rococo finery devised by Kevin Pollard and
beautifully lit by Brian MacDevitt.  Danielle de Niese dominates the proceedings as a fleet
and funny Ariel. Joyce DiDonato brings venomous humor and
her fabled technique to Sycorax. David Daniels, a
broodingly handsome Prospero, sings a particularly sweet
song with a bassoon. There isn’t a loser in the cast.  Bravo Gelb  The show represents a high point for Met General
Manager  Peter Gelb , who dreamed up the concept and got the
right people to make it real.  Now could he wave a wand and summon a new music
director to replace the ailing  James Levine  on this fair
isle of  Manhattan ? Perhaps Ariel could send a boat for
someone like that Finnish demigod, Esa-Pekka Salonen?  “The Enchanted Island” was made possible by David G.
Knott and Francoise Girard. Additional funding came from
Rolex.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 