-- Hong Kong Keeps Ban on Some Chinese Poultry Imports After Flu Link Found
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-01-03T16:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/h-k-keeps-ban-on-some-poultry-imports.html
Poultry imports from the part of
southern  China  where a man died from the H5N1 virus remain
banned in Hong Kong after genetic tests linked the man’s strain
of the disease to the version found in wild birds in the city.  The import of live, chilled and frozen poultry, and eggs,
from within a 13-kilometer (8-mile) radius of the man’s home in
Shenzhen were suspended for 21 days starting Jan. 1,  according
to  a Centre for Food Safety statement posted on New Year’s Day.  “It’s always the wild birds, then the poultry, then the
humans,” Yuen Kwok-yung, chairman of infectious diseases at the
 University of Hong Kong ’s department of microbiology, said in a
phone interview yesterday. Events are following the typical
sequence for a zoonosis, a disease that jumps to humans from
animals, he said.  Avian flu is a serious public health concern with the
potential to cause a pandemic, the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention  says. Since 2003, more than 500 people have been
infected with the H5N1 strain worldwide, of whom about 60
percent have died, according to the Atlanta-based agency.  Gene sequencing done on samples from the patient in
Shenzhen shows the virus is “very similar” to strains recently
detected in wild birds in  Hong Kong , according to an e-mail from
the city’s  Department of Health  yesterday.  Two dead black-headed gulls found in Tuen Mun and  Lantau
Island  in Hong Kong tested positive for the virus, according to
a government  statement  yesterday. The birds were found Dec. 30
and Jan. 1. The Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation
Department is conducting further tests on the animals.  The mutated virus can’t be transmitted from human to human,
 Radio Television Hong Kong  said Jan. 2, citing Wu Chunli, a
technician at the Shenzhen Center for Disease Control and
Prevention.  Surveillance System  Hong Kong slaughtered 19,451 birds, including more than
15,000 chickens, on Dec. 21 after the H5N1 virus was found in a
chicken carcass at a local wholesale market.  Based on sequencing results, a compound called amantadine
may be effective against the virus. Results of the effectiveness
of  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Tamiflu as a treatment are pending, Hong
Kong’s Department of Health said.  Public hospitals in the city activated the  “serious” 
response level and enhanced surveillance after the government
discovered the infected chicken carcass.  “The system of surveillance in Hong Kong works very
well,” HKU’s Yuen said.“You should not be unduly concerned but
you really have to be careful and obey some simple measures,”
including not touching wild and dead birds, and boiling food
before eating, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  