-- ‘King’s Speech’ Backer Alliance Films Is Put Up for Sale by Goldman Sachs
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-04T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/-king-s-speech-backer-alliance-films-is-put-up-for-sale-by-goldman-sachs.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is seeking a
buyer for its two-thirds stake in Alliance Films Inc., the
Canadian distributor and backer of the Oscar-winning “The
King’s Speech,” a person with knowledge of the plans said.  Investissement Quebec, part of the provincial government,
is putting its one-third of Montreal-based Alliance up for sale
too, said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
decision to seek a buyer hasn’t been announced publicly.  Plans for a sale follow Alliance’s successful investments
in “The King’s Speech,” winner of last year’s best-picture
Academy Award, and the horror film “Insidious.” “The King’s
Speech” was made for $15 million and generated $414 million in
worldwide ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo.
“Insidious” cost $1.5 million and took in $97 million.  Andrea Raphael, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, said the
company had no comment. The Financial Times reported on the sale
plans yesterday.  Under Canadian law, the buyer must be Canadian or have a
Canadian partner who is approved by the nation’s regulators, the
person said. Investissement Quebec owns 51 percent of the voting
shares of the company, meeting legal requirements that media
companies can’t be controlled by foreign entities.  A Goldman-led group paid $180 million for its 49 percent
voting stake in Alliance in 2007. Alliance bought Maple Pictures
from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  in June for $38.5 million,
according to a report at the time.  Alliance distributes films internationally for studios
including Weinstein Co.,  Universal Pictures ’ Focus Features unit
and Relativity Media LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  