-- Abramoff as Ethics Guru Latest Chapter in Political Second Acts
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-01-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/abramoff-as-ethics-guru-latest-chapter-in-political-second-acts.html
Mandatory ethics training this year
for the 138 members of the  Kentucky  legislature features a
lecture by Jack Abramoff, a convicted felon at the center of
Washington’s biggest lobbying corruption scandal.  Seasoned by a December appearance at  Harvard Law School  and
about 200 interviews on radio and television including “60
Minutes” and “The Colbert Report,” Abramoff will be paid
$5,000 plus travel expenses for an hour of his thoughts tomorrow
in Frankfort, Kentucky. His fees largely go toward $44 million
in restitution to the  Indian tribes  and others he pleaded guilty
to defrauding, he says.  Abramoff is one of many once-disgraced political figures to
return to the public eye after a scandal. The class includes
Chuck Colson, special counsel to Republican President  Richard
Nixon , who served time in 1974 for his role in the Watergate
break-in. After his release from prison, Colson restyled himself
as an evangelical Christian leader and prison reform advocate,
founding the Prison Fellowship Ministries.  “Americans love a second act and are quick to accept
somebody apologizing and saying they’ve changed,”  Melanie Sloan , director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
Washington, said in an interview. “The jury’s still out on
Abramoff, but he’s making a compelling pitch.”  ‘Go Away’  Some lobbyists say they are livid about Abramoff’s return
to the spotlight, saying he only further impugns the reputation
of a profession that rates lower in Gallup public opinion
surveys than car sales and telemarketing.  Former lawmaker-turned lobbyist Robert Livingston called
Abramoff “poisonous” and “evil” in a recent telephone
interview. “He’s making us all look like crooks,” he said.
“He needs to stop talking and go away.”  Howard Marlowe, president of the  American League  of
Lobbyists, said the idea of Abramoff dispensing ethics advice is
“ridiculous and shameful.” He dispatched an e-mail to the
Kentucky Legislative Ethics Commission asking it to rescind its
invitation to Abramoff. The commission declined.  “What right does he have to talk about ethics?” Marlowe
asked in a telephone interview. “Unless he read a book on
ethics in prison, he knows nothing about the subject. What he’s
trying to do is rehabilitate his image so that he can make a
load of money.”  Abramoff’s public appearances, said Elizabeth Bartz,
president of State and Federal Communications Inc. in Akron,
Ohio, “make me want to gag.”  “Certainly you want to give people a chance to
rehabilitate themselves,” she said in a telephone interview.
“But is  Jack Abramoff  rehabilitated? I don’t think so.”  Abramoff Amused  Such piling on is “pretty funny,” Abramoff said during an
interview at a coffee shop near his home in Silver Spring,
 Maryland . “I’m not trying to resurrect myself,” he said.
“Let’s not kid ourselves. I’m not going to be resurrected. What
I’m trying to do is make something right. That’s it.”  Abramoff, 52, was a top Republican lobbyist with ties to
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, House Majority Leader
Tom DeLay’s office and dozens of other federal elected
officials. He pleaded guilty in January 2006 to felony counts
related to his illegal lobbying practices and in a separate
federal case involving his purchase of casino boats.  More than a dozen others connected to Abramoff, including
Ohio Representative Robert Ney and aides to DeLay and Bush, also
were convicted. Abramoff was transferred in June 2010 from
federal prison to a halfway house in Baltimore, where he worked
as a marketing manager for a pizza parlor. He was released in
December 2010 and is on supervised probation.  ‘Capitol Punishment’  This April, Abramoff wrote his autobiography. “Capitol
Punishment: The Hard Truth About  Washington  Corruption From
America’s Most Notorious Lobbyist” offers his view on what’s
wrong with Washington and how to fix it.  It’s his message, Abramoff said, that angers some of the
Washington lobbyists and their trade groups.  “They say, ‘You can’t trust him because he’s a
criminal,’” he said. “Does it matter if you trust me? Do you
think I’m exaggerating what goes on in Washington?”  Severing the link between K Street and  Capitol Hill  is the
most important way to reform lobbying, Abramoff argues in his
book and in columns he has written for Bloomberg News and his
 book publisher , WND. He recommends that all former federal
lawmakers and their staff members be banned from lobbying.  Abramoff said he has been “overwhelmed” by the response
to his book and ideas: “I never would have expected to have
people listen to me, period, let alone to like what I have to
say.”  Harvard Law Lecture  On Dec. 6, Abramoff traveled to Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
to be the first guest in a new lecture series at Harvard law’s
Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics.  “Our aim is to have a conversation with a wider range of
souls than is typically on this stage,” Lawrence Lessig, the
center’s director, said at the start of the 90-minute
conversation, which was later broadcast on C-SPAN.  Abramoff was there, Lessig told the audience, “to explain
a system that practically none of us respect.”  In Kentucky, John Schaaf watched Abramoff’s Nov. 6
appearance on “60 Minutes” and thought he’d be perfect for the
state legislature’s annual ethics seminar, he said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Cautionary Tale’  “He has a cautionary tale to tell,” said Schaaf, general
counsel to the state’s Legislative Ethics Commission. “I think
he’s going to be real interesting.”  Last year, Kentucky hosted former Representative David Skaggs, a Colorado lawmaker who was co-chairman of the
congressional ethics office. He was unpaid, Schaaf said. Norman Ornstein of the  American Enterprise Institute  has lectured, and
was paid $5,000 like Abramoff, Schaaf said.  Day Two of this year’s lobbying seminar will feature Pastor
Paul Prather, who writes a religion column for the Lexington
Herald-Leader. He won’t be paid, Schaaf said.  Abramoff said he is fielding speaking offers from
universities across the country. A representative from a
national group of state legislatures will be present in Kentucky
and assess whether his message should be spread further, he
said.  Craig Holman , who pushes for lobbying overhaul as a
lobbyist for  Public Citizen  in Washington, said he, too, has
asked Abramoff to speak at a lunch -- though he won’t pay him.  “I have no doubt Jack is the same Jack as he has always
been; I do not believe he has seen the light,” he said in an
interview. “Nevertheless, there is much to be learned from
him.”  Reinvention  Many connected to Abramoff have already undertaken various
forms of reinvention. Ney is a radio talk show host in  Ohio .
DeLay, who resigned after being indicted on state charges of
laundering campaign money, took a spin on TV’s “Dancing With
the Stars.” He wasn’t charged in the Abramoff probe.  Neil Volz, Ney’s chief of staff and later Abramoff’s
lobbying associate, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit  wire
fraud . He is working as a janitor and homeless advocate in  Fort
Myers ,  Florida . He has a self-published book on the Abramoff
scandal called “Into the Sun.”  Asked whether he believes Abramoff’s reinvention is
sincere, Volz said in a telephone interview, “I’ve always said
Jack Abramoff is a Rorschach test -- people see what they want
to see.”  “Neil in his glass house doesn’t like to throw too many
stones,” Volz said. “If Jack is more interested in being a
celebrity than making meaningful change, we’ll see that over
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  