-- Afghan Taliban to Open Liaison Office in Qatar in Boost to Peace Talks
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-01-03T12:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/afghan-taliban-to-open-liaison-office-in-qatar-in-boost-to-peace-talks.html
Afghanistan ’s Taliban guerrilla
movement said it has reached an initial agreement with  Qatar  to
open a liaison office in the Gulf state to facilitate peace
talks with the international community.  The “preliminary deal” followed talks with Qatari
officials and other “relevant parties,”  Zabihullah Mujahed , a
Taliban spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement in the region’s
Pashtu language. The Taliban had demanded the release of
prisoners held at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
the statement said, without giving any further details.  “This is a major breakthrough in the Afghan reconciliation
process,” Rustam Shah, Pakistan’s former ambassador to the
neighboring country, said in a phone interview. “It shows that
the Taliban’s role as a political force has been accepted” as
efforts to “install a national unity government in Afghanistan
before the American withdrawal” are stepped up.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  in November gathered tribal
elders and the country’s leaders in part to consider how to
advance talks with the Taliban following the September
assassination of peace envoy  Burhanuddin Rabbani .  With the U.S. planning to withdraw most of its 98,000
combat soldiers from Afghanistan by 2014, Karzai sought a
mandate to pursue talks with the Taliban while brokering a
longer-term security arrangement with the Obama administration
that includes commitments to maintain a troop presence and train
Afghan forces.  Karzai Approval  Karzai last month dropped opposition to the setting up of a
Taliban office in Qatar, where Afghan and Western peace
negotiators could contact the militants’ intermediaries.  “If America wants the Taliban office to be opened in Qatar
then we are agreed however we preferred  Saudi Arabia  or
 Turkey ,” Karzai said in remarks to Kuwaiti news media,
according to a statement from his press office released Dec. 27.
“The government of Afghanistan is seriously ready to pursue the
 peace process  and wants a Taliban address to be opened,” the
statement quoted Karzai as saying.  Karzai didn’t mention previous demands of his government
that the Taliban stop fighting before being allowed to open the
office, the New York Times reported Dec. 29.  Rabbani’s death at the hands of a suicide bomber, who posed
for months as a Taliban emissary, prompted Karzai to say efforts
to talk with the Taliban to end a decade of fighting were
pointless. He said he should focus instead on peace negotiations
with  Pakistan , since the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani militant
network are based on the Pakistani side of the porous border.  In its report late last month, the New York Times said the
opening of an office in Qatar would have the benefit of reducing
Pakistan’s influence over the Taliban.  Former Pakistan envoy Shah said the announcement of an
agreement on the Qatar office was unlikely to reduce violence in
the short term. “The Taliban will still prefer covert
negotiations so that their fighters don’t feel they are being
betrayed,” Shah said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  