-- Malcolm Gladwell Test Has Japan Turning Chinese: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-01-03T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/malcolm-gladwell-test-has-japan-look-to-china-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
If you want to silence a room filled
with Japanese politicians, suggest they should learn from  China (CNGDPYOY) .  The conventional wisdom favors the flip side of this
dynamic:  China  should be studying Japan’s playbook. Japan, after
all, is an example of both what China needs to do (create a
vibrant domestic economy and high living standards) and what it
mustn’t (slide into bad-loan crises and deflation).  Yet I have one word for Japanese policy makers who dismiss
the idea they should heed China’s example: Shenzhen.  For two decades now, economists have been urging  Tokyo (TPX)  to
create a special-enterprise zone or two. The idea is to have a
laboratory where officials could try drastic alternatives to
Japan’s rigid, bureaucratic and change-resistant model -- a
controlled environment in which the nationwide laws and norms
that thwart economic energy could be repealed.  Southern China features such a place. In 1980,  Deng Xiaoping  started China’s first special-economic zone in a
coastal village that was nothing to look at. Today, Shenzhen is
a teeming collage of huge skyscrapers, thriving industrial
parks, 10 million people, one of the world’s busiest ports, and
some of the biggest manufacturing and outsourcing industries
anywhere.  China’s Example  It’s the center of Chinese experimentation. There,
officials can test what works and what doesn’t: which corporate
tax rates offer the best balance of attracting foreign
investment while filling government coffers in Beijing, which
labor standards make the most sense, which corporate-governance
standards are most advantageous, which immigration procedures
are optimal, which regulations stay or go.  China’s experience inspired nations as disparate as Angola,
Bangladesh,  Brazil ,  Iran , Kazakhstan, the Philippines, Poland,
 Russia  and even  North Korea  to erect special economic regions.
 India , too. You can argue that India’s software industry is such
an entity -- one immune enough from New Delhi’s dysfunction to
create the growth and jobs India so badly needs.  Why not Japan?  Junichiro Koizumi , prime minister from 2001
to 2006, broached the issue, but his vision was never
effectively implemented. Of all the growth-revitalizing
strategies employed by  Tokyo (TPX) , the most favored ones are debt and
concrete -- debt to finance white-elephant public-works
projects, concrete to build them. Japan is too much about saving
unproductive jobs, not creating innovative new ones.  What Japan never tried is a dose of supply-side economics.
No, this column isn’t advocating a sudden Japanese embrace of
the ideologies of  Ayn Rand  and  Ronald Reagan . Yet Japan has
gotten as far it can with financial socialism. Even after more
than two decades of start-and-stop growth, Japan’s focus is on
preserving its way of life, not adjusting to the demands of
globalization and  Chinese (SHCOMP)  competition. The big debates in Tokyo
are over raising taxes and joining free-trade deals.  Some fresh thinking is in order, and Japan’s March 11
earthquake and tsunami provided a perfect opportunity. There are
many cities the government could declare as economic-policy
labs: Fukuoka, Kobe, Nagasaki, Sapporo, Yokohama. The devastated
Northeastern Tohoku region is a better choice.  “Tohoku can be to Japan what Shenzhen was to China,” says
 Jeff Kingston , head of the Asian Studies program at Temple
University’s Tokyo campus.  Kingston’s favored regime: Allow large-scale deregulation,
cut red tape that frustrates businesses, offer 10-year tax
holidays for new investments and incentives for employers
generating full-time jobs, apply a corporate tax rate in the
neighborhood of 11 percent, suspend gasoline taxes, subsidize
electricity, eliminate sales taxes, and structure a variety of
enticements to attract capital into renewable-energy research
and production.  Tax Holiday  Martin Schulz , a senior economist at Fujitsu Research
Institute in Tokyo, would take things a step further and simply
make Tohoku corporate-tax free. That, he argues, would get young
people and families into a region that was dying demographically
even before the earth shook and the waters rose.  All this would get  Japan  closer to passing the Malcolm Gladwell test. Days after the earthquake that triggered the
worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl, the author of “The
Tipping Point” told Bloomberg: “The only time you can get
things done is in moments of genuine crisis and catastrophes --
there’s a small opportunity to do an extraordinary amount.
Japan, a country whose politics were in deadlock and sluggish
for many, many years, I hope they can seize this moment and
accomplish a lot.”  Gladwell’s view that a crisis is a terrible thing to waste
arguably dovetails with the so-called shock doctrine advocated
decades earlier by Nobel laureate  Milton Friedman . I haven’t
spoken with a single Japanese who believes the government
achieved much of anything in 2011, never mind turning disaster
into an opportunity. Japan must do better in 2012.  China has much to learn from Japan. From the ashes of World
War II, it created a safe, prosperous, universally literate,
environmentally stable and reasonably egalitarian nation. Yet
Japan has long since lost the vibrancy and policy innovation
that propelled it to today’s heights.  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s first act of 2012 should be
to create a Japanese Shenzhen. It would be a much-needed
recognition that if Japan can’t beat China, it can at least
learn a thing or two from  Asia ’s economic upstart.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 