-- Manchester City Takes Three-Point Premier League Lead by Beating Liverpool
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-04T00:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/manchester-city-beats-liverpool-3-0-to-take-3-point-lead-in-premier-league.html
Manchester City  beat Liverpool 3-0 to
end a two-match winless run in English soccer’s Premier League
and establish a three-point lead atop the standings.  Sergio Aguero ,  Yaya Toure  and James Milner, with a penalty,
scored at the Etihad Stadium last night to maintain 10-man
City’s perfect home record in the league this season. City
midfielder Gareth Barry was red-carded in the 73rd minute for a
second bookable offense.  “This is massive for us,” City defender  Vincent Kompany 
told Sky Sports. “We were incredibly efficient and it’s a great
win.”  Third-place Tottenham defeated West Bromwich Albion 1-0,
while Sunderland beat Wigan 4-1.  City has 48 points, Manchester United is on 45, while
Tottenham moves to 42 points. Chelsea has 37 points, Arsenal 36
with Liverpool remaining on 34. United can move level on points
at the top if it beats Newcastle today.  City, which had failed to score in its past two matches,
took 10 minutes to get the opening goal yesterday.  David Silva  passed to Aguero, who ran forward before
striking a shot from 20 yards (18 meters) that slipped under the
dive of goalkeeper Pepe Reina.  City keeper Joe Hart had blocked a shot from Liverpool’s
Stewart Downing two minutes earlier.  Edin Dzeko came close to his first goal since November when
a shot deflected off Liverpool’s Glen Johnson and just past the
post with Reina wrong-footed. At the other end, Hart was able to
stop a Charlie Adam free kick.  Toure Scores  Midfielder Toure, who is set to play for Ivory Coast in the
African Nations Cup this month, then headed in from a corner on
33 minutes.  Liverpool played without striker Luis Suarez after the club
yesterday opted not to appeal against his eight-match ban for
racially abusing  Manchester United ’s Patrice Evra during a
Premier League match in October. In his absence, lone forward
Andy Carroll had few opportunities to score as the Reds failed
to extend a run of five games unbeaten.  City scored its third goal after Barry was ejected 17
minutes from the end. Toure broke forward before being brought
down by  Martin Skrtel  and Milner fired the resulting penalty
kick into the top corner of the net.  City substitute Adam Johnson hit a post on 80 minutes,
while Hart dived to stop a low shot from Liverpool’s Craig Bellamy as the game entered injury time.  Double Header  The teams will meet again twice this month in the two-leg
semifinals of the Carling Cup.  “If you want to be a successful team, and they are, then
you’ve got to be clinical,” Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish
told  Sky Sports . “We’ve got to get that into our make-up.”  At White Hart Lane, Jermain Defoe’s goal after 63 minutes
extended Tottenham’s unbeaten league run to five games. West
Brom had won its past two away games.  Defoe, starting a league game for the first time in a
month, struck a low effort into the net from close range.  Sunderland maintained its upturn in form since the arrival
of Martin O’Neill as manager, winning for a fourth time in six
matches.  Craig Gardner, James McClean, Stephane Sessegnon and David
Vaughan scored for the Black Cats at Wigan, with  Hugo Rodallega 
replying for the home team. Sunderland climbs to 10th, with
Wigan remaining 18th in the 20-team league.  In today’s other game, Everton hosts last-place Bolton.  Two days ago, Chelsea beat Wolverhampton Wanderers 2-1,
Arsenal lost 2-1 at Fulham, Stoke defeated Blackburn 2-1,
Swansea won 2-0 at  Aston Villa  and Norwich beat Queens Park
Rangers 2-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 