-- Anglo American Rises in London, Brushing Off Codelco Threat
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-01-03T16:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/anglo-american-rises-in-london-brushing-off-threat-from-codelco.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , battling against
 Chile ’s Codelco for control of copper resources in the country,
tracked mine operators higher in London trading as analysts said
a lawsuit threatened by the Latin American company was expected.  Anglo rose 5 percent in the city, Rio Tinto Group climbed
6.4 percent and BHP Billiton Ltd. gained 6.2 percent. Codelco
said yesterday it was ready to sue Anglo over the dispute.  Anglo, based in London, is in conflict over ownership of
Anglo Sur, which holds the world’s fifth-largest copper mine.
The U.K. company opposes a 1978 option allowing Codelco to buy
as much as 49 percent of Sur below market value and in November
sold 24.5 percent of the unit to Mitsubishi Corp. for $5.39
billion, reducing the stake available to the Chilean company.  “I’d say there’s a 50 or 60 percent chance that Anglo will
end up owning 51 percent” of Anglo Sur,  Peter Davey , metals and
mining research chief at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by phone
from London. “The market has already factored this in.”  Under the terms of the 1978 accord, Codelco would pay about
$6 billion, the Santiago-based company said in a statement. It
will sue Anglo if necessary, Chairman Gerardo Jofre said.  The dispute began in October when Codelco announced funding
with Mitsui & Co. to buy the stake using the option, which may
be exercised every third January until 2027. Anglo’s subsequent
sale of a stake valued the unit at $22 billion. Codelco secured
an injunction on Nov. 15 preventing further sales, which is
scheduled to be reviewed by a Santiago court this month.  Anglo said in a court writ last month that Codelco breached
their contract by trying to take up the option before it became
valid in January. While Anglo is under no obligation to sell any
Sur shares, it’s willing to work with Codelco to find a solution
in shareholders’ interest, it said today in a statement.  Anglo rose 118 pence to 2,497 pence at the close in  London ,
valuing it at 33 billion pounds ($51.7 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  