-- Manufacturing Probably Expanded in December at Fastest Pace in Six Months
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-grew-most-in-six-months-to-lead-expansion.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
expanded in December at the fastest pace in six months,
remaining at the forefront of the expansion entering 2012,
economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
53.4 last month from 52.7 in November, according to the median
 projection (NAPMPMI)  of 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Fifty is
the dividing line between growth and contraction. Construction
spending increased for a fourth straight month in November,
another report may show.  Increasing demand for autos, gains in holiday sales and
lean inventories may pave the way for further strength in the
industry that accounts for about 12 percent of the economy. At
the same time, faltering growth in  Europe  due to the debt crisis
poses a risk to the U.S. expansion.  “Manufacturing is still progressing at a nice pace,” said
 Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc.
in  Detroit . “I expect exports to continue to grow, but
modestly, with economic repercussions out of Europe as a key
headwind.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data are due at 10 a.m.
Estimates for the manufacturing index ranged from 50 to 56. A
reading above 42.5 generally indicates an expansion in the
overall economy, the group has said.  In  China  and  India , manufacturing expanded last month,
indicating  Asia ’s fastest-growing major economies have so far
withstood the fallout from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  Fastest Pace  India’s manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in six
months, stoking inflationary pressure, and a Chinese
manufacturing gauge rose by more than economists expected,
suggesting that a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy
may be stabilizing. In the euro area, output fell for a fifth
month though the rate of decline eased slightly from November.  The  U.S. economy  “has been expanding moderately,
notwithstanding some apparent slowing in global growth,” the
 Federal Reserve  said Dec. 13 after its last monetary policy
meeting of the year.  Signs the U.S. will weather a possible recession in Europe
have helped drive up shares of equipment makers. The Standard &
Poor’s Machinery Index climbed 20 percent in the fourth quarter
compared with an 11 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  The national ISM report follows data last week showing
business activity in December was little changed near a seven-
month high. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.
said its  business barometer (CHPMINDX)  decreased to 62.5 from 62.6 in
November as employment strengthened.  Tax Credit  An end-of-year deadline to qualify for a larger government
tax credit may have contributed to an increase in business
demand for equipment. A tax compromise allowed companies to
depreciate 100 percent of investment in capital outlays in 2011,
dropping down to 50 percent this year.  A reviving auto industry is also boosting the U.S. economy.
Light-vehicle sales ran at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of
13.6 million in November, the fastest since August 2009,
according to Autodata Corp.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S. carmaker, posted
November sales growth of 7 percent versus a year earlier, partly
due to Americans replacing older vehicles.  “It’s the underlying replacement demand and economy, as
well as the great new products, that are really driving it,”
 Don Johnson , GM’s vice president for U.S. sales, said on a
conference call last month.  Namesake Brand  Ford Motor Co. last week said its namesake brand exceeded 2
million U.S. sales for the first year since 2007, led by gains
for models such as the Fiesta small car and revamped Explorer
sport-utility vehicle.  Growth in Asia and  emerging markets  is helping sustain
orders for U.S.-produced goods while demand from Europe
stumbles.  Grand Rapids , Michigan-based  Steelcase Inc. (SCS) , which
designs and makes products for offices, is seeing room for
expansion in India and China, while sales are uneven in Europe.  “We saw revenue growth in some countries” in Europe in
the most recent quarter, “while others were down,” James Hackett, president and chief executive officer of the Grand
Rapids-based company, said on a Dec. 22 conference call. “Our
commitment to Asia continues to pay off.”  September and October were the best months for U.S.  exports (USTBEXP) 
on record, according to figures from the Commerce Department.  Meantime, housing is showing signs of stabilizing.
 Construction spending (CNSTTMOM)  increased 0.4 percent in November,
according to the median projection in the Bloomberg survey. It
rose 0.8 percent in October.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  