-- Apple Loses Bid to Keep Software Information Under Seal in Psystar Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-01-04T01:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/apple-loses-bid-to-keep-software-information-under-seal-in-psystar-case.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  failed to convince a judge
that information about its software in court filings that’s
already available on the Internet and in print is “‘ trade
secrets ’’ that should remain sealed from public view.  Apple, the maker of the iPad and iPhone, had asked U.S.
District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco to seal documents
containing information about its Mac OS X operating system and
computer products, including Apple’s technological protection
measure, system integrity checks and thermal management
techniques, according to court documents.  The Cupertino, California-based company didn’t deny that
the information was already public or argue that it was
misappropriated, Alsup said in his ruling today. Apple
maintained that because it wasn’t the source of the information
and had never confirmed it, trade secret protection still
exists, Alsup said.  ‘‘Apple cannot have this court seal information merely to
avoid confirmation that the publicly available sources got it
right,” Alsup said.  Information about the operating system is available on the
website of a book about the software, the judge said. Apple’s
decryption key haiku is available to any user who compiles and
runs publicly available code on a MacBook Air laptop, he said.  Copyright Infringement  The ruling came in Apple’s copyright-infringement lawsuit
against Psystar Corp., a maker of Macintosh computer clones that
was barred in 2009 by Alsup from selling copies of Apple’s
operating system or products that circumvent technologies that
control access to the software. His order covered a Psystar
software product that allowed customers to run the Mac operating
systems on non-Apple computers. The companies reached a $2.67
million partial settlement of the lawsuit in 2009.  A federal appeals court in  San Francisco  upheld Alsup’s
sales injunction in September and ordered some documents in the
case unsealed. Apple renewed its sealing request, telling Alsup
that the information could be used to facilitate the same type
of infringement that Psystar had done, according to court
filings. Alsup ordered that unredacted versions of documents
should be unsealed.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately
respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.
Kiwi Camara, an attorney for Psystar, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Apple v. Psystar Corp., 08-cv-3251, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  