-- Arab League Falters in Syria as Plans to End Crisis Dwindle
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-01-04T09:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/arab-league-falters-in-syria-as-options-dwindle.html
The  Arab League  has raised questions
about its commitment to halting Syria’s deadly crackdown on
protesters by putting a Sudanese general with close ties to an
indicted war-crimes suspect in charge of a monitoring mission
intended to hold the government accountable.  The first 50 members of an envisioned 150-person monitoring
group arrived in Syria on Dec. 26. The plan calls for a
monthlong mission to ensure President Bashar al-Assad follows
through on a pledge to withdraw security forces from cities,
release political prisoners and allow demonstrations.  Yet in a concession that may jeopardize the league’s
credibility, Sudanese Lieutenant General Mohammed Ahmed Mustafa
al-Dabi, a 63-year-old close associate of Sudan’s President Umar al-Bashir, leads a mission that was whittled down from an
intended 500 observers at Assad’s request.  “The league has revealed its inexperience by appointing a
crusty military intelligence guy who presumably gets on
swimmingly with Assad’s cronies,” said Jeff Laurenti, a United
Nations analyst at the Century Foundation, a New York-based
research group. “This discredits the league just when it was
shaking off decades of always being the doormat of authoritarian
regimes.”  Al-Dabi’s mission to  Syria  didn’t get off to an auspicious
start. After he visited the city of Homs, the scene of killings
by government forces, the  BBC  cited him as saying on Dec. 29
that “some places looked a bit of a mess but there was nothing
frightening.”  Killing Continues  Moreover, the killing of protesters has continued even
under the presence of observers, and snipers are still on the
prowl after tanks have withdrawn from cities, according to Nabil el-Arabi, president of the Arab League.  “Yes, there is still gunfire; yes, there are still
snipers, and we wish for all these aspects to end,” he said in
televised remarks on Jan. 2 addressing the mission’s
shortcomings.  At least 49 people have been killed since Dec. 31, many by
government snipers, U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday. Syria is “far from meeting” its
commitments to the Arab League, she said in  Washington .  With Russia resisting U.S.- and European-led efforts to
seek punitive action against Assad at the UN  Security Council ,
the Arab League remains the best hope for protesters in the 10-
month-old conflict that the UN estimates has claimed more than
5,000 lives.  Groups’ Concerns  Human-rights groups, including Amnesty International and
 Human Rights Watch , have raised concerns that the team
dispatched to Syria consists of bureaucrats with little
expertise or training in how to uncover and report abuses or get
access to military sites where prisoners may have been
relocated.  The attitude of delegates seems to be “see no evil, hear
no evil,” according to  Joe Stork , deputy director of Human
Rights Watch’s  Middle East  and North Africa division.  Also, al-Dabi is a “poor choice” as leader of the group,
he said in a telephone interview. “His own role with Sudanese
military intelligence and more recently being the point person
in  Darfur  gives him experience in impeding human-rights
investigations. He is still on the same side of the fence.”  Elevated to head of military intelligence in  Sudan  in 1989,
al-Dabi was dispatched by al-Bashir a decade later to West
Darfur as his personal representative and laid the groundwork
for the government’s ensuing crackdown on insurgents. Al-Bashir
is accused by the International Criminal Court of genocide in
Darfur, the western Sudanese region where civil war exploded in
2003.  Criticism ‘Baseless’  Not everyone is critical of his selection. Mahmoud Merei,
head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said he spoke to
al-Dabi on Jan. 2 in Damascus and that “the criticism against
him is baseless and uncalled for.”  “Al-Dabi is a capable military man who is working
objectively,” Merei said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“It is very hard to judge on the delegation’s performance in a
week, but a lot was accomplished, and there is a lot more to be
done, like increasing the numbers of monitors. There should be
at least 500 of them in all Syria.”  Arab Alarm  The Arab Parliament, an Arab advisory body, sounded the
alarm on Jan. 1 by saying the mission had failed and should be
terminated immediately for undermining the body’s credibility.  “The mission of the Arab League team has missed its aim of
stopping the killing of children and ensuring the withdrawal of
troops from the Syrian streets, giving the Syrian regime a cover
to commit inhumane acts under the noses of the Arab League
observers,” said Ali Salem al-Deqbasi, the Kuwaiti head of the
88-member parliament, in a statement.  Inspired by a wave of discontent that swept the Arab world
and toppled autocrats in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya , the uprising
in Syria has now outlasted the one in Libya and may turn even
bloodier.  For now, the Arab League may be the only thing preventing
that outcome. The State Department’s Nuland said yesterday that
the U.S. “was not going to pass judgment on the Arab League
mission.”  In exchange for the Arab League dropping plans to submit a
proposal to the UN  Security Council , Syria agreed on Dec. 19 to
let the monitors into the country. The focus may yet shift to
the 15-member body, which alone has the power to impose
sanctions on the UN’s 193 member states.  Cairo Meeting  On Jan. 7, the Arab League is scheduled to meet in Cairo.
 Jeffrey Feltman , assistant U.S. secretary of state for Near
Eastern affairs, plans to meet with league officials that day,
according to Nuland.  The Syrian National Council, which seeks to topple Assad,
expects the league to increase the number of observers,
according to Omar Idlibi, a member. “We want the additional
Arab observers to be specialists, to be provided with logistic
tools, and we want them to be neutral, not to be subjected to
policies of regimes who help the Syrian one,” he told Al
Arabiya television.  Burhan Ghalioun, the SNC leader, told reporters yesterday
during a visit to Lisbon that the Arab League mission “remains
useful.”  A significant change that may play against Assad has taken
place in the Security Council: The Arab seat has passed from
Lebanon to  Morocco .  Hezbollah Movement  Lebanon was constricted in its ability to act against Assad
because of the influence the Shiite Hezbollah movement, backed
by Iran and Syria, has on its government. With Morocco, a former
French colony and a moderate Muslim country, the western powers
will have an ally.  An obstacle persists in the form of veto-wielding  Russia ,
which sells arms to Syria and maintains a naval base on its
Mediterranean coast. The Kremlin has stuck to its Soviet-era
ally, resisting European and U.S. calls to impose sanctions and
asset freezes in line with the Arab League’s initiative.  Instead, it caught its colleagues on the council off guard
by penning a draft resolution that demanded “that all parties
in Syria immediately stop any violence, irrespective of where it
comes from.” The text was deemed unacceptable by western powers
for failing to place most of the blame for the violence on
security forces acting under Assad’s orders.  Under the presidency of  South Africa , the council will
discuss the amendments made to the draft by its four European
nations:  Portugal ,  Germany ,  France  and the U.K. They want the
council to “adopt further targeted measures, including
sanctions, as appropriate,” according to a draft obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The council also wants a flight ban to and from Syria and a
ban “on governmental trade transactions with the country,
except for strategic commodities affecting the Syrian people,”
according to the draft.  European nations have also asked for a travel ban and asset
freeze on 19 Syrian officials and an asset freeze on the
country’s central bank and the Syrian Commercial Bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at   fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  