-- Marchionne Can’t Deliver 6 Million Predicted Sales With Europe Slump: Cars
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-01-04T14:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/marchionne-can-t-deliver-6-million-sales-with-europe-slump-cars.html
Sergio Marchionne ’s plans to propel
car sales at  Fiat SpA (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC to the 6 million
mark he says is needed to guarantee survival may take longer to
realize than the chief executive officer has predicted.  Sales will total about 4.9 million autos in 2014, 1 million
less than Marchionne’s target for the year, based on the average
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News, none of whom
expects him to attain the goal as a slowing European economy
crimps demand.  The CEO plans to combine Turin-based Fiat with the No. 3
U.S. carmaker before the end of 2014 to attain what he says is
the “critical mass” required to secure long-term viability,
with a forecast for 104 billion euros ($136 billion) in annual
revenue then. The analysts  forecast (F)  he’ll miss that goal by
almost 16 billion euros, and that earnings will also fall short.  “Marchionne’s ambition for 2014 is unrealistic without an
acquisition, which Fiat can’t afford as it completes the
Chrysler deal,” said Hans-Peter Wodniok at Fairesearch GmbH in
Kronberg,  Germany , ranked No. 1 by Bloomberg among analysts who
cover Fiat based on the stock’s one-year return.  The Italian company, which owns 53.5 percent of Chrysler,
is seeking to be one of the five or six global carmakers that
Marchionne predicts will remain in coming years, according to a
presentation on Dec. 9 that ended on the Bruce Springsteen
lyric: “Halfway to heaven and just a mile out of hell.”  Shares Drop  Fiat fell as much as 2.9 percent and was trading 2.4
percent lower at 3.75 euros as of 2:49 p.m. in Milan, the
poorest performance in the Bloomberg Europe Auto Index, valuing
the company at 4.72 billion euros. The stock lost about half its
value last year, the worst record after PSA Peugeot Citroen.  Fiat-Chrysler together ranked as the world’s seventh-
largest automaker in 2010, the last year for which annual
figures are available, with 3.6 million sales, putting them just
ahead of Peugeot, Honda Motor Co. and SAIC Motor Corp. of China,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Four groups --  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and the Renault SA-Nissan Motor Co. alliance --
had sales in excess of 6 million cars, while  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  were within 500,000 of that figure.  ‘Slogan’  Fiat’s 6 million sales goal “seems more a slogan than a
real target,” said Giuseppe Berta, economic history professor
at Milan’s Bocconi University. “The only chance to get there in
2014 is by combining Fiat and Chrysler with a player in  Asia , a
region where the group is extremely weak.”  While Renault has succeeded in its alliance with Nissan,
European carmakers generally have not done well when linking
with Asian automakers.  A planned VW partnership with  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  unraveled
this year, with both sides accusing the other of not adhering to
the deal.  Daimler AG (DAI) , then DaimlerChrysler AG, abandoned a five-
year partnership with Mitsubishi Motors Corp. in 2005, after the
Japanese carmaker’s losses rose following a series of recalls.  Fiat is pinning its 2014 goals on expansion in faster-
growing markets and isn’t planning any acquisitions to meet its
target, said a person familiar with the company’s strategy who
declined to be identified because it hasn’t been openly
discussed. The automaker, which will begin offering its first
car built in China with joint venture partner Guangzhou
Automobile Group Co. in the second half of this year, may also
build a Jeep model at the plant too, the person said.  Target Review  Fiat led a decline in European car sales in 2011, with
deliveries through November falling 12 percent to 886,178,
reducing its market share to 7 percent, European Automobile
Manufacturers Association figures show. Analysts estimate that
Fiat, which also owns Alfa Romeo and Ferrari, is losing 800
million euros a year in the region.  Marchionne said last month that the sovereign-debt crisis
may prompt Fiat to revise its operating profit targets for 2012,
though any new target should overlap with part of the existing
range of 1.6 billion euros to 2 billion euros, excluding
Chrysler. Fiat will present forecasts next month with its 2011
results. Marchionne expects Chrysler to post $3 billion in
operating profit in 2012.  ‘Treading Water’  Fiat will also struggle to reach longer-term targets and
may limit investment amid a possible recession in  Europe , said
Stuart Pearson, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in  London .  The carmaker “needs a new plan to raise competitiveness,”
Pearson said in a Nov. 30 note to clients, cutting his forecast
for 2014 operating profit to 5.2 percent of sales, compared with
a range of 7.2 percent to 8 percent given by Fiat in a four-year
plan in 2010.  Jeff Schuster , senior vice president of global forecasting
at LMC Automotive, said the group will sell 5.4 million vehicles
in 2014, adding that a total of 5.9 million is seen only in the
“outer years” of the consulting company’s predictions.  “Fiat went through a rebirth and now they’re treading
water,” Schuster said. Chrysler, where 2011 sales rose 26
percent in the U.S, “actually is the part of the group that is
doing better than the industry gave them credit for.”  The American carmaker, which also owns the Dodge and Jeep
brands, said today its U.S. vehicle sales rose 37 percent last
month, beating analyst estimates.  Marchionne is struggling to boost Fiat demand in  North
America , where its revival of the 500 subcompact achieved 21,380
sales through October, less than half the 50,000 target. The
model, the first Fiat has sold in the region since 1983, has
been available in the U.S. in March.  Fun, Not Volume  “I just don’t see the Fiat products being the be-all and
the end-all,” said Alan Baum, principal of Baum & Associates, a
consulting company in West Bloomfield,  Michigan . “The 500 is
cute, it’s fun, but that doesn’t sell you volume.”  Still, Marchionne reiterated the overall 2014 targets on
Dec. 14 at a presentation of the new Panda subcompact near
Naples, adding that the group will sell about 4.6 million
vehicles in 2012, with Fiat sales “flat” at around 2.2 million
cars and Chrysler’s deliveries increasing to 2.4 million from a
forecast of 2 million for 2011.  The CEO hasn’t excluded the addition of another partner and
said in September at the Frankfurt Motor Show that “you need to
create big car groups,” adding that there is “no imminent”
plan for another tie-up.  Marchionne said in April that Fiat will have to “fight for
 China ,” where it is “showing up in the last quarter of the
game,” while adding there’s still room to grow.  Tough Call  Already the market leader in  Brazil , Fiat plans to sell
300,000 cars in China and 130,000 in  India  by 2014, and is also
developing a new plan for investment in  Russia , after OAO
Sollers last year backed out of a 2.3 billion-euro deal with the
Italian carmaker to partner with Ford instead.  Emanuele Oggioni, a  fund manager  at Saint George Capital
Management in Lugano, Switzerland, said it’s too tough to
accurately forecast Fiat’s performance in 2014 given that
“visibility is really low.” Marchionne has been decisive in
his response to the economic slowdown so far, he added.  The CEO signed a more flexible labor contract for Fiat’s
Italian workers as it attempts to increase productivity and cut
costs. Fiat at the end of last year also shut down an Italian
plant, the first European automaker to close a manufacturing
site in its home country since the 2008 financial crisis.  “Marchionne has proven to be very strong and to act
quickly during crisis,” Oggioni said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan via 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  