-- AseraCare Hospice Accused by U.S. of Defrauding Medicare
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   P e t e r   W a l d m a n
-- 2012-01-04T02:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/aseracare-hospice-accused-of-defrauding-medicare-with-nonterminal-patients.html
AseraCare Hospice submitted “false
and fraudulent” claims for payment to the U.S. and misspent
millions of dollars in Medicare money meant for the care of
terminally ill patients, the government alleged in a lawsuit.  The  Justice Department  said today it joined a whistle-
blower case against AseraCare in federal court in Birmingham,
Alabama, accusing the closely held company of seeking to cheat
Medicare for the hospice care of patients who weren’t terminally
ill. The U.S. is seeking three times the damages and a penalty
of $5,500 to $11,000 per claim.  “Medicare benefits, including the hospice benefits, are
intended only for those individuals who are appropriately
qualified,” U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance in Birmingham said
in an e-mailed statement. “We must protect the public welfare
and tax-funded benefits programs.”  AseraCare, based in  Fort Smith ,  Arkansas , runs 65 hospice
centers in 19 states, according to the lawsuit. It is owned by
Fort Smith-based Golden Living, one of the largest nursing home
chains in the U.S. Golden Living used to be called Beverly
Enterprises, before it was purchased in 2006 by the private
equity firm Fillmore Capital Partners of  San Francisco .  The federal complaint is part of a crackdown on suspected
hospice fraud by the Justice Department and the Office of the
Inspector General at the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services, which oversees the Medicare program.  Extracted Settlements  The two agencies have extracted settlements and so-called
corporate integrity agreements from two hospice operators in
Texas and Alabama, are suing a third in  Kansas , and are
investigating the nation’s largest hospice provider,  Chemed
Corp. (CHE) ’s Vitas Healthcare, for “an extensive scheme” to defraud
the government of “hundreds of millions of dollars,” according
to a Justice Department filing in U.S. District Court in  Dallas .  The AseraCare case stems from a whistle-blower suit filed
in 2009 by two former employees who will receive a portion of
any recovery. They alleged in their complaint that Golden Living
used its various subsidiaries “to recruit and fraudulently
enroll elderly patients who are then fraudulently referred
between organizations in whatever manner would result in the
highest possible Medicare reimbursements.”  AseraCare, as a result, received an influx of hospice
recruits who weren’t really dying, the plaintiffs alleged. These
ineligible patients were kept on hospice to maximize Medicare
reimbursements, and then discharged when AseraCare couldn’t make
any more money on them, the whistle-blowers alleged. As proof,
the plaintiffs alleged that from 36 percent to 79 percent of all
of AseraCare’s patients at three of its southern  Alabama 
branches from 2005 through 2009 were discharged alive, which
would have been “hardly plausible” if the patients were really
dying, according to the complaint.  AseraCare ‘Disappointed’  David Beck, AseraCare’s general counsel, said in an e-
mailed statement that the company was “disappointed” by the
Justice Department’s decision to intervene in the case and that
the allegations have no merit.  The president of AseraCare Hospice, David Friend, said in
the statement, “Each one of our hospice patients is in our care
because two independent physicians have certified his or her
eligibility and because the individual has made a decision to
focus on care and comfort when a cure is not possible.”  To be eligible for Medicare hospice benefits, a patient
must have a medical prognosis of six months or less to live.  “AseraCare, through its reckless business practices,
admitted and retained individuals who were not eligible to
receive Medicare hospice benefits, because it was financially
lucrative -- and did so even after AseraCare’s auditor alerted
AseraCare to troubling problems,” according to the government’s
lawsuit, which was unsealed on Dec. 22.  The U.S. alleges false claims were submitted for payment
since at least January 2007.  “We are pleased that the  U.S. Department of Justice , after
thorough investigation and in consideration of the fact that
these corporations have a history of abusing the Medicare
system, has elected to intervene in this action,” Henry
Frohsin, a partner at Frohsin & Barger LLC who represents the
former AseraCare employees, said in an e-mail.  The case is U.S. v. Golden Gate Ancillary LLC, 09-00627,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Waldman in San Francisco at 
 pwaldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net :
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  