-- Mastodon Battles Death Fears, Hugs Dinosaur on Tour: Interview
-- B y   J a m e s   H o l l o w a y
-- 2012-01-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/mastodon-obsesses-on-death-fears-hugs-purple-dinosaur-on-tour-interview.html
Brann Dailor, drummer of progressive-
metal band Mastodon, wants to scoot down to the East Village
after the interview and buy a picture he saw in a shop. A late-
19th-century memento mori, it shows a man holding hands with his
deceased wife.  Dailor admits to a “morbid curiosity” about shuffling off
this mortal coil.  “It might be unhealthy, the amount I think about it,” he
reflects on the idea of an afterlife. “I unfortunately don’t
believe that it exists for real. I wish I did, sort of. It’s
nicer to believe. My logical mind won’t let me go there.”  Pestilence, war, famine and death are themes dear to the
dark heart of metal. The last of those apocalyptic riders looms
largest in Mastodon’s experience.  “ The Hunter ,” the Atlanta-based quartet’s new release, is
dedicated to the brother of guitarist Brett Hinds, who died of a
heart attack on a hunting trip, and Susie Polay, wife of their
accountant, who died of stomach cancer during the recording.  The CD’s predecessor, 2008’s “Crack the Skye,” was a
tribute to Dailor’s sister Skye, who committed suicide at the
age of 14.  “When something like that happens,” Dailor says, “it
really shocks you into the reality of life can be really short
and you can go at any time.  Grammy Nomination  During its 12-year lifespan, Mastodon has managed a feat
uncommon for a metal band: garnering critical praise while
maintaining credibility with the genre’s fan base. (“Curl of
the Burl,” a single from “The Hunter,” is nominated for a
 Grammy .)  The band is known for complex concept albums. Songs can be
as long as 14 minutes and sport almost as many changes in tempo
and key. Welcome to Mastodon Songwriting 101, which according to
Dailor can be summed up by the question: how can we make this
harder to play?  Not this time, given Hinds’s loss.  “As human beings and as friends,” Dailor says, “we
couldn’t do that to ourselves. We just decided early on that we
wanted to have fun and that it was imperative for us to go down
there and keep it light.”  Mastodon’s albums have always trod a fine line between
progressive noodling and metal aggression. “The Hunter” dials
the latter up to the legendary 11 of Nigel Tufnel’s amplifiers.  Sabbath, Motorhead  Songs like “Blasteroid” and “Spectrelight” invoke the
riffing of early Black Sabbath filtered through the amphetamine
fury of Motorhead.  “It’s heavy, it’s dirty, it’s hairy, ultimately it’s rock
and roll,” says bassist Troy Sanders, who alone of the band
sports forearms free of ink. (“The few I have are personal ones
that are family-related and in areas that aren’t super
exposed,” he says. Dailor adds: “He has heavily tattooed
buttocks.”)  On the road -- about two years of touring to support the
album began in October -- the band has its “funnest set ever,”
according to Dailor, speaking backstage during a visit to New
York’s Terminal 5, a chilly ex-warehouse near the  Hudson River .  When they arrived in Indianapolis, they found two theaters
at the same venue with the marquee “Barney’s Birthday Bash,
Mastodon” -- the other act, with top billing, was the children’s
cartoon character. In a sign of Mastodon’s lightening up, they
posed next to the purple dinosaur and put the picture on their
Facebook profile.  The group avoids the spirit of subterranean malice and
barely restrained violence that are as ubiquitous at metal gigs
as Charles Manson T-shirts and crude neck tats. Mastodon still
storms through some thunderous riffs, from “Blood and Thunder”
to “Black Tongue.”  Meanwhile, Dailor is off to buy his Victorian memento mori.  “It’s macabre and surreal to me that that photo was taken
but I know we were snapping pictures of my sister in the casket
when that was happening,” Dailor says. “I want that picture as
well. And I have it, and it’s hidden away, but one day I’ll look
at it.”  Mastodon tour dates are confirmed through March.
Information at  http://www.mastodonrocks  .com/tour  (James Holloway is an editor for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
James Holloway in  New York  at 
 jholloway8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 