-- Australian Dollar Advances to Record Versus Euro Amid Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-01-04T17:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/australian-new-zealand-dollars-maintain-advances-before-u-s-factory-data.html
The Australian dollar reached a
record high versus the euro as concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis is worsening fueled speculation the South Pacific
currency is attracting investors away from European assets.  The Aussie and  New Zealand  dollars snapped four-day gains
against their U.S. counterpart amid bets that a slowdown in
Europe will weigh on growth prospects for the global economy.
New Zealand’s currency, called the kiwi, failed to extend a two-
day gain versus the yen after a European report showed inflation
in the region slowed and  Italy ’s biggest bank said it needs to
raise more capital.  “The Aussie will not suffer as much this year on risk
selloffs, as it’s moving away from being a high-yield risk play
to becoming a safer alternative to Europe,” said Jesper Bargmann, regional head of spot trading for major currencies in
 Singapore  at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. He prefers to hold the
Australian dollar against the euro, he said.  Australia ’s currency strengthened as much as 0.7 percent to
touch 80.10 euro cents today, its strongest ever, before trading
at 80.05 cents at 12:45 p.m. New York time.  The Aussie fell 0.2 percent to $1.0355 in its first decline
in five days. It retreated 0.3 percent to 79.40 yen. The New
Zealand dollar lost 0.3 percent to 78.75 U.S. cents and
depreciated 0.4 percent to 60.37 yen in its first loss versus
the Japanese currency in three days.  Milan-based UniCredit SpA said it will sell new shares in
a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.8 billion) offer to strengthen its
capital position. European inflation slowed to 2.8 percent for
December from a three-year high of 3 percent the prior month,
the European Union statistics office said.  “As long as the outlook for the euro area is hazy, I don’t
think markets will be totally in a risk-on sentiment,” said
 Marito Ueda , senior managing director in  Tokyo  at FX Prime
Corp., a currency-margin company. “The Aussie and kiwi are
likely to be sold when the euro is weak.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  