-- Australian Bonds Decline, Treasuries May Slide as Manufacturing Expands
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-03T06:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/australian-bonds-decline-treasuries-may-slide-as-manufacturing-expands.html
Australian bonds fell by the most
since September and U.S. Treasuries may decline after surveys
showed manufacturing outside  Europe  is expanding, eroding demand
for the safety of the world’s highest-rated debt.  Rallies in both markets last year will give way to losses
in the first quarter as gross-domestic-product growth quickens
in the nations, Bloomberg surveys of economists show. Ten-year
yields will climb 29 basis points in the U.S. and 22 basis
points in Australia by March 31, based on median forecasts.  “I’m cutting back on long-term maturities worldwide,”
said Sungjin Park, who heads the $67.4 billion debt division in
Seoul at Samsung Asset Management Co.,  South Korea ’s largest
private bond investor. “The macroeconomic picture has shown
some hope. It’s better than expected.”  The 10-year Australian  yield (GACGB10)  rose 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, to 3.83 percent as of 5:49 p.m. in Sydney. It
was the biggest increase since Sept. 27. The price of the 5.75
percent government security maturing in May 2021 fell A$1.45 to
A$114.90.  Treasuries and Japanese bonds were  closed  in  Tokyo  today
for  Japan ’s Bank Holiday. Trading of Treasuries is scheduled to
take place as usual in the U.K. and the U.S., following the
observance of New Year’s Day yesterday, according to the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association in  New
York .  Manufacturing Growth  Australian  manufacturing (AIGPMI)  expanded for the first time in six
months in December, according to an industry report today.
Factory output also increased in  India  and in  China , reports
over the past two days showed.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s  factory
index (NAPMPMI)  probably climbed to a six-month high of 53.4 in December,
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected ahead of the
figure today.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 150,000 in December, after a
120,000 increase in November, according to the median forecast
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before Labor Department
data on Jan. 6. The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to issue the
minutes of its latest policy meeting today.  Treasuries rallied 9.8 percent and Australian bonds gained
14 percent in 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes, on demand for the safest securities.  Australia ’s 10-year yield set a record low of 3.65 percent
on Dec. 30. The U.S. 10-year was 1.67 percent on Sept. 23, the
least ever, and 1.88 percent at the close of last year.  The South Pacific nation has the top-level triple-A grade
from Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings. The U.S. is ranked triple-A by Moody’s and Fitch, while
S&P cut the nation’s rating by one level in August.  Europe’s Crisis  Bond bulls say Europe’s fiscal crisis will maintain demand
for high-rated debt. German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy are scheduled to meet in Berlin Jan. 9
to work on ways to control  government spending  in the region.  “We look for Treasuries to rally in the first quarter” as
European governments borrow by selling bonds, said Bin Gao, head
of interest-rate research for  Asia  and the Pacific at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  Hong Kong . “Supply from Europe will be
very heavy and the market may not be able to absorb all of it.”  U.S. 10-year yields will fall to 1.75 percent by end of
first quarter, according to Bank of America, one of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Italy Auction  Italy auctioned 7 billion euros ($9.1 billion) of debt on
Dec. 29, less than the 8.5 billion euros targeted. With an
economy sinking into its fourth recession since 2001, Prime
Minister Mario Monti’s government must refinance about $428
billion of securities coming due this year, the third-most
globally, with another $70 billion in interest payments, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  After  Italy ,  France  has the most amount of debt coming due,
at $367 billion, followed by  Germany  at $285 billion.  The amount needing to be refinanced worldwide is more than
$8 trillion when interest payments are included.  “It is a big number and obviously, because many
governments are still in a deficit situation, the debt continues
to accumulate and that’s one of the biggest problems,” Elwin de Groot, an economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht,
 Netherlands , part of the world’s biggest agricultural lender,
said in an interview on Dec. 27.  Investors held to their bearish stance on Treasuries in a
weekly survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP, a unit of the world’s
largest interdealer broker. Ried’s index on the market outlook
through June was 44 for the seven days ended Dec. 30, unchanged
from the week before. A figure below 50 shows investors expect
rates to increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at   greynolds1@bloomberg.net  