-- Aveo Pharmaceuticals Declines as Cancer Data Miss Investors’ Expectations
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-01-03T21:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/aveo-shares-decline-early-after-cancer-data-misses-investor-expectations.html
Aveo Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AVEO) , maker of
an experimental medicine for kidney cancer, fell the most ever
after reporting data on the drug that missed investors’ “ultra-
high expectations,” an analyst said.  Still, Aveo is planning to expand in preparation for
approval of the medicine, called tivozanib. The Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based company wants to add 100 employees this year
after hiring a similar number in 2011, which would increase the
workforce to about 340, according to Chief Executive Officer
Tuan Ha-Ngoc.  “We started launch readiness activities early last year
and now will continue in earnest with these successful Phase 3
results,” Ha-Ngoc said in a telephone interview today.  The drug helped patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma
live for 11.9 months without their disease progressing in a
late-stage study, compared with 9.1 months for those on Nexavar,
a medicine sold by  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) , Aveo
said today in a statement. Investors may have expected
progression-free survival of at least 13 months on tivozanib,
said  Jason Kantor , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets .  “The data looks good from both a regulatory and commercial
perspective,” Kantor, based in San Francisco, wrote in a
research note today. “Though slightly below ultra-high
expectations.”  Aveo Declines  Aveo  dropped (AVEO)  20 percent to $13.83 as the close in New York,
the biggest decline since the shares started trading publicly in
March 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock is down 7
percent in the last 12 months.  The 517-patient study was from the third and final phase of
trials generally required for regulatory approval. Aveo and
partner  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) , of Tokyo, plan to apply for
approval in the U.S. and Europe this year, the companies said.  The medicine was “well-tolerated,” showing a safety
profile similar to earlier results. The most common reported
side effect was hypertension, or high  blood pressure , the
company said. Ha-Ngoc declined to comment on the stock’s
decline.  Renal cell carcinoma forms in the lining of the small
kidney tubes that filter blood and remove waste products,
according to the  National Cancer Institute . There were an
estimated 60,920 new cases of kidney cancer in the U.S. in 2011,
with 13,120 deaths, the institute said on its  website .  “To address the RCC market optimally, we’d need a sales
force of 70 to 80 people in the field,” Ha-Ngoc said. Aveo
would supply about 40 people, splitting the force with Astellas,
he said.  With the expected hiring, the company needs to “expand our
facilities,” Ha-Ngoc said. Aveo plans to stay in Cambridge, he
said.  “It’s the hotbed of where science is taking place,” the
CEO said. “With these successful results we will be
accelerating discussions. The heart of biotechnology is right
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  