-- Award-Winning Lethem Snubs Snooki, Rues Brooklyn’s Blandness
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-01-03T22:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/award-winning-lethem-snubs-snooki-bemoans-brooklyn-s-blandness-interview.html
“The Ecstasy of Influence” collects
Jonathan Lethem’s nonfiction, which ruminates on everything from
9/11 and  Bob Dylan  to sci-fi and comics.  Author of eight novels, including the National Book Critics
Circle Award-winning “Motherless  Brooklyn ,” and his latest,
“Chronic City,” Lethem received a  MacArthur Fellowship  in
2005.  He teaches creative writing at  Pomona College , succeeding
the late David Foster Wallace.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: Do you tell your students that the writer’s life
is a good one?  Lethem: The people who caught the disease won’t be
dissuaded, as I wouldn’t have been. Others who are just tourists
are also enriching themselves.  Lundborg: Calling it a “bubble,” people are questioning the
value of a higher education. You dropped out, so what’s your
take?  Lethem: I’m like the outdoor cat that saw a little bowl of
cream and moved inside.  My perspectives on the academy or the role of a liberal-
arts education come from my autodidact’s observations. I’m
struck by my students’ intense sincerity about what they’re
trying to do.  Lundborg: What have you learned in the classroom?  Lethem: You have to realize that your world is not theirs.
I said “Carol Burnett” in class and there was nothing. I
realized that’s gone. It’s not as if they haven’t yet discovered
her -- they will never know who she is.  Lundborg: You call for: “Literacy in virtual culture, in
vernacular and commercial culture, in the culture of music
writing and children’s lit., in graffiti and street lore.”  Isn’t that by definition ephemeral and, in fact, passing
more and more quickly?  Lethem: Culture is ephemeral.  Lundborg: Some things more than others, surely?  Lethem: We latch on to a few totemic things, and because
the entropy of culture is so disturbing, we love to talk about
the things that will endure forever.  We’ll keep Shakespeare and Dickens, but at any given time,
writers are being discharged from the cultural memory banks at
an unbelievably fast rate.  Barth, Coover  Lundborg: Whose passing do you regret?  Lethem: Marvelous living writers like John Barth and Robert
Coover seemed quite unmistakably central to the American
literary conversation. They’re still with us and publishing, but
you can see the tide taking them away.  I can’t use their names as reference points in
conversations with anyone younger than myself. There’s too much
culture and it is mostly all going away, to be replaced by other
culture.  Lundborg: What’s the point of college courses in, say, hip-
hop or TV?  Lethem: The academy is a two-way system. It’s not there
only to transmit information, old cultural values, though that’s
part of it.  It’s there to pull in what the students already know, what
the culture already knows, and relate it to the deep strains of
canonical culture.  Who Is Snooki?  Lundborg: In your defense of popular culture, aren’t you
pushed to the edge by Snooki of “ Jersey Shore ” and the
Kardashians?  Lethem: It’s not about eradicating value distinctions. In
fact, it’s about intensifying value distinctions at the expense
of believing that categorical understanding is good enough.  I don’t know who Snooki is because no one whose tastes I
care about has ever said, “Actually, you’ve got to check this
out.” But I was forced to watch “The Wire” by the hundred
people who told me I had to see it.  It’s the power of the response that the art or the culture
draws out of you that matters.  Lundborg: You’ve long been an enthusiastic proponent of
sci-fi and comics, which seem dominant now. Why has this
material moved from geek territory to mainstream?  Lame Stuff  Lethem: I have no stake in defending lame stuff.  The fact that our culture is in love with the iconography
of science fiction and comic books, the superhero, the alien, is
in a gross general way a vindication of a form that has been
imaginatively vital and kinetic for a very long time.  Lundborg: What are you reading now?  Lethem: I’m rereading a lot for teaching. I read things so
devotedly at 16 or 17 that they became part of my DNA, but I
knew nothing of the world.  I’ll reread something and think, “What did I even get from
this when I was so young?”  But I also want to read something brand new and see what my
contemporaries are doing.  Lundborg: You’ve moved to  California  -- look back on
Brooklyn.  Blander Borough  Lethem: It’s been made blander, a little more accessible
and it’s taken over the world.  For me as a writer, I was reading  Henry Miller ’s “Black
Spring” when I was 15, and thinking of him running around in
Williamsburg.  It gave me permission to talk about what I knew, what I
felt in my bones about growing up there and being from this very
complicated, marvelous place, because other people had laid some
tracks for me.  Lundborg: What are your artistic antennae picking up about
our time?  Lethem: The central description right now is that we have a
post-modern, ironical, jaded culture.  There’s a layer like that, but just beneath it, we live in
a deeply reactionary and Victorian time, with unexamined moral
assumptions that are very simplistic, antique -- naive, not
sophisticated at all.  Beneath all our self-congratulatory tut-tutting about how
ironical everything is we fail to notice how often we take the
bait of exceedingly lame moral rebuses in our culture, and don’t
look too deeply at whom we’re scapegoating or how we’re
apportioning moral value.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 