-- Banks Cut Funding Costs Through New Year Covered Bond Surge
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-01-03T14:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/banks-cut-funding-costs-via-covered-bonds-in-new-year-for-crisis.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
and a unit of  ING Groep NV (INGA)  started the New Year by selling top-
rated covered bonds to cut funding costs while satisfying
investor demand for the safest securities.  UBS issued 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) of five-year
bonds at a yield of 61 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate, less than a third of the 187 basis-point spread on its
existing senior unsecured notes due in 2017, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. ING Bank NV is issuing 1.75
billion euros of 10-year covered bonds at 110 basis points over
swaps, a banker said.  “The re-ignition of the credit markets must come from the
ultra-safe issuers first,” said Ivan Comerma, the head of
treasury and capital markets at MoraBanc in Andorra. The burst
of issuance “may prompt lower-rated issuers to attempt covered
bond sales,” he said.  Financial institutions sold a record 367.2 billion euros of
the debt last year as  Europe ’s sovereign crisis worsened, up
from 348.8 billion euros in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A staple of European bank funding for more than 200
years, covered bonds are considered safer than unsecured debt
because they’re backed by mortgages or public-sector loans as
well as a guarantee from the issuer.  Post-Christmas  In an otherwise quiet period after the Christmas holidays,
banks including  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. lined up to hire arrangers last week for
deals to start early in 2012. Credit Agricole’s issue may be
priced to yield about 165 to 170 basis points more than swaps, a
banker said today.  France’s Caisse de Refinancement de l’Habitat SA sold 2
billion euros of covered bonds due in June 2022 today at a
spread of 160 basis points, a banker involved in the deal said.
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  mandated an issue, while
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  hired banks for what would be its
first sale of the bonds in euros. Lloyds TSB Bank Plc of the
U.K. and Norway’s DNB Boligkreditt AS plan issues tomorrow.  “If there’s investor appetite for anything in the bank
space, it’s covered bonds,” said Roger Francis, an analyst at
Mizuho Securities Co. Ltd. in London.  The  European Central Bank  also stoked sales by starting a
 40 billion-euro purchase program  to support the bank funding
market in November.  Meanwhile,  Rabobank NV (RABO) , the world’s highest-rated private
lender, hired banks to manage a 10-year senior, unsecured  bond
issue  in euros, according to a banker involved in the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in  London  at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  