-- Banks Must Hold Capital for Sovereign Risk, EU Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-01-03T16:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/banks-must-hold-capital-against-sovereign-risk-eu-lawmaker-says.html
Banks (SX7P)  should be forced to hold
reserves to guard against possible losses on sovereign debt,
according to a lawmaker overseeing  Europe ’s implementation of
Basel capital rules.  The region’s fiscal crisis, which has involved bailouts of
 Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland has shown that a zero capital
requirement for sovereign debt “no longer corresponds with
economic reality,” said  Othmar Karas , an Austrian member of the
European Parliament, in a draft report published on the EU
assembly’s  website .  His demand echoes international calls to toughen rules that
allow lenders to apply zero risk-weightings to government bonds
issued in a bank’s home currency when calculating  capital
ratios . Lenders don’t need to hold any capital against possible
losses on the securities, even after the cost of insuring
government bonds against default rose to a record last year.  The European approach “is not in line with the spirit” of
global measures endorsed by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , Herve Hannoun, deputy general manager of the  Bank
for International Settlements , said in October. The U.S.
“situation regarding the treatment of sovereign risk is also
unsatisfactory,” he said. The BIS is the Basel committee’s
parent institution.  Banker-Pay Curbs  Karas is in charge of drafting the parliament’s opinion on
last year’s proposals by the European Commission to implement
the Basel capital and liquidity measures in the EU. The
lawmaker’s office in Brussels didn’t respond to a call seeking
comment on the plan.  The EU should also consider an “absolute cap” on the
difference between top salaries and average pay at lenders,
 Karas said . Bank pay policies must be “aligned with the long
term interest of an institution.”  The EU set rules on banker pay as part of a previous
overhaul of the region’s capital rules that was adopted in 2010.  The commission, the EU’s executive arm, didn’t propose to
scrap the zero risk weighting for  government bonds .  The regulator should set out options for scrapping the zero
weighting “as soon as possible, while taking into account
potentially destabilizing effects” of making such proposals
“during periods of market stress,” Karas said in his report.  The parliament and the region’s governments must agree on
the final shape of the law to implement Basel rules in the EU
before it can take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  