-- Beware the Bathroom Scale as Calories Yield Fat Not Pounds, Study Finds
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/beware-the-bathroom-scale-as-calories-yield-fat-not-pounds-study-finds.html
Eating excess calories triggers fat
gain that’s not always revealed in pounds on the bathroom scale,
according to a study.  In one of the most rigorous studies to date on differences
among food types, researchers found that overeaters gain less
weight if they shy away from protein. The results aren’t
reassuring, said  George Bray , an obesity specialist and the
study’s lead researcher. Low-protein eaters gained just as much
fat, and lost lean body mass, the study in the  Journal of the
American Medical Association  found.  “There is nothing in medicine that would suggest losing
lean body mass is a good idea,” said Bray, a professor at
Louisiana State University’s  Pennington Biomedical Research
Center  in  Baton Rouge . “People on the low protein diet could
think they were doing a good thing by gaining less weight, but
they gained the same amount of fat and lost lean body mass.”  The results suggest the obesity epidemic may be worse than
is currently known because those with lower body weight may have
undetected layers of fat that can harm their health, the
researchers said. About 65 percent of Americans are overweight,
and one-third are considered obese, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  The study tracked 25 young adult volunteers who agreed to
live in a university metabolic unit for three months. Staff
members prepared their meals, including an extra 1,000 calories
a day, and watched to make sure they ate every bite. Volunteers
were divided into three groups getting a low-protein, high-
protein or normal protein diet, with the same calories.  Calories Count  Those getting just 5 percent of their calories from protein
gained significantly less weight than those given more protein,
adding 3 kilograms (6.6 pounds), compared with 6 kilograms (13
pounds), the study found. Volunteers in the highest protein
group increased metabolism levels, though not enough to curb
weight gain, and led to more lean body mass.  “The calories are the critical factor,” Bray said in a
telephone interview. “Protein will change the scale weight, but
not your fat rate,” he said. “Don’t be fooled by the scale, it
may not be your friend.”  The study shows how low-protein foods with extra sugar and
fat are contributing to the obesity epidemic, wrote Zhaoping Li
and David Heber, from the  University of California ,  Los Angeles ’
Center for Human Nutrition, in an editorial.  “The Western diet tends to be high in fat and
carbohydrates and low in protein,” they said. “Because this
diet increases the risks of over-nutrition through fat
deposition beyond that detected by body mass index, the method
used to assess the current obesity epidemic and the magnitude of
the obesity epidemic may have been underestimated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  