-- BofA Loses Ruling Against MBIA in Fight Over Loans
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2012-01-04T13:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/mbia-wins-judgment-ruling-against-countrywide.html
(Corrects CDS price in 20th paragraph of story originally
published Jan. 3.)  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  lost a ruling
in a court fight against  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  that will help the bond
insurer as it tries to recover losses on home loans made by the
bank’s Countrywide Financial unit.  MBIA, which says it was duped into guaranteeing payment on
Countrywide mortgage bonds, needs only to show the lender made
misrepresentations about the loans backing the bonds, instead of
establishing they caused the losses the insurer is seeking to
recover, New York state Judge Eileen Bransten said in a decision
issued today.  “No basis in law exists to mandate that MBIA establish a
direct causal link between the misrepresentations allegedly made
by Countrywide and claims made under the policy,” she wrote.  The ruling is among legal disputes with bond insurers and
investors that “could significantly impact” the potential
costs from loans made before the collapse of the U.S. housing
market in 2008, Bank of America said in a regulatory filing in
August.  Defeats on such matters may add as much as $9 billion to
what Bank of America owes bond insurers, according to an August
estimate by hedge fund Branch Hill Capital, which has bet
against the lender’s stock and has invested in MBIA.  Payments to Investors  MBIA, which sued Countrywide in 2008, guarantees payments
to investors that bought securities backed by pools of the
lender’s loans. The insurer says the loans were riskier than
Countrywide promised, and as they defaulted, the Armonk, New
York-based company was forced to make payments. Through
September 2010, MBIA had paid out $2.5 billion on mortgage
securities sponsored by Countrywide, Chief Executive Officer Jay Brown told a  New York  State Assembly committee in February.  Brown said in an e-mailed statement that the company is
“very pleased” with the decision.  “The ruling provides us with a straightforward path to
recovery of our losses,” he said.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America is still
reviewing the ruling, spokesman Lawrence Grayson said in a phone
interview. He pointed out that the judge denied a ruling
requested by MBIA in connection with Countrywide’s obligations
to repurchase loans.  “MBIA still must prove that it was damaged by
Countrywide’s allegedly material misrepresentations, which as
the court stated, will not be an easy task,” Grayson said.  Countrywide, acquired by Bank of America in 2008, had
argued that MBIA must establish that payments it made on the
financial guaranty policies were caused by Countrywide’s
misrepresentations and not the collapse of the housing market.  Housing Market  MBIA agreed to take on the risk of a downturn in the
housing market and now must meet its obligations under the
insurance policies, Mark Holland, a Countrywide attorney, argued
at a court hearing in October on the dispute.  “Their bets turned out wrong,” he told Bransten.  MBIA countered that Countrywide is trying to escape
liability by blaming the real estate bust. MBIA lawyer Philippe Selendy likened Countrywide to a builder that constructs homes
that don’t meet specifications and then tries to blame a
hurricane when they’re destroyed.  “Countrywide is trying to blame everything on the housing
crisis,” he said at the court hearing.  MBIA argued that it’s enough to show that there were
material misrepresentations about the loans and that it wouldn’t
have agreed to provide insurance if it knew the loans didn’t
live up to their promised quality.  Alleged Misrepresentations  Bransten wrote in her decision that MBIA must prove
Countrywide made misrepresentations that were material to its
decision to issue the insurance policies. It also must prove the
alleged misrepresentations “materially increased” MBIA’s risk
of loss and that it was damaged as a direct result, she wrote.  In a similar lawsuit filed by  Syncora Guarantee Inc. (SYCRF) 
against Countrywide, Bransten ruled today that Syncora doesn’t
have to show that misrepresentations by Countrywide caused
claims payments by Syncora.  Credit default swaps protecting against MBIA Insurance
Corp.’s default for five years fell 3.8 percentage points to 28
percent upfront as of 4:33 p.m. in New York, according to data
provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it
would cost $2.8 million initially and $500,000 annually to
protect $10 million of MBIA Insurance’s debt. The credit default
swaps are down from 53 percent upfront on Oct. 4.  Contracts on Bank of America pared an earlier decline,
easing to 386.5 basis points, according to CMA, which is owned
by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Causation Issues  A loss for Bank of America on the so-called causation issue
may by itself add $8 billion to $9 billion of liabilities from
bond insurers for the lender, Manal Mehta, a partner at Branch
Hill Capital in  San Francisco , said in August. The matter, he
said, is probably as important as another dispute within the
case in which a judge sided with MBIA that it could review
samples of loans rather than review every individual mortgage in
dispute.  Grayson, the Bank of America spokesman, said in August that
Branch Hill’s estimates were wrong and that the hedge fund has
“consistently overstated” the bank’s exposure to
representation and warranty claims.  MBIA rose 8 percent to $12.53 today in New York trading.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 602825-2008, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ; Shannon D. Harrington in New York at
   sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  