-- Boeing to Shut Plant With 2,160 Workers as U.S. Cuts Defense
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-01-04T21:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/boeing-calls-kansas-workers-to-meeting-amid-plant-closure-study.html
Boeing Co. plans to shutter
operations in Wichita,  Kansas , where it has  built airplanes
since 1929 , by the end of 2013 as military projects dry up amid
U.S. spending constraints.  Job reductions at the plant that  employs (BA)  more than 2,160
workers will begin in the third quarter of 2012, Boeing said in
a statement today. Work on the aerial-refueling tankers the
Pentagon ordered in February will be done at the planemaker’s
wide-body jet factory in Washington state instead, and some
existing work will be moved to Texas and  Oklahoma .  “Over the past five years, contracts in Wichita have
matured, programs have come to a close or are winding down, and
the site does not have enough sustainable business on the
horizon to create an affordable cost structure to maintain and
win new business,” Chicago-based Boeing said.  Boeing said in November it would decide by early 2012
whether to close its Kansas facilities, including the military-
aircraft plant. The departure from Wichita will be “a historic
moment, but reflects the economic reality of a changing and
shrinking  defense budget ,” said  Howard Rubel , an analyst with
Jefferies & Co. in  New York .  The military faces $450 billion in additional reductions
through 2021, and Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  plans to
present results tomorrow of the  Pentagon (USBODEFN) ’s strategic review of
its roles and missions worldwide.  Non-competitive Costs  Mark Bass, vice president for maintenance, modification and
upgrades for Boeing Defense, Space & Security, declined to
discuss financial details of the closing. Labor, infrastructure
and facilities costs in Wichita aren’t competitive, and the
company can improve efficiency by moving work to existing
facilities elsewhere, Bass said on a call with reporters.  Competition in the maintenance, repair and overhaul work
that is Boeing’s focus in Wichita mostly comes from small rivals
with two hangars and an office building, he said. That compares
with Boeing’s 97 buildings on almost 2 million square feet of
space, he said.  About 800 jobs will be added in  Oklahoma City , 300 to 400
in  San Antonio  and 100 in the  Seattle  area, with the positions
being filled through both transfers and local hires, he said.
The remainder will be eliminated through retirements, transfers
within Boeing and job cuts, he said.  The company’s shares climbed 0.2 percent to $74.33 in New
York trading, the highest since July 8.  Boeing began studying the possible closing in mid-2011, got
the results in November and made its decision Dec. 30, he said.  Kansas Lobbying  The company didn’t have any indication that the closing
would be necessary when Kansas politicians lobbied to help
Boeing beat  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  in February
for a contract to supply the U.S.  Air Force  with new tankers,
Bass said.  That new contract won’t make up for other expiring projects
in Wichita, so the plane would eventually become unaffordable
for the Air Force if production work were done there, he said.  Boeing said when it won the tanker award it would build the
planes, based on a 767 jet, at the Everett, Washington, factory
where 767s are assembled and fly them to Wichita to be modified
for military use.  Governor  Sam Brownback  said in November that Boeing had
promised the contract would support 7,500 jobs in Kansas, and he
expected that commitment to be honored.  “No one worked harder for the success of the  Boeing Co. (BA) 
than Team Kansas,” Brownback said in a  statement  after today’s
announcement. “The dedication and hard work of generations of
Kansans built the success the Boeing Co. enjoys today.”  Machinists’ Contract  Kaydet Trainers and B-29 bombers were built in Wichita
during World War II, followed by B-47 and B-52 bombers during
the 1950s and 1960s as well as modifications on various aircraft
including Air Force One.  In a contract signed last month with the Machinists union
district in the Puget Sound area of Washington state, Boeing
agreed to do the new tanker modification work in Everett if it
were to shut down Wichita.  Boeing has outsourced more work in recent years and sold
its commercial operations in Wichita in 2005, when  Spirit
AeroSystems Holdings Inc. (SPR)  was formed.  That company builds the entire fuselages of the 737 single-
aisle jet and sections of every other Boeing airliner, including
the 767. It now also supplies parts to most other planemakers
around the world. At Boeing’s behest, it’s boosting production
of 737 airframes by about a third through 2014 to accommodate
demand for the world’s most widely flown jet.  Boeing said today it anticipates “even more work” for
suppliers in Kansas, the fourth-largest state in the
planemaker’s supplier network.  Spirit Workforce  Spirit boosted its global workforce by about 1,000 last
year, to about 15,000 employees now at seven sites, said Ken Evans, a spokesman for Spirit in Wichita.  That hiring pace will continue for the foreseeable future
as commercial aerospace expands, though the company doesn’t plan
a special push to absorb Boeing’s laid-off defense workers, he
said.  “There are some cross-overs in the skills that we need,
but not as much as most people probably think,” he said.
“There’s a great difference between military modification work
and commercial first production.”  Other planemakers in Wichita have also pared their
workforces during the recent recession, including  Textron Inc.’s
Cessna. (TXT)  Wichita’s nickname has been “Air Capital of the World”
because of production centers there for Boeing, Cessna,
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s Learjet, Hawker Beechcraft and others. Airbus
SAS also has an engineering center in the area.  Submarine Hunter  Boeing’s decision reflects greater efficiency in building
military versions of its jetliners on its commercial-production
lines, said Rubel, the Jefferies analyst.  For the new tanker, Boeing plans to build on its success in
assembling the P-8 submarine hunter based on the 737.  Previously, the company had flown commercially built planes
to facilities elsewhere to cut them apart and reconfigure them
for military use.  The  P-8  is built in the same plants as the 737, with
features for the military plane, such as thicker fuselage skin,
no windows, bomb bays and stronger wings to hold missiles, added
along the assembly line. Workers then just have to add weapons
and other systems at a site a few miles from the final assembly
plant near Seattle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  