-- Brown Wants ‘Clean Election’ to Bridge California Spending Gap With Taxes
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-01-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/brown-wants-clean-election-to-bridge-california-spending-gap-with-taxes.html
Jerry Brown , running  California (STOCA1)  again
for the first time since 1983, spent part of his initial year
back trying to coax Republican lawmakers to extend expiring
taxes. Lesson learned, Brown now says he’ll go to voters
instead.  Brown said he’ll spend much of 2012 campaigning for a
ballot initiative to boost income taxes on those earning at
least $250,000 and raise levies on sales to 7.75 percent from
7.25 percent, to erase the most-populous state’s $13 billion
 budget deficit . If Brown and his allies fail, he’d make deeper
cuts to education and social services that he said would inflict
lasting damage on  California .  Chronic fiscal malfunctions have saddled California with a
debt rating of A- from  Standard & Poor’s , the lowest of any
state. Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, said he’s building his
2012-13 budget on the assumption that his tax increases pass,
and hopes to persuade supporters of competing plans to
consolidate their ideas into “a clean election, one major
shot.”  “When I ran for office, I said the mess we got into took
place over several years,” Brown said Dec. 27 at a press
briefing in Sacramento. “This may take a term or two to
complete the job.”  Brown said Sacramento became a more rigidly partisan place
in the 28 years that he left the governor’s office to run for
 U.S. Senate , for president and to study in  Japan  and  India .  “The absolute unanimity of the parties, either in support
of or in opposition to a position, is emblematic of where we are
today,” Brown said of the partisanship that thwarted his plans
in 2011. “Things are more centralized here in the capital as
well as in  Washington .”  Ballot Measure  Brown spent much of the spring trying to persuade
Republicans in the Legislature to break ranks and join Democrats
in supporting a ballot measure that would have extended higher
sales, income and vehicle taxes. Although Brown’s fellow
Democrats control both the Senate and the Assembly, they needed
at least four Republican votes to reach the two-thirds majority
required for tax increases.  Redrawn legislative districts may strengthen Democratic
majorities, although reaching the two-thirds threshold is
unlikely, political analysts such as Douglas M. Johnson of the
Rose Institute of State and Local Government at  Claremont
McKenna College  in Claremont, California, have said.  Given Up Hope  Brown said he’s given up hope of a legislative breakthrough
in favor of a voter initiative in November that would restore
sales taxes to their former level, the nation’s highest, and
boost income-tax rates on individuals making $250,000 or more,
or on couples earning $500,000 or better, by 1 percentage point,
to 10.3 percent.  Brown said he’s building the state’s 2012-13 budget around
the assumption that the tax increase passes. He’s courting his
traditional allies in labor unions along with businesses to
support the ballot measure, he said.  “I don’t think it will fail,” Brown said. “If it does, I
would say that skepticism about public service is very deep.”  The governor, who’s due to unveil a new budget in the first
half of this month, said he envisions further rollbacks in state
services. The exception will be public schools, which have a
“very good” fiscal outlook for the next couple of years, after
dodging the possibility of a seven-day reduction in the academic
year, Brown said.  Brown, who was California’s governor from 1975 to early
1983, declined to say whether he would seek a second term, which
would end three months short of his 81st birthday.  “I’ve taken a long time to get here,” he said. “I’m not
going to go away just because things aren’t going right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  