-- Buffett’s Defense No Match for S&P 500’s Flat Line in 2011
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-01-03T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/buffett-playing-defense-no-match-for-s-p-500-index-s-flat-line-in-2011.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
investor who has highlighted his record of beating the market
when stocks languish, oversaw a decline last year as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended unchanged.  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK\A)  slipped 4.7 percent in
2011. It was the second time since 1990 that the Omaha,
Nebraska-based firm underperformed an  S&P 500  that had either
declined for the year or rose less than 5 percent. Berkshire
gained about 17-fold in the 21-year period, while the index has
nearly quadrupled.  “There’s going to be a big asterisk by this year,” said
 David Rolfe , chief investment officer of Berkshire investor
Wedgewood Partners Inc. “In tough markets it’s a strong
performer. There’s no doubt it has broken the mold this year,”
he said in an interview last month.  Buffett’s personal holdings of  Berkshire (BRK/A)  lost about $2
billion last year. In September, the 81-year-old Buffett
initiated the first share-repurchase program in four decades as
Berkshire’s chief executive officer. On a quarterly average
basis, the stock price slipped in the three months ended Sept.
30 to the lowest relative to  book value (BRK\A)  in more than 20 years.  The firm faced a surge in insurance claims tied to natural
disasters and losses on a portfolio of speculative derivatives.
The resignation of Berkshire manager  David Sokol  in March raised
questions about succession for Buffett.  “Berkshire stock went to a price we never thought,” Vice
Chairman Charles Munger said on July 1 after the firm slipped
3.6 percent in the first six months of the year compared with a
5 percent rise in the S&P.  Insurance Losses  Munger cited Berkshire’s insurance losses tied to the March
earthquake and tsunami in Japan.  Jay Gelb , an analyst with
Barclays Plc, said in May that “succession risk is elevated”
following Sokol’s exit. On Aug. 9, Gelb raised his rating on
Berkshire stock to “overweight” from “neutral,” saying the
stock slide provided a buying opportunity. The shares have
gained 5.2 percent since.  Berkshire was one-thirtieth the size it is now based on
book value, when in 1990 it dropped 23 percent, compared with
the 6.6 percent slide in the S&P 500. Since then, the S&P 500
has posted five annual losses and three advances of less than 5
percent. Berkshire beat the index in each of those eight years,
except for 2005 when the company gained less than 1 percent
compared with a 3 percent rise in the S&P 500.  “Our defense has been better than our offense,” Buffett
said in the letter accompanying the 2009 annual report. Buffett,
who highlights book value as a measure of performance rather
than stock gains, said his firm has “consistently done better
than the S&P” in years when the index has fallen.  Book Value  Berkshire’s book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, rose 1.7 percent to $160 billion in the nine months
ended Sept. 30, helped by the Burlington Northern Santa Fe
railroad and units like toolmaker Iscar Metalworking Cos. The
price-to-book ratio was about 1.2 on Dec. 31, higher than
the third-quarter average of 1.1, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Book value was $5.3 billion at the end of 1990.  Berkshire is the biggest shareholder of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and New York-based American Express Co., both of which posted
fourth-quarter gains. Wells Fargo, the San Francisco-based bank
that is the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, fell 22 percent in the
first nine months of the year, wiping more than $2 billion off
of the market value of Berkshire’s stake.  Buffett, who built Berkshire through stock picks and
insurance sales, has transformed the company by buying whole
companies and adding businesses with large infrastructure like
the railroad and a power producer. The shift, Buffett said in
2007, has made Berkshire’s book value less sensitive to declines
in equity markets.  Expect to Outperform  “We, therefore, expect to outperform the S&P in lackluster
years for the stock market and underperform when the market has
a strong year,” Buffett said in Berkshire’s 2006 annual report,
adding an entry to his list of business principles included in
every year-end edition.  The earthquake and tsunami that struck  Japan  on March 11
contributed to $1.3 billion of after-tax catastrophe costs in
the first nine months of the year, compared with about $500
million a year earlier. Losses on derivatives, used to bet on
long-term stock gains and the creditworthiness of borrowers,
widened 23 percent to $2.36 billion.  Buffett, who runs Berkshire with a staff of about 20 people
at the company’s headquarters, has told investors the firm has a
list of candidates capable of succeeding him at CEO. Sokol, a
former chairman of Berkshire’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings, was
seen by some, including Buffett biographer Andrew Kilpatrick, as
a possible successor before he resigned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 