-- California Adds Death-Benefit Law as U.S. Seeks More Disclosures
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-01-03T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/california-adds-death-benefit-law.html
California , the most populous U.S.
state, enacted a law this week to protect life-insurance
beneficiaries as the federal government seeks to boost
disclosures for survivors of its employees.  Insurers must obtain written declarations from
beneficiaries in California before directing their settlements
to in-house accounts, according to a law that took effect on
Jan. 1. Survivors “will be able to decide for themselves” to
keep their money with insurers in a so-called retained-asset
account or receive the benefits in a lump sum, California
Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones said in an October statement.  “That’s an essential consumer protection,” said Birny
Birnbaum, executive director of the Center for Economic Justice,
a consumer group. “Commissioner Jones really took the lead in
pushing a lot of this stuff.”  Lawmakers and the U.S. Government Accountability Office
have pushed for greater scrutiny of retained asset accounts, or
RAAs, since Bloomberg Markets reported in 2010 that carriers
profit by holding and investing $28 billion owed to
beneficiaries. In October of that year, the National Conference
of Insurance Legislators adopted a “Beneficiaries’ Bill of
Rights” to increase oversight of RAA disclosures.  “When consumers have the option to choose between RAAs and
lump-sum check payments, the overwhelming majority choose lump-
sum check payments,” according to the GAO.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the biggest U.S. life insurer, and smaller
rivals have defended RAAs, saying the accounts accrue interest
for beneficiaries and relieve families of the need to manage
their funds in periods of bereavement.  ‘They Love It’  “Our account holders tell us they love it,” Robert Henrikson said in July 2010, when he was chief executive officer
of New York-based MetLife.  The U.S. Office of Personnel Management should improve
disclosures to beneficiaries of federally sponsored life
insurance plans, the Government Accountability Office said in a
November report. The OPM administers the Federal Employees’
Group Life Insurance program, and MetLife provides
administrative services.  Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Maryland  and  Rhode Island  have RAA
legislation based on a model formulated by NCOIL, said Candace
Thorson, deputy executive director of the legislator group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 