-- Canadian Dollar Rises to 3-Week High as Global Factory Strength Buoys Risk
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-03T22:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/canadian-dollar-appreciates-to-three-week-high-on-global-growth-optimism.html
The Canadian currency rose to the
highest level in more than three weeks versus its U.S.
counterpart as evidence of manufacturing strength in America,
 China  and  India  buoyed higher-yielding assets.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, is one of the
best performers in the past three months against the greenback
among the most-traded currencies, trailing the Australian
dollar. The Canadian currency extended its gain today after a
report showed U.S. manufacturing grew in December at the fastest
pace in six months. Commodities gained.  “It’s a reasonably constructive day for risk and the
broader commodity complex, and the Canadian dollar is part of
that,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London , said in a telephone
interview. “The manufacturing data we’ve seen over the last 24-
36 hours shows moderate improvement in some cases, and bigger
improvement in others.”  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.8 percent to C$1.0104 per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. Toronto time. The loonie advanced as much
as 1.1 percent to C$1.0077, the strongest level since Dec. 8.
One Canadian dollar buys 98.97 U.S. cents.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied on its first
trading day of the year, climbing 1.6 percent, while  Canada ’s
benchmark  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  added 2.1 percent. Futures on
crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, soared as much as 4.2
percent to $103.18 a barrel in New York trading.  Government Bonds  The yield on 10-year Government of Canada bonds increased
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.99 percent.
The price of the 3.25 percent securities maturing in June 2021
fell 45 cents to C$110.78.  The Canadian currency got a boost as the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index climbed to 53.9 last
month from 52.7 in November. Fifty is the dividing line between
growth and contraction.  Reports this week showed output in  Australia  grew for the
first time in six months as well as a pickup in China’s and
India’s manufacturing.  “Some of the components of the manufacturing ISM in the
U.S. were pretty robust,” said Stretch at CIBC. “There’s a
realization that markets maybe got a little bit oversold at the
end of last year.”  The loonie has risen 3.1 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The Australian dollar
has jumped 7.8 percent and the  New Zealand dollar  has gained 3.2
percent. The U.S. currency has declined 1 percent and the yen
has fallen 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  