-- Canada Natural Gas Declines as Mild U.S. Weather Pares Demand
-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 2012-01-03T16:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/canada-natural-gas-declines-as-mild-u-s-weather-pares-demand.html
Canadian natural gas fell as mild
weather in the U.S. was expected to reduce furnace use in the
biggest consuming region for the nation’s gas output.  Alberta  gas slipped 0.5 percent after forecasters including
Weather Derivatives predicted above-normal temperatures. Heating
demand in the U.S. will trail normal by 23 percent through Jan.
10, Belton, Missouri-based Weather Derivatives said.  “There’s an overabundance of supply and the weather
continues to stay warm,” said Gordy Elliott, a risk management
specialist at FC Stone LLC in  St. Louis Park ,  Minnesota . “We’re
seeing some pressure put on prices here.”  Alberta gas for February delivery fell 1.25 cents to
C$2.615 a gigajoule ($2.45 per million British thermal units) at
10:40 a.m. New York time on  NGX , a Canadian Internet market.  Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada 
and the U.S. and priced on TransCanada Corp.’s Alberta system.  Gas for February delivery declined 1.6 cents to $2.973 per
million Btu at 11:27 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Volume on TransCanada’s Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.5 billion cubic
feet, 254 million below target.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 3.35 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, at 11 a.m. in New York. The fuel is
transferred to TransCanada’s main line at Empress.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 924 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.73 billion cubic feet today, or 65 percent of its
capacity of 2.65 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.69
billion cubic feet at 9:50 a.m.  Spectra issued an operational flow order today, warning
customers not to take more gas off the system than contracted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  