-- Canadian Stocks Advance After Global Manufacturing Data Improve
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-01-03T21:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/canadian-stocks-rise-as-european-chinese-economic-data-improve.html
Canadian stocks (SPTSX)  rose the most since
Nov. 30 as oil and metals gained after indexes of U.S., U.K. and
Chinese manufacturing surpassed most economist forecasts and
German unemployment fell to a 20-year low.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest oil and gas producer,
increased 5.5 percent as crude futures advanced after Iran said
it produced its first nuclear fuel rod.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the
world’s biggest gold producer, climbed 4.5 percent as the U.S.
Dollar Index declined the most in a month. Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s biggest fertilizer producer by
market value, rallied 5.1 percent after an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group raised his  rating (POT)  on the shares.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 253.34
points, or 2.1 percent, to 12,208.43, the highest close since
Nov. 15.  “Manufacturing globally looks like it’s picking up,”
Jennifer Radman, a  money manager  at Caldwell Investment
Management Ltd. in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. The
firm oversees about C$1 billion ($991 million). “As we get more
comfortable the world isn’t going to fall apart, investors will
increasingly be tolerant of taking on more risk in their
portfolios.”  Canada ’s benchmark index retreated  11 percent (SPTSX)  in 2011, led
by raw-materials and energy producers, on concern the European
debt crisis will hamper global growth. The two industries make
up 47 percent of  Canadian stocks (SPTSX)  by market value, according to
Bloomberg data.  The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. manufacturing
index advanced to 53.9 in December from 52.7 the previous month,
the Tempe, Arizona-based organization said today. Economists had
forecast an increase to 53.5, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey.  German Unemployment  The euro gained today after Germany said  unemployment (GRUEPR) 
dropped to 6.8 percent last month, the lowest since at least
1991, from 6.9 percent in November. Most economists in a
Bloomberg survey had forecast no change.  U.K. and Chinese purchasing managers’ indexes exceeded most
economists’ estimates in Bloomberg surveys as well. The factory
index for  China  indicated expansion, while all 15 surveyed
economists had forecast a second-straight month of contraction.  Stocks extended their advances after the U.S. Federal
Reserve said some members of its  Federal Open Market Committee 
“indicated that current and prospective economic conditions
could well warrant additional policy accommodation” at their
Dec. 13 meeting.  Crude oil rallied to the highest settlement price since May
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Suncor gained 5.5 percent
to C$31.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-
largest energy company by market value, rose 4.5 percent to
C$39.86. Oil-sands developer  BlackPearl Resources Inc. (PXX)  surged
9.5 percent to C$4.50.  Vero Energy Jumps  Vero Energy Inc. (VRO) , a western Canadian oil and gas producer,
soared a record 27 percent to C$2.65 after saying it will sell
some assets for C$209 million.  Gold futures advanced the most in 10 weeks on the Comex in
 New York . Barrick increased 4.5 percent to C$48.13.  Kinross Gold
Corp. (K) , Canada’s third-largest gold producer by market value,
climbed 6.8 percent, the most since May 2010, to C$12.42. Banro
Corp., which explores for gold in Africa, jumped 10 percent to
C$4.17.  Base-metals and coal producers (STDIVM)  in the S&P/TSX gained as
copper futures advanced for a third day.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) ,
Canada’s largest company in the industry, increased 6.9 percent
to C$38.37.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , the country’s second-
biggest publicly traded copper producer, rose 4.4 percent to
C$20.94.  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , which produces base metals in
 Europe , surged 9 percent to C$4.22.  Potash Corp. Gains  Potash Corp. gained 5.1 percent to C$44.26 after Don Carson, an analyst at Susquehanna, boosted his rating on the
shares to “positive” from “neutral.” “We see strong grower
demand this coming spring based on our expectation of increased
corn acreage planted in the U.S.,” Carson wrote in a note to
clients.  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , a fertilizer producer and farm retailer,
rallied 5.5 percent to C$72.11 as corn futures climbed to the
highest since November on the Chicago Board of Trade.  The  S&P/TSX Financial Index (STFINL)  advanced to a two-month high.
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s largest lender by assets,
rose 1.6 percent to C$52.82.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canada’s
third-biggest lender, increased 1.5 percent to C$51.59.  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC) , North America’s fourth-largest insurer, climbed
3.2 percent to C$11.20.  BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  rallied 5.9
percent to C$15.67 after the Financial Post said the company
“is preparing to unveil a corporate shakeup.” Barbara Stymiest, a former TMX Group Inc. chief executive officer and
current RIM board member, “is believed to be the leading
candidate” to replace co-chairmen Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis as head of the board, the Toronto-based newspaper
said, citing unnamed sources familiar with the matter.  RIM shares plunged a record 75 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  