-- Centro Retail Names Steven Sewell as Chief Executive, Succeeding Tsenin
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-01-03T06:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/centro-retail-names-steven-sewell-as-chief-executive-succeeding-tsenin.html
Centro Retail Australia (CRF) , the entity
formed from the restructure of  Centro Properties Group , named
Steven Sewell as chief executive officer to succeed Robert Tsenin.  Sewell, now chief executive of  Charter Hall Retail REIT (CQR) ,
will take over from Tsenin on or before April 2, Centro Retail
said in a statement to the stock exchange today.  “Centro has an impressive portfolio of assets, diversified
across Australia, with excellent opportunities for income and
capital growth,” Sewell said in the statement. “I look forward
to working with the team to convert these opportunities and grow
the company for the benefit of all stakeholders.”  The new real estate trust, with A$4.4 billion ($4.5 billion)
of Australian shopping center properties, began trading last
month after investors and creditors of the debt-laden parent
Centro Properties, Centro Retail Trust, and the group’s unlisted
funds and syndicates approved a plan to cancel its debt and pool
assets into a combined entity.  Centro Retail  Australia  shares surged 6.1 percent to A$1.82
at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney.  Sewell, chairman of the Shopping Centre Council of
Australia, has led Charter Hall Retail for five years, after
stints at Macquarie Group and QIC Property in  Brisbane ,
according to the statement. He takes over a  company (CRF)  that owns
interests in 43 shopping centers in Australia and manages 27
syndicates.  He will be paid a base salary of A$900,000 that will be
reviewed annually, a sign-on bonus of A$350,000 and a relocation
allowance of A$100,000 a year for the first two years. He will
also be eligible for short-term incentives worth a maximum of
150 percent of his base salary and his first long-term incentive
plan will be about A$1.08 million worth of performance rights,
the company said.  Takeover interest in the company lingers, with Tsenin
saying last month that he has heard of potential suitors still
seeking to buy its assets.  Centro Properties last month named John Georgakis as its
new chief executive officer to oversee its wind-up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  