-- Chilean Engineer’s Designs Help Santiago’s Skyscrapers Endure Earthquakes
-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 2012-01-03T19:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/chilean-engineer-s-designs-help-santiago-s-skyscrapers-endure-earthquakes.html
     Juan Carlos de la Llera was sleeping soundly with his
wife in the early morning of Feb. 27, 2010, when the earth off
the coast of central  Chile  convulsed in the sixth-largest
quake ever recorded. As the temblor broke windows and tossed
books and dishes from the shelves, he, his wife and their
14-year-old daughter sheltered in a fortified area that de la
Llera, a civil engineer, had built in the center of their
two-story home outside Santiago. The quake lasted almost two
minutes. De la Llera, safe with his family, feared the worst
for Chile's capital. "I thought the whole city was down," he
says.  The 8.8-magnitude quake left more than 520 people dead
and wrought $30 billion in damages, equal to 17 percent of
Chile's gross national product. Later that morning, de la
Llera, president and co-founder of engineering company
Sirve, drove to Santiago to see if the quake-resistant
technology his company designed had saved what was then the
city's tallest skyscraper, the 52-story, $200 million Torre
Titanium La Portada office building. Although the tower had
swayed three feet from side to side, it suffered no structural
damage other than a balcony that had separated -- but not
fallen -- from the building.  The quake was a milestone for Sirve. The Titanium
Tower, completed last January, was the Santiago-based
company's grandest project. To help win the contract, Sirve
did the work for $500,000 -- roughly cost -- in order to use
the building as a showcase for its technology, de la Llera
says. The company's reputation from the Titanium Tower has
helped Sirve, which was founded in 2003, win contracts to
protect apartments and other structures. The 50-employee
company expects revenue of $6 million in 2011, a 50 percent
increase over 2010, and revenue of $8 million next year.  Sirve's shock-absorbing steel dampers were built into
every third floor on two sides of the oblong Titanium Tower.
The X-shaped, story-high devices twisted in every direction
with the quake, absorbing roughly 40 percent of the earth's
movement before returning to their original shape. Joseph
Colaco, president of Houston-based CBM Engineers, was the
structural engineer on the Titanium Tower project who helped
the owners select Sirve's technology. "It really paid off in
spades," Colaco says of choosing Sirve. "From what I
understand, the building was occupied the very next day."  Technology such as Sirve's does more than prevent a
building from collapsing. By diminishing the shaking, the
devices greatly reduce interior damage. As a
result, government facilities, hospitals, manufacturing plants
and office buildings can continue to be used after an
earthquake. "You don't want a whole bunch of buildings and the
whole community closed down, because then it shuts down the
economy," says Michael Cochran, a spokesman and former
president of the Structural Engineers Association of  Southern
California , which sent representatives to Chile after the
quake.  Chile, with one of the most active earthquake faults in
the world, is a fertile market for quake-resistant technology.
Since 1960, when the country suffered a 9.5 magnitude
quake, the largest ever recorded, Chile has steadily improved
building codes to protect lives and property. In 2010's
temblor, only five commercial buildings designed with the help
of structural engineers were destroyed, according to a report
by the  U.S. Geological Survey . The report credits the low
failure rate to a law that encourages building owners to
invest in quake-resistant improvements by making owners liable
for earthquake damage for 10 years after a building is
constructed, even if the building has been sold.  While new buildings did well during the quake, older
structures -- particularly housing units -- didn't. More than
370,000 homes were destroyed, or one of 10 houses in the
affected area, where 80 percent of the country's population
lives. Sirve's mission, beyond profit, is to prevent such
losses. The company is currently designing quake-resistant
technology called seismic isolators for 20
government-funded, low-income apartment buildings under
construction.  Sirve competes with local firms and international
corporations, such as Tokyo-based rubber company
Bridgestone, Nevada-based Dynamic Isolation Systems, and
Vallejo (Calif.)-based Earthquake Protection Systems. De la
Llera is banking on the patented technology that covers
elements of Sirve's designs. Within its seismic
isolators, Sirve has developed a unique system of rollers
sandwiched between two metal platforms. The rollers move
during a quake to absorb enough of the earth's movement to
prevent major damage to the building sitting on top. With its
dampers, as with those used in the Titanium Towers, Sirve has
patented the physical shape of the device and the construction
process that gives it the flexibility needed during an
earthquake.  While quakes have cost Chile tens of billions of dollars
over the last 50 years, they have also exposed the
copper, iron and precious metals that bring in much of the
country's wealth through mining. During the next two
years, Sirve plans to sell its technology to mining companies
looking to protect warehouses and processing plants in
northern Chile, which hasn't been hit by a significant quake
in 20 years. Given the faults in the area, a quake is
inevitable, de la Llera says. During the same time frame, the
company hopes to find work with mining companies in  Peru  while
expanding into  Mexico 's housing market.  De la Llera, 49, earned his doctorate in civil
engineering from the  University of California , Berkeley. He
started Sirve with less than $50,000. As a professor at the
Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile, he convinced the
college to let engineering faculty work with him in return for
35 percent of the profit on joint projects. Last year's
success brought Sirve a $2.2 million investment from a
foundation formed by Empresas Copec SA, Chile's largest fuel
distributor, and Pontificia Universidad to back promising
startups. The foundation owns 30 percent of Sirve.  The investment gives Sirve a chance at growing as Chile
recognizes the value of spending money today to prevent much
greater losses in the future. "It's hard to convince owners
sometimes," Colaco says, "but the cost without the technology
can be monumental."  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves
at  antonegonsalves@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: John
Tozzi at  jtozzi2@bloomberg.net 
