-- Wen Sees a ‘Relatively Difficult’ First Quarter as Chinese Exports Weaken
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-01-04T03:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/china-s-wen-sees-relatively-difficult-first-quarter-as-exports-weaken.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
business conditions may be “relatively difficult” this quarter
and monetary policy will be fine-tuned as needed.  “We see downside pressure on our economy and elevated
inflation at the same time,” Wen said during a two-day trip to
 Hunan province , according to a  statement  on the government’s
website yesterday. “We also face problems of weakening external
demand and rising costs for companies.”  Economists at Barclays Capital and Bank of America Corp.
say the central bank will cut lenders’  reserve requirements (CHRRDEP) 
before a weeklong Chinese New Year holiday starts on Jan. 23,
the second reduction since 2008. The ruling Communist Party is
shifting focus to supporting growth rather than damping
inflation as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to curb exports.  “The government is closely monitoring the downside risks
to growth,” said Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist at
 Barclays Capital . “With an expected deceleration in property
investment and exports, we expect to see more weakness in
industrial activity.”  The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.2 percent as of the
11:30 a.m. local time break in trading.  The China Daily newspaper cited Huang Hai, a former
assistant commerce minister, as saying that the Ministry of
Commerce plans measures to spur spending, including on vehicles
and electrical appliances, over “the coming few years.”  Growth Forecasts  In a commentary in the newspaper, Liu Shijin, the vice
president of the State Council’s Development Research Center,
said that China can maintain growth of 8 percent to 9 percent
over the next two to three years. After that, an average annual
expansion of 6 percent to 7 percent may be maintained for 10, 15
or 20 years, Liu said.  Nomura Holdings Inc. said last month that  China ’s economic
expansion may decelerate to 7.5 percent in the three months
through March from 9.1 percent in the third quarter, as export
growth slows and the government’s campaign to check property
prices damps investment.  The government seeks to stabilize growth and  consumer
prices (CNCPIYOY)  to “promote social harmony,” Wen said. He spoke during
meetings with executives including Sany Heavy Industry Co.
Chairman Liang Wengen and Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and
Technology Co. Chairman Zhan Chunxin, according to the
government statement.  Easing Inflation  Inflation in China eased to 4.2 percent in November from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in 14 months. Even so, price
gains exceeded the government’s 2011 target of 4 percent every
month in the first 11 months of last year.  China’s money supply has “structural issues” and one
can’t simply say that there is too much or too little lending or
sufficient or insufficient liquidity, Wen said. The government
will tighten or loosen policies according to the needs of
different industries, he said.  China will continue to focus on rebalancing growth,
restructuring the economy and increasing consumer and investment
demand to support the “real economy,” he said.  “Priority will be given to key projects and projects under
construction, and we will limit industries suffering from
overcapacity, those that cause heavy pollution and are energy
intensive,” Wen said, reiterating existing government policy.  The  steel industry  should upgrade technology and
restructure through reorganizations and mergers to reduce excess
capacity, he said, according to the government statement.  Wen also said China must continue to develop high-speed
rail in spite of last July’s crash in the eastern city of
Wenzhou that left 40 people dead and 172 injured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  