-- Commodities Jump Most in Eight Months After Gains in Global Manufacturing
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-01-03T22:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/commodities-rally-most-since-september-on-signs-of-manufacturing-expansion.html
Commodities posted the biggest rally
in almost eight months on speculation that increased factory
output from  China  to the U.S. heralds rising raw-material
demand.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities
rose 3.4 percent to settle at 666.55 at 4:19 p.m. in New York,
the largest gain since May 9. Silver jumped the most since July,
leading the advances, and crude oil closed at a seven-month
high.  Manufacturing in December improved in Switzerland, China,
 India , the U.K. and  Australia , according to data released this
week, while the  Institute for Supply Management  said today that
U.S. factories  expanded (NAPMPMI)  at the fastest pace in six months. Signs
of growth are helping assuage investors who sold commodities
last month amid mounting concern that the European debt crisis
would hinder the global economy.  “It seems as though overnight we got some real optimistic
thinking, and that’s swaying investors,”  James Cordier , the
founder of Optionsellers.com in Tampa,  Florida , said in a
telephone interview. The economic reports “suggest there’s
light at the end of the tunnel, and that’s something we haven’t
seen for quite a while.”  Silver futures for March delivery jumped 5.9 percent to
$29.572 an ounce on the Comex in New York, the biggest increase
for a most-active contract since July 13. The price will rise to
$40 this year, Blackstone Group LP’s  Byron Wien  said.  ‘Inevitable’ Rally  Oil futures for February delivery rose 4.2 percent to
$102.96 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since May 10. Heating oil jumped 4.3 percent.  Raw-sugar futures for March delivery rose 5.2 percent to
24.51 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, the biggest
gain since Sept. 29.  In the fourth quarter, the GSCI index tumbled as much as 25
percent from a 32-month high of 762.22 on April 11.  “The sentiment at the end of last year had gotten so
negative that a rally was inevitable,” James Dailey, who
manages $215 million at TEAM Financial Management LLC in
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , said in an interview. “The real
question is whether this can be sustained.”  Gold futures for February delivery climbed 2.2 percent to
$1,600.50 an ounce on the Comex, the biggest gain since Oct. 25.  On ICE, cotton futures for March delivery rose by the
exchange limit of 4 cents, or 4.4 percent, to 95.8 cents a
pound, the biggest gain since May 31.  Wheat in Kansas City was the only GSCI component to post a
drop.  Bearish economic indicators in coming months “could pop
optimism” on commodities, Dailey said.  The outcome of Italian debt auctions in coming weeks may
influence prospects for commodities, Cordier of
Optionsellers.com said. Italy auctioned 7 billion euros ($9.14
billion) of debt on Dec. 29, less than the 8.5 billion euros
targeted.  “If the Italian auctions can just do well enough that
people aren’t averting their eyes, then I think this rally can
last,” Cordier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  