-- Commodities Rally to Highest in a Month Amid Recovery Signals
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-01-03T11:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/commodities-rally-to-highest-in-a-month-amid-recovery-signals.html
Commodities (SPGSCI)  rose to the highest in a
month as economic indicators from the U.S., China and  Germany 
allayed concern that the world will spin into a recession.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities advanced
as much as 1.7 percent to 655.63, the most since Dec. 8.
 Manufacturing (NAPMPMI)  in the U.S. probably gained in December at the
fastest pace in six months, economists said before the release
of a report today.  German unemployment (GRUECHNG)  retreated more than
forecast in December while Chinese manufacturing data also
signaled expansion in the world’s second-largest economy.  “The new year seems to be bringing fresh buying into oil
and other markets, such as gold and silver” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker in  London  at Jefferies Bach Ltd.
“Commodities will not be held back by  Europe  as the economic
recovery in the U.S. and growth in  emerging markets  is more
important.  Iran  and Syria are another potential reason for oil
to go higher.”  Crude oil for February delivery climbed as much as $2.88,
or 2.9 percent, to $101.52 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Oil rose as the U.S. and its allies increased pressure on
Iran to halt what they say may be a covert nuclear weapons
program. Sanctions signed into law by President Barack Obama on
Dec. 31 aim to deter dealings with the Iranian central bank. The
European Union, which is considering a ban on the Gulf state’s
crude, will be ready by Jan. 30 to decide whether to extend its
embargo,  Michael Mann , a spokesman for the EU, said yesterday.  Reciprocal Measures  Iran’s Deputy Navy Commander Rear Admiral Mahmoud Mousavi
told Press TV that any effort to harm the country’s interests
will lead to “reciprocal measures.”  Gasoline for January delivery rose as much as 3.02 cents,
or 1.1 percent, to $2.7165 a gallon in  New York , after advancing
9.5 percent last year.  Cash gold gained as much as 1.7 percent to $1,592.25 an
ounce, the highest since Dec. 28. Copper futures for March
delivery increased as much as 2.6 percent to $3.5245 a pound on
the Comex in New York.  Cocoa futures for March delivery climbed as much as 3
percent to $2,172 a ton in New York.  Increasing demand for autos, gains in holiday sales and
lean inventories may pave the way for further strength in the
U.S. manufacturing sector.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index rose to
53.4 last month from 52.7 in November, according to the median
projection of 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Fifty is
the dividing line between growth and contraction. Construction
spending increased for a fourth straight month in November,
another report may show.  China ’s purchasing managers’ index rose to 50.3 in December
from 49 in November, the Beijing-based logistics federation said
Jan. 1. A number above 50 indicates expansion.  Germany’s adjusted  jobless rate (GRUEPR)  dropped to 6.8 percent, the
Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said today, as exports of
cars and machinery boomed and one of the mildest winters on
record helped support jobs in construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  