-- Construction Spending in U.S. Rises More Than Forecast
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-04T02:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/construction-spending-in-u-s-climbs-1-2-more-than-economists-estimated.html
(Corrects executive’s title in final paragraph.)  Construction spending in the U.S.
rose in November for a third time in four months, indicating the
industry helped boost growth at the end of 2011.  Building outlays  increased (CNSTTMOM)  1.2 percent, exceeding the
median estimate of 46 economists in a Bloomberg survey that
called for a 0.5 percent gain, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The October reading was revised down
to show a 0.2 percent drop from a previously projected 0.8
percent increase, showing the initial data are susceptible to
swings in direction.  Recent gains in the housing market, spurred in part by
 mortgage rates  near record lows, are helping the  construction
industry  recover from the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009. Public expenditures also climbed during the month, a sign
that budget constraints may be easing.  “Residential construction and even business construction
have been favorable,”  Russell Price , a senior economist at
Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said before the report.
“I expect that to continue.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 0.6
percent to an increase of 1.4 percent.  Private construction spending climbed 1 percent in November
from the prior month to $522 billion, the highest level since
December 2009. Homebuilding outlays increased 2 percent,
including a 2.6 percent gain in home improvement. Expenditures
on single-family and multifamily housing also improved.  Public Building  Spending on public construction climbed 1.7 percent,
today’s report said. Federal construction outlays increased 5.3
percent, the biggest gain since August, to $27.6 billion.
Outlays by state and local agencies rose to the highest level
since January 2011.  In November, builders broke ground on more homes than at
any time in the previous 19 months and construction permits
climbed to a one-year high, suggesting housing may not be a drag
on gross domestic product next year, data from the Commerce
Department showed last month.  Housing starts were at a 685,000 annual rate that month,
Commerce Department figures showed Dec. 20. Building permits, a
proxy for future construction, increased 5.7 percent.  Homebuilder sentiment has improved as well. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index rose in
December for a third consecutive month, to the highest level
since May 2010. Readings less than 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor.  Some companies say improvements are needed in commercial
real estate.  “To get any better we need some help from commercial
construction,” John Lundgren, chief executive officer at
toolmaker  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK) , said on a Dec. 7
conference call with analysts. Overall, he said, “it’s not
going to get any worse from a macro perspective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  