-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Fall to Two-Month Low on Economy
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-03T22:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-fall-to-two-month-low-on-economy.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk dropped to the lowest level in two months as
 evidence (NAPMPMI)  of manufacturing strength in America and China stoked
optimism the global economy will weather  Europe ’s debt turmoil.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 2.2 basis points to a mid-price of 118.1 basis points
at 5:05 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. The
index fell as low as 117.6, the least since Oct. 31. Contracts
on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  also fell.  The credit swaps gauge, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has dropped
from 132.1 on Dec. 19 as data signal the world’s largest economy
is recovering. U.S. manufacturing grew in December at the
fastest pace in six months, an Institute for Supply Management
report indicated today. Last month, data showed  consumer
confidence  at an eight-month high, while unemployment fell in
November to 8.6 percent.  “The breadth of data improvement has been pretty good of
late,”  Rizwan Hussain , a New York-based credit strategist at
Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone interview. Better-than-
expected ISM figures “provide a decent ramp going into 2012.”
While economists aren’t forecasting the  U.S. economy  will grow
at 4 percent, “at least you have a better growth rate
trajectory in the back half of the year,” Hussain said.  Manufacturing Expands  Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s factory index climbed to 53.9
last month from 52.7 in November. Fifty is the dividing line
between growth and contraction, and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News forecast the gauge would rise to 53.5.  China ’s
manufacturing purchasing managers’ index rose last month, the
National Bureau of Statistics and Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing reported Jan. 1.  Credit-default swaps on Goldman Sachs eased 11.2 basis
points to 313.8 basis points, according to data provider CMA.
Contracts tied to the debt of Bank of America decreased 17.9
basis points to 386.5 basis points, and those linked to
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  fell 9.3 basis points to 275.  Default swaps on General Electric’s finance unit General
Electric Capital Corp. declined 15 basis points to 240,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  