-- HSH Nordbank, Credit Suisse, Madoff, GE in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-03T11:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/credit-suisse-madoff-alcoa-ge-exelon-in-court-news.html
Six former  HSH Nordbank  AG executives
were charged with breach of trust and accounting crimes over
their role in collateralized-debt obligations that led to
writedowns of 500 million euros ($647 million) in 2008.  Prosecutors have been investigating the so-called Omega 55
transaction since 2009. Among the six now charged are former
Chief Executive Officers Dirk Jens Nonnenmacher and Hans Berger
and ex-management board members Bernhard Visker and Jochen
Friedrich, Hamburg prosecutors’ spokesman Peter Bunners said in
an interview yesterday.  “We will release more details of the allegations later
this week once we have confirmation that all accused have
received the indictment,” Bunners said.  Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein, which control more than 80
percent of HSH Nordbank, were forced to bail out the lender in
2009. The states provided the bank, based in Hamburg and Kiel,
with 3 billion euros in capital and 10 billion euros in
guarantees to cover potential losses. The lender also tapped the
federal government’s  Soffin  bank-rescue fund for 17 billion
euros in guarantees.  Nonnenmacher didn’t commit any crimes in relation to the
Omega 55 transaction, his attorney, Heinz Wagner, said in a
phone interview. Nonnenmacher signed the deal after the
responsible people at the bank had cleared it, said Wagner. As
soon as Nonnenmacher learned that something may have been wrong,
he ordered an internal investigation, Wagner said.  “A bank of this size cannot be managed without some
division of labor,” said Wagner. For a loan “of the size in
question here, his signature wasn’t even required by banking
laws.”  Berger’s attorney Otmar Kury didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  A report by a special police unit probing the allegations
in 2010 found the executives did nothing wrong, Visker’s lawyer,
Gaby Muenchhalffen, said in an e-mail statement. Their report
was disregarded by prosecutors, she said. The Omega 55 deal was
a normal transaction and her client complied with rules and
regulations, she said.  Friedrich’s attorney, Wolfgang Prinzenberg, said his client
didn’t act contrary to HSH’S interest or his duties at any
stage. Friedrich was responsible for capital markets at the
lender at the time of the alleged violations.  HSH Nordbank has always underlined that a full
investigation of the issue is its own interests, bank spokesman
Rune Hoffmann said in an e-mailed statement.  Porsche Sued by Investment Fund Group Seeking EU2 Billion  Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3)  was sued by a group of
investment funds seeking about 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in
damages allegedly suffered from the carmaker’s failed takeover
attempt of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in 2008.  The group, whose members weren’t identified, filed the
lawsuit in the district court of Stuttgart, Germany, according
to a statement released on the OTS newswire Dec. 30. The
plaintiffs also filed an arbitration application regarding
 Volkswagen (VOW) , two members of the VW supervisory board and one
member of the management board of VW, according to the
statement.  “The accusations are not justified and we reject them,”
Frank Gaube, a spokesman for Stuttgart-based Porsche, said by
telephone Dec. 31. The company needs to receive the suit before
it can closely examine it, he said.  Porsche and VW agreed to combine in 2009 after Porsche
racked up more than 10 billion euros of debt in an unsuccessful
attempt to gain control of VW. The merger has been held up by
lawsuits linked to Porsche’s failed effort to buy VW, with the
Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker waiting to avoid being held
responsible for any financial ramifications from the suits.  The investor group’s complaint alleges that “Porsche
gained control over the price of VW common stock as it secretly
built enormous derivative positions covering almost all of VW’s
freely traded shares, then triggered a massive short squeeze,
and finally released billions of euros worth of shares into the
short squeeze for its own profit,” according to the statement.  VW spokesman Michael Brendel didn’t respond to a voice-mail
message left on his mobile phone Dec. 31.  Credit Suisse Sued by Dutch Fund Over Mortgage Investments  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-biggest Swiss bank, was
sued in  New York  state court by Dutch pension fund  Stichting
Pensioenfonds ABP (ADPZ)  over losses on investments in mortgage
securities.  Credit Suisse sold securities that were backed by low-
quality loans and turned out to be “far riskier” than
promised, ABP said in a complaint filed Dec. 29 in Manhattan.  The pension fund said Zurich-based Credit Suisse knew of
“the wholesale and systematic abandonment” of underwriting
guidelines by loan originators, leading to high default and
delinquency rates by borrowers.  ABP said it has suffered “substantial losses” on the
securities and that it’s increasingly probable that it would not
obtain the full payments it expected. A lawyer for ABP couldn’t
be reached for comment about the amount of securities at issue
in the lawsuit.  Steven Vames, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, declined to
immediately comment.  The case is Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v.  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CS) , 653665-2011, New York State  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Trustee Revises Fictitious Statements to $52 Billion  The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s brokerage revised the
con man’s fictitious customer statements to $52 billion from
about $65 billion as claims were withdrawn from the liquidation
proceeding.  The new number appears on the website of trustee Irving
Picard. Picard so far has paid $325.5 million to investors who
lost money in the Ponzi scheme holding approved claims of $7.3
billion, according to madofftrustee.com. The Securities Investor
Protection Corp. has committed $797.8 million to Madoff
investors, it said. The $65 billion was calculated on Nov. 30,
2008, before Madoff’s arrest.  In the three years since his appointment, Picard has raised
about $8.7 billion to pay claims, mostly through settlements
with investors whom he sued, accusing them of participating in
the fraud. About $6 billion of that amount is tied up in court
challenges, including $5 billion from Jeffry Picower’s estate
and $1 billion from Tremont Group Holdings Inc., according to
the website.  Picard spent $434 million liquidating the estate through
September, including fees for himself and his law firm of more
than $200 million.  Picard, who has filed 1,000 lawsuits seeking $100 billion
from banks such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
has seen more than $28 billion of his claims tossed by district
judges. He is currently appealing the rulings. His $59 billion
suit against  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Bank Medici AG founder Sonja Kohn
is being reviewed by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff.  Madoff, 73, who pleaded guilty to charges of masterminding
the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, is serving a 150-year term
in a federal prison in North Carolina.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Alcoa Accused of Bribing Alba Officials in Aluminum Scheme  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  was accused of using a middleman to bribe
officials at Bahrain’s state-owned aluminum producer to reap
more than $400 million in illegal profit, according to new
claims filed in a racketeering lawsuit.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, made tens of
millions of dollars in illegal payments through an intermediary
to an official at Aluminium Bahrain BSC, known as Alba, and the
government of Bahrain, according to papers filed Dec. 28 in
federal court in Pittsburgh. The company also paid more than $5
million in bribes to former Alba Chief Executive Officer Bruce
Hall, according to the filing.  Alba sued Alcoa in February 2008 claiming the New York-
based company caused it to pay inflated prices for alumina, the
principal raw material in aluminum. The case was closed after
the U.S. Justice Department said it was investigating whether
Alcoa made corrupt payments in Bahrain. It was reopened in
November after a judge ruled that Alba could file an amended
complaint and a statement laying out its racketeering case.  Mike Belwood, a spokesman for Alcoa, said the claims in
Alba’s case are “not supported by the facts.”  “Alba’s statement is yet another recitation of the alleged
misdeed of Victor Dahdaleh and Bahraini officials in an attempt
to try and construct a claim and survive Alcoa’s upcoming motion
to dismiss.”  Alcoa asked to reopen the case in November and sought
permission to file a motion seeking its dismissal because
racketeering law “does not apply to the extraterritorial
conduct,” alleged by Alba, according to court papers.  Hall couldn’t immediately be reached for comment on the
filing.  The case is  Aluminium Bahrain BSC (ALBH)  v. Alcoa Inc., 08-
cv-00299, U.S. District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania
(Pittsburgh).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  GE Healthcare Pays $30 Million to Settle Medicare Fraud Case  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s health-care unit will pay more than
$30 million to settle claims that a company it bought in 2004
provided false information to Medicare to pad billings for a
drug used to diagnose heart disease, the U.S. Justice Department
said.  The fraud settlement announced Jan. 29 involving the drug
Myoview sold by Amersham Health Inc. resolves claims filed under
the False Claims Act. The law allows whistle-blowers to pursue
fraud claims on behalf of the federal government and then share
in any recovery.  “It’s important for drug manufacturers to provide accurate
pricing information to Medicare so that taxpayers aren’t
overcharged for medicines purchased with their dollars,”
Assistant Attorney General  Tony West , who heads the department’s
civil division, said in a statement.  The Justice Department has recovered more than $8.7 billion
under the False Claims Act since January 2009, the largest-ever
three-year total, West said at a Dec. 19 briefing for reporters.  James Wagel, the whistle-blower in the suit against GE
Healthcare Inc., will receive $5.1 million from the government’s
recovery.  “GE Healthcare is pleased to have reached a resolution in
this long-standing case,” said Aleisia Gibson, a company
spokeswoman.  CDR Financial, Founder Rubin Plead Guilty in Bid-Rigging Case  CDR Financial Products Inc. and its founder, David Rubin,
pleaded guilty less than a week before trial on charges tied to
a federal investigation of bid- and auction-rigging in the
municipal bond market.  Rubin, 50, and his Beverly Hills, California-based firm
were charged along with two other employees. Prosecutors said
Rubin, who served as chief executive officer, took kickbacks for
running sham auctions for investments.  He pleaded guilty along with the company Dec. 30 in
Manhattan federal court. Jury selection in the trial of former
CDR Chief Financial Officer Z. Stewart Wolmark and Vice
President Evan Zarefsky is set to begin next week and was to
include Rubin as a defendant. Rubin tried unsuccessfully to have
the trial postponed because his wife is in the final stages of
terminal cancer.  “Mr. Rubin has accepted responsibility for his conduct and
has pled guilty,”  Bradley Simon , a lawyer representing Rubin,
said in a phone interview after Rubin’s plea. “Mr. Rubin will
now be able to direct all of his energies to caring for his wife
and family during this critical time.”  Rubin, who began sobbing at the mention of his wife in the
hearing Dec. 30, will be sentenced April 27. He was allowed to
remain free on bail.  Rubin and CDR both pleaded guilty to two counts of
conspiracy and one count of wire fraud, according to the
government. Rubin, CDR’s sole shareholder, pleaded guilty for
the company, Simon said.  Rubin faces as much as 35 years in prison. Rubin may also
be ordered to pay $1.5 million, according to prosecutors. CDR
faces fines of as much as $101 million. The fines may be
increased to double the amount gained from the crime or double
the loss to victims, the government said.  “Mr. Rubin and his firm were trusted with public money and
confidence to assist municipalities with issuing bonds,” FBI
Assistant Director in Charge Janice Fedarcyk said in a news
release. “Contrary to his agreement and the law, Mr. Rubin
shirked his responsibilities while defrauding taxpayers.
Thankfully, the bid-rigging scheme, where Mr. Rubin decided the
winners and losers, is over.”  The case is U.S. v. Rubin/Chambers, Dunhill Insurance
Services Inc., 09-CR-01058, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Dupree Is Convicted in $21 Million New York Bank-Fraud Case  A Wharton business school graduate and former University of
North Carolina basketball player who ran a New York holding
company was convicted by a jury in a $21 million bank-fraud
case.  Courtney Dupree was found guilty Dec. 30 in federal court
in Brooklyn, New York. He was accused of lying about receivables
to New York-based Amalgamated Bank to get and maintain the
credit line for his Long Island City-based holding company GDC
Acquisitions LLC, which owned lighting and furniture dealers.  The trial began Dec. 6. Amalgamated realized $16 million in
losses because of the crime, according to the government. Dupree
was chief executive officer of GDC.  “This is a case about lying to a bank to get money,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Woll told jurors during the trial.
“It is about telling lies over and over again in order to grab
millions of dollars of the bank’s money.”  Thomas Foley, a lawyer in Hoboken,  New Jersey , who was the
company’s outside counsel until he became its chief operating
officer, was acquitted Dec. 30 of conspiracy, bank fraud and
making a false statement.  Dupree was found guilty on four counts including conspiracy
to commit bank fraud, bank fraud and two counts of making a
false statement.  The case is U.S. v. Dupree, 10-cr-627, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Ex-Lawyer Rothstein Says Funds Didn’t Warn Investors  Scott Rothstein, the Florida lawyer sentenced to 50 years
in prison for running a $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme, said
officials at three Manhattan hedge funds helped him prop up the
fraud in its final months, according to transcripts of a court
deposition.  Rothstein, 49, said his scheme began to collapse early in
2009, when he could no longer pay customers. Officials at
Platinum Partners Value Arbitrage, Centurion Structured Growth
LLC, and Level 3 Capital Fund agreed not to tell potential new
investors he failed to make payments to them, he testified.  “The funds were going to give us a positive credit
rating,” he said in testimony released Dec. 28. “We were going
to use as much of the new money coming in to pay them off, and
in fact that’s what we did.” Rothstein was later asked about
“false exculpatory e-mails” he had sent to co-conspirators.
Eliot Lauer, a lawyer for Platinum and Centurion, asked
Rothstein if he was correct in saying no such e-mails were sent
to the hedge funds. Rothstein told Lauer he “did not consider
your clients to be co-conspirators.”  Rothstein, who has been disbarred, was questioned with the
approval of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Raymond B. Ray in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, on how the scheme worked and who knew about
it, as victims seek money from those with knowledge of the
fraud.  The questioning took place behind closed doors in a Miami
courtroom. Transcripts are being released on the website of the
plaintiffs’ law firm  Conrad & Scherer .  Rothstein said that, in hopes of a reduced sentence, he was
telling prosecutors about everyone involved in his scheme and
about police officers and others whom he bribed with cash or
encounters with prostitutes.  A recommendation from Centurion, Platinum and Level 3 would
have been a lie because he had stopped paying them, Rothstein
said. He said Meir Nordlicht, Platinum’s chief investment
officer, and Jack Simony, a portfolio manager, agreed to help.  “My only concern was that, at the end of the day, they
would lie for us,” Rothstein said. “That was my concern. They
didn’t want this to blow. I didn’t want it to blow up. I had
been assured by Mr. Simony and Mr. Nordlicht that they would not
let it blow up.” Ray Casas, a spokesman for the funds, said
Rothstein gave inconsistent accounts and the executives didn’t
lie about the fraud.  “Mr. Rothstein’s claims that the funds or their managers
would lie for him are absolutely false and are flatly
inconsistent with his unequivocal statement that the funds were
not his co-conspirators,” Casas said Dec. 29 by e-mail. “He
admits he has no knowledge that anyone at the funds lied for
him, and not a single one of the dozens of investors in
Rothstein’s scheme has said that the funds recommended the
investment to them.”  Rothstein, Casas said, “also complained to one of his
alleged co-conspirators -- but not the funds -- that the funds
were refusing to talk to new investors. This is not the conduct
of a hedge fund looking to lure in new investors.”  Simony and Nordlicht haven’t been charged with any crime.  The bankruptcy case is In re Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA,
09-34791, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Florida
(Fort Lauderdale). The investors’ suit is Razorback Funding LLC
v. Rothstein, 09062943, Circuit Court, 17th Judicial Circuit,
Broward County, Florida (Fort Lauderdale). The hedge funds’ suit
against TD Bank is Platinum Partners Value Arbitrage Fund LP v.
TD Bank NA, 0:11-cv-61835, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  NFL’s Kyle Orton Sues Chicago Law Firm Over Investment Advice  Kyle Orton, the National Football League player, sued a
Chicago law firm alleging he and other investors suffered
millions of dollars from partnerships that failed to provide
anticipated tax benefits.  Orton, in a complaint filed Dec. 29 in state court in
Chicago, accuses Chuhak & Tecson PC of misrepresentation and
negligence over advice on investments in oil and gas
partnerships that were designed to grant tax credits. He and a
co-plaintiff seek to represent other investors in a class-action
lawsuit.  Andrew Tecson, president of Chuhak & Tecson, said in an e-
mail that the firm doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The firm didn’t warn Orton and other investors that there
was a possibility they wouldn’t receive the anticipated tax
credits because the partnerships, set up to sell biomass gas
from landfills to generate electricity, didn’t meet the
statutory requirements for the credits.  Orton, 29, has started the past two games for Kansas City
after being claimed by the Chiefs off waivers on Nov. 23. The
quarterback began the season with Denver, then was replaced by
 Tim Tebow  as the Broncos’ starter.  The case is Orton v. Chuhak & Tecson, 11CH44662, Cook
County Circuit Court (Chicago).  German Corruption Lawyer Rejoins Prosecutor  Wolfgang Schaupensteiner will return to the Frankfurt
prosecutor’s office in April after leaving in 2007 to work as an
anti-corruption officer for Deutsche Bahn AG, Financial Times
Deutschland said, citing him.  There are no positions free in the anti-corruption
department and the prosecutor’s office doesn’t yet know which
job it will give Schaupensteiner, the German newspaper reported,
citing an unidentified spokeswoman for the office.  As a prosecutor, Schaupensteiner exposed “millions” of
euros of bribes related to the construction of Frankfurt
airport’s second terminal in the 1990s and conducted 15
corruption cases with 200 defendants against Deutsche Bahn,
according to the newspaper.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court News  U.S. Chief Justice Offers Confidence in Recusals by Colleagues  U.S. Chief Justice John Roberts said he has “complete
confidence” in the ability of his Supreme Court colleagues to
decide whether to remove themselves from cases when conflicts
arise.  Justices Elena Kagan and Clarence Thomas have been urged to
recuse themselves from consideration of the health-care overhaul
signed into law by President Barack Obama. The Supreme Court is
scheduled to hear arguments about the law’s constitutionality in
March.  “I have complete confidence in the capability of my
colleagues to determine when recusal is warranted,” Roberts
said in a 16-page year-end report released Dec. 31, without
naming Kagan or Thomas or citing the health-care debate
specifically. “They are jurists of exceptional integrity and
experience whose character and fitness have been examined
through a rigorous appointment and confirmation process.”  Republican lawmakers and interest groups have said Kagan
has a possible conflict of interest if she advised the Obama
administration about the health-care legislation while she was
solicitor general, the position she held when nominated to the
court in 2010. Democrats have said Thomas should recuse himself
because his wife, Virginia, has worked for groups that oppose
the law. Neither justice has indicated any intent to step aside
in the case.  Roberts said there is an important difference between lower
federal courts, where judges “can freely substitute for one
another” when a recusal occurs, and the Supreme Court, which
“consists of nine members who always sit together, and if a
justice withdraws from a case, the court must sit without its
full membership.”  “A justice accordingly cannot withdraw from a case as a
matter of convenience or simply to avoid controversy,” Roberts
said.  For more, click here.  Court Filings  Exelon Settlement with Government Most Popular on Bloomberg  The  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  settlement with the U.S. Justice
Department over its acquisition of  Constellation Energy Group
Inc. (CEG) , was the most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law
system last week.  The U.S. Justice Department agreed to let Exelon carry out
the $7.9 billion acquisition on condition that the company sell
three electricity-generating plants in Maryland.  The department announced the agreement Dec. 21, shortly
after it filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in  Washington 
alleging the takeover would eliminate competition and lead to an
increase in wholesale electricity prices for consumers in Mid-
Atlantic states.  The case is U.S. v. Exelon Corp., 11-cv-02276, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 