-- Crude Advances Amid Manufacturing Expansion, Tension Over Iran
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-03T13:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/crude-advances-in-new-york-amid-manufacturing-expansion-tension-over-iran.html
Oil climbed in  New York  after
manufacturing activity in China and  India  expanded, while
concern persisted that further sanctions against  Iran  may
disrupt supply.  Futures gained as much as 2.9 percent on the first trading
day of 2012. India’s Purchasing Managers’ Index rose the most in
six months in December, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
said yesterday, and a manufacturing index in China signaled
expansion. Iran’s Deputy Navy Commander Rear Admiral Mahmoud
Mousavi told Press TV that any effort to harm the nation’s
interests will lead to “reciprocal measures.”  “Iran will probably be centre-stage this year, at least in
the first half,” Amrita Sen, an analyst Barclays Plc in London,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse”
with Maryam Nemazee. “The risks surrounding Iran are clearly
rising. Demand could surprise to the upside, and I’d especially
highlight  China .”  Crude for February delivery advanced as much as $2.85 to
$101.68 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $101.39 at 11:24 a.m. London
time. Oil gained 8.2 percent in 2011, the third consecutive
yearly gain.  Brent oil for February settlement rose $2.45, or 2.3
percent, to $109.83 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s premium to
West Texas Intermediate futures was at $8.66, compared with a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Brent’s premium to WTI has declined as  Libya  resumed
production of light, sweet crude after last year’s uprising
against Muammar Qadaffi. The nation exported a cargo of Es Sider
grade from the port of the same name on Jan. 1, the National Oil
Corp. said in a website notice. It is the first shipment of the
blend from that location since the rebellion.  Iran Sanctions  Crude also rose as the U.S. and its allies increased
pressure on Iran to halt what they say may be a covert nuclear
weapons program. Sanctions signed into law by President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 31 aim to deter dealings with the Iranian central
bank. The European Union, which is considering a ban on oil from
Iran, will be ready by Jan. 30 to decide whether to extend
sanctions, Michael Mann, a spokesman for the EU, said yesterday.  Iran, OPEC’s second-largest producer, doesn’t intend to
disrupt shipping in the  Strait of Hormuz , Mousavi said
yesterday, according to Press TV. Almost 17 million barrels a
day of crude moved through the channel last year, the U.S.
Energy Department said in an update on “world oil transit
chokepoints.”  Saudi Arabia  is the largest exporter in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and sends some oil
shipments through the strait.  Manufacturing Growth  China’s  purchasing managers ’ index rose to 50.3 in December
from 49 in November, the Beijing-based logistics federation said
Jan. 1. A number above 50 indicates expansion. The country
accounted for about 11 percent of the world’s oil consumption in
2010 and India for 4 percent, according to BP Plc’s Statistical
Review of World Energy. The U.S. is the world’s biggest crude
user at 21 percent.  “Iran is the wildcard,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin in Sydney. “There’s
still concern that Iran, when pushed, will do something. The
manufacturing data also provides a bit of confidence.”  German unemployment fell more than forecast in December as
exports of cars and machinery boomed and one of the mildest
winters on record helped support jobs in construction.  The number of people out of work fell a seasonally adjusted
22,000 to 2.89 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. Economists forecast a decline of 10,000, the median
of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. The adjusted
jobless rate dropped to 6.8 percent.  Hedge funds  expanded wagers on rising oil prices by 7.6
percent, or 13,585 contracts, to 192,446 in the seven days ended
Dec. 27, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  