-- Czechs Buying Once Unthinkable Alternative to Pilsner Urquell Beer: Retail
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-01-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/czechs-buying-once-unthinkable-alternative-to-pilsner-urquell-beer-retail.html
In Pilsen, the Czech city that lent
its name to a style of beer, computer programmer Jan Blazek
prefers to try something new.  Pilsner Urquell, now brewed by  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , is “a great
beer, but it’s been around forever and is everywhere,” Blazek
said, seated among friends from a floorball club for a weekly
meeting at Klub Malych Pivovaru, a weather-beaten pub that
rotates a selection of specialty beers from small domestic
breweries. “What I get here is fresh and different each time,”
he said. “It’s almost like wine tasting.”  Czechs, whose historical preferences for Pilsner-style
lager once sparked efforts to make it a protected trademark like
Champagne, are turning to brews including ales and stouts, some
flavored with banana or nettle. Market leaders SABMiller,
Heineken NV and StarBev, owner of Prague-based Staropramen, are
responding with new products to keep market share.  Though Czechs remain the heartiest beer drinkers in the
world, breweries are giving them more choice to protect the
industry at a time of lower demand and changing lifestyles.  “We launched Staropramen Lemon and also an unfiltered
version of our lager in summer and we’re very happy with the
performances,” StarBev Chief Executive Officer Alain Beyens
said. “The lemon one especially helped us to grow our market
share in a falling market.”  Lower Production  Total  beer (CP2BCZ)  production in the Czech Republic fell 8 percent
to 15.7 million hectoliters in 2010, the biggest slump since
1989, according to the Czech Beer and Malt Association. Annual
per-capita consumption declined to 144 liters in 2010 from 159.3
liters a year earlier, the association said. In 2009,  Germany 
ranked second with 109.6 liters, according to the data from the
 Brewers of Europe . The consumption in the U.K. amounted to 75.8
liters in 2009, the data showed.  The three largest breweries in the Czech Republic,
SABMiller’s Plzensky Prazdroj AS, Pivovary Staropramen AS and
Heineken CR, produced together about 72 percent of the country’s
total beer output of 17.7 million hectoliters in 2010, including
beer for export.  With a lower alcohol content and citrus taste, Staropramen
Lemon is designed to reach a younger generation that prefers
soft drinks, mixed spirits and wine, Beyens said.  “To say now that Czechs don’t like anything else than the
traditional lager is wrong,” Beyens said. “A new generation of
consumers are open to new tastes and flavor.”  New Beers  Pivovary Staropramen, which has 16 percent of the Czech
market, sold 2.8 million hectoliters of beer in 2010, excluding
licensed brands, down 7 percent from a year ago. Domestic sales
dropped about 7 percent and sales from exports fell 9 percent,
Staropramen said in July.  StarBev, which operates breweries in six other eastern
European countries including Romania and  Serbia , plans to
introduce a variety of beer every year in the next five years,
according to Beyens. It’s also plans to step up sales of an
unfiltered version of Staropramen and tank beer for pubs.  Producers across the country are following a similar
strategy.  “We expect the Czech beer market to return to growth for
the next few years and then I think it’s going to stay around
that level,” SABMiller Managing Director Doug Brodman said in
an interview in Prague. “But we do have to improve the
experience surrounding beer.”  Pub Breweries  SABMiller’s Plzensky Prazdroj plans to roll out as many as
seven new beer varieties starting next year to attract drinkers
by offering a wide range of products and tastes, Brodman said.  During the economic crisis, which hurt tourist-focused
businesses, pub-sized breweries were the only part of the market
to grow, said Jan Vesely, head of the beer association.  The number of small establishments producing beer on their
own premises, representing 1 percent of annual beer production
by volume, could more than double in the next three to four
years in the  Czech Republic  from about 120 now, Vesely said.  “What we offer with beer drinking is similar to a fine-
dining experience,” said Jan Suran, the owner of Pivovarsky
dum, a Prague brewpub that sells beer flavored with nettle, sour
cherry and banana. “The beer is more expensive than the one
from the supermarket, but you get to see the brewing process,
smell it and chat with the chap who brewed it.”  Freshest Brews  Suran is the head of the newly established Czech and
Moravian Association of Small Breweries for producers that make
less than 10,000 hectoliters of beer annually. He estimates that
every year as many as 15 new facilities appear on the market.  “In a large brewery, it’s an honor to taste a fresh beer
from the cellar,” Suran said. “With us, this is what all
guests get. That’s our big advantage.”  The number of large traditional Czech breweries declined to
52 from 90 since the 1990s because of consolidation or
bankruptcy, according to the Czech Beer and Malt Association.  For Milos Hrabak, the operator of the state-owned Vyskov
craft brewery, the trend for “hand-made” products will help
competition with larger brands like  Heineken (HEIA) ’s Starobrno.  “Lots of people prefer hand-made soaps to mass-produced
types,” said Hrabak, who last month offered a limited brew of
Jubiler India Pale Ale. “It’s same with beer and we can profit
from that.”  In Pilsen, Jan Blazek downed a fresh unfiltered lager in
the Klub Malych Pivovaru.  “In the old days I never drank beers like stouts or ales
and I just stuck to local lagers,” Blazek said. “It would
never occur to me that one day I could be enjoying even a lemon
beer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  