-- Dealer’s Best December in Five Years Follows U.S. Sale Ads: Cars
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-01-03T18:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/dealer-s-best-december-in-five-years-follows-u-s-sale-ads-cars.html
U.S. consumers, who are more
confident than they have been in eight months, were lured to
auto showrooms by holiday discounts and may have pushed car
sales to the second fastest pace in more than two years.  “From Thanksgiving on, they’ve been very aggressive,” Bob
Tasca, whose family owns Ford, Lincoln, Mazda and Volvo
dealerships in  Rhode Island  and  Massachusetts , said of automaker
discounts. “We’ve had the best deals of the year.”  Tasca said he expects his best December in five years.  Light-vehicle sales in December, set for release tomorrow,
may have run at a 13.4 million seasonally adjusted annual  rate (SAARTOTL) ,
the average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, up
from the 12.5 million pace a year earlier. While the rate may
trail the 13.6 million seasonally adjusted pace in November,
typically a slow sales month, the number of units sold increased
in December, according to the average of five estimates.  Consumer confidence  reached an eight-month high in December,
according to the Conference Board, as carmakers aired holiday
ads and continued promotions begun in late November, which led
to the highest seasonally adjusted rate of the year. Campaigns
like  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s “Chevy’s Giving More,” featuring
 Santa Claus  as a car salesman, brought consumers into showrooms
seeking year-end deals.  Tasca, whose dealerships sell about 400 cars and trucks a
month, credits aggressive marketing by  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and others
for making December the top month of 2011.  Ford brand sales for the year were above 2 million for the
first time since 2007, the Dearborn, Michigan-based company said
last week.  Heavy Advertising  “The carmakers haven’t put out many new deals since the
end of November; they just advertised them heavily,” said Ivan Drury, a senior analyst with Edmunds.com, a consumer-research
website based in  Santa Monica ,  California . “If you combine
consumer optimism with the fact that some people have older cars
and need to replace them, sales are going to go up.”  Carmakers used the holiday season to discount remaining
2011 models, boosting those incentives by 10 percent from last
month, said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of industry trends for
Truecar Inc., another auto website based in Santa Monica.  Some offers, such as reduced leasing payments and low-rate
financing, are affordable for carmakers benefiting from low
borrowing costs, he said in a phone interview.  “The car companies aren’t spending a lot more -- they’re
just making a lot of noise,” Toprak said. “So it’s a bit of
hype along with some legitimate deals out there.”  Discounts Abound  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s “Most Wonderful Sale of the Year”
campaign offered buyers rebates or no-interest loans. GM,
looking to reduce inventory of its full-sized pickups, offered
as much as $4,500 on 2011 Chevy Silverado and GMC Sierra
pickups. Ford offered zero-percent financing on many of its
models.  GM sales may have risen 4.4 percent, the average of eight
analysts’ estimates, while Ford deliveries may have increased
7.7 percent, the average of eight estimates. Sales by dealers
for Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S. automaker majority-owned by
 Fiat SpA (F) , may have jumped 33 percent in December from a year
earlier, according to eight estimates.  Sales are also on the rise because Japanese carmakers have
rebuilt dealer inventories.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor
Co. lost production when a tsunami in March shut many parts
factories in  Japan , halting assembly lines around the world.
With factories back up and running, they have more cars to sell.  Toyota deliveries may decline by 1 percent and Honda sales
may fall 15 percent, the averages of five estimates. Through
November, they had lost a combined 4 points of U.S. market
share.  Inventory Back  Rene Isip, who owns a  Honda  dealership in Katy,  Texas , and
a Toyota store in Lewisville, Texas, said sales at both outlets
have recovered. His Toyota dealership has 24 days supply of
vehicles. Isip said that while he prefers to keep 45 days’
supply, he is glad to at least have every model in stock.  “With inventory up, business is good,” Isip said in a
phone interview. “My Toyota sales in the first three weeks of
December beat all of November.”  Nissan sales in December may have risen 5 percent, the
average of five estimates. The Yokohama, Japan-based company was
less affected by the natural disasters than Toyota and Honda
were, and the automaker’s U.S. share through November rose to
8.2 percent from 7.8 percent a year earlier.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  may see
combined sales rise 27 percent, the average of four analysts’
estimates. The Seoul-based automakers boosted their combined
U.S. market share through November to 9 percent from 7.8 percent
a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  