-- Departure of ’String of Pearls’ Strategist Leaves Gap at Bristol-Myers
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-03T21:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/departure-of-string-of-pearls-strategist-leaves-gap-at-bristol.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  faces a
tough task in replacing the senior executive who has driven the
drugmaker’s “string of pearls” acquisition strategy since
2007, analysts and industry officials said.  Jeremy Levin, 58, Bristol’s senior vice president of
strategy, alliances and transactions, left the New York-based
drugmaker on Jan. 1 to become chief executive officer of  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the Petach Tikva, Israel-based
company said yesterday in a statement.  Bristol made 17 acquisitions over four years with Levin,
including the 2009 purchase of Medarex Inc., which gained the
company the Yervoy skin cancer drug. He’s considered the
“number one person in business development” for the industry,
said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst at International Strategy &
Investment Group in  New York , said yesterday by telephone.  “A lot of companies say they want to acquire and license
stuff, but I can’t think of a company that’s done it as
successfully as Bristol,” Schoenebaum said.  Bristol  shares (BMY)  fell less than 1 percent to $35.01 at the
close of New York trading.  For the time being, Bristol CEO Lamberto Andreotti will
share the duties of Levin’s former job with Chief Scientific
Officer Elliott Sigal, who held similar responsibilities at the
company previously, said  Jennifer Mauer , a Bristol spokeswoman,
in a telephone interview yesterday.  “We have a very strong and experienced team, and business
development remains a priority,” she said. “There is no change
in our string of pearls strategy.”  Diversified Portfolio  The acquisition strategy was implemented in 2007 when now-
Chairman James Cornelius was CEO. Its goal was to diversify the
company’s drug portfolio with small- and mid-size acquisitions
and partnerships before the drugmaker faced revenue decreases
when its top-selling drugs, led by the blood thinner Plavix,
lose U.S. patent protection.  If Levin can do the same things for his new company that he
did for Bristol, “that will be very, very good for Teva,’ said
Ori Hershkovitz, a Tel Aviv-based partner at Sphera Funds
Management Ltd., by phone yesterday.  The South African-born Levin was global head of business
development and strategic alliances at Novartis from 2003 to
2007. He has worked as a practicing physician and has a medical
degree from the University of Cambridge in  London  and a
doctorate from Oxford University in molecular biology.  Ron Cohen, the CEO of Acorda Therapeutics Inc., said that
Levin has spent years as an investor, biotech company CEO and
then at Bristol developing close, personal relationships across
the industry that will be hard for anybody replicate.  They met in 1994, after both had gone after a job at Cadus
Pharmaceuticals Corp., a biotechnology company now known as
Cadus Corp., he said. Cohen thought he’d gotten the role. In
fact, Levin wound up with the job, Cohen said by telephone.  Executive Dinner Meeting  They have remained friendly since, Cohen said, and are part
of a group of about a dozen biotechnology executives and friends
who meet at least once a year for dinner.  “He’s one of the most trustworthy people I’ve ever met,”
Cohen said yesterday in a telephone interview. “If you’re
talking about doing deals with someone, you want to do deals
with somebody who’s smart and you can trust. He brings that to
the table in spades.”  Recently Levin was implementing an initiative Bristol had
dubbed its “Oyster Strategy.” Under that plan, the company
handed off compounds it probably wouldn’t have developed itself
to drugmakers in  emerging markets , with agreements to split the
sales should the products eventually get approved.  The plan was to “create an engine of innovation” in
 developing countries , Levin said by telephone last month. If the
companies were successful in developing the compounds, “we’ll
position ourselves as partners of choice,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  