-- Deutsche Bank Private-Equity Manager Starts High-Yield Investor Firm
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-01-03T13:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/deutsche-bank-private-equity-manager-starts-high-yield-credit-investor.html
Three former private-equity industry
executives, including a former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  managing
director, have created a company to invest in high-yield credit
funds.  Matthias Unser, Uwe Fleischhauer and Andre Hesselmann
started Yielco Investments GmbH in September 2011, with the aim
of raising 400 million euros ($533 million) to invest in
infrastructure funds, Unser, a former managing director at
Deutsche Bank AG’s DB Private Equity, said today in an
interview. Yielco will also invest in so-called mezzanine funds
before expanding into leveraged loans and real estate, Munich-
based Unser said. None of the debt they buy will be publicly
traded, he said.  “Investors are facing increasing challenges to achieve
solid returns on a sustainable basis now that even  government
bonds  are not risk-free,” Unser said. “Public investments are
subject to market forces and often show price patterns that are
determined more by psychological factors. This increases the
volatility of institutional portfolios.”  Investors in high-yield European credit lost 2.5 percent
last year, the most since 2008, according to an index tracked by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Yielco aims to deliver returns of between 8 percent and 10
percent through infrastructure funds, and between 11 percent and
13 percent from mezzanine funds in  Europe  and the U.S., Unser
said. Mezzanine debt is a blend of debt and equity that tends to
yield more than comparable securities because it ranks behind
other obligations in the event of default.  The firm will add three to five people by the end of the
year, including a partner to oversee  investor relations , Unser
said.  Fleischhauer ran a private-equity consultancy Fleischhauer,
Hoyer & Partner from 1998 to 2011. Hesselmann was previously
head of private equity for Continentale Insurance Group, which
manages more than 15 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  