-- Cohan: Did Psychopaths Take Over Wall Street Asylum?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-01-03T00:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/did-psychopaths-take-over-wall-street-asylum-commentary-by-william-cohan.html
It took a relatively obscure former
British academic to propagate a theory of the financial crisis
that would confirm what many people suspected all along: The
“corporate psychopaths” at the helm of our financial
institutions are to blame.  Clive R. Boddy , most recently a professor at the Nottingham
Business School at Nottingham Trent University, says psychopaths
are the 1 percent of “people who, perhaps due to physical
factors to do with abnormal brain connectivity and chemistry”
lack a “conscience, have few emotions and display an inability
to have any feelings, sympathy or empathy for other people.”  As a result, Boddy argues in a recent issue of the  Journal
of Business Ethics , such people are “extraordinarily cold, much
more calculating and ruthless towards others than most people
are and therefore a menace to the companies they work for and to
society.”  How do people with such obvious personality flaws make it
to the top of seemingly successful corporations? Boddy says
psychopaths take advantage of the “relative chaotic nature of
the modern corporation,” including “rapid change, constant
renewal” and high turnover of “key personnel.” Such
circumstances allow them to ascend through a combination of
“charm” and “charisma,” which makes “their behaviour
invisible” and “makes them appear normal and even to be ideal
leaders.”  Stable Environment  Until the last third of the 20th century, he writes,
companies were mostly stable and slow to change. Lifetime
employment was a reasonable expectation and people rose through
the ranks.  This stable environment meant corporate psychopaths “would
be noticeable and identifiable as undesirable managers because
of their selfish egotistical personalities and other ethical
defects.”  For Wall Street -- a rapidly changing and highly dynamic
corporate environment if there ever was one, especially when the
firms transformed themselves from private partnerships into
public companies with quarterly reporting requirements -- the
trouble started when these charmers made their way to corner
offices of important financial institutions.  Then, according to Boddy’s “ Corporate Psychopaths Theory
of the Global Financial Crisis ,” these men were “able to
influence the moral climate of the whole organization” to wield
“considerable power.”  They “largely caused the crisis” because their “single-
minded pursuit of their own self-enrichment and self-
aggrandizement to the exclusion of all other considerations has
led to an abandonment of the old-fashioned concept of noblesse
oblige, equality, fairness, or of any real notion of corporate
social responsibility.”  Boddy doesn’t name names, but the type of personality he
describes is recognizable to all from the financial crisis.  He says the unnamed “they” seem “to be unaffected” by
the corporate collapses they cause. These psychopaths “present
themselves as glibly unbothered by the chaos around them,
unconcerned about those who have lost their jobs, savings and
investments, and as lacking any regrets about what they have
done. They cheerfully lie about their involvement in events, are
very convincing in blaming others for what has happened and have
no doubts about their own worth and value. They are happy to
walk away from the economic disaster that they have managed to
bring about, with huge payoffs and with new roles advising
governments how to prevent such economic disasters.”  ‘Reasoning Aptitudes’  In closing his short essay, Boddy recognizes that the
theory is relatively untested and would benefit from “further
development and research” into the “personalities and moral
reasoning aptitudes of the leaders” of the companies that got
into serious trouble in the financial crisis.  In an e-mail correspondence with me, he said his article
has been warmly received and has been downloaded 9,440 times in
the past 90 days. “Apparently this is a lot for an academic
article and it is more than the next four most-downloaded papers
combined,” he wrote.  He also has a prescription for how to prevent psychopaths
from getting into positions of power on  Wall Street  and
elsewhere.  “Anyone who makes decisions that affect significant
numbers of other people, concerning issues of corporate social
responsibility or toxic waste, for example, or concerning mass
financial markets or mass employment, should be screened to make
sure that they are, at the very least, not psychopaths and at
most are actually people who care about others,” he wrote.  Makes sense to me.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 