-- Dimon Says JPMorgan Is Expanding Amid ‘Hostility’ Toward Banks
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-01-03T20:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/dimon-says-jpmorgan-grew-in-2011-amid-hostility-toward-banking-industry.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest and
most profitable U.S. bank, expanded last year amid “hostility”
toward the industry and as economic growth stagnated, according
to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon .  “2011 was another year of challenges, both for JPMorgan
Chase and for countries around the world,” Dimon wrote in a
year-end e-mail to staff. “There is a lot of frustration out
there and more than a little hostility toward our industry.”  Dimon, 55, respects the right of people to “speak their
mind” and acknowledged their frustrations, he wrote in the Dec.
20 e-mail. Everyone has an interest in spurring the economy and
creating jobs, he wrote.  JPMorgan hired 16,000 people in the U.S. in 2011, Dimon
said in the letter, expanding its total workforce to more than
260,000 in a year when financial companies announced more than
200,000 job cuts and protests against Wall Street firms spread
worldwide. The New York-based lender is adding about 175
branches a year in the U.S., he said.  “In the face of challenges, JPMorgan Chase is doing its
part,” Dimon wrote. “We have not shrunk back.”  The  U.S. economy , measured by gross domestic product,
probably expanded 1.8 percent in 2011, according to economists’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, instead of the 3.1 percent
predicted a year ago.  JPMorgan, which took a $25 billion bailout from U.S.
taxpayers in 2008, was among the first to repay the money.
Analysts including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Richard Ramsden
and Ed Najarian at International Strategy & Investment Group
Inc. have said the lender is one of the strongest in the U.S.  “JPM employs the most comprehensive and holistic approach
to risk management among the U.S. money center banks and major
brokers,” Najarian, who has a “buy” rating on the firm, wrote
in a research note last month. It’s “a strong, well-capitalized
bank that is attractively valued, well-managed and will continue
to post solid earnings growth, even against a challenging
economic and interest-rate backdrop.”  JPMorgan climbed 5.6 percent to $35.12 at 2:51 p.m. in  New
York . The shares fell 22 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  