-- Euro Tumbles Amid Concern Region’s Debt Turmoil Is Worsening; Pound Climb
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-01-04T22:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/dollar-trading-near-one-week-low-versus-euro-amid-global-growth-optimism.html
The euro fell from almost a one-week
high versus the dollar as European inflation slowed and  Italy ’s
biggest bank said it needs to raise more capital, fueling bets
Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  The 17-nation currency dropped toward an 11-year low
against the yen as a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.7 billion) share offer
from UniCredit SpA spurred concern European banks may struggle
to raise more capital. The euro slid versus most major peers
after El Pais newspaper said the Spanish government helped the
Valencia region make an overdue payment to Deutsche Bank AG. The
pound climbed to a 15-month high versus the shared currency.  “Sentiment overall in the euro is still pretty negative,”
said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in  New York . “It does look as if Spain could be
the problem child for  Europe  in the months ahead.”  The euro fell 0.8 percent to $1.2943 at 5 p.m. in New York
after rising to $1.3077 yesterday, the highest level since Dec.
28. The common currency depreciated 0.9 percent to 99.29 yen. It
dropped to 98.66 yen on Jan. 2, the weakest since December 2000.
The dollar was little changed at 76.72 yen.  Europe’s shared currency slid 5.1 percent over the past six
months, the second worst performance after the franc among the
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes, as investors sought safety amid the
region’s turmoil. The dollar rose 6.7 percent and the yen
climbed 12 percent.  Pound Gains  Sterling advanced today to 82.65 pence per euro, the
strongest level since September 2010, before trading at 82.87
pence, up 0.6 percent. The pound slipped 0.2 percent to $1.5620.  Hungary’s forint fell to a record versus the euro on bets
financial-aid talks will be delayed.  European  inflation (ECCPEST)  slowed to 2.8 percent for December from
a three-year high of 3 percent the prior month, the European
Union statistics office said. A euro-area composite  index (ECPMICOU)  from
Markit Economics based on a survey of purchasing managers in
services and manufacturing stayed below the 50 level that
divides contraction and expansion for a fourth month.  Milan-based  UniCredit (UCG)  said will sell shares at a 43 percent
discount from yesterday’s closing price, excluding the value of
rights. That exceeds the 30 percent discount from Commerzbank AG
on its 5.3 billion-euro rights offer last May and the 39 percent
when HSBC Holdings Plc raised about $17.7 billion in March 2009.  Biggest Loser  The Swiss franc was the biggest loser against the dollar
among its 16 major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. It dropped
1 percent to 94.17 centimes per dollar and fell 0.2 percent to
1.2189 per euro.  The euro may depreciate to parity with the dollar if one or
more countries exit the monetary union, said Adam Myers, a
senior foreign-exchange strategist in  London  at Credit Agricole
SA. He said he expects it to drop first to $1.25 as the current
turmoil intensifies.  “Now we’ll see momentum pick up, and we’ll see the euro
start to fall more aggressively,” Myers said in an interview
with  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word.”  The shared currency may weaken to $1.20 by year-end as the
 European Central Bank  cuts  interest rates , according to  Paul Robinson , global head of foreign-exchange research at Barclays
Plc in London. The ECB may lower its 1 percent refinancing rate
to 0.5 percent this quarter, Robinson said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with Maryam Nemazee.  Speculation on  Spain   Spain’s Treasury gave a verbal guarantee to an unidentified
lender persuading it to advance the funds the Valencia
government needed to make a 123 million-euro payment, El Pais
said, citing people it didn’t identify at the national economy
ministry and the regional economy department.  The euro also weakened amid speculation Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government may apply for loans from the
EU’s rescue fund and the  International Monetary Fund , the
Spanish newspaper Expansion reported, citing unidentified people
with knowledge of the matter. The country’s deputy minister for
communication, Carmen Martinez Castro, said in a phone interview
there are no plans to seek external aid.  Demand at a German auction of 10-year bonds was lower than
the average over the past five years.  Germany  sold 4.06 billion
euros of 2 percent debt due in January 2022 at an average yield
of 1.93 percent. Investors bid for 1.27 times the amount
allotted, versus a five-year average bid-to-cover ratio of 1.6.  “If we get some very weak auctions through the course of
the month, it puts a lot of pressure on the EU and its summit
right at the end of the month,” said  Neil Mellor , a strategist
at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., by phone from London. “It
does point to a positive dollar view.”  EU leaders will meet Jan. 30 to discuss jobs and growth.  Dollar Index (DXY)   The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, increased 0.5 percent to 80.09.  Orders to U.S. factories rose in November by the most in
four months, the Commerce Department said today, showing gains
in manufacturing will help the world’s biggest economy grow.
Bookings rose 1.8 percent after a revised 0.2 percent drop the
prior month, the data showed.  Hungary’s forint dropped for a second day against the euro
on concern a resumption in talks with the IMF and the EU on
financial assistance will be delayed. It retreated 1.3 percent
to 320.46 per euro after touching a record low 321.68.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  