-- Mead Johnson Rises as Baby Illnesses Not Linked to Formula
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-03T21:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/mead-johnson-shares-gain-as-baby-illnesses-not-linked-to-company-s-formula.html
Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , maker of
the world’s best-selling baby formulas, gained 3.8 percent after
U.S. regulators said they hadn’t found a connection between
infant illnesses and the company’s products.  Mead Johnson rose to $71.35 as of the 4 p.m. close in  New
York  for the biggest increase since Dec. 27. The shares are down
6.7 percent since Dec. 21, the day before it was reported that
retailers pulled the company’s Enfamil formula from shelves.  The formula was removed from stores as a precaution after
regulators said a Missouri infant who had been infected with the
bacterium Cronobacter and died had used the product. Tests
conducted by the Glenview, Illinois-based company didn’t find
bacteria in the batch of formula used by the  Missouri  infant.
Cronobacter also killed a baby in  Florida  and sickened two
babies in Illinois and Oklahoma, regulators said Dec. 30.  “Based on test results to date, there is no need for a
recall of  infant formula ” and parents may continue to use it
according to instructions on the label, the  Food and Drug
Administration  and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
said in a joint statement. The FDA hasn’t found evidence that
any contamination from Cronobacter occurred during manufacturing
or shipping, the agencies said.  “Shares should bounce nicely on this news, but it could
take some time for the stock to fully recover,”  Edward Aaron ,
an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in a research note
today. “Ultimately, we see this as an opportunity to own the
same great growth story at a cheaper valuation.”  Genetic Differences  CDC tests on the  Cronobacter germs  that infected the babies
in Missouri and  Illinois  showed the bacteria differ genetically,
suggesting that the two cases aren’t related, the agencies said.
Bacteria from the Oklahoma and Florida cases, brought to the
agency’s attention after the other two incidents were
publicized, aren’t available for analysis, they said.  The CDC found Cronobacter in samples, provided by Missouri
health officials, from an open container of the  powdered infant
formula , an open bottle of nursery water and prepared infant
formula in the case of the baby who had died.  “It is unclear how the contamination occurred,” the
agencies said. “The FDA tested factory sealed containers of
powdered infant formula and nursery water with the same lot
numbers as the opened containers collected from Missouri, and no
Cronobacter bacteria were found.”  Wal-Mart Effect  Mead Johnson’s shares had dropped 15 percent on Dec. 22 and
Dec. 23 after retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. pulled
Enfamil.  “We’re currently reviewing and assessing the test results,
and working with FDA, CDC and Mead Johnson to determine the
appropriate next steps,” Dianna Gee, a spokeswoman for
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, said by telephone today.
The product batch pulled from shelves has not been returned, she
said. Wal-Mart is still selling other Enfamil products.  “Retailers should be confident in the safety of Enfamil
Newborn, based on results of tests performed by the FDA, CDC and
Mead Johnson,” Chris Perille, a Mead Johnson spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement today. “Each chain has its own unique
process to work through, but we are aware of a number of
national and regional retailers that are releasing the batch
they pulled and held back into regular inventory.”  No Disclosure  Regulators didn’t disclose what brands of formula were
connected to the infant infections in  Oklahoma  and Florida.
Federal and state health officials have been investigating
multiple possible causes of the illnesses, not just formula.  The bacterium, commonly found in the environment, hospitals
and homes, can multiply in powdered formula after the product is
mixed with water, the FDA and CDC said.  The Enfa brands, which include Enfamil, accounted for 79
percent of Mead Johnson’s $3.14 billion in  2010 revenue (MJN)  and were
the world’s best-selling baby formulas, the company said in a
February filing.  The FDA inspected Mead Johnson’s plant in Zeeland,
 Michigan , that manufactures Enfamil, the company said Dec. 28.  Cronobacter-related illnesses are rare and can cause severe
blood infections or meningitis in infants. While the CDC
typically learns of about four to six Cronobacter infections a
year, 12 cases have been reported in 2011 “with recent
increased awareness,” the agencies said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  