-- Heart Attack Patients in U.S. Leave Hospital Sooner, Return More
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-03T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/heart-attack-patients-in-u-s-leave-hospital-sooner-return-more.html
Heart attack (CIRCHDTO)  patients in the U.S. get
out of the hospital sooner than those in other countries and
more often are readmitted within a month, researchers said,
suggesting they may need better care after being sent home.  The research, which analyzed data from 15 other countries, 
found a 68 percent higher risk of readmission among U.S. heart 
attack patients. Americans left the hospital in three days, on 
average, the shortest time of any country, according to a report 
today in the  Journal of the  American Medical Association .  Length-of-stay numbers in the U.S. have “declined
dramatically” in the last 25 years, the study said. Now some
data suggest the length “has declined too far, resulting in 
suboptimal outcomes,” the authors wrote. Medical systems 
elsewhere may also better coordinate care after patients are 
discharged, the authors said.  “There’s something for us to learn from the other 
countries,” said Manesh Patel, an assistant professor of medicine 
at  Duke University  in Durham,  North Carolina  and the study's 
senior author. “We’ve done a good job of getting them to the 
hospital, we’ve really raised awareness, but we haven’t done 
as good a job once they’re home.”  The study analyzed data from a trial of 5,571 patients who
had suffered massive heart attacks. Thirty-day readmission rates
for the U.S. were 14.5 percent compared with 9.9 percent in
other countries.  750,000 Heart Attacks  During a heart attack, part of the  heart muscle  dies or is
damaged after being cut off from blood flow. They can be caused
by blood clots or plaque build-up on the walls of arteries. In
the U.S., each year 785,000 people have a first heart attack,
and 470,000 who’ve already had one have another, according to
the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta.  U.S. policy makers have made readmission rates a measure of
the quality of health care, including a provision in the 2010
health care overhaul that uses Medicare to penalize hospitals
for having too many people re-hospitalized.  “Significant attention has been focused on reducing acute
myocardial infection readmission rates in the  United States  as a
means of reducing health-care costs, according to the assumption
that readmission is, at least in part, preventable,” the
authors wrote. “Our analysis shows that readmission may be
preventable because rates are nearly one-third lower in other
countries suggesting the U.S. health care system has features
that can be modified to decrease readmission rates.”  More study is needed to better understand the relationship
between length of stay and readmission rates, the researchers
said.  The study’s limitations include that it was a retrospective
analysis of data from a clinical trial, they said. The original
trial evaluated pexelizumab, an experimental cardiology compound
that is now being studied by Cheshire, Connecticut-based  Alexion
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  