-- ECB Names Belgium’s Praet Chief Economist as Draghi Takes Job From Germany
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-01-03T16:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/ecb-names-belgian-praet-chief-economist-as-draghi-takes-job-from-germany.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  agreed to put Belgium’s Peter Praet in charge of the
bank’s economics division, ignoring calls from  Germany  that one
of its nationals should keep the job.  Praet, 62, will be the first non-German to hold the role
since the ECB was founded in 1998 and was a specialist in
financial regulation at the Belgian central bank before joining
the ECB’s Executive Board in June. Germany’s Joerg Asmussen will
be responsible for international relations. France’s Benoit Coeure, another candidate for the economics job, will be in
charge of market operations from March.  Draghi’s move sidesteps the political question of whether
former finance ministry officials from either Berlin or Paris
should mould the ECB’s economic analysis as policy makers are
scrambling to end the debt crisis. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Nov. 29 that Asmussen would be the
“best person” to succeed  Juergen Stark , who resigned last year
to protest the central bank’s bond purchases.  “The ECB has found a pretty good solution to bypass
possible national disputes,” said  Sebastian Wanke , an economist
at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “It’s a clever move to hand the
international and European relations portfolio to Asmussen. It’s
a more important policy area in the coming years than the
position of chief economist.”  Coeure and Asmussen, who come from the euro region’s
biggest economies, will nevertheless be at the center of policy
making. Asmussen will represent the ECB at crisis meetings of
euro-region finance officials in Brussels. As head of markets,
Coeure takes charge of the refinancing operations that have
become the central toolkit in the ECB’s efforts to fight the
debt crisis.  “I am satisfied,” Asmussen told Germany’s Bild-Zeitung
newspaper. “Together with ECB President Draghi, I will take
care of the short-term  crisis management .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  