-- EDF Reactor Extensions May Cost $65 Billion on Safety Review
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-01-04T08:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/edf-says-longer-reactor-lives-could-cost-65-billion-after-safety-review.html
Electricite de France SA (EDF)  said the
cost of extending nuclear reactor lives to 60 years could reach
50 billion euros ($65 billion) as safety measures ordered by
regulators force the utility to accelerate investment.  The figure is 43 percent more than an estimate of about 35
billion euros EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  gave in
2010. Paris-based EDF, operator of the country’s 58 nuclear
reactors, was ordered by the Autorite de Surete Nucleaire
yesterday to spend billions of euros on improvements in a safety
review following last year’s Fukushima disaster in  Japan .  The improvements “will require an increase in annual
capital expenditure,” Jean-Marc Miraucourt, head of nuclear
engineering, said in a telephone interview. The utility could
end up spending from 40 billion to 50 billion euros ($65
billion) extending the lives of reactors, he said.  EDF dropped as much as 3.1 percent in Paris trading, the
most since Dec. 13. The stock, down 43 percent in the last 12
months, traded at 18.54 euros at 9:39 a.m. local time.  EDF is forecasting spending of about 700 million euros at
each existing reactor to allow for operations through 60 years,
Miraucourt said. The total spending plan could rise to 50
billion euros including safety measures such as new diesel
generators as well as equipment like steam generators.  The budget won’t be “dramatically changed,” although
spending will be accelerated. “Our timetable will be
modified,” he said.  Safety Standards  EDF will have to spend from 10 billion to 15 billion euros
to bring safety standards at French reactors into line with the
regulator’s recommendations,  Les Echos  reported today, citing
officials it didn’t identify. That’s “materially above”
forecasts, Morgan Stanley analysts said in a note today.  EDF’s estimates of the cost of extending the lives of its
nuclear reactors beyond four decades have risen in recent years.
The utility said in July annual spending on French nuclear
reactor maintenance and upgrades could more than double to as
much as 3.6 billion euros in 2015 compared with 1.7 billion
euros in 2010. This spending plan didn’t include safety measures
decided after Fukushima, Miraucourt said yesterday.  EDF’s 30-year-old French nuclear reactors are now
undergoing inspections by the Autorite de Surete Nucleaire,
France’s nuclear safety watchdog, to determine whether they can
operate for another decade.  ‘Extreme’ Situations  Keeping them going would still be cheaper than building new
plants, such as the EPR model the utility is developing in
Flamanville in Normandy.  EDF was told by the ASN to install “core” safety
equipment and procedures at every plant that can be used to cope
with “extreme” situations. These range from additional diesel
generators for power supply to “bunkered” control rooms.  The ASN also called for the creation of a rapid response
team with specialized equipment by the end of 2014. It also
ordered measures to prevent the drying up of spent fuel pools
and feasibility studies on building underground barriers at
reactors and storage sites at La Hague to safeguard water tables
in the event of an accident.  The watchdog reiterated demands that EDF reinforce the
concrete base of  France ’s oldest reactor at Fessenheim by
mid-2013 and find an alternative source of coolant by the end of
this year.  Work strengthening the base of the Fessenheim reactor has
already started and other safety work needed at the site will be
carried out, Miraucourt said yesterday. “There is no question
the work will be carried out.”  Making the concrete base of the oldest reactor at the site
thicker will cost about 15 million euros, he said.  Fessenheim’s Unit 1 reactor was commissioned in 1978 while
the EDF’s reactor fleet is about 25 years old on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  