-- Hedge Funds Raise Bullish Raw-Material Bets Most in 16 Months: Commodities
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-01-03T20:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/hedge-funds-raise-bullish-raw-material-bets-most-in-16-months-commodities.html
Speculators increased  wagers (.MMLOSH)  on
rising commodity prices by the most since August 2010 on signs
that sustained economic growth will drive a rebound in raw
materials from their first annual slump since the recession.  Hedge funds  and other money managers increased combined
net-long positions across 18 U.S. futures and options by 18
percent to 536,907 contracts in the week ended Dec. 27,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Soybean holdings
jumped more than ninefold and those for corn reached a five-week
high. Speculators trimmed bets on declining prices for copper,
cocoa, wheat, and soybean oil and meal.  While the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24
commodities declined 1.2 percent last year, it rallied 12
percent from a 10-month low reached in October on mounting
optimism about growth. Confidence among American consumers rose
in December to the highest level in eight months and pending
sales of existing homes jumped in November for a second month.
More than $3.3 trillion was added to the value of global
equities since Oct. 4,  data (WCAUWRLD)  compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The U.S. is certainly putting the floor on commodities,”
said  James Paulsen , the chief investment strategist at
Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, which oversees about
$330 billion of assets. “Data out of the U.S. flies in the face
of recession. More and more people are saying: ‘Maybe things are
not that bad.’”  Quarterly Rally  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index rose 9 percent last
quarter, snapping two consecutive three-month drops. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities rose 6.7 percent, the most
in a year. The  U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) , a measure against six trading
partners, gained 2.1 percent, the second straight quarterly
advance, while the yield on 10-year Treasuries slid 2.1 percent,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show.  Twelve of the 24 raw materials tracked by the S&P GSCI rose
last week. Gains were led by wheat traded in  Kansas City , which
surged 6.2 percent. Cotton climbed 5.2 percent. In New York
today, silver, cotton, sugar and oil jumped more than 4 percent,
while gold climbed 2.2 percent, the most since Oct. 25.  On a total return basis, the drop in commodities last year
was the first since 2008, as Europe’s debt crisis escalated and
 China ’s economic growth cooled. Money managers have cut bets on
higher prices by 65 percent since this year’s high in April.
More than $10 trillion has been wiped off the value of global
equity markets since May 1 as markets were roiled by concern
that the world would tumble into recession.  Precious Metals  Investors withdrew $936 million from commodity funds in the
week ended Dec. 28, according to data from EPFR Global, which
tracks investment flows. Gold and precious-metals outflows
accounted for $688 million, while $248 million was withdrawn
from other commodities, said  Cameron Brandt , the director of
research at the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company.
Inflows totaled $12.8 billion last year, of which $8.1 billion
was into  bullion (.GLDTONS) , EPFR said.  “We have seen people reducing risks, and the future of
commodities largely depends on whether Europe and U.S. can avoid
a recession,” said Nic Johnson, who helps manage $30 billion in
commodity assets at Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport
Beach ,  California .  Commodities plunged 46 percent in 2008 as the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered the worst global
recession since World War II. Prices rebounded 13 percent in
2009 and 9 percent in 2010 as governments around the world
flooded markets with money to shore up growth.  ‘Finding a Bottom’  “News from  Europe  continues to remain depressing, while
U.S. economic reports are getting better and better, and people
think we will find the bottom for most of the commodities
soon,” said  Michael Smith , the president of T&K Futures and
Options in Port St. Lucie,  Florida .  The U.S. expanded at a rate of 1.8 percent in 2011 and will
probably grow 2.1 percent in 2012, according to the median of 70
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Fewer Americans filed
applications for jobless benefits in the four weeks through Dec.
24 than at any time since June 2008, according to figures from
the Labor Department on Dec. 29.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a Dec. 1 report that the
world probably will avoid a recession and maintained its
“overweight” allocation to commodities, predicting a 15
percent return in the next 12 months. A close balance between
supply and demand across raw materials “could drive a strong
price rebound in early 2012,”  Barclays Capital  said last month.  Farm Bets  A  measure (.AGLOSH)  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators
increased bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 35 percent
to 273,677 contracts. That’s the biggest gain since July 2010.  Soybean wagers surged to 23,683 from 2,575 a week earlier,
the CFTC data show. Prices jumped 6.8 percent in December, the
biggest monthly gain since August. Corn  holdings (.MMCANET)  climbed 18
percent to 148,653 contracts, the highest since Nov. 22.  Lower-than-average humidity and dry soil will curb crop
development in  Argentina  and southern  Brazil  through at least
Jan. 7, according to T-Storm Weather LLC, a forecaster in
 Chicago . Nineteen of 25 traders surveyed by Bloomberg expect
corn to advance this week.  A La Nina weather pattern is similar to the 2008-2009
growing season, according to T-Storm. In that period, there was
at least a 30 percent plunge in Argentina’s grain and oilseed
production and a 13 percent decline in Brazil’s corn output. The
La Nina phenomenon typically brings heavier rainfall in  Asia  and
drier weather in  South America .  “The headlines out of Europe have not gotten any worse,
and the  U.S. economy  is improving, so in general the story for
commodities can only get better,”  John Stephenson , who helps
manage $2.6 billion at First Asset Management Inc. in Toronto,
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  