-- EFSF Bailout Fund to Raise 3 Billion Euros From First Three-Year Bond Sale
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-03T16:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/efsf-mandates-three-banks-for-scheduled-eu3-billion-3-year-bond.html
Europe’s bailout fund plans to raise
3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) from a sale of three-year bonds
as soon as this week after  Standard & Poor’s  said in December it
may lose its top  credit rating .  The European Financial Stability Facility hired  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA to
manage the deal, the fund’s first bond of this maturity and
earmarked to help finance the bailouts of Ireland and Portugal,
it said in an e-mailed statement. The sale will follow the
EFSF’s first bills auction last month and a 3 billion-euro issue
of February 2022 bonds on Nov. 7, 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The EFSF plans to sell the bonds after S&P said Dec. 6 the
fund may lose its AAA rating. The bailout fund, which is
overseen by the euro-area members and sells debt to finance
rescue loans extended to Europe’s high-debt and deficit nations,
owes its top credit grade to guarantees from  Germany , France,
Netherlands, Luxembourg, Austria and Finland.  “They need to be quite generous to get this one both out
of the door successfully and also leaving some room for
tightening in the secondary market,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London.  Target Timing  The fund is targeting Jan. 5 for the sale, a person with
knowledge of the matter said. The securities are “due to be
launched shortly, subject to market conditions,” according to
the EFSF statement.  The EFSF’s bonds have underperformed benchmark securities
as politicians and policy makers failed to draw a line under
Europe’s sovereign crisis, which roiled markets for most of last
year. The EFSF may lose its top rating if one or more of its AAA
rated guarantors are downgraded, S&P said, after putting 15
euro-region nations on review for a ratings cut.  Investors demand 142 basis points more than government debt
to hold the fund’s 5 billion euros of July 2016 bonds, from a
low of 45 basis points on March 28, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The EFSF’s 5 billion euros of notes maturing in
2021 have a yield spread of 133 basis points, from a low of 58
basis points on July 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in  London  at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  