-- Legionnaires’ Bacteria Found in Hong Kong Chief Executive Tsang’s Office
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-01-03T07:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/legionnaires-bacteria-found-in-hong-kong-chief-executive-tsang-s-office.html
Water samples taken from the office
of  Donald Tsang , Hong Kong’s chief executive, were found to
contain bacteria that cause Legionnaires’ disease, after the
city’s education secretary contracted the illness.  Legionella bacteria were discovered in water samples taken
from nine different locations in the city’s new government
building, Thomas Tsang, the city’s  Centre for Health Protection 
controller,  said  in a statement yesterday. Secretary for
Education Michael Suen told reporters Dec. 29 that he had
recovered from the disease.  “If one part of the water system is infected, water pipes
and taps in other parts of the same building are very likely to
be infected,” said Yuen Kwok-yung, chairman of infectious
diseases at the  University of Hong Kong ’s department of
microbiology. “What they need to do is to disinfect the
system.”  There were 17 cases of the disease in Hong Kong in 2011,
according to the Centre for Health Protection, citing  Department
of Health  figures. Between 8,000 and 18,000 people are
hospitalized with Legionnaires’ disease in the U.S. each year,
according to the Atlanta-based  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention .  The findings don’t mean there is an outbreak of
Legionnaires’ disease, and the chief executive and other staff
can work as normal, Thomas Tsang said. Samples from the
building’s water tank tested negative for legionella bacteria,
Tsang said Dec. 29.  Form of Pneumonia  Construction of the new government headquarters began in
2008 and was completed in August. About 3,000 civil servants
from the offices of the chief executive, financial secretary and
12 policy bureaus were expected to move in by the end of 2011,
according to a  government report .  Legionnaires’ disease is a severe form of pneumonia,
according to information on the  website  of the  Mayo Clinic , a
U.S. nonprofit health organization that operates hospitals in
Arizona, Minnesota and  Florida . The disease is spread through
inhalation of the bacteria, and not person-to-person contact,
according to the website. Legionella bacteria can multiply in
indoor water systems, such as hot tubs, air conditioners and
mist sprayers in grocery-store produce departments.  The bacteria usually attack those with existing illnesses
such as chronic  lung disease , Yuen said. The process of
superheating, whereby a liquid is heated to a temperature above
its boiling point without boiling it, can be used to kill any
legionella bacteria in the water, he said.  Chills And Confusion  Symptoms of Legionnaires’ disease include chills, confusion
and gastrointestinal indications, according to the Mayo Clinic
website. Most cases of the illness can be treated with
antibiotics, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  The Centre for Health Protection said it will continue work
to disinfect the building today and will conduct more tests.  Poultry imports from an area in the southern Chinese city
of Shenzhen, where a man died from the deadly H5N1 bird flu
virus on Dec. 31, remained banned in  Hong Kong  today. The
government slaughtered 19,451 birds on Dec. 21, including more
than 15,000 chickens, after the virus was found in a chicken
carcass at a local wholesale market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  