-- El-Erian Says There’s No Appetite to Raise Global Rates in 2012: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-03T15:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/el-erian-says-no-appetite-to-raise-rates-in-2012-tom-keene.html
Policy makers are unlikely to raise
borrowing costs in 2012, with benchmark rates to stay at or
close to zero in the U.S. and  Europe , according to Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian.  Pimco advises investors stay in the five- to nine-year
range in bonds for safety and to earn income, El-Erian, chief
executive and co-chief investment officer of the world’s biggest
manager of bond funds, said in a radio interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  “You’ll see policy rates in the U.S. and Europe floored at
or near zero,” Newport Beach, California-based El-Erian said in
the interview. “I don’t think there will be any appetite or
need to raise  interest rates  in the U.S. and Europe.”  The  Federal Reserve  has said it will keep its target rate
for overnight loans between banks between zero and 0.25 percent
through mid-2013, and is now selling $400 billion of its short-
term Treasuries and reinvesting the proceeds into longer-term
government debt in a program traders dubbed Operation Twist.  The  European Central Bank  reduced its main refinancing rate
twice last quarter, to 1 percent from 1.5 percent. It followed
those moves by allotting 489 billion euros ($638 billion) of
three-year loans to euro-region lenders.  Bonds Rally  “Both the Fed and the ECB are involved in the
consequential terms of buying assets -- they are the market
makers,” El-Erian said. “The rest of us have to decide what
the implications are of having the big printing presses involved
in the market. The long end will be the battle ground between
credit risk -- as sovereign issues remain on the radar screen
and growth concerns” persist.  U.S. Treasuries  rose last year by the most since the 2008
financial crisis, gaining 9.8 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes, on demand for safest assets.  The U.S. 10-year yield rose seven basis points to 1.95
percent at 10:48 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. German 30-year  government bonds  fell, pushing
yields above 2.5 percent for the first time in almost two weeks.
German bonds returned 9.7 percent last year, also the most since
2008, when they made 12 percent, indexes developed by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch show.  Overall for 2012, “it’s a very unpredictable outlook,”
El-Erian said. “A lot will depend unfortunately on if policy
makers can do the right thing at the right time. If you look at
regions, you have to start with Europe. Europeans have to get
ahead of their crisis, they haven’t as yet.”  Rising borrowing costs forced  Greece , Portugal and Ireland
to seek bailouts from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund . Italy’s 10-year yields exceeded 7 percent last
month, a level that preceded the request for aid from those
three nations.  Growth in the 17-nation euro region will slow to just 0.3
percent this year from about 1.6 percent in 2011, the ECB
forecast last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  