-- Electability Versus Conviction Tested in Today’s Iowa Caucuses
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/electability-versus-conviction-tested-in-today-s-iowa-republican-caucuses.html
Republicans in  Iowa  today will start
to reveal whether they’re more interested in electability or
ideology when it comes to picking a 2012 challenger to President
 Barack Obama .  In a campaign that has been marked by volatility --
evidenced by the front-runner position in polls being handed
from Michele Bachmann to  Rick Perry  to  Herman Cain  to  Newt Gingrich  to Mitt Romney -- the results of the Iowa caucuses may
offer some clarity.  The most recent surveys show that either Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor, U.S. Representative Ron Paul of Texas or
former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania  could win as
they spend a final day campaigning today in Iowa.  The payoff for top finishers will be a boost in exposure
and fundraising as the race accelerates to the contests in New
Hampshire,  South Carolina  and  Florida  this month.  “The Iowa caucuses are really about giving the media a
voter-based reason to narrow their national coverage to two or
three candidates,” said Mike Murphy, a Republican strategist
unaffiliated with any of the presidential campaigns. “Success
is driven by the media attention, which in turn has a huge
impact on fundraising and even polling numbers in the next wave
of state primaries.”  Final Poll  The fluidity of the contest in Iowa was underscored in the
final  Iowa Poll  by the Des Moines Register newspaper Dec. 31
that showed 41 percent of likely Republican caucus participants
said they could change their minds.  “Ten days ago the polls said I was going to finish last,”
Santorum told a crowd gathered yesterday in the lobby of a hotel
in Perry, Iowa. “Polls change. Convictions shouldn’t. And
that’s what I bring to the equation.”  Later, Santorum told voters to “not settle” for “someone
who can appeal to moderate voters by being more moderate.”  In an interview with  CNN  yesterday, Paul criticized
Santorum as a “very liberal” candidate who voted for too much
 government spending  during his time in Congress.  “He wasn’t leading the charge to slash the budgets and
vote against big government,” Paul said.  The New Hampshire primary on Jan. 10, with its tradition of
humbling front-runners, will be the next test. And two of the
candidates, Perry, the  Texas  governor, and Bachmann, a
congresswoman from  Minnesota , have decided to go directly from
Iowa to South Carolina, where more voters place a greater
emphasis on social issues like abortion.  Weekend Debates  All have said they will participate in debates in New
Hampshire Jan. 7 and Jan. 8. Gingrich, the former U.S. House
speaker who has vowed to take a more aggressive approach with
Romney after pledging to run a positive campaign, vaulted to the
lead in the race a month ago because of his debate performances.  The campaign in Iowa has also demonstrated the power of
money by so-called Super PACs to affect the race. Of the
estimated $5.8 million spent on television advertising in Iowa
through Dec. 30, $3.7 million financed negative ads, according
to most recent data available from New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG, a company that tracks advertising.  Most attacked Gingrich, who was leading in Iowa polls from
mid-November through mid-December. The commercials were
primarily financed by Paul, Perry and an outside committee that
backs Romney.  Romney Consistency  It’s Romney who has shown the greatest consistency in the
race, even as he has been unable to get above a quarter of the
support of likely Republican voters virtually everywhere outside
 New Hampshire . He received a quarter of the Iowa vote in 2008 to
finish second to former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee.  National polls have shown Romney would have the best chance
of beating Obama in a head-to-head matchup.  Romney’s team has succeeded for the most part in making the
electability argument. The Iowa Poll showed almost half of
likely caucus participants say that Romney is the “most
electable” general-election candidate in the field.  The poll had Romney with a narrow lead over Paul, followed
by Santorum, who surged in the final two days of sampling last
week.  A victory by Romney, 64, would position him to do well in
New Hampshire. He was backed by 43 percent of likely primary
voters in a Suffolk University/7NEWS two-day tracking poll
released yesterday. No Republican who has won both Iowa and New
Hampshire has failed to become the party nomination.  Stealth Campaign  After waging a largely stealth campaign in Iowa for most of
the past year, Romney intensified his efforts in the state in
the closing weeks of the campaign. A skeleton staff was
bolstered with bodies dispatched from his headquarters in  Boston 
and he has flooded the state’s airwaves with advertising.  Even a second-place showing in Iowa for Romney, especially
if it were behind the libertarian-leaning Paul, would be seen as
strong.  “By competing and winning in Iowa he would have a chance
to wrap this nomination up pretty early,” said  David Yepsen , a
former political writer at the  Des Moines  Register who is now
director of the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute at  Southern
Illinois University Carbondale . “I’ve always thought it was a
pretty good risk for him to take.”  Turnout Question  One of the greatest unknowns today is turnout, something
that can’t be easily predicted by polls. Four years ago, about
120,000 Republicans attended caucus meetings, a number that most
party observers in the state have said will grow.  “I’m expecting that we are going to see a great turnout,”
Iowa Governor Terry Branstad predicted yesterday on  MSNBC .  Democrats slightly outnumber Republicans in voter
registration in Iowa, while independent voters outnumber both
parties. In 2008, roughly twice as many Democrats as Republicans
turned out for their caucuses, a record. Polls have shown
Republicans saying they have greater intensity among their
partisans and the caucus will be a test of that.  In a show of confidence, Romney announced that he intends
to stay in Iowa the morning after the caucus results are in,
before flying to New Hampshire, where he has enjoyed popularity
because of his time as governor of a neighboring state and his
ownership of a vacation home there.  As they have for months, Romney’s strategists say they are
prepared -- and best equipped -- for a long primary fight,
should it happen. They’re increasingly turning their attention
to the next set of contests, including Florida, where absentee
ballots are already in the hands of thousands of voters.  Organizational Strength  “The key is who has the organization that’s strong enough
to keep going from state to state to state,” said campaign
strategist Eric Fehrnstrom. “As you look at the field, the
answer to that is obvious. It’s  Mitt Romney .”  Before the voting starts, Romney is a prohibitive betting
favorite to win the Republican nomination with a roughly 80
percent probability as of late yesterday, according to
 InTrade.com , an online betting service.  The volatility of the race, from the standpoint of national
polling, was documented in a  report  released yesterday by
Gallup, a polling company based in Princeton,  New Jersey .  “Historical comparisons of primaries can be problematic
given differences in the number of candidates and number of
polls conducted each election,” the report said. “It still
seems clear that this phase of the 2012 Republican nomination
process has been the most volatile for the [party] since the
advent of polling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  West Des Moines , Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  