-- Temasek Starts New Investment Company Headed by Ex-Chief Investment Head
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-01-03T03:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/temasek-starts-company-headed-by-ex-chief-investment-officer-in-china-push.html
Temasek Holdings Pte (TMSK)  set up a wholly
owned company run by Tow Heng Tan, its former chief investment
officer, to invest in privately held firms in North Asian
markets including  China .  Pavilion Capital Pte will expand Temasek’s current holdings
in closely held companies and will focus on small and medium
enterprises in China, the  Singapore  state-owned firm said in an
e-mailed statement today in response to queries.  “There are still vast opportunities in many asset
classes,” said Song Seng Wun, an economist at CIMB Research Pte
in Singapore. “This gives them the flexibility, since you’re
talking about having direct stakes in new emerging growth
enterprises.”  Temasek, which  managed (TMSK)  S$193 billion ($150 billion) as of
March 2011, has transformed from a passive holder of stakes in
government-controlled companies to an investor with more than
two-thirds of its underlying assets abroad.  Pavilion would be Temasek’s second investment company in as
many years. The firm, in February 2010, set up a wholly owned
global investment company called Seatown Holdings Pte with
committed capital of more than S$4 billion to invest in assets
including stocks and bonds.  Seatown, which makes its investment decisions independently,
will co-invest with institutional investors by 2015 and may add
retail investors by 2020, Temasek said in 2010.  Flexibility  “Be it a Seatown or Pavilion, you can have slightly
different mandates,” said CIMB’s Song. “It can be as big as
they want it to be. They have more than enough money in their
kitty.”  Temasek (TMSK)  said in July the value of its assets climbed 3.8
percent to a record in the year ended March 2011 and profit more
than doubled on increased contributions from its holdings. The
company posted a total shareholder return of 4.6 percent and had
an annualized compounded return of 17 percent since its
inception in 1974, according to its annual report.  Temasek bought 3.77 billion shares of China Construction
Bank Corp. on Nov. 11, increasing its stake in the second-
largest Chinese lender by market capitalization to 9.42 percent
from 7.86 percent. In July, its real estate unit, Mapletree
Investments Pte, agreed to pay HK$18.8 billion ($2.4 billion)
for  Swire Pacific Ltd. (19) ’s Festival Walk shopping center, the
biggest property transaction ever for the Hong Kong landlord.  ‘Complement and Expand’  Pavilion will “complement and expand our coverage and
capacity for North Asia, including China,” Temasek said in the
statement.  Temasek also has a fund-management unit,  Fullerton Fund
Management Co ., which invests in  hedge funds  and other assets
such as equities and bonds.  Tow, who joined Temasek in 2002, became its chief
investment officer in October 2007. He was head of Indochina and
co-head of Singapore, according to Temasek’s  website . He was
managing director of Lum Chang Securities Pte and an investment
banker with Schroders Plc in Singapore before he joined Temasek.  The Singapore investment company hired Tan Chong Lee as its
chief investment officer-designate from Bank of America Corp.,
people familiar with the mater said in September. Tan was
previously head of corporate and investment banking in  Southeast
Asia  at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit in Singapore. He
became Temasek’s sole chief investment officer on Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  