-- Emerging Stocks Advance for Fourth Day on Global Manufacturing Optimism
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-01-03T22:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/emerging-stocks-advance-for-fourth-day-on-global-manufacturing-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks surged,
gaining for a fourth day as a pickup in manufacturing output
boosted optimism the global economy is weathering  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  surged 2.5 percent to
939.91 at the close in New York, the highest since Dec. 8 and
the biggest gain in a month. The Bovespa index increased 2.5
percent in Sao Paulo. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
Chinese stocks traded in  Hong Kong  jumped 3 percent, the
sharpest advance in a month. Benchmark measures surged at least
2 percent in South Korea, Turkey,  India  and  Russia .  Manufacturing expanded in the U.S., China and India,
showing the resilience of the global economy. Purchasing manager
indexes for the U.K., Switzerland, China, India and Australia
rose in December, while German unemployment fell more than
economists forecast as exports of cars and machinery boomed,
reports today showed. U.S. manufacturing growth accelerated more
than economists’ predictions to the fastest pace in six months.  “ China  and India manufacturing indicators have topped
consensus and led to modest but broad gains across most markets
and commodities this morning,” Chris Weafer, chief strategist
at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said in an e-mailed comment. “The
best one can say about markets coming into 2012 is expectations
are so low that any surprisingly good news, or even less bad
than currently feared, could have an immediately positive impact
on asset prices.”  U.S. Payrolls  A report this week will probably indicate that hiring in
the U.S. accelerated in December, a sign that the country’s
improving labor market will bolster consumer spending in early
2012. Payrolls climbed by 150,000 workers after rising 120,000
in November, according to the median forecast of 75 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey before the Labor Department release
on Jan. 6.  Crude oil surged 4.2 percent to the highest level in more
than seven months in  New York  as concern persisted that
sanctions against Iran may lead to supply disruption. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of commodities rose 3.4 percent.  Brazilian stocks advanced to a four-week high, following
crude and metal prices higher. Oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4)  added 3.9 percent and miner Vale SA rose 4 percent. The real
appreciated 2.2 percent against the dollar, the most among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The ruble strengthened 1.4 percent as oil, Russia’s largest
export earner, jumped.  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s biggest lender,
rose 3.8 percent in Moscow, helping the  Micex Index (MICEX)  increase 3
percent.  Hungary  Hungary sold three-month Treasury bills at 7.67 percent,
the highest since August 2009, after lawmakers approved
regulations Dec. 30 that reduced powers of the president of the
central bank, despite opposition from the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union. The BUX Index slid 0.9 percent and
the forint weakened 0.7 percent against the euro.  Lawmakers in Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s Fidesz party
last week approved a law that expands the rate-setting Monetary
Council while curbing the power of Central Bank President Andras Simor. The  IMF  and the EU broke off talks on a bailout last
month over the plan.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  and India’s  Sensex (SENSEX)  surged 2.7
percent each.  The extra  yield (JPEGSOSD)  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell twelve basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 414, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  