-- Energy Giants Undeterred by Quakes Seek Shale Stakes in ‘Runway to Growth’
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-01-04T06:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/energy-giants-undeterred-by-quakes-seek-shale-stakes-in-runway-to-growth-.html
Asian and European energy producers
are spending billions of dollars to amass stakes in oil and
natural-gas discoveries from Ohio to British Columbia even as
earthquakes and tainted water threaten to stall the  biggest
drilling boom (BAKEHORZ)  in at least two decades.  Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil company, and  China
Petrochemical Corp. (600028) , that nation’s second-biggest crude
producer, committed $7 billion to U.S. and Canadian shale rock
formations during the past two weeks. The investments are aimed
at tapping the expertise of smaller explorers including  Devon
Energy Corp. (DVN)  and  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  that pioneered
techniques employed to crack previously impervious shale.  The potential rewards from shale regions such as the Utica
and Marcellus formations in the eastern U.S. are too big for
overseas explorers to ignore, said Mark Hanson, an analyst at
Morningstar LLC in Chicago. A New Year’s Eve earthquake in
Youngstown, Ohio, linked to a well used to store drilling
wastewater prompted the state to halt operations at five such
wells. Separately, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is
studying whether intensive shale-drilling practices pose a
danger to drinking water.  “These shale prospects are exploration frontiers and the
big international players see them as a runway to growth,”
Hanson said yesterday in a telephone interview. “They are
acquiring stakes not only to learn how to drill these kind of
formations in other parts of the world, but to understand how to
get their arms around prospects of this size.”  Reliance, BHP  Shale acquisitions helped push overseas offers for U.S. oil
and gas fields to $51 billion last year, the most in at least 12
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Melbourne-based
BHP Billiton Ltd. led purchases in 2011 with the $12.1 billion
takeover of Petrohawk Energy Corp.  India’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and Apollo Global
Management LLC were today named by people with knowledge of the
matter as being among companies in talks to buy El Paso Corp.’s
oil and gas exploration and production unit. The unit, whose
assets include more than half a million acres of shale fields,
may be worth about $8.1 billion, analysts at BNP Paribas SA
estimated in November.  El Paso owned drilling rights to 46,000 acres in
Louisiana’s Haynesville Shale at the end of 2010, according to a
regulatory filing, and 500,000 acres in the Eagle Ford Shale,
Permian Basin and other fields in Texas. It also has 605,000
acres in the Raton Basin coal-bed methane field in  New Mexico 
and  Colorado .  Sinopec Group, Devon  China  Petrochemical, known as Sinopec Group, yesterday
agreed to buy a one-third stake in five Devon exploratory oil
projects in the U.S. for $900 million. The Beijing-based company
also will provide as much as $1.6 billion to cover Devon’s
future drilling costs, Oklahoma City-based Devon said in a
statement.  The deal followed Sinopec Group’s C$2.2 billion ($2.16
billion) acquisition of  Daylight Energy Ltd. (DAY)  on Dec. 23 to get
access to the Calgary-based company’s gas and oil projects in
western  Canada .  Sinopec Group and domestic rivals  China National Petroleum
Corp (CNPZ) . and  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  are seeking to learn how to tap shale
formations at home that the U.S. Energy Information Agency
estimates may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of gas, or 12 times
China’s so-called conventional deposits.  Shale Concern  Total agreed to pay $2.32 billion yesterday for a 25
percent stake in 619,000 acres in a section of the Utica shale
rich in butane and propane that sell at a premium to gas.
Chesapeake will receive $2.03 billion and EnerVest Ltd. will get
$290 million.  Total has been a partner with Chesapeake in another shale
formation, the Barnett, near Fort Worth,  Texas , since 2010. The
company plans to transfer what it learns about cracking dense
shale from Chesapeake’s experts to shale prospects in Africa,
Latin America, Australia and Europe.  Drilling into shale rock to extract gas and crude has come
under fire from federal regulators, state lawmakers and
environmental groups concerned that the practice may contaminate
drinking water. Shale rock was considered too hard to drill
until the 1990s, when new methods for boring horizontal wells
were combined with hydraulic fracturing, which involves pumping
millions of gallons of high-pressure water laced with chemicals
and sand underground.  The number of rigs drilling horizontal wells in the U.S.
surged 23 percent in 2011, reaching 1,184 on Dec. 16, the
highest since at least January 1991, according to  Baker Hughes
Inc. (BHI) , an oilfield-services provider that tracks rig activity.  Encana Wells  Last month, the EPA said for the first time that it found
chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing in drinking water in
 Wyoming .  Encana Corp. (ECA) , which operates 150 wells in the region of
Wyoming where the EPA made its findings, said on Dec. 20 that
the EPA failed to take into account naturally occurring
chemicals and the possibility that the agency contaminated its
own tests.  Total pursued shale opportunities outside France because of
a ban on hydraulic fracturing in the company’s home country.
 Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-based analyst for RBC Capital
Markets, said the Dec. 31 quake in Ohio -- the tenth in that
region in a year -- is unlikely to spur restrictions that may
disrupt U.S. shale exploration.  “No one has made a concrete connection between earthquakes
and drilling,”  Hanold said in a telephone interview. “There’s
not a lot of fear of regulation right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  