-- Enterprise to Build Pennsylvania-to-Texas Ethane Pipeline
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-01-03T22:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/enterprise-to-build-ethane-pipeline-from-pennsylvania-to-texas.html
Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD) , the
largest U.S. pipeline partnership by market value, will build a
1,230-mile (1,979-kilometer) line to ship ethane from
Pennsylvania to U.S.  Gulf Coast  petrochemical plants.  The ATEX Express pipeline will have the capacity to
transport as much as 190,000 barrels a day, Houston-based
Enterprise said in a statement today. The company has
commitments from shippers to pay 14.5 to 15.5 cents per gallon.  Chemical companies including  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and
LyondellBassell Industries NV are using more ethane and other
natural-gas liquids from shale formations as a way to replace
crude oil-based feedstocks such as naphtha. Enterprise estimates
Gulf Coast petrochemical demand for ethane is about 955,000
barrels a day, according to the statement. Ethane is a feedstock
for producing ethylene, the main ingredient in plastics.  “The willingness of shippers to commit to a term of at
least 15 years reflects the long-term potential of shale
development in the Appalachian region,” Enterprise Chief
Executive Officer Michael A. Creel said in the statement.  The ATEX line will connect to the Marcellus and Utica shale
formations in  Pennsylvania  and Ohio.  “Enterprise has garnered the most shipper interest and at
this point is the only pipeline solution that goes from the
Marcellus Shale down to  Texas ,” T.J. Schultz, an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets  in Austin, Texas, said in a phone interview.
Schultz rates Enterprise’s units at “outperform” and owns
none.  Mont Belvieu  Enterprise’s Mont Belvieu, Texas, complex is the biggest
storage and processing facility for ethane and other gas liquids
on the Gulf Coast, said  Darren Horowitz , an analyst for Raymond
James & Associates Inc. in Houston. It’s connected to almost
every petrochemical facility on the Gulf, he said.  “Producers want a complete solution and they’re willing to
pay more for access,” said Horowitz, who rates Enterprise’s
units a “strong buy” and owns none.  If the pipeline reaches its full capacity, it may generate
more than $400 million a year in revenue, according to Bloomberg
calculations. The release didn’t say how much of the capacity is
committed to shippers. The pipeline is expected to begin service
in the first quarter of 2014, according to the statement.  Enterprise rose less than 1 percent to close at $46.67 in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  