-- Merkel Resumes Debt Crisis Fight as Scrutiny of German President Increases
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-01-03T14:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/merkel-resumes-crisis-efforts-as-scrutiny-of-germany-s-wulff-intensifies.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  returns from
a two-week break to the front line of the debt crisis amid a
clamor over the conduct of  Germany ’s president that threatens to
damage her own standing and detract from her efforts to defend
the euro.  Merkel, whose last official engagement was on Dec. 20, will
resume her public duties in two days with the public spotlight
on President  Christian Wulff  over a loan from a friend’s wife to
buy a house and vacations at the homes of business people.
Scrutiny of the mainly ceremonial president intensified
yesterday after Bild, Germany’s biggest-selling newspaper, said
that the president had attempted to stop the editor from
publishing the loan story last month.  “The president is Merkel’s creation and if he’s forced to
leave in such an ignominious way it would weaken her,”  Jan Techau , director of the Brussels-based European center of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said by phone.
“Merkel was able to push through Wulff’s election without
taking much account of opposing voices. If she has to pick a new
president it will become a real test of her power.”  The accusations aimed at Wulff have “damaged him and his
office,” Handelsblatt newspaper said today under the headline
“the shrunken president.” His remaining in the post “is in
doubt.” Wulff has rejected any impropriety.  Merkel-Sarkozy Meeting  The accusations surrounding Wulff are a distraction for
Merkel as she pushes for a blueprint on closer fiscal ties in
Europe by the end of March to combat the crisis that has driven
the euro to record lows against the yen. She is due to host
French President Nicolas Sarkozy Jan. 9 for talks in Berlin with
the threat of a credit-rating downgrade still hanging over the
euro area.  While “the German medicine that we need to solve the
problems of southern  Europe ” is generally accepted, there is
still a debate over how to stimulate growth, Kit Juckes, head of
foreign exchange research at Societe Generale SA in  London , said
in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television.  “The solution is there,” he said. “It’s a question of
whether the political will exists to get us further down the
road than we are now.”  Merkel, in her  New Year’s address , pledged to defend the
euro and warned of hard times to come without signaling any
additional measures to combat the crisis that the Munich-based
Ifo economic institute forecast will cause economic growth to
plunge to 0.4 percent this year from an estimated 2.9 percent in
2011. She and Sarkozy will prepare for “upcoming European
appointments,” including a Jan. 30 European summit, the
government said.  Merkel hasn’t addressed Wulff’s travails since she said
before her Christmas vacation departure last month that he had
her “full confidence.”  Presidential Resignation  Wulff, 52, a former deputy leader of Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union party, was picked by the chancellor to replace
the previous incumbent,  Horst Koehler , after Koehler’s surprise
resignation in May 2010. Wulff was elected by a special national
assembly on June 30 of that year only after the third attempt.  The chancellor’s majority in the assembly has since
narrowed to as few as two seats from 21 seats after regional
election defeats throughout 2011 that she and other party
officials blamed on the debt crisis, according to electoral
website  wahlrecht.de .  Home Loan  Wulff’s 18 months in office were largely confined to
representing Germany overseas until Bild reported on Dec. 13
that he negotiated a 500,000 euro ($651,000) loan from the wife
of Egon Geerkens, a businessman friend, to pay for a new home
when he was Lower Saxony state premier. Wulff later apologized
for failing to reveal the loan, which he said he paid back
before his election to the presidency. “At no time in public
office did I give anyone an improper advantage,” Wulff told
reporters on Dec. 22.  Handelsblatt said that by so far refusing to come to
Wulff’s rescue again, Merkel is adopting a “dangerous silence”
that could backfire.  For all the media attention on the president’s future,
“losing Wulff would be a distraction but it’s not going to put
Merkel’s government into system overload,” said Techau at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “She’s able to
handle multiple crises. This government has been in crisis mode
since it came into office in 2009.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  