-- Europe Bonds in Biggest Rally Since Euro Start: Chart of the Day
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-01-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/europe-bonds-in-biggest-rally-since-euro-start-chart-of-the-day.html
Euro-area  government bonds  had their
best month on record in December as Spanish and Italian debt
surged in response to unprecedented action from the  European
Central Bank  and political leaders to stem the debt crisis.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows an index of euro-zone securities
rebounded from an almost 2 1/2-year low on Nov. 25, climbing 3.9
percent last month, the most since the single currency began in
1999, according to indexes compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Spanish bonds
handed investors 6.9 percent in December, Belgian debt returned
6.4 percent and Italian securities added 5 percent. A European
benchmark stock index closed at a five-month high yesterday.  The European  bond market  turned around in November after
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  stepped down to make
way for a technocrat government led by former European Union
Competition Commissioner  Mario Monti , and speculation grew that
greater financial assistance would be available for indebted
countries that sign up to tougher budget rules. Investors also
bet the ECB would act to bring down record Italian and Spanish
bond yields, reached earlier that month. The central bank agreed
to lend banks 489 billion euros ($638 billion) of three-year
money on Dec. 21 in an unprecedented move to ease the crisis.  “The good news in Europe was the ECB’s longer-term
refinancing operation, which was very successful,” said  Vincent Chaigneau , global head of interest-rate strategy at Societe
Generale SA in Paris. “Certainly it contributed to the
compression of euro-bond spreads and we saw a recovery of risk
sentiment across the board.”  The average yield of euro-region government bonds fell to
3.21 percent on Dec. 30 from 4.28 percent on Nov. 25, according
to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The year-
end yield was the lowest since Oct. 11 and compares with an
average for the year of 3.45 percent, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  