-- Europe Stocks Rise to Highest Since August on U.S. Factory Data
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-03T16:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/european-stock-futures-rise-before-u-s-manufacturing-report-rio-may-gain.html
European stocks rose for a fourth
day, pushing the Stoxx Europe 600 Index to its highest level in
five months, as a report showed that  manufacturing in the U.S. (NAPMPMI) 
expanded in December at the fastest pace in six months.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group jumped more than 6
percent, leading gains by commodity producers as copper
increased in London. Automakers rallied as R.L. Polk & Co. said
the number of cars and light trucks sold globally will grow 6.7
percent this year.  The benchmark  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  rose 1.6 percent to 251.06 at the
close, its highest level since Aug. 3. The gauge has risen for
four days, its longest winning streak since November. The U.K.,
the U.S. and Swiss markets were closed for a holiday yesterday.  “The new year has bearish expectations for growth baked
in, providing an equity-buying opportunity for investors as
growth improves later in the year,” said Daniel Weston, a
portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities GmbH in Munich. “The
market will focus on improving growth increasing profits, low
 interest rates  benefiting businesses and investors will see
equity as a more attractive alternative than holding cash.”  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  rallied 1.1 percent yesterday as a measure of
German manufacturing beat estimates. The gauge posted its first
yearly decline since 2008 last year as U.S. leaders wrangled
over cutting the deficit and euro-area policy makers remained
divided on their response to the sovereign-debt crisis.  European Budget Rules  National leaders have pledged to draft a stricter rulebook
for controlling  government spending . German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy will meet in Berlin
on Jan. 9 to work out the details.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index rose to
53.9 last month from 52.7 in November. That beat the  median
projection (NAPMPMI)  of 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
the report. Fifty is the dividing line between growth and
contraction.  Construction spending (CNSTTMOM)  in the world’s largest
economy increased in November, another report today showed.  A separate report on Jan. 6 will probably show that hiring
in the U.S. accelerated in December for a second month, a sign
that the country’s improving labor market will bolster  consumer
spending  in early 2012, economists said. Payrolls climbed by
150,000 workers after rising 120,000 in November, according to
the median forecast of 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the Labor Department release on Jan. 6.  “U.S. data has continued to impress and markets are
expecting the trend to persist,” Jim Reid, a strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in  London , wrote in a research note today.  European Debt Sales  France sold 84-, 161- and 315-day treasury bills today. The
10-year yield increased four basis points to 3.28 percent as of
2:05 p.m. London time, rising for a fifth consecutive day. Two-
year yields added two basis points to 0.87 percent.  German unemployment (GRUECHNG)  fell in December more than economists
had forecast as exports of cars and machinery boomed and one of
the mildest winters on record helped support jobs in
construction.  “The main focus is that there will be no recession,” said
 Robert Halver , head of research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt.
“It can be a good year for equities under the condition that
European politicians do their homework. The  European Central
Bank  is in the driving seat.”  National benchmark indexes advanced in every western-
European market except  Greece .  Germany ’s DAX Index added 1.5
percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index climbed 2.3 percent.
France’s CAC 40 Index gained 0.7 percent.  BHP Billiton ,  the world’s biggest mining company (BLT) , surged
6.2 percent to 1,993 pence, while Rio Tinto, the second-largest,
soared 6.4 percent to 3,325 pence. Copper, lead, nickel, tin and
zinc advanced on the London Metal Exchange.  Global Auto Sales  Carmakers posted the second-best performance of the 19
industry groups on the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  as Polk, a research company
based in Southfield, Michigan, predicted that the industry’s
sales will rise to 77.7 million vehicles this year, helped by a
16 percent gain in  China  to 17.9 million.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  rose 4 percent to 55.29 euros
as Sueddeutsche Zeitung said  the world’s biggest maker of luxury
cars (BMW)  expects the automotive market to remain stable in 2012,
with growth opportunities in the U.S. and China.  Afren Plc (AFR)  soared 20 percent to 103.2 pence, its largest
increase since April 2009 and the best performance in the Stoxx
600 today. The U.K. oil and gas explorer focused on  Africa  said
its aggregate production has reached 55,400 barrels of oil
equivalent per day, exceeding its year-end target of 50,000
barrels.  Lagardere, Adecco  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  jumped 4.6 percent to 22.01 euros after Qatar
Holding LLC said it will seek a seat on the French media
company’s supervisory board. Qatar Holding, which owns 10.07
percent of Lagardere’s shares, said it may also raise its stake
in the company though it will not seek management control of the
owner of the Europe 1 radio station.  Adecco SA (ADEN)  increased 5 percent to 41.30 Swiss francs. The
company said it has agreed to buy VSN Inc., a provider of
professional staffing services in  Japan , for an enterprise value
of 90 million euros. VSN doubles Adecco’s exposure to
professional staffing in Japan and reinforces the company’s
strong position in an attractive structural growth market, it
said in a statement.  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  jumped 14 percent to 1.64 euros, its
biggest gain in a year, as the German pay-television operator
was raised to “buy” at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Royal KPN NV dropped 2.6 percent to 9.08 euros, its first
retreat in four days. The company said Chief Financial Officer
Carla Smits-Nusteling will step down because she failed to agree
with a new management structure.  Storebrand ASA (STB)  tumbled 6.7 percent to 28 kroner after the
Norwegian insurance company was downgraded to “underperform”
from “market perform” at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  