-- India’s Bid to Lure Stock Investors May Be Undermined by European Crisis
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-01-03T07:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/europe-may-hurt-india-s-bid-to-lure-investors.html
India ’s bid to lure overseas capital
by loosening curbs on stock investments may be undermined by
 Europe ’s debt crisis, according to a strategist who predicted a
year-end drop for the nation’s equities.  “This is a desperate attempt by the government to bring
dollar flows to stabilize the rupee,” said Indrajit Sen, a
Mumbai-based derivatives strategist at  Fortune Financial
Services India Ltd. (FFSI)  “Overseas retail investors may not invest
aggressively.” Sen said in October the  S&P CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY) 
would fall to 4,600 by Dec. 31. It ended last year at 4,624.  India’s government said on Jan. 1 it will allow overseas
individual investors to buy local equities directly in a move to
broaden foreign flows into the nation’s $1 trillion stock
market. The new policy may take effect by Jan. 15, the
government said. Currently, overseas retail investors can only
buy Indian shares through participatory notes, derivative
products held offshore by investors or  hedge funds  not
registered with the regulator.  Foreign institutional investors (FIINDRGP)  pulled out $512 million
from local equities last year, compared with a record inflow of
$29.4 billion in 2010, as Europe’s debt crisis threatened the
global economy and reduced demand for emerging-market assets.
The withdrawals contributed to a 25 percent slide in the  BSE
India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  and the S&P CNX Nifty Index in 2011, the
second worst annual decline for both gauges, and helped send the
rupee to an all-time low.  The Sensex jumped 2 percent to 15,843.70 at 12:44 p.m. in
Mumbai, set for the biggest gain in two weeks.  ‘Policy Paralysis’  Parliamentary gridlock, high inflation, a widening budget
deficit and the weakest quarterly economic growth in two years
dragged India’s rupee to a record low of 54.305 per dollar on
Dec. 15, lifting import prices in a nation that buys 80 percent
of its oil from abroad. Opposition from coalition allies last
month prompted the government to delay indefinitely plans to
allow overseas retailers to expand in the country, deepening a
yearlong deadlock in policy making.  Easing rules for individual foreign investors “should
reverse the perception of policy paralysis governance for the
time being,” D.S. Rawat, secretary general of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India, the nation’s third
biggest trade body, said by e-mail yesterday.  India’s current-account deficit widened to near a record
last quarter, the central bank said Dec. 30. The gauge of trade
and investment flows posted a $16.89 billion shortfall in the
three months ended Sept. 30 as Europe’s crisis hurt demand for
Indian exports while a 16 percent decline in the rupee last year
made imports expensive. The European Union is the Asian nation’s
biggest trading partner.  ‘Fiscal Stability’  “I am concerned about fiscal stability in future because
our fiscal deficit has worsened in the past three years,” Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in a New Year’s statement to the
nation. “We have run out of fiscal space and must once again
begin the process of fiscal consolidation.”  Earnings forecasts for Sensex companies for the year ending
in March 2012 have fallen 8.7 percent to 1,150 rupees per share,
the most since the year ended March 2009, according to about
1,500 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The earnings season for
the quarter ended Dec. 31 begins next week.  “The government has started to understand that it needs
solutions and is taking small steps like allowing foreigners to
invest directly,” Sunil Singhania, head of equities at Reliance
Capital Asset Management Ltd., India’s second-biggest money
manager with $17 billion in assets, said in an interview with
Bloomberg UTV yesterday. “We are in a bit of a problem from a
fiscal deficit, currency, government finances and corporate
profitability perspective.”  ‘Untapped Stories’  While individual foreign investors may not rush in, the new
rule allows them to take bets on small and medium-sized
companies usually overlooked by large investors, Chokkalingam G,
chief investment officer at Centrum Broking Pvt., said by phone
from Mumbai yesterday.  “Foreigners will now be able to invest directly in the
huge universe of Indian stocks and a lot of untapped micro and
small-cap stories,” he said. “They could also get services
including capital advisory and  portfolio management .”  Indian equities are influenced by  offshore (FIINNET)  flows. A record
flow in 2010 made the Sensex the best performer among the top 10
markets globally that year. The largest-ever outflow in 2008 led
the biggest annual slump of 52 percent. Widening the class of
investors may help reduce this volatility, the government said
in its statement.  Fund Flows  Foreign institutional investors have placed 4.443 trillion
rupees in local stocks and 1.2 trillion rupees in bonds since
they were allowed into the nation in 1993. There were 1,767
offshore funds registered with the Securities & Exchange Board
of India as of Jan. 2, according to its  website .  Flows through participatory notes accounted for 19.1
percent of the 9.38 trillion rupees of overseas funds invested
in local equity and debt at the end of November, data compiled
by the regulator show.  “Foreign capital flows to India have significantly grown
in importance over the years,” the government said in its Jan.
1 statement. Still, “a large number of qualified foreign
investors, in particular, a large set of diversified foreign
nationals who are desirous of investing in Indian equity market
do not have direct access.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in  Mumbai  at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  