-- Exxon’s Pursuit of Venezuelan Cash ‘Not Over Yet’ After Arbitration Ruling
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-01-03T19:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/exxon-s-pursuit-of-venezuelan-cash-not-over-yet-after-arbitration-ruling.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s four-year hunt
for billions of dollars in nationalized Venezuelan oil profits
isn’t finished after an international panel slashed the U.S. oil
company’s claim by 89 percent.  Venezuela’s state-controlled oil producer, known by the
acronym  PDVSA (PDVSA) , was ordered to pay Exxon $746.9 million for the
2007 seizure of  oil wells , crude-processing facilities and
related equipment, according to a copy of the  International
Chamber of Commerce ’s Dec. 23 ruling obtained by Bloomberg News.
The award represents 11 percent of the $7 billion sought by
Exxon, the world’s  largest company (XOM)  by market value.  Exxon, the first international energy explorer to abandon
Venezuela four-and-a-half years ago when Hugo Chavez
consolidated control of the nation’s oil industry, is counting
on a separate  arbitration case  overseen by the  World Bank  to win
billions in potential profits the company says were lost as a
result of the nationalization, said Lysle Brinker, director of
energy equity research at  IHS Inc. (IHS)   “Initially, this looks like a pretty low number because it
does not fully reflect the value of the assets Exxon lost,”
Brinker said yesterday in a telephone interview from Norwalk,
 Connecticut . “But this is not over yet.”  Exxon and the Venezuelan government are scheduled to resume
arguments before the World Bank panel in February.  Cerro Negro  Exxon sought arbitration with PDVSA and the Venezuelan
government in 2007, a decade after Mobil Corp. began drilling
wells in the Orinoco River basin and building facilities to
process the region’s thick, tar-like crude. Exxon  acquired (XOM)  Mobil
and assumed operations of the Cerro Negro venture in 1999.  PDVSA said yesterday on its website that it will pay $255
million in cash for the judgment, after accounting for about
$300 million in a frozen New York bank account and $191 million
in Exxon debt that the Venezuelan company will cancel. The total
amount of the International Chamber of Commerce ruling was for
$907.6 million, minus a $161 million counterclaim by PDVSA.  ConocoPhillips (COP) , which joined Exxon in rejecting Venezuela’s
new terms in 2007, also is awaiting a ruling in its case before
the World Bank panel.  During the final year of operations under Exxon’s control
in 2006, the Venezuelan assets had net income of $362 million on
sales of $758 million, a profit margin that was quadruple the
company’s worldwide average. Exxon originally sought $12 billion
in compensation for the nationalization and later lowered its
demand to $7 billion.  ‘Fair-Market Value’  Exxon’s $406 billion market value exceeds Venezuela’s total
economic output and is larger than the gross domestic products
of all but 23 of the world’s nations.  Chavez’s seizure of assets cost Exxon 425 million barrels
of proved reserves at the end of 2007, which had a market value
of $38 billion at the time of the nationalization, based on
Bloomberg calculations. Exxon stock rose 16 percent in 2011, the
largest annual increase since 2007.  The ruling by the New York-based International Chamber of
Commerce probably has few implications for foreign investment in
Venezuela’s energy sector, Brinker said. Although U.S. and
European producers such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Statoil
ASA (STL)  yielded to the 2007 seizures that made them junior partners
to PDVSA, Chavez has been increasingly courting investments from
Russian and Chinese energy firms, Brinker said.  Ratings Unchanged  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services today said it won’t
change its B+ rating on PDVSA as a result of the ICC judgment.
Given that PDVSA held about $9 billion in cash as of June 30,
“the compensation amount will not effect the company’s
liquidity,” Fabiola Ortiz, an S&P analyst based in Mexico City,
said today in a note to clients.  The separate proceeding before the World Bank’s
International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes
is “larger” than the ICC case, Patrick McGinn, an Exxon
spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “We recognize  Venezuela ’s legal right to expropriate
assets subject to compensation at fair-market value,” McGinn
said. “This ICC arbitration award represents recovery on a
limited, contractual liability of PDVSA that was provided for in
the Cerro Negro project agreement. Contract sanctity and respect
for the rule of law are core principles used to manage our
business over the long term.”  World Bank Panel  The three-person World Bank panel was created in August
2008 and began deliberations in November 2008, according to case
documents published on the ICSID’s website. The panel was
occupied with jurisdictional arguments until June 2010 and
disputes about document production through March 2011, the
filings showed. Hearings are scheduled to resume next month,
McGinn said.  The panel members are French jurist Gilbert Guillaume,
University of Geneva professor Gabrielle Kaufmann-Kohler, and
Egyptian lawyer Ahmed Sadek El-Kosheri, according to the ICSID’s
website.  Guillaume, 81, adjudicated a century-old territorial
dispute between Indonesia and  Malaysia  when he was president of
the  International Court of Justice  from 2000 to 2003. He also
presided over  Belgium ’s unsuccessful attempt to prosecute an
African politician for  war crimes .  Kaufmann-Kohler, a former director of Zurich-based UBS AG,
was Exxon’s nominee to the panel. El-Kosheri, 79, was
Venezuela’s nominee. He’s a former legal adviser to the Kuwaiti
oil ministry and a partner in the Cairo law firm Kosheri, Rashed
& Riad. Guillaume was assigned to the case by the ICSID.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  