-- Fatal Manhattan Elevator Accident Spurs Claim by Eyewitness for Evidence
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-03T23:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/fatal-new-york-elevator-accident-spurs-claim-by-injured-woman-for-evidence.html
A New York woman who was trapped in
an elevator as it crushed another woman to death last month
asked a court to order the  Manhattan  building’s owner and the
elevator’s maker to preserve the accident scene.  Kathleen Mullahy today filed papers in state court seeking
an injunction directing landlord Young & Rubicam Inc. and
 Transel Elevator Inc.  to leave the lift and its parts “in their
post-accident state and condition” for inspection by her
lawyers and representatives.  Suzanne Hart, 41, an employee of Y&R, the Manhattan
advertising agency, was killed as she boarded the elevator at
285 Madison Avenue on Dec. 14, when its door suddenly closed and
it rose before she was fully inside.  Alleging she was injured when the elevator malfunctioned
and forced to witness Hart’s death, Mullahy said in today’s
filing that she plans to sue those responsible.  “It is critical for petitioner to obtain immediate access
to the subject elevator, elevator doors, its component parts,
and the elevator motor room at respondents’ premises while still
in its post-accident state and condition,” according to
Mullahy’s petition.  Tim White , an outside spokesman for New York-based Transel,
said he couldn’t immediately comment on the Mullahy filing. The
company has previously said it is cooperating fully with a probe
of the accident by the city building department.  Jordana Altman, a spokeswoman for Y&R, declined to comment
on the injunction request.  The case is Mullahy v. Young & Rubicam, 12-100022, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  