-- Fed to Release Forecast for Fed Funds Rate
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2012-01-03T22:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/fed-officials-will-make-public-own-forecasts-for-key-rate-at-next-meeting.html
Federal Reserve officials will start
announcing their own forecasts for the central bank’s key
interest rate in the latest step in Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
drive for greater transparency.  FOMC “participants decided to incorporate information
about their projections of appropriate monetary policy” into
their Summary of Economic Projections starting with their next
meeting on Jan. 24-25, according to minutes from last month’s
 Federal Open Market Committee  released today.  By releasing their forecasts, central bankers are likely to
alter expectations for the timing of the first increase in their
benchmark rate, which has been kept near zero since December
2008. Last month, Fed officials repeated their view that
economic conditions would warrant “exceptionally low levels for
the federal funds rate at least through mid-2013.”  When officials publish their rate forecast, it “will
absolutely” push out expectations for the first federal funds
rate increase, said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North
America  at BNP Paribas in New York. “I would expect that the
Fed’s consensus forecast will be for the zero to 0.25 percent
federal funds rate range to prevail until the fourth quarter of
2013 with the first rate increase sometime in 2014.”  More Easing  Bernanke, who took office in February 2006, has pushed the
Fed toward greater openness at a faster pace than any of his
predecessors. He holds press conferences four times a year and
has aired his views on monetary policy and the financial crisis
in television interviews.  The 58-year former Princeton University professor has also
traveled to town hall meetings in locales such as El Paso,
 Texas . In addition, the FOMC publishes its forecasts four times
a year, compared with two under former Fed chairman  Alan Greenspan .  “He has really moved the ball up the court in terms of
transparency,” said Mickey Levy, chief economist at  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  in New York.  The minutes said “a number of members indicated that
current and prospective economic conditions could well warrant
additional policy accommodation.” Those members also decided
that “any additional actions would be more effective if
accompanied by enhanced communication” about the FOMC’s longer-
run economic goals and policy framework.  Long Run  Fed officials will show investors their forecast for the
federal funds rate in the fourth quarter of 2012 and the next
few calendar years, and over the longer run, the minutes said.
The quarterly forecasts will accompany projections for growth,
the unemployment rate and inflation, already released four times
each year.  The summary of forecasts “also will report participants’
current projections of the likely timing of the first increase
in the target rate given their projections of future economic
conditions.”  Stocks maintained gains after the release of the minutes,
buoyed by a report showing that manufacturing in the U.S.
expanded at the fastest pace in six months in December. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.6 percent to 1,277.06 at the
close of trading in  New York . The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note increased to 1.95 percent from 1.88 percent on Dec. 30.  ‘Expanding Moderately’  The FOMC said after its Dec. 13 meeting that the economy
“has been expanding moderately,” compared with the Nov. 2
assessment that growth “strengthened somewhat.” The central
bank also added a reference to “apparent slowing in global
growth,” and said that “strains in global financial markets
continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic
outlook.”  The minutes said that the Fed staff forecast was “little
changed” for the near-term outlook. The staff’s medium-term
forecast was lower than the November projection due to
“revisions” for the economic outlook in Europe.  Recent data on manufacturing, housing and jobs indicate the
expansion is accelerating.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index climbed
to 53.9 last month from 52.7 in November, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said today. Fifty is the dividing line between
growth and contraction, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News forecast the gauge would rise to 53.5.  Fewer Applications  Fewer Americans filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  over the past month than at any time in the past three
years, Labor Department figures showed last week.  Builders broke ground in November on more houses than at
any time in the past 19 months, the Commerce Department said
Dec. 20. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
Index, which includes Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar Corp.,
climbed 34 percent in the fourth quarter, while the broader  S&P
500  increased 11 percent.  The S&P 500 was virtually unchanged in 2011, the worst
performance since 2008, buffeted by  Europe ’s debt crisis and the
debate over raising the U.S. debt limit. Treasuries rallied in
2011. The yield on the U.S. 10-year note has fallen from 3.3
percent a year ago.  The  U.S. economy  probably grew at a 3.5 percent rate during
the fourth quarter,  Macroeconomic Advisers , a St. Louis-based
forecasting company, said in a note today. That would be the
fastest rate since the second quarter of 2010 and almost double
the third quarter’s 1.8 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  