-- Ford Expands Detroit Show’s Lincoln Stand to Lure Younger Buyers
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-01-03T20:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/ford-expands-detroit-show-s-lincoln-stand-to-lure-younger-buyers.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s lagging Lincoln line
will unveil a new car and a new display stand at this month’s
 Detroit  auto show aimed at attracting younger buyers to reverse
the luxury brand’s two-decade decline.  The Lincoln display will cover 17,752 square feet (1,649
square meters) of floor space, 50 percent more than last year,
at the North American International Auto Show at Detroit’s Cobo
Hall, Joe O’Connor, manager of the stand, said today. The stand
has an art gallery motif and will feature two flexing spheres
overhead by artist Chuck Hoberman. Ford declined to disclose the
stand’s cost.  Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  is attempting to
revive Lincoln, which has seen sales plunge by almost two-thirds
from its 1990 peak and dropped 0.7 percent through November last
year while industrywide sales gained 10 percent. On Jan. 10 at
its new stand, Lincoln will introduce a prototype of a redesign
for its MKZ mid-sized sedan, its top-selling model.  “We want to sell more vehicles to more customers for
Lincoln, so we want to expand our customer base,” O’Connor told
reporters on a tour of the new stand. “We created a stand that
not only is a larger show stand, but it’s really devised to
bring a whole new customer into Lincoln.”  The stand, which features granite floors, is set off by a
220-foot-wide (67 meters) white wall that is a latticework of
Lincoln logos. Two doormen will greet visitors as part of a 50-
person staff at the display, 70 percent more than last year,
O’Connor said. The staff will explain the 10 cars on the stand
and artwork featured in glass boxes known as vitrines, he said.  MKZ Prototype  The MKZ concept car will be center stage, on an angled axis
before an LED wall. Two private rooms flanking the stage will be
used to demonstrate Lincoln’s driving technology and stereo
system, O’Connor said. Leather couches and “premium beverages”
will be provided to potential Lincoln customers, who can also
schedule test drives with their local dealer, Ford said in a
statement.  “There’s absolutely a want and a need to get younger”
Lincoln buyers, said Sam Locricchio, a spokesman for the luxury
line. “There is a younger, affluent audience, we call them
progressive luxury customers, and those progressive luxury
customers are not married to traditional nameplates.”  Lincoln’s current buyers are in their 60s and the company
would like to drop that into the 50s or lower, Locricchio said.  The brand’s U.S. sales peaked at 231,660 vehicles in 1990,
according to Autodata Corp. Lincoln U.S. sales totaled 77,240
vehicles in 2011’s first 11 months.  Ford and other automakers will introduce new models during
media preview days at the Detroit show Jan. 9 and Jan. 10. The
show opens to the public Jan. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Detroit,  Michigan , at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  