-- GIC Affiliate of Singapore and Canada Pension Fund Buy Charter Hall REIT
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-01-03T06:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/gic-affiliate-canadian-fund-firm-up-offer-for-charter-hall-office-reit.html
A Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. affiliate and a Canadian pension fund signed a binding
agreement to pay A$1.2 billion ($1.2 billion) for most of
 Charter Hall Office REIT. (CQO)   GIC’s Reco Ambrosia Pte and The Public Sector Pension
Investment Board of Canada signed the agreement on the condition
the REIT completes the sale of its U.S. properties by March,
according to a statement to the Australian stock exchange. The
trust’s stakeholders will receive one or more payouts from the
sale of the U.S. assets, according to the statement.  The two funds made an initial conditional offer last month
to pay A$2.49 a share for 85 percent of the Australian property
trust not owned by its manager Charter Hall Group. The Sydney-
based trust agreed in August to sell its U.S. assets for $1.71
billion to entities affiliated with Beacon Capital Partners, as
it shifts its focus homeward.  The bid for its Australian assets, which values the company
at A$1.2 billion, “offers the most compelling and certain value
proposition currently available to eligible unitholders,”
Independent Chairman Roger Davis wrote in an e-mailed release.  The REIT’s independent directors rejected two earlier bids
of A$2.39 and A$2.43 a share for the Australian part of its
business, saying they didn’t adequately value the company. The
current offer is a 4.2 percent discount to the trust’s net
tangible assets.  Payments  Charter Hall Office  shares (CQO)  rose 0.9 percent to A$3.54 at
the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney, more than A$1 above
the offer price, due to the anticipated distribution from the
U.S. asset sale.  Charter Hall Office stakeholders will receive A$1.83 a
share in cash, and a special distribution of about 66 Australian
cents -- funded with a new debt facility taken by the buyers --
paid on the implementation date, it said today. Proceeds from
the U.S. sale received after the implementation date will be
paid to unitholders through an escrow agent, the company said.  More than 75 percent of the REIT’s unitholders must vote in
favor of the proposal for it to succeed, the company said.
Shareholders are expected to vote on March 15, it said.  Singapore’s GIC manages more than $100 billion of the city-
state reserves while the Canadian fund has assets exceeding $58
billion as of March 2011, according to the  website .  Charter Hall Group will hold on to its  share (CQO)  and continue
to manage the trust as an unlisted entity, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  