-- Glaxo to Appeal Fines in Argentina Case Over Synflorix Trial
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-01-03T20:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/glaxo-to-appeal-fines-in-argentina-case-over-synflorix-trial.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s
biggest drugmaker, plans to appeal fines levied by  Argentina ’s
government over a lack of documentation in a company-funded
study of the Synflorix vaccine against pneumococcal disease.  Glaxo and two researchers working on the trial were fined 1
million pesos ($232,200) by the Argentinean National
Administration of Medicine, Food and Technology, the newspaper
La Nacion reported today. The agency cited the drugmaker for a
lack of documentation of patient records and administration of
medicines, breaches of security controls and irregularities in
authorization for the children to participate, La Nacion said.  The fines related to “administrative conduct” of the
trial, the London-based company said in an e-mailed statement.
Glaxo said that it disagrees with the agency’s ruling and plans
to appeal against court proceedings.  “It is important to note that the ANMAT’s ruling does not
in any way question the safety of the study vaccine,
Synflorix,” Glaxo said. “The ANMAT’s ruling relates to the
clinical trial process and not the vaccine,” which was approved
by the agency for sale in 2009.  The study, dubbed  Compas , was completed in June in the
Argentinean provinces of Santiago del Estero, Mendoza and  San
Juan , Glaxo said. Almost 24,000 children between the ages of 6
and 16 weeks were enrolled in the trial in Argentina, Colombia
and Panama beginning in 2007, according to a description on the
U.S. government website clinicaltrials.gov.  Synflorix had global sales of 221 million pounds ($346
million) in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  