-- Global Manufacturing Displays Resilience to Europe’s Debt Crisis: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-03T15:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/global-manufacturing-displays-resilience-to-europe-s-debt-crisis-economy.html
Manufacturing from the U.K. to  India 
showed improvement in December, suggesting production is
weathering strains from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Purchasing manager indexes for the U.K.,  Switzerland ,
 China , India and  Australia  rose in December, while German
unemployment fell more than economists forecast as exports of
cars and machinery boomed, reports today showed. U.S.
 manufacturing growth (NAPMPMI)  accelerated more than economists forecast
to the fastest pace in six months.  The factory production data indicate some resilience in the
industry as European leaders work to flesh out their plan to end
the debt turmoil that’s threatening to drag the region back into
recession. The  International Monetary Fund  may cut its 2012
global growth forecast this month after lowering it to 4 percent
in September, when it predicted “severe” repercussions if
Europe fails to contain its crisis.  “Everyone’s taking comfort from stronger exports to the
 Far East , but we’re going to see a much weaker first quarter in
China,” said Chris Scicluna, head of economic research at Daiwa
Capital Markets Europe in London. “It’s a mixed picture. The
general trend in the U.S. is one of healing, but it’s hardly a
picture of dynamism, and we’re looking at contraction in
Europe.”  Asian Rebound  A manufacturing purchasing managers’ index for India
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today rose to
the highest level in six months in December. In China,
manufacturing rebounded last month from a contraction in
November, while Australian  factory production (AIGPMI)  expanded for the
first time since June, driven by gains in basic metals,
transport and publishing.  Manufacturing in  Singapore  rose 6.5 percent from a year
earlier in the fourth quarter, after climbing a revised 13.4
percent in the previous three months, the Trade Ministry said
today.  In Europe, a gauge of Swiss manufacturing rose to 50.7 in
December from 44.8 in November when adjusted for seasonal
swings, Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich said in an e-mailed
statement today. That’s the first reading above 50, which
divides contraction from expansion, since August. A  U.K. index (PMITMUK) 
rose to 49.6 from a revised 47.7 and a measure of new export
orders increased for the first time in five months, led by
demand from customers in  Germany , Eastern Europe and China.  The U.K. reading offers “glimmers of hope,” David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London, said in an e-
mailed statement. “As we enter 2012, hopes that the
manufacturing recession will be fairly shallow continue to have
credence.”  Stocks Rise  European stocks rose today, with the  Stoxx 600 Index (SXXP) 
gaining 1.3 percent as of 3:13 p.m. in London. In Germany, where
data today showed unemployment fell twice as much as economists
forecast last month, the DAX Index advanced 1.6 percent, for its
longest winning streak since Nov. 30.  General Electric Co. (GE)  is targeting more than 10 percent
earnings growth at its industrial and finance businesses next
year, in part by driving up margins in manufacturing businesses
from health-care devices to jet engines and energy equipment.
Chief Executive Officer Jeffery Immelt said Dec. 13 GE is
prepared for a “tough Europe” though the company will manage
strains in part by reducing its footprint there.  U.S. Improvement  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index (NAPMPMI) 
climbed to a six-month high of 53.9 in December from 52.7 the
previous month. The median of 74 estimates in a Bloomberg survey
was for an increase to 53.5.  Not all regions are showing expansion. Norwegian
manufacturing shrank at the fastest pace in two years in
December as orders and production stalled, Oslo-based Fokus Bank
said today in a statement.  Markit Economics said yesterday that its  euro-area (PMITMEZ) 
purchasing managers’ survey for December was at 46.9 in
December, up from 46.4 in November. Germany, France and  Italy ,
the region’s three biggest economies, were among the countries
that reported contractions.  In Germany, the number of people out of work fell a
seasonally adjusted 22,000 to 2.89 million, the Nuremberg-based
Federal Labor Agency said. Economists forecast a decline of
10,000, the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed. The adjusted jobless rate dropped to 6.8 percent.  “We’re not growing, but we’re not in a tailspin either,”
said  Alan Clarke , an economist at  Scotia Capital  in  London ,
referring to the manufacturing reports. “I don’t think we’re
going to be breaking any speed records this year. It’s going to
be pretty weak in the first half, but I think we’ll be on an
upward sloping trajectory in the second half of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  