-- Google Demotes Chrome in Rankings After Paid Bloggers Promoted Web Browser
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/google-denies-authorizing-bloggers-to-promote-chrome-browser.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  demoted its Chrome
browser in Web-search rankings after an advertising effort for
the tool ran afoul of its own rules governing paid promotions.  The company is “taking manual action to demote” Chrome
and lower its ranking for at least 60 days,  Mountain View ,
California-based Google said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Google’s remarks came in response to blog posts that made
favorable remarks about the Chrome browsing tool and said they
were sponsored by Google, said Aaron Wall, founder of
SEOBook.com, which trains marketers on how to improve search
results. Google said it didn’t give a green light to the
campaign, which it said stemmed from efforts to buy online ads.  “We have consistently avoided paid sponsorships, including
paying bloggers to promote our products, because these kind of
promotions are not transparent or in the best interests of
users,” Google said. “We’re now looking at what changes we
need to make to ensure that this never happens again.”  Helping users distinguish between authentic endorsements
and advertising is central to what  search engines  do, and Google
has punished websites it accuses of manipulating results to
present paid content as original thought.  “People were outraged and cursing about it,” Wall said of
online discussion that began last week. “They were saying it
was an insane double standard and crazy.”  Essence Digital, an Internet-advertising company that has
 worked with Google  to promote Chrome, posted a statement online
to offer “context on what happened.”  Essence Digital said that Google didn’t authorize a
campaign to pay for sponsored blog posts. Google only agreed to
buy online video ads, Essence Digital said. The company
apologized to Google.  Matt Isaacs, CEO of Essence Digital, declined to elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  