-- Greece Would Abide by Any Potential EU Ban on Iranian Oil
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-01-03T17:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/greece-would-abide-by-any-potential-eu-ban-on-iranian-oil.html
Greece  would adhere to any European
Union decision to impose sanctions that restrict oil imports
from  Iran , an official at Greece’s environment, energy and
climate ministry said.  Greece would abide by any decisions taken by the European
Commission, the official, who declined to be identified citing
ministry policy, said when asked about a potential oil embargo
on Iran. French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told reporters on
Dec. 1 at an EU meeting in Brussels that Greece had a “certain
number of reservations” about an oil cutoff.  The U.S. forbids imports of Iran’s oil and sanctions signed
into law on Dec. 31 aim to deter dealings with the country’s
central bank in an effort to increase pressure on Iran to halt
what the U.S. says may be a covert nuclear weapons program. The
EU will be ready by Jan. 30 to decide whether to extend
sanctions on Iran as well,  Michael Mann , a spokesman for the EU,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Government officials in Greece will discuss Iran along with
other energy topics at another meeting in Athens tomorrow. A
Greek foreign ministry official couldn’t immediately comment
when reached by phone today.  Greece got 14 percent of its oil imports from Iran in first
six months of 2011, according to the U.S. Energy Department’s
Energy Information Administration.  Additional sanctions against Iran’s oil industry will
destabilize world markets, making them “irrational,” Iranian oil
ministry news website Shana reported, citing the country’s oil
minister, Rostam Qasemi.  Iran has no difficulty selling its crude, Qasemi said at
the legal department of the Ministry of Petroleum, Shana
reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  