-- Groupon Declines on Concern That Merchants Are Retreating From Daily Deals
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-01-03T21:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/groupon-declines-on-concern-that-merchants-are-retreating-from-daily-deals.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  shares fell 6.6 percent
after a survey from Susquehanna Financial Group indicated that
about half of merchants that have offered a daily deal have no
plans to do so again in the next six months.  Groupon  dropped (GRPN)  $1.36 to $19.27 at the close in  New York .
The shares are trading below the level of their initial public
offering, which priced at $20 in November.  The company is the biggest seller of daily deals, which
provide discounts of as much as 90 percent at restaurants, nail
salons and other businesses. Susquehanna and daily-deal
aggregator  Yipit  surveyed almost 400 merchants to determine the
value of the services and the concerns companies have about
using them. While 80 percent of respondents were satisfied with
daily-deal companies, about 52 percent of merchants said they’re
not planning to use deals in the next six months.  “The two biggest concerns our respondents face with the
daily-deal companies are high levels of discounts associated to
services/products offered and low repeat rates from customers
after consummating a deal,”  Herman Leung , a Susquehanna
analyst, said in the report. He has a “neutral” rating on
 Groupon’s stock (GRPN) .  Almost 23 percent of merchants said that the heavy
discounts required by daily deals were their biggest concern.
Still, about 45 percent of respondents said they acquired more
customers as a result of offering the promotions, and 26 percent
said they represent a “new, unique and diversified marketing
channel for their business.” For the survey, Susquehanna and
Yipit called merchants that have featured deals from companies
such as Groupon and its chief rival, LivingSocial.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Groupon,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  