-- Indian Market May Recover in Second Half, India Infoline Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-01-03T09:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/indian-market-may-recover-in-second-half-india-infoline-says.html
Nirmal Jain, chairman of brokerage
 India  Infoline Ltd., comments on the outlook for Indian stocks
in an interview with Bloomberg UTV today.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, surged 2.5
percent to 15,900.93 at 2:36 p.m. in Mumbai, set for the biggest
gain in two weeks.  The gauge sank 25 percent last year, its second-worst
annual decline, on concern a weak rupee, high inflation and
record interest-rate increases would compound the effects of
 Europe ’s debt crisis on earnings.  On market outlook:  “I am not pessimistic for the entire year but we have
entered into a new year where things are not looking great on
the most of the macro-economic fronts that are relevant for the
stock market.”  On  interest rates :  “The central bank needs to be aggressive in cutting rates
and increasing liquidity. The RBI governor has said the right
kind of words in the last few days. We need to see how it
translates into action.”  On fiscal deficit:  “India is the only country in  Asia  that has a current
account deficit. It’s almost close to 3 percent of the GDP,
which is a level that was seen in 1991.  We have a huge dependence on external capital flows and if
something goes wrong there then we have serious problems because
we have seen the rupee fall and lose almost about 20 percent
without any significant trigger.  The government will be under significant pressure to
increase their expenditure and spending as elections are coming
in 2014 and that would put too much pressure on the fiscal
deficit. We are already seeing an increase in government
borrowings, they are elbowing out private capital.”  On policy deadlock:  “The government is not able to get any bill through as in
the case of the FDI and the Lokpal Bill. This kind of a scenario
doesn’t augur well for the market. We have seen this in the past
and things can recover. The Indian economy has tremendous
resilience and in the worst crisis or when they are pushed to
the wall, then things start changing and maybe the government
will start acting. The stock market runs ahead of the macro
fundamentals. Maybe by the second quarter or the second half we
may start seeing things moving positively.”  On outlook for the rupee:  “The currency problem is serious because it has happened
all too suddenly. In the last decade, we saw the currency
holding out and everybody became optimistic on the rupee and
they started saying that on a purchasing power parity basis the
rupee may go up to 30 to 35. Most of the borrowers in foreign
currency were unhedged and impacted very seriously. You borrowed
at 40 and you have to repay at 55. It’s a serious problem and
can impact economic growth for two to three years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  