-- India Lifts Duty on Saudi Exports Amid Worries Over Iran’s Oil
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-01-03T14:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/india-lifts-duty-on-saudi-exports-amid-worries-over-iran-s-oil.html
India  lifted an anti-dumping duty on
Saudi Arabian polypropylene amid escalating concerns that
international sanctions on  Iran  may disrupt oil shipments from
the Persian Gulf nation.  No reason was given for India’s decision to scrap the duty,
according to a Dec. 30 statement posted on the  website  of the
New Delhi-based Central Board of Excise and Customs.
Polypropylene is a plastic polymer used in products such as
carpets, food containers and car parts.  Saudi authorities last year put the Petroleum Ministry in
charge of anti-dumping negotiations with India instead of the
Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud, the deputy oil minister, is now leading talks on dumping
claims against Saudi petrochemicals exporters.  India is seeking additional oil and natural gas from
Persian Gulf nations including  Saudi Arabia , while U.S. and
European Union sanctions against Iran pose “practical
difficulties” to supplies, Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said on
Dec. 5. Saudi Arabia will increase shipments to some Indian
refiners this year as they add plants and seek alternative
supplies after a payment dispute with Iran, four people with
direct knowledge of the plans said on Nov. 15.  Sending Message  “Moving the case from the Ministry of Trade and Industry
to the Petroleum Ministry sent a message that Saudi Arabia is
taking this case very seriously” because Prince Abdulaziz
wields considerable power, Abdulrahman al-Zamil, a trade
representative for Saudi petrochemical makers in  Riyadh , said by
telephone yesterday.  India imposed a 6.5 percent duty in November 2010 on
polypropylene imports from Saudi companies including  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest petrochemical maker,
 Advanced Petrochemicals Co. (APPC)  and  National Industrialization Co. (NIC) ,
saying they sold the product below cost.  Abdullah Al Garawi, president and chief executive officer
of Advanced Petrochemicals, said in a telephone interview
yesterday that his company received confirmation from the
Ministry of Petroleum that India had lifted the duty.  “We had a hearing on Dec. 20 in India and our lawyers were
there, but all of sudden the hearings were canceled and we were
not told the reason,” he said. “It’s clear that the issue was
resolved at a higher official level.”  S.K. Goel, chairman of the Central Board of Excise and
Customs, was unavailable for comment.  “This is a good and timely move by the Indian government
due to the lack of substantive evidence of material injury to
local producers,” said Fawaz al-Alamy, a former negotiator for
the kingdom at the  World Trade Organization  who now advises
Saudi companies on anti-dumping and trade issues. Anti-dumping
cannot be applied if “serious material injuries are not proved,
even though dumping has occurred.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar, Saudi Arabia, at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  