-- Intel Confronts Qualcomm in Vegas Mobile-Device Standoff: Tech
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-01-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/intel-confronts-qualcomm-in-las-vegas-for-future-of-mobile-computing-tech.html
A looming clash between  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  will take center stage at the  Consumer
Electronics Show  next week in  Las Vegas , with both chipmakers
seeking to control the future of mobile devices.  Qualcomm Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  will
demonstrate  notebook computers  based on his company’s chips on
Jan. 10, highlighting a push into an area dominated by Intel.
Later that day, Intel CEO  Paul Otellini  will take the same stage
to announce phones featuring his chips, renewing a decade-long
push to get into a market that Qualcomm controls.  The popularity of smartphones and tablets has put the
companies on a collision course. The market for mobile-phone
chips will grow 40 percent to $29.9 billion by 2015, according
to  the Linley Group . With more consumers using handheld devices
as their primary access to the Internet, Intel can’t afford to
stay only in the realm of personal computers, said  Jim McGregor ,
chief technology strategist for research firm In-Stat.  “For Intel, it’s a ‘we have to be there,’” he said.
“Never bet against a computing device that fits in your pocket.
I do more on my smartphone than any other device.”  For years, Intel processors failed to win orders in the
mobile-phone market, mostly because they were too energy-hungry
to work in a device that consumers expect to last days between
charges. Qualcomm and other mobile-phone chipmakers, meanwhile,
haven’t had much impact on Intel’s dominance of laptops because
their products can’t run most computer software.  ARM Technology  The success of Apple Inc.’s iPad, which runs smartphone
chips based on  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  designs, proved to consumers
that phone processors could deliver enough performance for
computing tasks. Microsoft Corp., the top software maker, also
is putting pressure on Intel to adapt. After years of working
exclusively with Intel’s x86 technology, a partnership known as
“Wintel,” Microsoft’s pending Windows 8 operating system will
also support ARM chips.  Qualcomm and other developers of smartphone components
license their technology from ARM, an English company that
doesn’t make its own chips. The change to Windows will give
those manufacturers a new opening into the PC industry.  “Now we have the world’s largest software company saying
they’re committed to this kind of platform for their flagship
operating system,” Rob Chandhok, a senior vice president at San
Diego-based Qualcomm, said in an interview.  PCs shifting to ARM chips could cost Intel $2.2 billion in
sales by 2015, according to Daniel Amir, an analyst at Lazard
Capital Markets in  San Francisco .  Same Experience  Consumers expect their  laptop computers  to behave the same
as their phones, Qualcomm’s Chandhok said. That means they turn
on instantly and are always connected to the Internet. Because
Qualcomm designed its chips from the ground up for that kind of
use, they have an advantage, he said.  Intel says the reverse is true. Smartphones are becoming
more like personal computers, giving an edge to Intel’s
technology, said Bill Calder, a spokesman for the  Santa Clara ,
California-based company.  “We believe we have an opportunity to play there, and
we’ve been working hard on multiple fronts to make that a
reality,” Calder said in an interview.  Intel’s experience with previous versions of Windows and
its ability to support all existing software will make systems
that use its chips more attractive, particularly for companies
that need a secure environment, he said. That’s because existing
security software may not be compatible with computers based on
non-Intel chips.  Advanced Techniques  Its role as the world’s largest chipmaker, with the most
advanced production factories, also will help Intel develop
high-performance chips that use less battery power, Calder said.  Jen-Hsun Huang, CEO of  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , which is expanding
into ARM-based processors for mobile devices, says it won’t
matter if Intel can produce more efficient chips.  Too many electronics and software companies have shifted
their efforts to ARM and other mobile technology, in part
because Intel’s dominance of PCs made it hard to compete in that
market, he said.  “The amount of innovation around ARM has reached critical
mass,” Huang said. “If you’re a cell-phone maker or even a car
company, you would absolutely choose ARM.”  Neither side will have an easy time pushing into the
other’s turf, said  In-Stat ’s McGregor.  “It’s going to be as difficult for ARM to get into
computing devices as it is for x86 to get into mobile devices,”
he said.  Holding Their Ground  McGregor expects  Windows 8 (MSFT)  devices to debut first on
Intel’s chips, rather than ARM versions. While Intel could get
its processors into new smartphones, those deals probably won’t
translate into significant orders in 2012, he said.  Qualcomm’s Chandhok said that even though there have been
more test systems -- so-called development platforms -- for
Windows 8 produced on Intel chips, his company will be providing
ARM-based versions. Microsoft plans to begin selling both
versions of the operating system at the same time, he said.  Catherine Brooker, a spokeswoman for Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft, said the company hasn’t shared details about
when the software will be released.  In addition to announcing new contracts with phone
manufacturers, Intel’s Otellini plans to showcase the company’s
Ultrabook project during his speech. The company is encouraging
PC makers to make lighter laptops that start more quickly and go
longer between recharges, offering an experience closer to that
delivered by Apple’s iPad and MacBook Air.  More to Lose?  Intel is counting on the effort to help maintain its
leadership in the notebook market, said Lazard’s Amir.  “You need to be sure that you’re not losing the
notebook,” said Amir, who has a  “neutral” rating (INTC)  on Intel.  Of the two sides, Intel probably has more to lose and less
to gain, Amir said. Grabbing 10 percent of the market for
mobile-phone chips wouldn’t be enough to add significant growth
to Intel’s sales. Conversely, stronger competition in PCs, where
it has more than 80 percent of the market, would hurt Intel’s
high average selling prices, he said.  Intel’s processors  can cost more than $4,000 each, with an
average selling price of about $107, according to Mercury
Research in Cave Creek,  Arizona . That compares with an average
selling price of less than $20 for the typical applications
processor in a mobile phone.  Lazard’s Amir estimates that ARM-based processors will grab
as much as a third of the market for mobile computers by 2015,
up from 8 percent last year. The total market will grow to 340
million units in 2015 from 275 million in 2010, he predicts.  Faster Growth  The smartphone market has even bigger growth prospects. It
will reach 1.1 billion units by 2015, up from 300 million last
year, Amir said. In that period, Intel will increase its share
from zero to 13 percent, he estimates.  While phones and PCs are currently separate markets, new
software and hardware may blur those distinctions. In the
future, consumers and companies will have a wider variety of
choices that don’t fit the traditional definitions, In-Stat’s
McGregor said. It’s up to the chip companies to evolve.  The winners will most probably be companies that produce
packages of chips that deliver Internet connections, graphics
and processing, he said. For now, Qualcomm is in the lead.  “They’re definitely in pole position,” McGregor said.
“Intel even admits they are playing a little catch-up in some
of the areas that they need to be competitive on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  