-- U.S. Spurns Iran’s Demand to Keep Aircraft Carrier Out of the Persian Gulf
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   H e a t h e r   L a n g a n
-- 2012-01-03T20:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/iran-warns-u-s-on-sending-carrier-back-to-gulf.html
The U.S. rebuffed Iran’s demand not
to return an  aircraft carrier  to the Persian Gulf, a “warning”
from Tehran that helped send oil prices to the highest in almost
eight months.  The U.S. said it will continue to protect freedom of
navigation in the region. The Pentagon doesn’t announce future
ship movements and declined to say when the U.S. may send a
carrier back to the Gulf following the departure of the USS John
C. Stennis last week.  “We usually don’t repeat our warning, and we warn only
once,” the head of Iran’s army, Ataollah Salehi, was cited as
saying yesterday by the state-run  Fars  news agency. “We
recommend and emphasize to the American carrier not to return to
the Persian Gulf.”  He didn’t say what action  Iran  might take if the U.S.
ignores the warning. His statement follows threats from other
Iranian officials in recent days to block oil shipping through
the Strait of Hormuz in a conflict over new economic sanctions.  While Iran has the military capability to disrupt shipping
at least temporarily, it would hurt itself by doing so because
it is dependent on the waterway for its oil-export revenues,
according to analysts such as Ali Nader of the RAND Corp.
research institute. Anthony Cordesman of the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington last week
called recent threats “an exercise in rhetoric.”  ‘Not Seeking Confrontation’  The Stennis, which Iran said it spotted during naval
exercises, passed eastward through the  Strait of Hormuz  on Dec.
27 on a routine voyage and was operating in the northern Arabian
Sea, according to the U.S. 5th Fleet, which has a base in
 Bahrain .  “We are not seeking a confrontation,” State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday at a briefing in
Washington. The U.S. military will continue to play a role in
ensuring freedom of navigation, she said.  The U.S. Navy maintains a “constant state of high
vigilance” to “ensure the continued, safe flow of maritime
traffic in waterways critical to global commerce,” George
Little, a spokesman for the Pentagon, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  “These are regularly scheduled movements in accordance
with our longstanding commitments to the security and stability
of the region and in support of ongoing operations,” Little
said. “The deployment of U.S. military assets in the  Persian
Gulf  region will continue as it has for decades.”  ‘Position of Weakness’  Nuland and White House spokesman  Jay Carney  asserted Iran
is trying to distract Iranians from the nation’s domestic
problems. They portrayed Iran as being in a “position of
weakness.”  Salehi spoke yesterday at a ceremony to mark the completion
of 10 days of maneuvers by the Iranian navy on the east side of
the strait in the Gulf of Oman.  Iran doesn’t intend to disrupt shipping in the Strait of
Hormuz, Deputy Navy Commander Rear Admiral Mahmoud Mousavi said
Jan. 2, according to Press TV.  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, passes through the Strait of Hormuz between
Iran and Oman at the mouth of the Persian Gulf, according to the
U.S. Energy Department.  Oil climbed to the highest since May 11 after manufacturing
in the U.S. and  Asia  expanded in December and as concern
persisted that further sanctions against Iran may disrupt
shipments.  Oil Prices   Crude oil for February delivery rose $4.13, or 4.2 percent,
to settle at $102.96 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Futures climbed 8.2 percent in 2011, the third
consecutive annual increase.  The U.S. Navy said Dec. 28 that it won’t tolerate a
disruption to shipping in the strait. The Stennis transited the
Strait of Hormuz after a port visit to Jebel Ali in the  United
Arab Emirates , Navy Commander William Speaks, a Pentagon
spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  Iran, the world’s third-largest oil exporter, is facing new
sanctions on its trade and finances aimed at halting what the
U.S. and allies say is a plan to build nuclear weapons. Iran
says its atomic program is for peaceful purposes.  Inspectors from the  International Atomic Energy Agency  are
expected to visit Iran soon, the Fars news agency cited Foreign
Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  as saying in Tehran
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Langan in London at 
 hlangan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  