-- Iran Warns U.S. Against Sending Aircraft Carrier Back to Gulf
-- B y   H e a t h e r   L a n g a n
-- 2012-01-03T11:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/iran-warns-u-s-against-sending-aircraft-carrier-back-to-the-persian-gulf.html
The head of  Iran ’s army warned the
U.S. against sending an aircraft carrier back to the Persian
Gulf after it passed through the Strait of Hormuz a week ago.  “We usually don’t repeat our warning, and we warn only
once,” Ataollah Salehi was cited as saying by the state-run
 Fars  news agency. “We recommend and emphasize to the American
carrier not to return to the Persian Gulf.”  The  USS John C. Stennis , which Iran said it spotted during
naval exercises, passed eastward through the Strait of Hormuz on
Dec. 27 on a routine voyage and was operating in the northern
 Arabian Sea , said the U.S. 5th Fleet, which has a base in
 Bahrain . Salehi spoke today at a ceremony to mark the completion
of 10 days of maneuvers by the Iranian navy on the east side of
the strait in the Gulf of Oman.  Iran will block oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz
if sanctions are imposed on its crude exports, as the U.S. and
European Union have threatened, the state-run  Islamic Republic
News Agency  said on Dec. 27, citing Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi. Navy Commander Habibollah Sayyari said the blockage
would be “easy,” according to the country’s Press TV.  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, passes through the Strait of Hormuz between
Iran and Oman at the mouth of the  Persian Gulf , according to the
U.S. Energy Department.  The U.S. Navy said Dec. 28 that it won’t tolerate a
disruption to shipping in the strait.  Iran, the world’s third-largest oil exporter, is facing new
trade restrictions aimed at halting what the U.S. and allies say
is a plan to build nuclear weapons. Iran says its atomic program
is for peaceful purposes.  Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency are
expected to visit Iran soon, the Fars news agency cited Foreign
Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  as saying in Tehran today. 