-- Israeli-Palestinian Talks Planned in Jordan After First Meeting Since 2010
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-01-04T19:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/israeli-palestinian-envoys-aim-for-new-negotiations-in-jordan.html
Israeli and Palestinian officials met
for the first time in more than a year and agreed to hold
further preliminary talks in  Jordan  as part of an effort to
renew formal peace negotiations.  “We do not want to raise our expectations at this stage,
but we also do not want to underestimate the importance of the
meeting, which gathered the Palestinians and the Israelis face
to face,” Jordanian Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh said at a
news conference yesterday to sum up the talks in Amman.  The first get-together between Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat and his Israeli counterpart, Yitzhak Molcho, since the
breakdown of talks in September 2010 was arranged by the
international group known as the Quartet, with help from
Jordan’s King Abdullah.  The odds that  Israel  and the Palestinians will resolve
their conflict this year “are slim to none,” said  Aaron David Miller , a public-policy scholar at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars in  Washington  who served for a
quarter-century as a Middle East negotiator in both Republican
and Democratic administrations.  U.S. Election Season  The combination of this year’s U.S. presidential election
and the uncertainties surrounding the Arab world’s uprisings and
their aftermath in  Egypt  and elsewhere means no progress toward
resolving issues such as the borders of a Palestinian state and
the rights of Palestinian refugees is likely until at least
2013, Miller said in a telephone interview.  Future talks will also be held in Jordan, Judeh said.
Israeli and Palestinian officials declined to comment, saying
Judeh spoke for all participants.  The two sides will talk again in Jordan on Jan. 6, U.S.
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said at a briefing
today in Washington.  “That is important, that this dialog is continuing,”
Nuland said. “We hope it will give us some momentum.”  To even reach the negotiating stage, Erakat and Molcho
would have to resolve a fundamental conflict between Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who says peace talks can’t
begin until Israel freezes West Bank settlement construction,
and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who says building
will continue.  ‘Harsh’ Action  Abbas told reporters earlier yesterday in the West Bank
city of Ramallah that he may take “harsh” action if the talks
with Israel don’t lead to a settlement freeze by Jan. 26, the
date set by the Quartet for the two sides to submit proposals on
security arrangements and a final border between them.  “We will discuss and study and decide what to do after the
26th,” Abbas told reporters at a ceremony to open a legal
studies center in  Ramallah . “So far, I cannot reveal what the
measures are because they are not ready yet, but we will take
measures that might be harsh.”.  Also working against the resumption of peace talks is a
rapprochement between Abbas’s Fatah party and the Islamic Hamas
movement, which is considered a terrorist organization by
Israel, the U.S. and the European Union. Netanyahu says he won’t
negotiate with a Palestinian government that includes Hamas.  Netanyahu’s spokesman,  Mark Regev , declined to respond
directly to Abbas’s comment about the prospect of the talks
collapsing.  “It is our sincere hope that we will see the beginning of
a process of direct talks between Israel and the Palestinians
and that we move toward a peace deal,” Regev said. “There is
no alternative that can bring peace.”  Quartet Role  Erakat and Molcho met first yesterday with the Quartet
representatives and later sat down by themselves, Judeh said.
The Quartet is made up of the EU, the U.S, the United Nations
and  Russia .  Hamas condemned the Palestinian Authority today for its
willingness to meet with Israeli officials in Jordan and to
present them with the formal proposals on security and borders.  The talks were a “farce, comedy and a waste of time,”
Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum said today in a telephone
interview from the  Gaza Strip .  Reconciliation Talks  Hamas ousted forces loyal to Abbas’s Fatah faction from
Gaza in 2007 to gain full control of the Palestinian enclave
after winning parliamentary elections the year before. Hamas and
Fatah, which rules the  West Bank , are holding reconciliation
talks in an effort to form a unity government before Palestinian
elections.  Israel has said Hamas must recognize Israel’s right to
exist and pledge to abide by prior agreements before it can join
any talks.  While the Israeli and Palestinian officials meet in Jordan,
the second Arab nation after Egypt to make peace with the Jewish
state, Gaza’s top Hamas leader, Ismail Haniyeh, has been on a
regional tour that includes Turkey and  Iran , said Sami Abu Zuhri, a spokesman for the group.  Peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians broke down
more than a year ago after Netanyahu declined to renew a 10-
month freeze on building in West Bank settlements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  