-- TiVo Rises as AT&T to Pay $215 Million to Settle DVR Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-01-04T00:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/tivo-rises-as-at-t-agrees-to-215-million-settlement-of-dvr-case.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  rose as much as 22 percent
in extended trading after AT&T Inc. agreed to pay at least $215
million to settle a patent lawsuit over digital video recorders.  The settlement includes $51 million up front, followed by
quarterly payments through June 2018 totaling $164 million,
Alviso, California-based TiVo said in a statement today. Dallas-
based AT&T also agreed to monthly license fees if its DVR
subscribers exceed certain levels in that period, TiVo said.  “The growth that is expected by any analyst means they
will pay us substantially more than $215 million over time,”
TiVo Chief Executive Officer Tom Rogers said in a telephone
interview. “There is value in our intellectual property.”  TiVo, a pioneer in the market for set-top boxes that can
record a TV program and play it back at the same time, had lost
customers to offerings from TV-service providers including AT&T
and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  TiVo accused those companies of
using its patented time-warp technology, which also was at the
center of a seven-year battle with Dish Network Corp. that ended
this year with as much as $600 million in settlements.  TiVo in November reported its first net growth in
subscribers in four years, which helped push revenue to $64.8
million in the fiscal third quarter ended Oct. 31.  “We went, over the course of the past year, from people
saying what does TiVo really got to do in terms of demonstrating
it can be a player in the cable industry, to being the leading
player in advanced television,” Rogers said.  Microsoft Intervenes  TiVo  rose (TIVO)  to $10.91 at 5:17 p.m. New York time after
closing at $8.92 in regular trading. AT&T rose less than 1
percent to $30.50.  Jury selection in the AT&T case was scheduled to begin Jan.
9 in federal court in Marshall,  Texas . In addition to the time-
warp technology, TiVo claimed AT&T’s U-verse service also
infringed patents for an automatic playback overshoot correction
system and one for time-shifting multimedia content streams.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which supplies software technology for U-
verse, intervened after AT&T was sued in 2009. The Redmond,
Washington-based software maker also filed a patent case at the
U.S. International Trade Commission over TiVo’s set-top boxes.
That case went to trial in December, with a judge scheduled to
release findings in March.  Kevin Kutz , a Microsoft spokesman,
said the company had no comment on the AT&T settlement.  As part of the settlement, AT&T and TiVo also have agreed
to license each other’s patent portfolios in the advanced
television field.  Motorola, Verizon  TiVo also has a case pending against Verizon over its FiOS
television service.  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) , which
supplies boxes for Verizon, claims it developed fundamental DVR
technology before TiVo and filed a patent suit against TiVo.  A trial judge in Texarkana, Texas, today lifted a stay that
had been imposed on the Motorola Mobility case six months ago
because of the pending Verizon and AT&T cases. No trial has been
set in the Verizon or Motorola Mobility cases, according to
court dockets.  The case is TiVo Inc. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 09cv259, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  