-- Julian Barnes Loses Whitbread Costa Contest to Graveyard Novel
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-01-03T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/julian-barnes-loses-whitbread-costa-award-to-french-graveyard-novel-pure-.html
Best-selling authors Julian Barnes
and Claire Tomalin took a back seat as  Andrew Miller  won the
contest for top novel of 2011 and Matthew Hollis took the prize
for best biography in  Whitbread (WTB)  Plc’s  annual Costa Book Awards .  Miller, Hollis and three other authors will each receive
5,000 pounds ($7,830) from Whitbread’s Costa coffee-shop chain,
which grants awards for books in five genres -- novels, first
novels, biography, poetry and children’s literature.  Other category winners included U.K.  Poet Laureate   Carol
Ann Duffy , who captured the Costa Poetry Award for “The Bees”
(Picador), the organizers said in an e-mailed statement today.
The genre winners now will compete for the 30,000 pound Costa
Book of the Year, to be awarded in London on Jan. 24.  Previously known as the Whitbreads, the prizes seek to
honor the most enjoyable books of the year by authors based in
the U.K. and Ireland. They have become a fixture of the  London 
literary calendar since their creation in 1971.  Miller, who took the novel award, defeated Barnes, winner
of the 2011 Man  Booker Prize , with “Pure” (Sceptre), in which a
provincial engineer is summoned to Paris in 1785 to demolish the
city’s oldest cemetery, an overflowing bone yard that is
spreading disease. The judges honored Miller for creating “a
structurally and stylistically flawless historical novel,”
saying that he deserved a wider readership.  Hollis won the biography award over Tomalin’s “Charles
Dickens” (Viking). The judges singled Hollis out for “Now All
Roads Lead to France” (Faber), calling it a “dramatic and
engrossing” account of the last five years of author Edward
Thomas, his friendship with poet Robert Frost and his decision
to fight in World War I.  Among other Costas, Christie Watson, a nurse, captured the
First Novel Award with “Tiny Sunbirds Far Away” (Quercus). Moira
Young won the Children’s Book Award for “Blood Red Road” (Marion
Lloyd).  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 