-- Kenyan Shilling Declines to 2-Week Low as Companies Seek Dollars
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-01-03T12:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/kenyan-shilling-heads-for-2-week-low-as-companies-seek-dollars.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened to its
lowest level in more than two weeks, as companies and oil
importers sought dollars after an extended holiday weekend over
the New Year.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
0.5 percent to 85.45 per dollar by 2:40 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital, reaching its weakest intraday trading level since Dec.
15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Since most companies are opening today after the holiday
break we are seeing quite a bit of buying interest in dollars
from them,” Duncan Kinuthia, head of trading with Commercial
Bank of Africa Ltd., said by phone from Nairobi. “We’ve also
seen a bit of demand from oil guys buying dollars.” The Kenyan
market was closed yesterday.  The country’s central bank didn’t receive any bids for the
5 billion shillings ($58.5 million) of  repurchase agreements  it
offered today, which was intended to mop up liquidity, Donald
Murgor, a dealer at the Nairobi-based bank, said.  The Ugandan shilling headed for its biggest gain in more
than two weeks, strengthening 1.2 percent to 2,440.50 per
dollar, ahead of the sale of 95 billion shillings ($39 million)
in three-year  government bonds  tomorrow.  “The gains are driven by dollar inflows from offshore
investors ahead of tomorrow’s bond auction,” Timothy Muzoora, a
currency trader at Cairo International Bank Ltd., said by phone
from the capital Kampala.  Tanzania’s currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 1,585 per
dollar, falling for a third session.  “The central bank has intervened in the market today by
selling dollars,” Fred Siwale, a dealer with CRDB Bank Plc,
said by phone from  Dar es Salaam , the commercial capital.
“Demand for dollars is mainly coming in from oil importers and
the manufacturing sector.”  With assistance from David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam --
Editors: Ash Kumar, Shanthy Nambiar  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ; Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
   fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  