-- KGHM CEO Calls New Copper Tax Proposal ‘Step in Right Direction’
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2012-01-03T11:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/kghm-ceo-calls-new-copper-tax-proposal-step-in-right-direction-.html
Poland ’s updated formula for a
planned copper and silver tax to be introduced this year is a
“step in the right direction,” the head of metals producer
 KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH)  said.  The new calculation published by the government yesterday
is still “unsatisfactory” by global standards, KGHM Chief
Executive Officer  Herbert Wirth  said on the TVN CNBC television
station today. The proposal would cut KGHM’s 2012 tax bill by
about 10 percent, or 280 million zloty ($81.6 million) less than
it would pay under an original proposal, he said.  KGHM shares lost 34 percent through Dec. 30 after Prime
Minister Donald Tusk announced the initial tax plan in a speech
on Nov. 18. The  Finance Ministry  lowered the  tax rate  in the
formula yesterday after receiving negative feedback from the
Treasury Ministry and the company, which is Poland’s sole
producer of silver and copper.  The forecast for tax revenue is still about 700 million
zloty higher than the revenue that the Finance Ministry aims to
raise in 2012 as both parties have different copper price
estimates.  The Treasury Ministry, which supervises the company and
holds 32 percent, proposed lowering the tax formula by calling
it “disproportionate” in comparison with global standards.  KGHM earlier said the old formula bears “substantial”
risk of it “generating negative results” if prices of the
metal decline. Today Wirth added that the tax will limit its
investments and planned acquisitions outside Poland.  KGHM, which last month agreed to buy Canada’s  Quadra FNX
Mining Ltd. (QUX)  in a record C$2.28 billion ($2.25 billion) foreign
acquisition by a Polish company, said the tax is “no threat”
to the takeover and the company won’t need external financing
for the transaction, Wirth said today.  Wirth reiterated that the Lubin, southwest Poland-based
company, plans to pay 30 percent of 2011 profit as a dividend
and that it still aims to ask investors to back its 3 billion-
zloty, three-year buyback plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  