-- Naira Gains for 2nd Day as Oil Rise Outweighs Political Concern
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-01-03T15:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/naira-gains-for-2nd-day-as-oil-rise-outweighs-political-concern.html
The naira strengthened for the second
day as rising  oil prices  outweighed concern of growing political
tension after the Christmas-day bombing that prompted the
government to declare an emergency in parts of the country.  The currency appreciated 1.3 percent to 160.235 per dollar
as of 3:10 p.m. on the  interbank market  in Lagos, the commercial
capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The currency of Africa’s largest oil producer gained as the
commodity climbed after a pickup in manufacturing activity in
China and  India . President  Goodluck Jonathan  declared a state of
emergency in parts of four northern states on Dec. 31 and set up
a special counter-terrorism unit within the armed forces after
attacks left at least 43 people dead and 73 wounded in a
Christmas-day bombing of a church near Abuja.  “We expect oil prices to be supported next year,” Nalini Cundapen, an emerging markets strategist at Societe Generale SA
in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today. The
central bank has supported the naira quite “aggressively” by
tightening monetary policy in 2011, she said.  Nigeria  will hold its first foreign-currency auction
tomorrow since the market closed for holiday on Dec. 21, the
Abuja-based central bank said today in an e-mailed statement.  Political tensions between the largely Islamic north and
Christian south are a barrier to a ratings upgrade, S&P said.  Boko Haram, which means “Western education is a sin,”
says it’s fighting to establish sharia law in the north.
Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country of more than 160 million
people, is roughly split between a mainly Muslim north and
predominantly Christian south.  Ghana ’s cedi declined for the first time in three days,
down 1 percent to 1.655 per dollar as of 3:10 p.m. in Accra,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi raised rates to a
record 12 percent last year as inflation climbed above the
bank’s 10 percent target. S&P raised its outlook on Nigeria’s
credit rating and said it may upgrade Africa’s largest oil
producer from B+ if the government follows through with plans to
boost the economy and savings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  