-- NBC Gets $4 Million for Super Bowl Ads, Sells Out Inventory
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-03T21:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/nbc-gets-4m-on-super-bowls-ad-slots-sells-out.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal has
sold out its 30-second advertising spots for this year’s  Super
Bowl , getting as much as $4 million per slot, according to NBC
Sports spokesman Chris McCloskey.  That amount is a record for NBC, McCloskey said. The
average ad for the Feb. 5 game in Indianapolis sold for $3.5
million, he said. NBC has also sold out its digital advertising,
he said.  This year’s average ad price is up 17 percent from last
year, when  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox commanded about $3 million per ad,
according to analyst estimates. NBC last broadcast the Super
Bowl in 2009 and will be airing its 17th National Football
League finale, tying CBS for No. 1 among the networks.  While NBC has sold all of its inventory, certain ad buyers
have expressed willingness to sell their slots if another
company offers to pay for time, McCloskey said. There are “a
few” of these opportunities available, he said.  The 2011 Super Bowl between the Green Bay Packers and the
Pittsburgh Steelers was the highest-rated single telecast of the
year with 111 million viewers, the biggest audience in U.S.
television history.  NBC’s prime-time ratings trail CBS, Fox and  Walt Disney
Co (DIS) ’s ABC. “Sunday Night Football” is the most watched weekly
program on the network. More than 21 million viewers watched
“Sunday Night Football” per week, excluding Jan. 1’s game
between the  Dallas Cowboys  and New York Giants, according to
Brad Adgate, senior vice president of research at New York-based
Horizon Media Inc.  The Cowboys-Giants game was the most-watched Sunday Night
game in the show’s six-year history on NBC, the channel said.
Fox’s American Idol was the only regularly scheduled primetime
show to average a higher audience in 2011, according to Nielsen.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, rose 3.3 percent to $24.50
at the close in New York. The shares were up 7.9 percent last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  