-- New Jersey State, Local Worker Retirements Increase to Highest in a Decade
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-03T22:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/new-jersey-state-local-worker-retirements-climbed-to-highest-in-a-decade.html
Retirements among  New Jersey (STONJ1)  state
and local-government workers climbed 11 percent last year, to
the highest rate in at least a decade, as Governor  Chris Christie  raised their pension and health-care expenses.  A total of 11,861 people enrolled in the Public Employee
Retirement System filed to leave the workforce in 2011, compared
with 10,705 applications in 2010, according to state Treasury
Department data. Those figures don’t include police,
firefighters or public-school teachers.  Christie, a first-term Republican, signed legislation on
June 28 raising workers’ payments for medical care and pensions
to help trim a $54 billion retirement-system deficit. More than
a third of last year’s applications to leave were submitted in
June and July. The data also reflect the first members of the
baby boom generation reaching  retirement age , said  Andrew Pratt ,
a spokesman for Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff.  “People did take retirement because they had enough years
and it was a simple calculation of how much they thought they
might lose,” Pratt said in a telephone interview. “We can
expect as baby boomers age, those numbers are going to go up.”  The 100 biggest public pension funds were set to pay out as
much as $200 billion in benefits last year, based on third-
quarter Census Bureau  figures , as more people retired from
government jobs across the nation. At that rate, benefit
payments would be 43 percent more than the $140 billion in 2006.  Broader Figure Declines  Including teachers, police and firemen, 19,720 public
employees retired last year in  New Jersey , the data show. More
than 20,000 filed to leave the workforce in 2010 as retirements
by educators almost doubled. Christie signed a law that year
requiring teachers to allocate 1.5 percent of their salaries
toward health benefits. They previously paid nothing.  Retirement among members of the Public Employee Retirement
System more than doubled last June in the run-up to Christie’s
signing the pension measure, which he said would save state and
local governments $120 billion by 2041.  The filings slowed following the signing, though they were
still higher than 2009 levels, the treasury data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  