-- New York Jets Coach Ryan Says Lack of Chemistry Contributed to 8-8 Finish
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/new-york-jets-coach-ryan-says-lack-of-chemistry-contributed-to-8-8-finish.html
The  New York Jets  this season lacked
the chemistry they had the previous two years when they fell a
win short of  Super Bowl  appearances, coach  Rex Ryan  said.  The Jets finished 8-8 and lost their final three games to
miss the National Football League playoffs for the first time
during Ryan’s tenure as coach. The slump was capped by the
benching of captain  Santonio Holmes  following a verbal
altercation with teammates during the fourth quarter of a
season-ending loss two days ago in Miami.  “I don’t think we were as close as a football team as we
were the first two years and now we’re sitting on the outside
looking in,” Ryan said yesterday at a news conference. “We’re
watching other teams in playoff games that we think we should be
in. That’s painful.”  Ryan and General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said the Jets have
the talent to challenge for a Super Bowl, so they’ll spend the
offseason assessing what went wrong and how to improve. Ryan
doesn’t expect drastic changes, saying that Holmes will be back,
Brian Schottenheimer will return as offensive coordinator unless
he gets a head coaching job and that he still has confidence in
quarterback  Mark Sanchez .  “A lot of times what separates winning from losing is a
team that truly believes in each other, that cares about each
other,” Ryan said. “I have always been around that type of
team. That’s what I want to build here, and we’re going to have
53 people that believe that way.”  Jets’ Offense  The Jets offense ranked 25th out of 32 NFL teams in total
offensive yards, with Schottenheimer and Sanchez receiving the
bulk of the criticism from media and fans for the team’s
struggles. Schottenheimer has been offensive coordinator since
2006 and Tannenbaum said yesterday that he’s a candidate for the
Jacksonville Jaguars’ coaching vacancy.  “I really respect the job he’s done, in terms of working
with three different quarterbacks, two championship games,”
Tannenbaum said. “He’s done a really credible job for us.”  Sanchez threw 26 touchdown passes in his third season,
tying Al Dorrow and  Joe Namath  for the second-highest single-
season total in franchise history. He also threw 18
interceptions, including seven in the final three games. Sanchez
was intercepted three times in the season-ending 19-17 loss
against the  Miami Dolphins .  ‘Far From Perfect’  “Mark’s body of work speaks for itself. It’s more good
than bad and it’s far from perfect,” Tannenbaum said. “It has
to be more consistent and I think if Mark was sitting right here,
he’d be the first one to tell you.”  While the Jets will look at the quarterback position “as a
whole” during the offseason, Sanchez will be the starter next
season, Tannenbaum said.  “I’ve steadily improved numbers wise, but I still feel
like I have a long way to go,” Sanchez told reporters yesterday.
“I have plenty of things to work on, plenty of areas where I
can be better. That’s what the offseason is for.”  Sanchez wouldn’t comment on how the situation with Holmes,
who failed to catch a pass in the season finale and was taken
out after the confrontation with teammates in the Jets’
offensive huddle. Ryan said he made a mistake by having team
captains.  “This is something that I think I made a huge mistake
on,” Ryan said. “Not just by naming Santonio a captain, but
all of the captain things. This is not a reflection of anybody
in particular, but we’re not going to have those anymore. The
way we built our team is we built a team. And I think that pulls
away from the team a little bit.”  Ryan said while Holmes will be held accountable for his
actions, the team had more widespread problems and the coach
blamed himself for not having a better gauge on its chemistry.  “Normally I’m a guy that really has the pulse of this
team,” Ryan said. “I don’t think I had the pulse of our team
the way I’ve done in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  