-- Nigeria Cabinet to Hold Meeting on Fuel Protests
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-04T09:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/nigeria-braces-for-nationwide-protests-after-fuel-prices-more-than-double.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
called an emergency meeting of his Cabinet today to discuss the
goverment’s scrapping of subsidies on fuel, Health Minister
Onyebuchi Chukwu told Channels Television.  The Nigeria Labor Congress and the Trade Union Congress of
Nigeria are scheduled to meet today to set a date for a strike
involving “tens of millions” of people, NLC Secretary-General
Owei Lakemfa said by phone in Abuja. One protester was shot and
killed by police yesterday in Ilorin, the capital of the central
state of Kwara, he said. Protesters marched in the market area
of Yaba in the commercial capital, Lagos, as long lines of
vehicles formed around fuel stations.  Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer, abolished 1.2
trillion naira ($7.5 billion) of subsidies on Jan. 1. That’s
likely to more than double the price of unleaded gasoline to 140
naira a liter (0.26 gallon), according to the Petroleum Products
Pricing Regulatory Agency. Nigeria imports most of its fuel
because of a lack of refining capacity.  “By removing the subsidy abruptly, instead of phasing it
in with a price band, for example, and by failing to prepare
popular opinion, Jonathan has introduced the right reform at the
wrong time and in the wrong way,” Ashley Elliot, an  Africa 
analyst at London-based Control Risks, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Gasoline Prices Rise  Jonathan appointed Christopher Kolade, former high
commissioner to the U.K., to head a new board created to oversee
the spending of funds previously used for gasoline subsidies,
the government said Jan. 2.  About 64 percent of Nigeria’s population, which the
government puts at more than 160 million, lives on less than
$1.25 a day, according to data from the  United Nations . Fuel
stations in Lagos run by the state oil company, Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp., sold gasoline yesterday at 138 naira
per liter. In Abuja,  Forte Oil Plc (FO)  stations in the center of
town were selling gasoline at 139.8 naira per liter.  “Cheap petrol is viewed by many Nigerians as the only
tangible benefit they receive from the state, hence the
widespread anger,” Elliot said.  The West African nation imports 70 percent of its fuel
products due to a lack of adequate refining capacity, Petroleum
Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said on Nov. 22.  Nigeria  has
paid 3.65 trillion naira in domestic fuel subsidies since 2006,
with more than a third spent in 2011, according to the Petroleum
Products Pricing Regulatory Agency.  The government spent 1.35 trillion naira in the first nine
months of last year, PPPRA chief Reginald Stanley told a
parliamentary hearing on Dec. 2.  Nigeria’s inflation rate stayed above the central bank’s 10
percent in November, remaining unchanged at 10.5 percent.
Nigeria expects inflation of 9.5 percent and economic growth of
7.2 percent this year, Jonathan said in his Dec. 13 budget
speech.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  