-- Norway’s NHO Urges Exporters to Look Beyond Europe Amid Job Cuts
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-01-03T15:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/norway-s-nho-urges-exporters-to-look-beyond-europe-amid-job-cuts.html
Norwegian exporters need to find
alternative markets to  Europe  amid plans to cut more jobs to
start the year as the continent’s debt crisis saps demand, the
head of the country’s largest business group said.  “The lack of growth in Europe is now having an impact on
the order books of Norwegian industry,” John G. Bernander,
chief executive officer of the Confederation of Norwegian
Enterprise, said today in an interview in Oslo. “Eight out of
10 kroner of our export value will go into Europe, so what we
are saying is that because of the lack of growth in Europe you
need to prepare to develop other markets.”  Growth is slowing in the economy of the world’s seventh-
largest oil exporter as Europe’s leaders struggle to contain a
debt crisis that started three years ago. The Nordic nation,
home to  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) , Europe’s third-largest maker of
aluminum, sends  more than 60 percent of its exports to the
European Union.  Asia  accounted for 14 percent of the nation’s
exports through November last year, and the U.S. 8.5 percent.  Companies such as  Renewable Energy Corp. (REC)  ASA, Europe’s
largest producer of solar wafers, as well as  Norske
Skogindustrier ASA (NSG) , the world’s second-largest maker of
newsprint, have announced jobs cuts amid waning demand and
falling prices for their goods. A survey of purchasing managers
released today showed manufacturing shrank the most since
October 2009 as orders plunged and production stalled.  First Quarter Cuts  Bernander said that 25 percent of exporters contacted by
his group plan to cut jobs in the first quarter.  Norway ’s central bank last month cut its benchmark  interest
rate  by 50 basis points to 1.75 percent to shield the world’s
second-largest gas exporter. The  European Central Bank  also cut
its benchmark rate in November and December, reaching 1 percent.  Bernander said the Norwegian cut was necessary to avoid “a
very adverse impact on the currency exchange rates for Norwegian
export industries.”  The Norwegian krone emerged as a haven for investors
seeking to avoid the euro-area’s debt woes and after Switzerland
capped franc appreciation. The krone hit an 8 1/2-year high
against the euro in September, prompting Norges Bank Governor
Oeystein Olsen to warn he may cut rates.  “We should not fall out of line with what is happening in
Europe because that is where our destiny lies, at least for the
new-term future,” Bernander said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  