-- NYC Official Demands Time Warner Cable Reimburses Customers for Lost Games
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-03T22:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/nyc-official-demands-time-warner-pay-users-for-lost-knicks-rangers-games.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  should
reimburse customers who are missing  New York  Knicks and Rangers
games because of the carrier’s dispute with programmer Madison
Square Garden Co., New York City Comptroller  John Liu  said.  The clash between the second-largest U.S. cable company and
MSG “does nothing more than unfairly punish” Time Warner Cable
customers, Liu said today in an e-mailed statement.  Liu has asked the Department of Information Technology and
Telecommunications, the city agency that regulates cable
franchise contracts, to “make sure” Time Warner Cable
reimburses subscribers for the loss of MSG and MSG Plus. The two
cable networks carry the National Basketball Association’s
Knicks and the National Hockey League’s New York Rangers,  New
York Islanders ,  Buffalo Sabres  and  New Jersey Devils .  Time Warner Cable customers lost access to MSG Network on
Jan. 1 after the two sides failed to negotiate new contract
terms. MSG was asking Time Warner Cable to pay a 53 percent
price increase for the right to carry its programming, according
to Mike Angus, a Time Warner Cable senior vice president. MSG
Media President Mike Bair said the claim was a “gross
mischaracterization.”  The comptroller’s office didn’t offer specifics on how Time
Warner Cable might reimburse customers, who don’t pay a separate
charge for MSG and MSG Plus. The channels are part of Time
Warner Cable’s expanded basic package.  ‘Consumers Deserve’ Compensation  “Consumers deserve to be compensated for what they have
gone through as a result of this dispute, plain and simple,”
Mike Loughran, a spokesman for Liu, said in an e-mail. Loughran
said the comptroller’s office would discuss compensation plans
with the Department of  Information Technology  and
Telecommunications.  Time Warner Cable has already replaced MSG with NBA TV and
MSG Plus with NHL Network, two channels that typically would
require customers to pay $5.95 a month for access,  Alex Dudley ,
a spokesman for Time Warner Cable, said in an interview.  “We at Time Warner Cable think that all New Yorkers can
agree that a 53 percent price increase is way out of line,”
Dudley said.  Time Warner Cable rose 2.1 percent to $64.88 at the close
in New York. MSG Co.  lost (MSG)  1.4 percent to $28.25. Both companies
are based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  