-- Obama Considering Cordray Recess Appointment
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-01-04T12:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/obama-considering-cordray-recess-appointment.html
President  Barack Obama  and his
advisers are debating whether to install  Richard Cordray  as head
of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as soon as today,
challenging Republican efforts to block appointments while
Congress is away from the Capitol, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  White House officials recognize that appointing Cordray
would probably invite a court battle with congressional
Republicans during an election year, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  White House officials have communicated to Cordray that he
should be ready to become acting consumer bureau head as soon as
today, according to one person. A final decision on the recess
appointment hasn’t been made, the other person said.  Jay Carney ,
the White House press secretary, declined to comment.  Cordray is the former attorney general of  Ohio , and Obama
is scheduled to deliver a speech on the economy today in a
suburb of  Cleveland .  The Constitution gives a president the power to make
appointments when the  U.S. Senate  is in recess. To keep Obama
from appointing officials after Congress started a holiday break
last month, congressional Republicans refused to adopt a
resolution to formally adjourn and senators have appeared every
three days for a brief pro forma session.  The Congressional Research Service, in a 2001 memo, said
congressional practice and Justice Department opinions have
backed the position that the Senate should be out of session for
more than three days before the president can make a so-called
recess appointment.  Recess Appointments  The White House discussions center on whether to challenge
that customary practice and go ahead with an appointment while
most lawmakers are out of town, despite the Senate’s pro forma
gathering.  Enough questions surround the way congressional recesses
work to give the Obama administration some grounds to attempt a
legal fight, said Norm Ornstein, a congressional scholar at the
 American Enterprise Institute  in Washington.  “The fact is that there is significant ambiguity about how
you define a recess that they could challenge it,” Ornstein
said.  Obama nominated Cordray to be the bureau’s first director
in July, almost one year after enactment of the Dodd-Frank
financial regulatory law that created the agency. Obama passed
over  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard University professor who set
up the bureau and is running for the U.S. Senate from
 Massachusetts .  Fight Over Bureau  Even before Cordray received the nod, the bureau became
ensnared in a partisan fight over demands by Senate Republicans
for changes in the agency’s structure and funding. In May, 44
Republicans -- a 45th later joined them -- said they wouldn’t
confirm a director without the changes, and on Dec. 8 they
blocked the nomination on a procedural vote.  Without a director in place, the consumer bureau can’t
supervise and regulate non-bank financial firms, such as
mortgage originators and payday lenders. On July 21, it acquired
the authority to supervise and regulate deposit-taking banks.  A recess appointment would heighten a clash between Obama
and Congress, including December’s showdown over a two-month
extension of a  payroll tax (FFSTEMPL)  cut for workers. Obama will need
Congress to pass a full-year extension, which is “essentially
the last must-do item of business on the president’s
congressional agenda” in 2012, White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  said on Dec. 31.  Congressional Cooperation  The president also may need Congress’s cooperation on
pending nominations to the Federal Reserve Board and judgeships
and on his proposals in a jobs bill.  The Senate is scheduled to stay symbolically open for
business until lawmakers resume work on Jan. 23.  Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, declined to comment.  Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky , said he couldn’t speculate about how the
White House might attempt to execute the appointment. He said it
doesn’t appear possible when the Senate is holding pro forma
sessions.  “The Senate is not in recess,” Stewart said. He also said
lawmakers in both parties have adhered to the practice of
holding pro forma sessions to prevent recess appointments for
some time, including during President  George W. Bush ’s
presidency.  In 2010, Neal Katyal, a deputy solicitor general, said
before the  Supreme Court  that “I think our office has opined
the recess has to be longer than three days” before a recess
appointment can be made.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 