-- Loews Names Virgin’s Paul Whetsell Chief Executive of Its Hotel Division
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-01-03T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/loews-names-virgin-s-paul-whetsell-chief-executive-officer-of-hotel-unit.html
Loews Corp. (L) , a New York-based
insurance and energy holding company, named Paul W. Whetsell
chief executive officer of its hotel unit today as the luxury
chain prepares to acquire properties.  Whetsell, 61, has worked in the hospitality industry since
college and was most recently executive director of Virgin
Hotels, a brand being developed by Richard Branson’s  Virgin
Group Ltd. (1044Q)  He joins Loews Hotels, where he also will hold the
title of president, on Jan. 17, succeeding Jack Adler, who
announced his retirement in October.  “He brings a wealth of experience to Loews Hotels,”
Jonathan Tisch, co-chairman of the parent company and chairman
of the hotel division, said in a telephone interview. “I view
his coming on board as a great opportunity for me to have a
partner as we move forward and look at the challenges in today’s
lodging industry, but also the opportunities.”  Room rates for U.S. luxury hotels such as the Loews, Ritz-
Carlton,  St. Regis  and Four Seasons brands increased an average
6 percent this year through November, while average occupancy
rates rose to 71 percent from 67 percent a year earlier, said
Jan Freitag, senior vice president at Smith Travel Research Inc.
of Hendersonville,  Tennessee . Industrywide, U.S. room rates rose
3.7 percent while occupancy rates averaged 61 percent, he said.  “Life is really good on the upper end of the market,”
Freitag said in a telephone interview. “We’re seeing increases
in demand at the same time we’re not seeing any new supply,
because banks aren’t fond of lending.”  Seeking New Cities  Loews, which operates 18  hotels and resorts  in the U.S. and
 Canada  including the Loews Regency Hotel in  New York , is
planning to expand into such gateway cities as  Boston ,  Chicago ,
 San Francisco  and  Washington , Whetsell said.  “Our focus will be on acquisitions of existing hotels,”
he said in a telephone interview. “Particularly in the major
markets, I think you can still find opportunities to buy,
renovate and convert to the Loews brand less expensively than
new construction.”  Whetsell in 1987 founded CapStar Hotel Co., a real estate
investment trust that had more than 100 hotels and $3 billion in
assets. In 1998, CapStar was split into  MeriStar Hospitality
Corp. (MHX) , a real estate investment trust, and a company now known
as  Interstate Hotels & Resorts Inc. (IHR) , which manages lodging
properties. Whetsell served as chairman and CEO of MeriStar
until Blackstone Group LP acquired it in 2006, and as chairman
of Interstate until 2009.  The hotel division contributed $8 million to Loews Corp.’s
$796 million of net income for the three quarters ended Sept.
30, and $251 million of revenue to the company’s $10.6 billion
for the period, according to a  filing (L)  with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  “It’s the only subsidiary that bears the Loews name,”
said Tisch, whose family has been in the lodging industry since
1946. “We like the hotel business. We think we’re good at the
hotel business.”  The terms of Whetsell’s compensation weren’t disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  