-- Ohio Quake Spurs Action on 5 Wells, Won’t Stop Oil and Gas Work
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/ohio-halts-wells-after-quake-won-t-stop-natural-gas-drilling.html
A New Year’s Eve earthquake in
Youngstown,  Ohio , that prompted the state to stop or delay
operations at five wells for disposing of wastewater from oil
and natural-gas extraction won’t affect production.  State Representative Robert F. Hagan, a Democrat who
represents Youngstown, is calling for a moratorium on all
hydraulic fracturing and injection-well activity “until we can
conclude it’s safe.” The wastewater is a byproduct of hydraulic
fracturing, also called fracking, used to unlock fossil fuel
deposits.  Governor  John Kasich  and the  Ohio (STOOH1)  Department of Natural
Resources consider the earthquake and others like it to be
isolated occurrences and will continue using the state’s other
177 disposal wells without interrupting shale-gas development
that may produce thousands of jobs, said  Rob Nichols , a
spokesman for Kasich.  “We are not going to stand by and let someone drive a
stake through the heart of what could be an economic revival in
Eastern Ohio,” Nichols said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Kasich has touted the potential economic benefits of using
hydraulic fracturing to release oil and gas from rock formations
by forcing millions of gallons of chemically treated water and
sand underground. It “could bring an economic resurgence really
to all of Ohio,” he said last month.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  said in a statement that  Total SA (FP) ,
 France ’s largest oil company, agreed to pay $2.32 billion for a
25 percent stake in eastern Ohio’s Utica shale region from
Chesapeake and EnerVest Ltd. Total will gain a 25 percent stake
in 619,000 acres, while Chesapeake will get $2.03 billion and
EnerVest $290 million, the company said yesterday.  Rocking New Year  Environmental groups such as the  Natural Resources Defense
Council  question whether fracking’s risks are worth it. A string
of quakes in Youngstown, which is roughly equidistant from
Cleveland and Pittsburgh, joined temblors in states including
Arkansas and  Texas  that researchers say may have been caused by
wastewater wells that inject fluid under pressure.  Ohio’s Natural Resources Department said operations at the
Youngstown well were stopped Dec. 30 after 10 earthquakes that
began when D&L Energy Inc. began injecting drilling brine 9,200
feet underground in December 2010. The quakes, which began in
March, ranged from 2.1 to 2.7 on the Richter scale, the Ohio
Seismic Network has said.  After a magnitude  4.0 earthquake  hit the area Dec. 31, the
state ordered injections suspended and put proposals for four
other wells within a five-mile radius on hold pending study,
Nichols said. The company has agreed to bring tanks to the site
to pull out water with the goal of reducing pressure and
lowering the risk of continued seismic activity, Rick Simmers,
chief of the oil and gas division of the Natural Resources
Department, said late yesterday in a telephone interview.  Ben Lupo, president and chief executive officer of  D&L
Energy , didn’t respond to a voicemail message seeking comment on
the plans to reduce pressure.  Pressure Reduction  Simmers estimated that about a day’s worth of water
injected into the well, between 3,000 and 5,000 barrels, could
be removed starting as early as today. There were 352,780
barrels, or 14.8 million gallons (56 million liters), of fluid
injected at the Youngstown site through the end of the third
quarter, according to data provided by the department.  The Dec. 31 earthquake was felt in northeastern Ohio,
western Pennsylvania and Ontario,  Canada , according to the Ohio
Seismic Network’s  website . It cited reports of minor damage,
including cracked plaster and glassware falling from shelves.  Thumping and Bumping  Hagan, the lawmaker, said he was ironing a shirt for a New
Year’s Eve party when the quake hit and he thought his son had
fallen down the stairs. He said while he doesn’t want to ignore
fracking’s economic potential, he wants jobs “that are
environmentally safe.”  “Some people have accused me of screaming, ‘The sky is
falling,’” Hagan said in a telephone interview. “But when the
earth is moving, we have an obligation to find out why.”  About 7 million barrels of wastewater from drilling have
been injected annually into Ohio wells without incident because
the practice is closely regulated, Thomas E. Stewart, executive
vice president of the Ohio Oil and Gas Association, a trade
group with more than 1,450 members, has said.  The association supports the temporary halt to injections
near Youngstown, though the quake was “a rare and isolated
event that should not cast doubt about the effectiveness” of
the wells, Stewart said in a  statement  Jan. 2.  Terry Fleming, executive director of the Ohio Petroleum
Council, said the state acted “with appropriate due caution”
and that the situation in Youngstown is “very rare.”  “Ohio needs to maintain a reliable, safe, well-regulated
network of disposal sites as we move forward with a very
promising expansion of oil and gas exploration,” Fleming said
yesterday in a statement.  Mystery Fault  It’s possible the injection well triggered a previously
unknown fault, said Michael Hansen, a geologist and coordinator
of the Ohio Seismic Network.  Even with the well shut down, there may be seismic activity
in Youngstown for months or years, said Won-Young Kim, director
of Columbia University’s  Lamont-Doherty Cooperative
Seismographic Network  in Palisades,  New York . The network
deployed equipment near the well last month to determine how
deep the quakes are, Kim said in a telephone interview.  There’s no evidence that something other than the
Youngstown well is causing the earthquakes because they occurred
nearby and close to the depth of the injections, Kim said.  “Youngstown is not  California ,” Kim said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  