-- Oil Trades Near 8-Month High on Demand, Iran Tension Amid Shrinking Supply
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-04T08:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/oil-trades-near-8-month-high-on-demand-iran-tension-amid-shrinking-supply.html
Oil traded near the highest in almost
eight months as investors speculated that tensions over  Iran ,
shrinking U.S. crude stockpiles and signs of economic recovery
will tighten global supplies.  Futures were little changed after rallying 4.2 percent
yesterday as the head of Iran’s army warned the U.S. against
sending an aircraft carrier back to the  Persian Gulf .
Manufacturing in the U.S., the world’s largest economy, expanded
at the fastest pace in six months, adding to improved factory
activity in  Asia  and  Europe . Crude inventories probably dropped
500,000 barrels last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  “The oil market is well-balanced, and it’s really the
threat of potential supply disruptions, together with the
positive manufacturing activity globally, that are supporting
this current upside bias,”  Victor Shum , a senior principal at
Purvin & Gertz Inc., a consultant in  Singapore , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. He predicts oil in New York will
trade above $100 a barrel in the coming months.  Crude for February delivery was at $102.76 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 20
cents, at 4:03 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract rose
$4.13 to $102.96, the highest settlement since May 10. Prices
climbed 8.2 percent in 2011, their third annual gain.  Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $111.88 a barrel, down 25 cents,
after advancing 4.4 percent yesterday. The European benchmark
contract was at a $9.12 premium to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate grade. The spread was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  ‘Under Pressure’  Brent crude  will probably “come under pressure” in the
first few weeks of 2012 as Libya restores production and
Europe’s debt crisis threatens to curb demand, Commerzbank AG
said in a report yesterday. It will trade at $110 a barrel at
the end of this year as the global economy recovers and unrest
in oil-producing countries endangers supplies, the bank said.  Crude production by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries rose last month to the fastest rate since November
2008, led by a recovery in Libyan supply, a Bloomberg survey
showed. Output increased 162,000 barrels, or 0.5 percent, to an
average 30.667 million barrels a day from a revised 30.505
million, according to the survey of  oil companies , producers and
analysts. OPEC’s 12 members pump about a third of the world’s
crude.  “OPEC production has been strong,” Shum said. “There has
been no shortage in supply.”  Strait of Hormuz  Oil has risen on speculation Iran may try to disrupt the
supply of oil through the Strait of Hormuz as the U.S. and its
allies increase pressure to halt what they say may be a covert
nuclear-weapons program. Sanctions signed into law Dec. 31 by
President Barack Obama aim to deter dealings with Iran’s central
bank. Almost 17 million barrels a day of crude moved through the
waterway last year, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Ataollah Salehi, the head of Iran’s army, said yesterday
the U.S. shouldn’t send an  aircraft carrier  back to the Gulf and
that “we warn only once,” according to the state-run Fars news
agency. The USS John C. Stennis passed through the strait on
Dec. 27 on a routine voyage and was operating in the northern
 Arabian Sea , said the U.S. 5th Fleet.  The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory index
rose to 53.9 in December from 52.7 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said. A Commerce Department report today may
show bookings for factory goods climbed 2 percent in November.  Global Rebound  Purchasing-manager indexes for the U.K., Switzerland,
 China ,  India  and  Australia  rose in December, while German
unemployment fell more than economists forecast as exports of
cars and machinery boomed, reports this week showed.  U.S.  gasoline inventories (DOEASMGS)  probably climbed 1 million
barrels last week, according to the median estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Distillate-fuel supplies,
including diesel and heating oil, probably gained 500,000
barrels.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release its inventory
data today. The industry group collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Oil in  New York  has technical resistance at $103.39 a
barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly
chart, that’s the 61.8 percent Fibonacci retracement of the drop
to $32.40 in December 2008 from a record intraday high of
$147.27 in July that year. Sell orders tend be clustered close
to chart resistance. A six-week rally stalled in November last
year near the same level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  