-- Oil Climbs to 7-Month High as Global Manufacturing Growth Boosts Optimism
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2012-01-03T21:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/oil-increases-as-global-manufacturing-growth-bolsters-economic-optimism.html
Oil climbed to the highest level in
more than seven months as manufacturing in the U.S. and  Asia 
expanded in December and concern persisted that further
sanctions against Iran may disrupt shipments.  Futures gained 4.2 percent after the Institute for Supply
Management’s U.S. factory index rose more than expected, adding
to increases in China and  India . An Iranian military official
warned the U.S. against sending an aircraft carrier back to the
Persian Gulf.  “It looks like the  U.S. economy  is coming back,” said
 Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
 Washington . “The upside risk for prices is greater than the
downside risk.”  Crude oil for February delivery rose $4.13 to settle at
$102.96 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest level since May 10. Futures climbed 8.2 percent in 2011,
the third consecutive annual increase.  Brent oil for February settlement advanced $4.75, or 4.4
percent, to $112.13 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The European benchmark contract’s premium to
West Texas Intermediate futures widened to $9.17.  The ISM’s U.S. factory index rose to 53.9 in December from
52.7 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data
showed today. U.S.  construction spending (CNSTTMOM)  rose in November for a
third time in four months. Building outlays climbed 1.2 percent,
exceeding the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 0.5
percent, Commerce Department figures showed.  Asian Manufacturing  China ’s purchasing managers’ index rose to 50.3 in December
from 49 in November, the Beijing-based logistics federation said
Jan. 1. A number above 50 indicates expansion. India’s
Purchasing Managers’ Index rose the most in six months in
December, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said yesterday.  Futures also rose as the U.S. and its allies increased
pressure on Iran to halt what they say may be a covert nuclear
weapons program. Sanctions signed into law by President Barack Obama on Dec. 31 aim to deter dealings with the Iranian central
bank. The European Union will be ready by Jan. 30 to decide
whether to extend sanctions, Michael Mann, a EU spokesman, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Ataollah Salehi, the head of  Iran ’s army, warned the U.S.
against sending an aircraft carrier back to the Persian Gulf.
The USS John C. Stennis passed eastward through the Strait of
Hormuz a week ago. The U.S. rejected the warning and said its
deployments were part of regularly scheduled movements.  Strait of Hormuz  “We are not seeking a confrontation,”  Victoria Nuland , a
spokeswoman for the State Department, said during a briefing in
Washington. The U.S. military will continue to play a role in
ensuring freedom of navigation, she said.  Iran doesn’t intend to disrupt shipping in the Strait of
Hormuz, Deputy Navy Commander Rear Admiral Mahmoud Mousavi said
yesterday, according to Press TV. One-fifth of oil traded
worldwide moved through the channel connecting the  Persian Gulf 
to the Gulf of Oman last year, the U.S. Energy Department said
Dec. 30.  The warnings show that Iran is coming under increasing
pressure because of international sanctions,  Jay Carney , the
White House press secretary, said in Washington. He said Iran is
in a “position of weakness.”  “There’s still a risk that some unexpected event in the
 Middle East  will disrupt the flow of oil,” Sieminski said.
“This will continue to be the main upside risk for prices.”  Equities Advance  The manufacturing data also sent equities higher. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
increased 1.5 percent at 4:05 p.m. The euro climbed 0.9 percent
to $1.3053. A stronger common currency and weaker dollar
increase oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  “Global manufacturing is pulling just about every market
higher,” said Phil Flynn, vice president of research at PFGBest
in Chicago. “All of the figures we’ve seen across the globe
have been encouraging.”  German unemployment dropped more than forecast in December,
adding to optimism that Europe’s economy will grow. The number
of people out of work fell a seasonally adjusted 22,000 to 2.89
million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said today. A
decline of 10,000 was expected, according to the median of 20
economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The adjusted jobless
rate fell to 6.8 percent.  Volume was 616,687 as of 4:05 p.m. in  New York , the most
since Dec. 14. Volume totaled 313,927 on Dec. 30. Open interest
was 1.33 million. The exchange has a one-business-day delay in
releasing full volume and open interest data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 