-- Monti Prescribes ‘Aspirin’ for New Year’s Debt Ache: Euro Credit
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-01-03T13:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/monti-prescribes-italian-aspirin-for-new-year-s-debt-ache-euro-credit.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is
prescribing more “aspirin” to revive an Italian economy that’s
probably in a recession and tackle almost half a trillion euros
in debt sales after the worst year on record for Italian bonds.  At a year-end press conference in Rome on Dec. 29, Monti
pledged to ready measures to spur competition and growth in the
euro region’s third-biggest economy before a meeting of European
finance ministers on Jan. 23. The plan comes after he spent his
first month in office enacting 30 billion euros ($39 billion) in
austerity and growth measures aimed at taming  Italy ’s surging
borrowing costs.  “Monti has taken only one aspirin, now he needs to take
two,”  Marc Chandler , chief currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, said by phone. Still,
“investors are underestimating Italian resolve and European
resolve to keep Italy in the monetary union” as well as “the
range of tools Italy still can have with a strong leadership,”
he said.  The key to the euro’s survival may lie with Italy, the
region’s second-biggest debtor after  Greece . The nation must
repay about 130 billion euros in debt in the first quarter with
its 10-year bond yield close to the 7 percent level that led
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts. The $2.3 trillion
economy probably entered a recession in the three months through
December, its fourth since 2001, according to the government.  ECB Assistance  Italy sold almost 20 billion euros of debt last week with
borrowing costs declining by almost half at a sale of 9 billion
euros of 6-month bills. The auctions underscored how the
 European Central Bank  is helping Italy tap markets after the
Frankfurt-based institute loaned 489 billion euros to banks to
ease credit.  The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond rose 4 basis
points to 6.95 percent at 2:15 p.m. Rome time, pushing the
difference with German securities to 506 basis points. Italy
will seek to raise almost 450 billion euros in debt in 2012. Its
next auction is Jan. 12.  “Yields on shorter maturities have gone down
substantially, signaling that, notwithstanding the extremely
serious situation of government finances, market players saw the
danger of a default receding,” Marino Valensise, who oversees
51 billion euros as chief investment officer at Baring Asset
Management Ltd. in London, said in an e-mail.  The yield on Italy’s 2-year bond rose four basis points to
4.73 percent at 2:17 p.m.  Rome  time, down from 7.66 percent on
Nov. 25 when it exceeded the yield on the nation’s 10-year
benchmark bond by 12 basis points. That difference indicated
investors perceived a higher risk in lending to Italy for two
years than for a decade.  Record Years  Italian and Greek bonds had their worst years on record in
2011 as  Europe ’s financial woes intensified. Greek bonds lost 63
percent through Dec. 29, the largest since at least 2000, while
Italian bonds dropped 5.7 percent for the worst year since at
least 1992, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  While Italy’s budget  deficit (EUBDITAL)  last year of 4.6 percent of
gross domestic product was almost half that of  Spain , Spanish
10-year bonds yield about 1.7 percentage points less than
equivalent-maturity Italian bonds. Monti on Dec. 29 attributed
the difference to a Spanish debt stock that’s roughly half the
size of Italy’s and to Spanish leaders’ ability to apply “moral
suasion” on their banks to buy  government securities .  “In a sibylline way, Monti declared that the Italian
government intends to do the same,” Francesco Garzarelli, co-
head of fixed-income strategy at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
 London , said in a Dec. 29 note to investors.  Devaluation, Inflation  Ten years after euro bank notes replaced national
currencies on Jan. 1, 2002, the euro has for the first time
recorded two consecutive annual losses against the  U.S. dollar 
while plunging to a record low against the yen. A weaker euro
and faster inflation may help the region’s economy to revive
growth amid 1.1 trillion euros in euro-area debt sales this
year, Valensise said.  “De-facto, the ECB is already printing, via the long-term
loans to euro-zone banks and lowering collateral requirements,”
he said. “Those who fight inflation -- the Germans -- are
fighting yesterday’s battle: we desperately need some.”  Monti’s government forecasts  the economy (ITPIRLQS)  will shrink 0.5
percent next year. Monti said last week his new “Grow Italy”
plan will also seek to boost infrastructure spending through a
better use of European Union funds. Measures to overhaul the
labor market will be unveiled in February.  Withstanding Costs  Italy will be able to withstand an increase in borrowing
costs for at least a few years as its relatively long debt
maturity helps mitigate the effects of higher bond yields, the
 Bank for International Settlements  said in its Quarterly Report.
The cost of servicing its debt would rise by just 0.95 percent
of gross domestic product next year if 10-year yields stayed at
the level of 7.48 percent reached on Nov. 9, it said on Dec. 11.  Under Monti and his predecessor,  Silvio Berlusconi , Italy
has passed deficit cuts valued at 5 percent of GDP over the next
two years, according to an estimate by Goldman Sachs. A former
EU commissioner, Monti has also called for increasing the
resources of Europe’s rescue funds and for a region-wide
economic “growth agenda” to better fight the debt crisis.  “In the medium term, I don’t see many risks because Italy
has a very solid ability to pay,” Alessio de Longis, a
portfolio manager at Oppenheimer Funds in  New York , said in a
Dec. 30 interview on “InsideTrack” on Bloomberg Television.
Italy “is scheduled to easily reach a balanced budget in 2013,
so it becomes more of an issue with the long end, and the long
end is priced off of those structural reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 