-- Top Funds See Yields at One-Year Lows on Series of Rate Cuts: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-01-04T04:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/top-funds-see-yields-at-one-year-lows-on-series-of-rate-cuts-india-credit.html
Yields on  India ’s sovereign bonds
will drop to a one-year low by March, the nation’s top-
performing debt-fund managers predict, after the central bank
signaled it would cut borrowing costs as inflation cools.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year note will
slide 37 basis points to 8 percent, according to Tata Mutual
Fund and Peerless Mutual Fund, both based in Mumbai. Tata
Mutual’s bond fund returned 13.04 percent in 2011, the most
among 521 fixed-income plans tracked by Bloomberg and almost
double the average gain of all funds. Investors in Peerless
Mutual earned 12.96 percent, the second-best performance.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao, who raised
borrowing  costs (INRPYLD)  seven times last year, said he expects a
“reversal” of monetary tightening in 2012 as inflation and
growth slow, according to an interview posted on the British
Broadcasting Corp.’s website on Jan. 2. Rupee-denominated
government notes gained 6.5 percent in the past year, compared
with 6.4 percent in  China , 5.8 percent in  Russia  and 16.9
percent in  Brazil , JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.  “The outlook for bonds will be good as inflation is coming
down and investors expect a series of rate cuts,” Murthy Nagarajan, the Mumbai-based head of fixed income at Tata Mutual
that oversees $4.2 billion, said in an interview on Jan. 2. “We
are running long positions in all our funds.”  Wholesale Prices  The 521 debt funds tracked by Bloomberg returned 6.76
percent on average last year, compared with a loss of 22 percent
in the nation’s 495 equity funds. Commodity funds earned 24
percent as  gold prices  gained for an 11th consecutive year.  Tata Mutual’s top performing  Fixed Income Portfolio Fund
Scheme C3 (TAFC3RG)  bought securities maturing in less than 270 days on
signs Asia’s third-biggest economy is slowing. Industrial  output (INPIINDY) 
shrank 5.1 percent in October from a year earlier, the first
contraction since June 2009, government data showed last month.
Wholesale prices, which the central bank uses to guide monetary
policy, rose 9.11 percent in November, the least in a year.  “We have acknowledged that growth is going to be a
concern,” Subbarao told the  BBC . “We could expect a reversal
of monetary tightening, but it’s difficult to say when that will
take place and in what shape it will roll out.”  Alpana Killawala, a Mumbai-based spokeswoman for the
Reserve Bank, directed Bloomberg to a policy statement issued on
Dec. 16, when Subbarao underlined risks to economic growth.  Bonds Rally  Yields on  debt (GIND1YR)  due in 12 months slid 30 basis points, or
0.30 percentage point, in December to 8.47 percent, while those
on securities due in 10 years fell 17 basis points, on
speculation the  Reserve Bank  will cut the benchmark repurchase
rate when it meets on Jan. 24.  The yield on the 8.79 percent note due in November 2021
rose one basis point to 8.37 percent today, according to the
central bank’s trading system.  The outcome of this month’s policy review may be influenced
by wholesale-price data for December due on Jan. 13, according
to Peerless Mutual.  “If inflation decelerates below 8 percent in December, the
central bank will have leeway to cut  interest rates ,” Ganti N. Murthy, the Mumbai-based head of fixed-income at Peerless Mutual
that oversees about $1.1 billion, said in an interview on Jan.
2. “These are good levels to buy government notes as there can
be rate cuts ahead.”  Debt Sales  Increases in  wholesale (INFINFY)  prices will be “close to” 6
percent by March, Murthy predicts, spurring the Reserve Bank to
cut the repo rate by as much as 50 basis points in 2012.  The government’s announcement last week that it would sell
8.5 percent more debt than planned in the year ending March will
weigh on bonds, according to Mumbai-based Canara Robeco Asset
Management Ltd. The  finance ministry  will borrow a record 5.1
trillion rupees in the current financial year, the central bank
said Dec. 30, raising the bond-sale target for a second time in
three months.  “Yields will inch up as there will be no let-up in
borrowings,” Ritesh Jain, the Mumbai-based head of investment
at Canara Robeco, which oversees about $1.3 billion, said in an
interview on Jan. 2. “In the current environment, it will be
very difficult for the government to hold down its borrowings.”  Ten-year note yields may range from 8.40 percent to 8.80
percent in 2012, Jain said. Canara Robeco’s InDigo Fund, which
wasn’t included in the ranking because it also invests in gold,
returned 14.6 percent last year.  Fund Holdings  India’s higher yields are attracting global investors.
International investors  bought (FIINDEBT)  $3.9 billion more of India’s
bonds than they sold last month, taking their ownership to $26.1
billion, according to exchange data. They increased holdings by
$8.4 billion in 2011 as a declining currency made the debt
cheaper.  As their holdings rose, the  difference (USGG10YR)  in yields between
the nation’s debt due in a decade and similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries shrank to 640 basis points today from a record 697
basis points reached Nov. 9.  The rupee lost 16 percent last year, the worst performance
among  Asia ’s most-traded currencies, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It advanced 0.1 percent to 53.17 per dollar today.  The cost of credit protection on  State Bank  of India using
credit-default swaps was 395 basis points yesterday, seven basis
points higher than a week earlier, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Some investors
consider the lender a proxy for the nation.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur, a unit of the nation’s
largest commercial bank, forecasts the central bank will cut the
repo rate by 25 basis points to 8.25 percent on Jan. 24.  “Cooling inflation and slowing growth may prompt the
central bank to reverse its rate-tightening cycle soon,” R.S.
Chauhan, the Mumbai-based chief dealer of treasury at State Bank
of Bikaner & Jaipur, said in an interview yesterday. “That
expectation will help bonds to rally further.”  The 10-year yield may drop to 8 percent by March, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in  Mumbai  at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  