-- Morocco Cabinet Unveiled; Baraka Named Finance Minister
-- B y   A i d a   A l a m i
-- 2012-01-03T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/morocco-cabinet-unveiled-baraka-named-finance-minister-2-.html
Morocco’s King Mohammed VI accepted
Prime Minister  Abdelilah Benkirane ’s proposed Cabinet, in which
Nizar Baraka of the Istiqlal Party becomes the new economy and
finance minister, the official Maghreb Arabe Presse agency said.  Fouad Douiri will be energy, mines, water and environment
minister, Rabat-based MAP said today. He is also from Istiqlal,
which has taken part in almost every government since
independence in 1956 and shares a nationalist, pro-monarchy
stance with the country’s other major parties. The new justice
minister is Mustafa Ramid, a member of Benkirane’s Justice and
Development Party, or PJD, the main Islamist party.  The PJD, which has pledged to create jobs, won the biggest
bloc of seats in Nov. 25 elections and invited the main
political parties to join a coalition government. The delay in
forming a Cabinet and today’s appointments are an indication of
how difficult the negotiations were and the challenges ahead.  “This is a government of compromise, between the main
Islamic party and the monarchy, between the Islamist parties and
the other parties, and compromises within each political
party,” said Abdeslam Maghraoui, a politics professor at Duke
University. “I don’t think much will come out of this in terms
of change just because of the nature of how it is made -- when
you compromise, you are always going to be timid.”  Arab Upheaval  The elections were moved up from September of this year in
response to calls for reform that swept the Arab world. Since
the regional uprisings began about a year ago, King Mohammed VI
has vowed to shift some royal powers to an elected premier.  Sound macroeconomic policies, put in place over the past
decade, and political reforms mean the country is well placed to
respond to unrest, the International Monetary Fund said in July.
Inflation is under control, credit continues to grow and non-
agricultural gross domestic product may have reached 6 percent
in 2011, the IMF said.  The country’s main challenge is achieving a GDP rate that
will help reduce unemployment, which was at 9 percent and
hitting the young, women and graduates hardest, the IMF said.
Third-quarter GDP rose an annual 4.8 percent, the statistics
agency in Rabat said yesterday. Istiqlal has said it aims for
economic growth of 5 percent with inflation of about 2 percent.  Grace Period  The new government will probably enjoy several months of
grace as Moroccans give it a chance to prove itself, said
Abdellah Tourabi, a researcher at the Paris Institute of
Political Studies. After that, voters will be looking to see how
it deals with economic and social issues, he said.  Morocco’s new constitution, approved in a July referendum,
provides for the naming of a prime minister from the party that
comes first in elections, rather than leaving the choice to the
king. It also gives the premier the right to dissolve parliament
and cedes to lawmakers the right to grant amnesty to prisoners.  The PJD took 11 of the 31 Cabinet posts, including foreign
affairs, transportation and communication. The party won 107 of
the 395 seats in parliament.  Bassima Hakkaoui, a member of the PJD, will be the only
woman in the Cabinet as social and women’s affairs minister. The
lack of female ministers “doesn’t reflect any conservative
Islamic tendency, rather the fact that there are hardly any
women in the main parties,” Tourabi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aida Alami in Rabat at 
 aalami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  