-- Los Angeles Police Identify Suspect Arrested in More Than 50 Arson Fires
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-01-03T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/los-angeles-police-identify-suspect-in-arson-fires-as-hollywood-resident.html
Los Angeles  Police identified the
suspect in more than 50 arson fires as Harry Burkhart, a 24-
year-old area resident who may have been motivated by
immigration problems.  Burkhart was being held on a single charge of arson, Mayor
Antonio Villaraigosa said yesterday at a press conference,
adding additional charges are pending. Damages from the four
days of fires amounted to about $3 million, he said.  A Joint Arson Task Force, created as the crisis unfolded,
is investigating the fires, which have occurred since Dec. 30
and mostly involved vehicles. The agencies included the Los
Angeles Fire and Police departments, the Los Angeles County
Sheriff’s and Fire departments and the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.  “We are very confident in this arrest,” Los Angeles
Police Chief Charlie Beck said at the press conference. U.S.
officials “privvy to removal hearings” recognized Burkhart and
alerted the  task force , he said.  The suspect was picked up at about 3 a.m. yesterday in the
area where fires have occurred. His minivan was stopped by
reserve Sheriff’s Deputy Shervin Lalezary, 30, who works for $1
a year, according to officials at the briefing. The deputy was
then assisted by two Los Angeles police officers.  Sheriff Lee Baca called Lalezary a “citizen hero.”  No new fires have been reported since Burkhart was taken
into custody, Captain Jaime Moore, a Los Angeles Fire Department
 spokesman , said at an earlier briefing. The vehicle Burkhart
drove contained materials that could be used to start fires,
officials said.  100 Clues  Moore said investigators were looking at about 100 clues in
the case, now believed to involve 52 incidents.  The van had Canadian license plates. Burkhart is believed
to be a German national, Beck said.  A U.S. immigration official helped police identify
Burkhart, radio station KFI reported. He may have set fires out
of anger after his mother was held for deportation, the radio
station said, citing law enforcement sources it didn’t identify.  The alleged arsonist may have employed fire-starting cubes
that are often used with charcoal barbecues, the station said.
They are sold at drug and grocery stores.  “Thankfully, there have been no lives lost to these
criminal acts and only minor injuries to date,” Villaraigosa
said. He identified the injured as one civilian and one
firefighter who was treated at a hospital and released.  ‘Test Run’  Officials had at first attributed as many as 55 fires to
the alleged arsonist. Through the day they reduced the total,
saying others were unrelated. The fires were reported in the Los
Angeles area,  West Hollywood  and Burbank, according to Erik
Scott, another Fire Department spokesman.  “We had a test run of what happens when we have a domestic
terrorist among us,” West Hollywood Mayor John Duran said at
the press conference.  Most of the fires were set in vehicles, many under parking
structures, according to Scott.  “This frequency is unusual as well as the pattern,” Scott
said in a Jan. 1 interview. “There are so many of them in a
short period of time. This is one of the largest sprees of arson
fires I have witnessed.”  Officials were offering a $60,000 reward, consisting of
$25,000 from the city council, $10,000 from the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and $25,000 from the
county, Scott said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  