-- Total Acquires $2.3 Billion Stake in Utica Shale From Chesapeake, EnerVest
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-01-03T16:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/total-buys-2-3b-utica-stake-from-chesapeake-enervest.html
Total SA (FP) , France’s largest oil
company, acquired a $2.32 billion holding in Ohio’s Utica shale
region from  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and EnerVest Ltd.  Total will gain a 25 percent stake in 619,000 acres of
Utica in eastern Ohio, a shale deposit rich in liquids as well
as natural gas, Chesapeake said today in a statement. Chesapeake
will get $2.03 billion and EnerVest $290 million.  Extracting hydrocarbons from underground shale rocks has
turned the U.S. into the world’s largest gas producer,
attracting investments from international  oil companies  such as
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  The Utica fields
may also provide oil, making them more profitable should crude
prices hold above $100 a barrel.  “Total is delighted to be building on our technical
successes with Chesapeake in the Barnett Shale and to expand
into the liquids-rich Utica Shale play in  Ohio ,” said Yves- Louis Darricarrere, head of Total’s exploration and production
unit. “This is consistent with our strategy to develop
positions in unconventional plays with large potential and, in
this case, with value predominantly linked to oil price.”  Total shares climbed 0.4 percent to 40.45 euros at the
close of trading in Paris. Chesapeake rose 4 percent as of 11:30
a.m. in  New York .  Total’s Shale Push  Total bought a stake in Chesapeake’s Barnett Shale field in
Texas in 2010 and has advanced unconventional gas projects in
Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Canada, Denmark and Poland. Total
said in October it may work with China Petrochemical Corp. to
explore shale in the country that consumes the most energy in
the world.  “Given current weakness of U.S. natural gas, now below $3,
it is clear to us that Total is being attracted by the liquid-
rich portion of this acreage,” said  Bertrand Hodee , head of oil
and gas research at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris.  The deal comes amid concern that shale drilling, known as
fracking, may damage the environment and cause earthquakes. Ohio
this week ordered companies to stop drilling injection wells for
waste water near Youngstown, according to the Wall Street
Journal. The practice may have caused several quakes near the
area, including a Dec. 31 magnitude 4.0 tremor, the paper said.  Chesapeake will remain the operator of the Utica venture.
Total will also help pay for infrastructure projects such as
pipelines used for production. The Oklahoma City-based company
received $610 million in cash from the deal when it closed on
Dec. 30 and Total will pay about $1.42 billion toward future
drilling costs.  Chesapeake said Nov. 3 that it had signed a letter of
intent with an unidentified company to sell a 25 percent stake
in 570,000 acres of the Utica field for $2.14 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  