-- Palestinians Weigh ‘Harsh Measures’ for Israel If Talks Fail, Abbas Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-01-03T17:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/palestinians-weigh-harsh-measures-for-israel-if-talks-fail-abbas-says.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  said he may take “harsh measures” if talks with
 Israel  that started today in Jordan do not lead to a halt in
West Bank settlement construction by Jan. 26.  The comment to reporters in Ramallah came hours before
chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat and his Israeli
counterpart, Yitzhak Molcho, went to the Jordanian Foreign
Ministry in Amman for their first meeting in more than a year.
The international group known as the Quartet has asked both
Israel and the Palestinians to present proposals on setting
final borders between them by that date.  “We will discuss and study and decide what to do after the
26th,” Abbas told reporters at a ceremony to open a legal
studies center in Ramallah. “So far I cannot reveal what the
measures are because they are not ready yet, but we will take
measures that might be harsh,” he said.  Abbas has said he won’t return to peace talks, which broke
down in September 2010, unless Israel freezes all settlement
construction in the  West Bank  and east  Jerusalem , a condition
Netanyahu rejects. The Amman meeting has been presented by both
sides as a preliminary step to resuming formal talks, not a new
round in itself.  Talks ‘Immediately’  If Israel does halt settlement construction, “we will
immediately go back to the negotiations,” Abbas said.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s spokesman, Mark Regev, declined to respond directly to Abbas’s comment.  “It is our sincere hope that we will see the beginning of
a process of direct talks between Israel and the Palestinians
and that we move toward a peace deal,” Regev said. “There is
no alternative that can bring peace.”  The meeting between Erakat and Molcho was put together by
the Quartet, which comprises the U.S.,  Russia , the European
Union and the  United Nations .  King Abdullah  of Jordan is pushing
for a breakthrough, stepping into a role played previously by
 Egypt ’s former President  Hosni Mubarak .  Erakat and Molcho met first with the Quartet
representatives and later sat down by themselves, joined by
Jordanian Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh, the state-run Petra
news agency said.  Working against the resumption of peace talks is a
rapprochement between Abbas’s Fatah party and the Islamic Hamas
movement, which is considered a terrorist organization by
Israel, the U.S. and the EU. Netanyahu says he won’t negotiate
with a Palestinian government that includes Hamas.  “There is a lot of negative baggage between the two sides,
so I wouldn’t be very optimistic,” said Benadetta Berti, a
research fellow at Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National
Security Studies.  Hamas Opposition  Hamas condemned the Palestinian Authority’s willingness to
meet with Israeli officials in  Jordan .  “These meetings are a repetition of a track that has
failed over the past years,” Hamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement to reporters in the  Gaza
Strip .  Hamas ousted forces loyal to Abbas’s Fatah faction from
Gaza in 2007 to gain full control of the Palestinian enclave
after winning parliamentary elections the year before. Hamas and
Fatah, which rules the West Bank, are holding reconciliation
talks in an effort to form a unity government ahead of
Palestinian elections.  Israel has said Hamas must recognize Israel’s right to
exist and pledge to abide by prior agreements before it can join
any talks.  While the Israeli and Palestinian officials meet in Jordan,
the second Arab nation after Egypt to make peace with the Jewish
state, Gaza’s top Hamas leader, Ismail Haniyeh, has been on a
regional tour that includes Turkey and  Iran , Abu Zuhri said.  Limited Expectations  Erakat told reporters in  Ramallah  yesterday to limit their
expectations about the meeting with Molcho, saying it could not
be described as a formal negotiating session.  He urged Israel to “seize this opportunity to stop all
settlement construction, accept the two-state solution on the
1967 border, and release Palestinian prisoners” to provide the
right environment for “meaningful and credible talks.”  Peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians broke down
more than year ago after Netanyahu declined to renew a 10-month
freeze on building in West Bank settlements.  In announcing the meeting, Jordanian Foreign Ministry
spokesman Muhammad Al-Kayed said Jan. 1 that King Abdullah led
an “intensive effort” to bring the two sides together,
including a visit to the Palestinian Authority’s West Bank
headquarters in Ramallah, and a meeting at his palace with
Israeli President Shimon Peres.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  