-- Palm Oil Surges as Tighter Soybean Supplies May Increase Demand
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-01-03T11:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/palm-oil-surges-as-tighter-soybean-supplies-may-increase-demand.html
Palm oil  rallied to the highest level
in more than six weeks on concern that hot, dry weather in South
America may damage crops of soybeans, crushed to make an
alternative edible oil, and as demand may rise in  China .  The March-delivery contract advanced 1.6 percent to close
at 3,225 ringgit ($1,026) per metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange, the highest price at close since Nov. 18.
Futures gained 5.2 percent in December, rising for a third month
and paring the year’s decline to 16 percent.  A much drier and sometimes much hotter weather pattern may
continue for the next 10 days in Argentina, Telvent DTN Inc.
said Dec. 30.  Argentina  is the largest shipper of  animal feed 
and cooking oil made from soybeans. Palm oil and  soybean oil  are
substitutes in food and fuel uses.  There has been “a lot of concern on the South American
weather conditions over the last one week and that has caused
soybean prices to move up,” Ivy Ng, an analyst at CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd., said by phone from Kuala Lumpur. “The key
determinant will be the weather, with the demand being supported
in the near-term by the upcoming festive season.”  Lunar New Year celebrations in China from Jan. 23 will
maintain demand from the biggest vegetable oil consumer until
the third week of this month, said Ng. The weeklong festival
usually spurs restaurants to stock up on cooking oil.  Increased Risk  “In  South America , the severe dryness in many important
soybean and corn-growing areas like Argentina, Uruguay and
Paraguay has significantly increased the risk that the current
crop estimates will not be reached,” Hoe Lee Leng, an analyst
at RHB Capital Bhd., wrote in a report today. “Any crop losses
in South America would raise demand for U.S. soybeans in 2012.”  Soybean futures gained 6.8 percent last month on the
Chicago Board of Trade as the adverse weather threatened to
reduce yields in South America, increasing demand for U.S.
supplies. Soybean oil in the same month advanced 5.9 percent.  Malaysia’s palm oil exports fell 3.3 percent to 1.49
million tons in December from the previous month, Societe
Generale de Surveillance, an independent cargo surveyor,
estimated today. Shipments dropped 2.6 percent to 1.49 million
tons, Intertek said Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  