-- Canadian Pacific Says It Isn’t Pursuing Pershing’s Recommendation for CEO
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-01-03T21:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/pershing-made-inaccurate-comment-on-ceo-canadian-pacific-says.html
William Ackman ,  Canadian Pacific
Railway Ltd. (CP) ’s biggest shareholder, said the carrier sought a
meeting with his proposed new chief executive officer, rebutting
the account given by Chairman John Cleghorn.  Canadian Pacific was eager to talk with former  Canadian
National Railway Co. (CNR)  CEO Hunter Harrison, Ackman said today in a
letter. Hours earlier, Cleghorn wrote that no invitation had
been extended to Harrison either through the railroad or
Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP.  “Contrary to your statement in the letter that no one at
Canadian Pacific expressed an interest in meeting with Mr.
Harrison, on the Saturday after our Wednesday, Nov. 2, meeting,
you called me at home and asked that I arrange a meeting with
him,” Ackman wrote.  Ackman said he is requesting two Canadian Pacific  board (CP) 
seats, for Harrison and a candidate he didn’t identify, and
asked that directors meet with him, Harrison and that person. He
said he declined a board seat because the terms required him to
vote Pershing’s shares in favor of each of the board’s nominees
and for directors’ recommendations on other matters.  Canadian Pacific, the country’s second-largest railroad,
has been led since May 2006 by Fred Green, 55. Cleghorn said in
his letter to Ackman that the Calgary-based company “has a
strong management team and an independent board.”  Letter Exchange  Today’s exchange of letters included assertions by both
sides that talks had been “constructive,” even as Cleghorn and
Ackman disagreed on the substance of some of those discussions.
Cleghorn said Pershing had made “inaccurate comments” about
whether Canadian Pacific was interested in Harrison as CEO.  Responding to Ackman’s comments, the railroad said it was
standing by its original message today.  Pershing disclosed its initial  Canadian Pacific stake (CP)  on
Oct. 28 and has since expanded that holding to 14.2 percent.
Ackman, 45, invests in companies he deems undervalued and pushes
changes he says will improve shareholder returns.  The railroad’s U.S. shares fell 31 percent in 2011 through
Sept. 22, a day before New York-based Pershing began buying the
stock, dwarfing the 3.8 percent drop for  Canadian National .
Canadian Pacific  advanced (CP)  1.6 percent to $68.74 at the close in
New York.  Operating Plan  Ackman denied Cleghorn’s statement that he didn’t present a
plan for operating improvements at the railroad, whose ratio of
operating expenses to sales is the highest among major North
American carriers.  “Our plan is to transform Canadian Pacific from the worst
performing railroad in  North America  into one of the best by
effectuating a cultural and operational transformation of
Canadian Pacific, which begins with a new leader,” he wrote.  Harrison, 67, agreed when he retired from Canadian National
in 2009 to a two-year ban on working with a competitor. That
prohibition ended Dec. 31, according to a statement today from
Canadian National. Net income more than tripled during
Harrison’s seven years on the job.  While Cleghorn said that Canadian Pacific was concerned
that Harrison’s non-compete agreement with Canadian National
would limit his ability to “engage” with the smaller railroad,
Ackman said he was the one who explained to Cleghorn that
Harrison couldn’t meet with the company until Jan. 1.  “Hunter’s track record, demonstrated first at Illinois
Central and then at Canadian National, speaks for itself,”
Ackman wrote.  Ackman said he is “supportive” of new board members Tony Ingram and Edmond Harris, who Cleghorn said had received a
positive reception from shareholders, customers and employees.
Harris worked for Canadian National with Harrison and later was
Canadian Pacific’s chief operating officer.  Cleghorn said earlier that Canadian Pacific’s board is
still willing to hold talks with Pershing.  To contact the reporter on this story: Natalie Doss in  New York 
at   ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  