-- Philippines May Offer as Much as 142 Billion Pesos of Projects This Year
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-01-04T06:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/philippines-may-offer-as-much-as-142-billion-pesos-of-projects-this-year.html
The  Philippines  pledged to speed up a
proposed offering of infrastructure projects to investors as
President  Benigno Aquino  seeks investments to shield the economy
from a global slowdown.  The government may offer eight to 16 of the so-called
public-private partnership projects worth as much as 142 billion
pesos ($3.2 billion) this year, Cosette Canilao, executive
director of the program, said in an interview in her Manila
office yesterday.  One contract  was awarded last year, against an
earlier estimate of as many as 10.  San Miguel  Corp., Ayala Corp.
and Metro Pacific Tollways Corp. are among companies that have
expressed interest in some of the projects, she said.  “If we are able to prove that the government is consistent
with its policies in bidding out PPP projects, it will be a
great boost in our efforts to attract investments,” Canilao
said. “We enhanced a lot of the processes and policies
regarding PPP. I’m confident 2012 will be a busy year for us.”  Aquino has unveiled $16 billion of projects as he tries to
attract capital to a nation that has lured less foreign direct
investment than Southeast Asian neighbors.  Ayala (AC) , which said
last month it may bid for two road projects and a contract to
run an airport, climbed to a five-month high today.  Faster Growth  “The government took a bit of time to put together the
structure under which the PPP will be carried out,” said
 Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based economist at  Barclays Capital .
“But with the systems now in place we expect a pickup through
2012. Rising infrastructure spending will over time help boost
potential gross domestic product.”  The government last month awarded to a consortium led by
Ayala a contract to build a four-kilometer, four-lane paved toll
road leading to provinces south of the capital after the company
submitted the higher bid of 902 million pesos. The Ayala group
beat an offer by a consortium led by  San Miguel. (SMC)   Ayala gained 1.6 percent to 326 pesos today as of 2:17 p.m.
in Manila. San Miguel rose 0.9 percent to 118 pesos.  The projects this year include a plan to develop a water
source for the capital, build three airports, more than 9,000
classrooms, and a 13.4 kilometer highway connecting two
expressways, Canilao said.  Aquino is relying on more investments and rising government
spending to boost growth to as much as 8 percent annually. The
Philippines started today a 25-year dollar-denominated bond
sale, Finance Undersecretary Rosalia de Leon said, helping the
government pay for roads, bridges and hospitals.  The peso dropped to a 10-week low last month as  Europe ’s
debt woes threaten to push the world into another recession,
prompting funds to sell emerging-market assets. The currency
gained 0.1 percent to 43.74 per dollar today, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. The yield on benchmark bonds due July 2031
fell to a two-week low today, according to Tradition Financial
Services.  From 1970 to 2010, the Philippines attracted $33.98 billion
of foreign investment, according to the  United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development.  That compared with $322.13
billion for  Singapore  and $108.87 billion for  Thailand .  The Philippines’ $200 billion economy expanded 3.2 percent
in the third quarter, holding near the 3.1 percent pace in the
previous three months, the slowest pace since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  