-- Pimco Total Return Saw $5B in ’11  Withdrawals
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2012-01-03T23:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/pimco-s-flagship-total-return-fund-lost-5-billion-to-withdrawals-in-2011.html
Bill Gross ’s Pimco Total Return Fund
had $5 billion in client redemptions last year as the world’s
largest mutual fund trailed rivals, its first year of
withdrawals in records going back to 1993, according to
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Clients pulled $1.35 billion from the fund in December,
according to Chicago-based research firm Morningstar.  Pimco
Total Return, managed by Gross out of  Newport Beach ,  California ,
returned 4.2 percent in 2011, trailing 69 percent of peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross missed a rally in Treasuries as the European debt
crisis spurred demand for government-backed debt. Pimco Total
Return in December 2009 became the biggest mutual fund in the
history of the industry after beating most rivals and attracting
a record $50 billion in deposits that year. In the five years
through Dec. 30, the fund advanced at an annual rate of 8.1
percent, outperforming 97 percent of competitors.  “Pimco built up some huge expectations and attracted an
enormous amount of money from opportunistic investors,” Burton Greenwald, an independent fund consultant in Philadelphia, said
today in a telephone interview. “When the performance faltered,
it turns out they had some speculative investors who left.”  In an October letter to clients titled “ Mea Culpa ,” Gross
called 2011 a “stinker” of a year. After eliminating
Treasuries from the portfolio in February, Gross returned to the
securities, bringing government and Treasury debt to 23 percent
as of Nov. 30. Treasuries returned 9.8 percent in 2011, the most
since 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  Industry Deposits  Lipper, a Denver-based research firm, said last month that
the  Pimco Total Return fund (PTTRX)  was on track for its first year of
redemptions since its inception in 1987. Morningstar started
compiling fund redemption records in 1993.  Redemptions from Gross’s Total Return fund represent about
2 percent of the fund’s $240.7 billion in assets at the end of
2010, Morningstar’s data show. Assets rose to about $244 billion
at the end of last year, according to the data. Investors pulled
money from Pimco Total Return in 2011 even as taxable bond funds
attracted $121 billion in deposits last year through Nov. 30,
according to Morningstar.  Pimco Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian, who shares
the title of chief investment officer with Gross, said today in
a Bloomberg Radio interview that the firm focuses on “long-
term” performance rather than one-year numbers.  ‘Consistently Outperformed’  “Over a sustained period, Bill has consistently
outperformed,” he said on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “In fact, the five-year numbers are
great, the 10-year numbers are great.”  Mark Porterfield , a Pimco spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Pimco, known for its bond funds for four decades, has
sought to reduce its reliance on fixed-income by pushing into
stock funds, exchange-traded funds and assets that can preserve
their value in rising and falling markets. It hired former U.S.
Treasury official Neel Kashkari in December 2009 to oversee an
expansion into equity funds.  The fund’s performance last year is Gross’s worst relative
to peers since at least 1995, the earliest year for which
Bloomberg has rankings for the fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Baumgaertel in sree at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  