-- Birth Control Pioneer Margaret Sanger Had Slew of Lovers: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-01-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/planned-parenthood-s-sanger-had-will-of-iron-slew-of-lovers-book-review.html
In the arena of political action, the
people with the drive to get things done aren’t always the ones
with the nice personalities. “Unyielding, relentless and
egotistical” is how a supporter described Margaret Sanger --
though she added, “in a way that was wonderful to behold.”  In “ Margaret Sanger: A Life of Passion ,” historian Jean
H. Baker chronicles the life of the driving force behind Planned
Parenthood -- an activist whose single-minded ferocity was
decisive in making  birth-control  information and, ultimately,
the pill itself available to U.S. women. According to Baker,
Sanger was fantastically admirable and at the same time
gratingly unlikable.  But she was evidently lovable. “Never be ashamed of
passion,” Sanger advised young women in her 1926 “Happiness in
Marriage.” “If you are strongly sexed, you are richly
endowed.”  Apparently she was. “One should always be in a state of
love,” she was insisting in her 70s. She had two husbands, and
I lost count of what Baker calls her “catalog of lovers.”  The arc of Sanger’s life is, for a reader, extremely
satisfying. On the first page Baker calls her “one of those
rare, signal reformers who live long enough to celebrate the
acceptance of their cause,” and later she elaborates:  “Sanger’s life spanned -- from her birth in 1879, six
years after the passage of the Comstock law, to 1966 and its
overturning -- the entire judicial history of contraception’s
legal course.”  Against Lust  The law she’s referring to was named for Anthony Comstock,
a fundamentalist wacko who arrived in  New York  from  Connecticut 
shortly after the Civil War and, horrified by what he found
going on there (“lust -- the boon companion of all other
crimes”), began a campaign against all things sexual.  In 1873 he cowed a Congress exhausted and demoralized by
the scandals of the Grant administration into enacting the
“Suppression of Trade in and Circulation of Obscene Literature
and Articles of Immoral Use.”  It was a draconian law that criminalized not only erotica,
sex toys and condoms but also all information relating to birth
control, including the provision of it by doctors to their
patients -- under any circumstances.  Sanger was arrested in August 1914 for distributing copies
of her pro-contraception magazine, The Woman Rebel, and again in
1916 for opening a clinic in Brownsville,  Brooklyn , that
dispersed the forbidden knowledge. (It was the progenitor of
today’s 800 Planned Parenthood clinics.) But she always knew how
to profit from her setbacks. The 30 days she spent in jail,
Baker writes, made her “birth control’s martyr.”  Battling Reactionaries  The government, Sanger announced, could not imprison ideas.
For the next half-century, she did battle with reactionary
legislators in the pocket of the Catholic Church, whose views on
sex had not altered since Augustine laid them out in the fourth
century.  Baker is a conscientious, judicious biographer -- too
judicious for my taste, given the explosiveness of her material.
Sanger’s life story is the stuff of a movie, and at the  Internet
Movie Database  I was surprised to find how little use Hollywood
has made of her.  In the early ‘50s there were plans for a picture starring
Ida Lupino, Baker says, but it never happened. The Production
Code would have made it problematic, and the Catholic Church, of
course, would have gone out of its way to suppress it -- as it
tried to prevent everything Sanger ever accomplished.  Sanger would be amazed to find out how rabid the opposition
to women’s sexual freedom remains a half-century after her
death. But she might like knowing that the current chairman of
the International Planned Parenthood Council is her grandson,
 Alexander Sanger .  “Margaret Sanger” is published by Hill and Wang (349
pages, $35). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 