-- Polish Stocks: Jastrzebska, KGHM, Polskie Gornictwo Shares Move
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2012-01-03T17:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/polish-stocks-jastrzebska-kghm-shares-move-on-warsaw-exchange.html
Poland ’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  advanced 0.5
percent to 2,204.27 at the close of trading, the highest since
Dec. 9.  The following are among the active equities in the Warsaw
market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA (JSW)  (JSW PW), the country’s
largest publicly-traded coal miner, jumped 4 percent to 89.05
zloty, climbing the most in more than a month. The company plans
to increase its coking and thermal coal output by 700,000 tons
this year from more than 12.6 million tons in 2011, it said in
an e-mailed statement.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH)  , Poland’s sole copper and
silver producer, fell 1.4 percent to 116.3 zloty, after rising
the most in more than two months yesterday. The updated formula
for a new tax on extraction of metals published by the Finance
Ministry yesterday is still “unsatisfactory” compared with the
global standards, Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Wirth  said in
an interview with TVN CNBC television today. The state-
controlled company may have to limit investment and takeover
plans if the new tax is introduced, Wirth said.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN)  , the
biggest Polish natural-gas company, slid 4.4 percent to 3.9
zloty, declining the most since Aug. 10. Poland will present its
proposals for a new tax on hydrocarbon extraction in the first
half of the year, Deputy Finance Minister Maciej Grabowski wrote
in an e-mail in response to questions from Bloomberg News today.  The introduction of the new tax is “a long-term prospect”
and will take place once companies in Poland start commercial
production of shale gas, Grabowski wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  