-- Trains, Flights, Ferries Halted as 100 Mph Winds Pound Scotland
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-01-03T11:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/trains-flights-ferries-halted-as-100-mph-winds-pound-scotland.html
Edinburgh Airport  was closed to
incoming flights today as winds of more than 100 miles per hour
battered the Scottish capital. Elsewhere in the country, gales
forced the closure of the busiest road bridges as well as the
cancellation of several train and ferry services.  The access road to the airport was shut for an hour after
debris was scattered across it, trapping some passengers in the
terminal, said airport spokesman Gordon Robertson. The terminal
building and taxi rank also suffered damage, he said.  Train services  in and out of the main rail stations in
Edinburgh and Glasgow were canceled, forcing east coast services
between Edinburgh and  London  to begin and terminate in
Newcastle-upon-Tyne in northeast  England .  Most of central  Scotland  is on red alert, the highest,
because of the winds until midday, when it is expected to be
downgraded to amber alert, according to the  Met Office . The
winds had started to ease by 11 a.m.,  Met Office  spokeswoman
Helen Chivers said in an e-mailed statement.  The strongest gust in Scotland today was recorded at
Blackford Hill on the south side of Edinburgh at 102 miles per
hour between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m., Chivers said. In Glasgow the
wind reached 91 miles per hour.  The Forth Road Bridge, the Tay Bridge, the Erskine Bridge
and the Kingston Bridge in the middle of Glasgow were closed to
all vehicles,  Transport Scotland  said on its website.  Caledonian
MacBrayne , the main ferry operator, reported a number of
cancellations and disruption to services on its website.  Scotland’s two main electricity companies,  SSE Plc (SSE)  and
ScottishPower, a unit of  Iberdrola SA (IBER) , both reported
infrastructure damage. Neither company was able to say how many
homes were without power.  Today is a public holiday in Scotland, limiting the number
of trucks on the road, while bus companies are operating a
holiday schedule rather than a full service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 