-- Rand Advances to Month-High as Manufacturing Rebound Buoys Equities
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-01-03T12:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/rand-gains-for-fourth-day-as-manufacturing-rebound-buoys-markets.html
The rand advanced to its strongest
level against the dollar in almost a month as signs of improving
manufacturing output around the world boosted commodities and
equities.  South Africa ’s currency, the worst performer last year
among 12 major currencies on Bloomberg, appreciated as much as
0.5 percent and traded 0.4 percent higher at 8.0412 as of 1:40
p.m. in Johannesburg, its strongest level since Dec. 7. The rand
retreated 18 percent in 2011, its first annual decline since
depreciating 27 percent in 2008.  The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index (GSCI)  of raw materials advanced
to a one-month high as the prices of metals including copper,
platinum and gold rose. South Africa’s  benchmark stock index (JALSH) 
advanced the most in more than a month, led by raw materials
producers including Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd.  “The rand’s strength has largely got to do with slightly
more buoyant equity markets,” David Gracey, who heads currency
and derivatives trading at Investec Bank Ltd., said by phone.  Australian manufacturing expanded for the first time in six
months, an industry survey today showed, adding to evidence the
global economy is strengthening after German and Chinese factory
output reports beat economist estimates in the past two days.
Data later today may show a U.S. manufacturing gauge climbed to
a six-month high in December, according to a survey of economist
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose as much as 1.8
percent, set for the highest close since Dec. 26 and the biggest
gain in two weeks.  Amid signs of recovering global growth, “the potential for
a rand recovery should not be underestimated and the local unit
has started the year in this more bullish tone,”  George Glynos ,
an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-
mailed comments today.  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 gained, driving
the yield down three basis points, or 0.03 percent, to 7.94
percent, the lowest since Dec. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  