-- Rat-Borne Disease Outbreak Sparks Fears in Philippines’ Storm-Hit Mindanao
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-01-04T01:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/rat-borne-disease-outbreak-sparks-fears-in-philippines-storm-hit-mindanao.html
The  Philippines  is struggling to help
about 429,000 people on the southern island of Mindanao after
the country’s worst storm in three years as the first outbreaks
of disease are reported and more rains forecast.  Tropical Storm Washi, locally known as Sendong, killed
1,257 people on Mindanao, many as they slept, as rivers
overflowed and inundated coastal cities in the early hours of
Dec. 17. As anger over a slow government response mounted, Civil
Defense Administrator Benito Ramos said by phone yesterday that
five people have died from leptospirosis, a bacterial infection
that spreads in water contaminated with rat urine.  “We have a humanitarian crisis and the diseases could get
worse,”  Red Cross  Secretary General Gwendolyn Pang said in a
telephone interview in Manila. Distribution of emergency goods
has been poorly coordinated, with evacuees sometimes not getting
“what they need” or agencies delivering the same supplies
twice, Pang said.  At least 171 people are being treated for leptospirosis as
almost 8,000 families contend with poor sanitation inside
cramped evacuation centers, the National Disaster Risk Reduction
and Management Council said in an  8 a.m. report  today. Of
724,729 people affected by the storm, 429,045 are to some extent
reliant on aid provided inside or near the centers. Ninety-eight
people remain missing, the disaster management agency said.  ‘Lack of Coordination’  President  Benigno Aquino  has been criticized for his
government’s reaction to the storm. There was “a lack of
coordination between the local government and national
government agencies even in the aspect of information
dissemination, which would have enabled residents to prepare for
the coming typhoon,” Senator Aquilino Pimentel said in a
statement.  Aquino’s spokesman, Ricky Carandang, said by telephone Dec.
19 that the chief executive attended a Christmas party held for
his security staff for “a few minutes” as the death toll from
the storm mounted.  Sanitation is a problem in homes wrecked by the storm and
in evacuation centers, where up to 30 people have to share a
portable toilet, Ramos said. In some residential areas, people
are digging their own latrines, he said.  Health workers are conducting “rapid” health assessment
and immunizations for tetanus, polio and measles, the disaster
risk agency said.  Flash Floods  A low-pressure area estimated to be 400 kilometers (249
miles) southeast of General Santos City, also in Mindanao, is
threatening rain showers and thunderstorms that could trigger
flash floods and landslides on the island, the country’s weather
bureau said in a  5 a.m. forecast  today.  The bureau is also setting up a system that will alert
communities in  Manila  to possible flooding from monsoon rains,
its chief, Nathaniel Servando, said in an e-mailed statement on
Jan. 2.  Pimentel, a lawmaker from Cagayan de Oro, said he would
organize a summit to help the people of Mindanao ready for
storms. The island is rarely hit by the typhoons that regularly
strike other parts of the country.  The  United Nations  may again appeal to the international
community for aid, UN Resident Coordinator Jacqui Baddock said
by phone in Manila today. The response to its call for $28.6
million in disaster aid for storm victims has been slow, with
most donor agencies on vacation for the Christmas holidays, the
UN said in a  Dec. 28 statement .  “Relocation will be the biggest task,” Red Cross Chairman
 Richard Gordon  said in a telephone interview. “You can’t allow
them to return and there will be floods all over again.”  The Red Cross is helping build temporary “tent cities”
for 1,000 families and will offer a 7,000-peso ($160) grant to
families wanting to start a small business, Pang said. “It is
important they they don’t feel like beggars and start fresh,”
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  