-- Treasuries Fall on Rise in U.S. Manufacturing, Release of Fed Minutes
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-01-03T22:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/treasuries-snap-four-day-advance-before-manufacturing-employment-reports.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for the
first time in five days as a report showed manufacturing in the
U.S. expanded in December at the fastest pace in six months,
damping demand for the safety of government debt.  Longer-maturity bonds led the move lower as the  Federal
Reserve  said it will for the first time make public its own
forecasts for the federal funds rate, minutes from the Dec. 13
Federal Open Market Committee said today. Bonds dropped earlier
as stocks rose globally amid signs economic growth is improving.  “The data was better than expected,” said Anthony Cronin,
a Treasury trader in New York at Societe General, one of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve. “Bonds
started to sell off after FOMC. The market was anticipating a
lot more from them.”  The 10-year  yield (USGG10YR)  rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.95 percent at 5:01 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
due in November 2021 fell 20/32, or $6.25 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 15/32. The 30-year yield climbed nine basis
points to 2.98 percent.  About $161 billion of Treasuries  changed hands (ICPTVOL)  in  New York 
today through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker.
The figure is the highest since Dec. 21. The daily average for
2011 was $285 billion.  The difference between the yields on the two-year note and
the 30-year bond widened to 2.73 percentage points, the most
since Dec. 27 as the Institute for Supply Management’s  factory
index (NAPMPMI)  climbed to 53.9 last month from 52.7 in November, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed today. Fifty is the
dividing line between growth and contraction, and economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast the gauge would rise to
53.5.  FOMC Minutes  FOMC “participants decided to incorporate information
about their projections of appropriate monetary policy” into
their Summary of Economic Projections starting with their next
meeting, the minutes from the Dec. 13 meeting showed.  The move marks another stride toward greater transparency
under the chairmanship of  Ben S. Bernanke .  “Anything that they can do to give more transparency is
important,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager 
who helps oversee $500 million at Cabot Money Management Inc. in
Salem,  Massachusetts . “We are likely moving toward the end of
the cycle at some point. So if they can feed us more data, it
will smooth that transition.”  The  difference (USGGBE10)  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, reached 2.01
percentage points today, the most since Dec. 28. The average
over the past decade is 2.13 percentage points.  U.S. payrolls rose by 150,000 in December, after a 120,000
gain in November, a separate survey showed ahead of the data on
Jan. 6.  ‘More Optimistic’  “People are more optimistic,” said  Charles Comiskey , head
of Treasury trading in New York at primary dealer Bank of Nova
Scotia. “The data in the U.S. has been generally better than
expected. That’s reflected in the prices.”  In a statement released Dec. 13 after a policy makers
meeting, the Fed said the economy in the U.S. is maintaining its
expansion even as the global economy slows. The Fed left
unchanged its statement that economic conditions are likely to
warrant “exceptionally low” interest rates “at least through
mid-2013.” The central bank lowered its target interest rate to
a range of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008.  Policy makers are unlikely to raise borrowing costs in
2012, with benchmark rates to stay at or close to zero in the
U.S. and  Europe , according to Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian.  Pimco’s View  Pimco advises investors stay in the five- to nine-year
range in bonds for safety and to earn income, El-Erian, chief
executive and co-chief investment officer of the world’s biggest
manager of bond funds, said in a radio interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  The central bank also said last month it would continue its
exchange of $400 billion of short-term debt with long-term
securities to lengthen the average maturity of its holdings on
its balance sheet, an effort traders dubbed Operation Twist.  Treasury yields also trended up amid data this week that
showed manufacturing in  Germany ,  China  and  Australia  expanded.
China’s purchasing managers’ index was increased to 50.3 from 49
in November, the logistics federation said Jan. 1. In Germany,
the index for December was revised to 48.4 from 48.1, Markit
Economics said yesterday. Australia’s manufacturing index
climbed to 50.2 last month from 47.8 in November, the Australian
Industry Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said.  Trading History  U.S. 10-year yields will rise to 2.17 percent by the end of
first quarter, according to the median forecasts of 72
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Treasuries returned 9.8 percent in 2011, the most since
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  The decline in 10-year Treasuries today pushed yields five
basis points  above those (USGG10YR)  on German bunds.  Treasury  yields (USGG10YR)  typically increase in the first four months
of the year while bund yields have historically fallen in
January before rising in the next four months,  MacNeil Curry ,
head of foreign-exchange and  interest-rates  technical strategy
at Bank of America Corp. in New York, wrote in an investor
report based on historical data dated yesterday.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy are scheduled to meet in Berlin on Jan. 9 to
work on ways to curb  government spending  in the region.  Governments of the world’s leading economies have more than
$7.6 trillion of debt maturing this year, with most facing a
rise in borrowing costs. Led by  Japan ’s $3 trillion and the
U.S.’s $2.8 trillion, the amount coming due for the Group of
Seven nations and  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China is up from
$7.4 trillion at this time last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  