-- Regulators Fleeing Credit Raters Embrace Zero-Risk Greek Bonds
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-01-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/regulators-fleeing-credit-raters-embrace-zero-risk-greek-bonds.html
U.S. regulators, required by Congress
to remove credit ratings from banking rules, have devised a plan
anchored in a Paris-based group’s rankings that assign zero risk
to most European government debt.  The  Federal Reserve , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency proposed rules
last month to set bank capital levels using classifications made
by the  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development .
The intergovernmental group, two-thirds of whose members are
European Union countries, considers most EU sovereign bonds
risk-free, including those of Greece and  Portugal .  The proposal undermines the intent of the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act, which sought to eliminate the use of ratings by companies
such as  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service that are
paid by the entities they rate, said Luigi De Ghenghi, a partner
at law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP in  New York . Regulators
are just replacing one set of conflicts with another, he said.  “The OECD represents the member governments, so there’s an
inherent conflict of interest there, too,” said De Ghenghi, a
member of the firm’s financial-institutions group. “The
regulators were dealt bad cards when they were asked to come up
with alternatives to credit ratings. It’s almost impossible to
find something where there are no conflicts of any kind.”  The Dec. 7 proposal is part of a U.S. effort to implement
global capital rules revised in 2009 by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , which coordinates global regulation. The
revisions would increase the amount of capital banks are
required to have to back mortgage-linked securities and other
complicated products at the heart of the 2008 financial crisis.  Market-Risk Rules  The so-called market-risk  rules , which cover assets on bank
trading books, were supposed to be in place by the end of 2011.
An EU version went into effect Dec. 31. Dodd-Frank’s credit-
ratings ban slowed the process in the U.S. as regulators devised
an alternative. Congress barred ratings after firms including
Moody’s and S&P gave their highest grades to mortgage-backed
securities, which allowed lenders to treat them as risk-free.  The proposed rules could be revised after a public comment
period that ends Feb. 3. A final version may be published a few
months later, regulators say.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and other European leaders
earlier this year called for the creation of an independent
ratings company following downgrades of EU countries by Moody’s
and S&P. A proposal for a nonprofit firm funded with fees from
the finance industry was introduced in the European Parliament.
Last month, EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier 
proposed forced rotation of ratings companies and said he hasn’t
ruled out suggesting a ban on ratings of the debt of countries
receiving emergency assistance.  ‘OECD Straitjacket’  The U.S. proposal, which includes alternatives for rating
securitizations as well as government bonds, allows regulators
to increase risk weightings for nations that have defaulted on
their debt within the past five years. Voluntary restructurings,
such as the one  Greece  is negotiating with its creditors, would
be considered a default, resulting in a jump in risk weighting.
Until then, it would stay at zero.  “At least with this, they veer off the OECD straitjacket a
bit, but it’s still backward-looking,” said Karen Shaw Petrou,
managing partner at Washington-based research firm Federal
Financial Analytics.  Market Indicators  Recognizing the weakness of OECD ratings, U.S. regulators
added the debt-restructuring provision and suggested using
market indicators to complement them, said Bobby Bean, the
FDIC’s associate director of policy, who helped draft the
proposal. Among the indicators mentioned in the proposed rule
are bond yields and credit-default swap spreads, which could
measure investors’ perceptions of default risks.  “When is the appropriate time to trigger the debt-
restructuring charge?” Bean said in an interview. “Do you do
it when there are discussions going on, like in the case of
Greece now? These will be part of the ongoing supervisory
conversation with the bank.”  While the suggested use of market indicators was intended
to make ratings more up-to-date, Bean said, the proposal calls
for stripping out short-term volatility by using one-year
averages of yields or CDS spreads.  That also would be backward-looking, Petrou said. The CDS
spread of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. widened only a few weeks
before the firm went bankrupt, so a one-year average wouldn’t
capture increasing risk until it was too late, she said.  The use of CDS spreads or bond yields to complement OECD
classifications may not make it into the final rule, according
to two regulators involved in drafting the proposal who asked
not to be identified because the discussions are continuing.  ‘Too Narrowly’  “The regulators are interpreting Dodd-Frank too narrowly
on this ratings issue,” said Kenneth Bentsen, executive vice
president of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, a Washington-based group representing the largest
U.S. banks. “The law instructs them to reduce the role of
ratings in regulation, not eliminate it. But eliminating the use
of ratings altogether results in running into these problems.”  Other market-risk regulations proposed last year would
impose higher capital charges on banks for  government bonds  they
hold if their market values drop, Bean said. Those rules base
capital levels on a bank’s value-at-risk, an estimate of how
much a firm could lose from trading in one day.  ‘Flawed Methodologies’  The Dec. 7 proposal also contains formulas for determining
the riskiness of securitizations. The equations correlate risk
weightings with the hierarchy of tranches: If a bond is lower in
the order of receiving payments and among the first to get hit
by losses when loans in the package start defaulting, it is
assigned a higher risk. Moody’s and S&P also would rate such a
bond lower, implying a higher risk of default.  “Broadly speaking, any credit-risk system will end up
somewhat emulating credit ratings done by the rating firms,”
said Richard Spillenkothen, a former director of banking
supervision at the Fed. “Hopefully, the parts of the rating
firms’ flawed methodologies are fixed in these formulas.”  Since the crisis, rating companies also have revised the
way they evaluate securitizations in an effort to fix such
defects. For example, S&P now requires that loan pools have a
larger proportion of subordinated debt so the risk of the top-
rated tranches defaulting is lower.  Basel III  New rules approved by the Basel committee last year and
known as  Basel III  also rely on credit ratings for calculating
how much capital banks need to protect against losses on
securities and bonds on their banking books, the part of the
balance sheet where they keep assets held to maturity.  The Fed, FDIC and OCC, which are trying to devise a
proposal by the end of March for how to implement Basel III,
will have to come up with another approach to avoid relying on
credit firms. The alternatives proposed Dec. 7 probably will be
repeated in the Basel III implementation plan, Spillenkothen
said. Bean declined to say whether that would be the case since
regulators haven’t completed their work yet.  The new Basel rules, like the current ones, will allow the
largest banks to use internal models to assign risk to assets,
including Greek bonds, unless regulators object. The U.S. never
implemented the earlier Basel framework, known as  Basel II ,
which was adopted by the EU in 2006. Basel III rules are
supposed to go into effect globally starting in 2013.  ‘More Nimble’  “Banks have been doing their own analysis on their
sovereign exposures and don’t rely on the rating firms’
ratings,” said Sabeth Siddique, a director at  Deloitte & Touche
LLP  in  Washington  and a former assistant director of bank
supervision and regulation at the Fed. “The largest banks are
more nimble than the ratings firms. So their analysis could be
better than what the regulators came up with, too.”  Allowing banks to use internal models to determine risk
enabled European lenders to reduce the amount of capital they
held before the financial crisis, which led to government
bailouts. The biggest U.S. banks will start using internal
models when Basel III is implemented.  “If you let banks determine their own risk weighting, then
you open it up to possible gaming of the results, as European
banks have done for a while,” said Petrou of Federal Financial
Analytics. “A strong bank might choose to use higher risk in
its model, but why should the weak bank do that when it can hold
less capital?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 