-- Republican Presidential Candidates Make Final Push in Iowa Before Caucuses
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-03T15:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/republican-presidential-candidates-make-final-push-in-iowa-before-caucuses.html
Mitt Romney  vied with  Rick Santorum 
and Ron Paul for the top spot in tonight’s  Iowa (BEESIA)  caucuses in
their last full day of campaigning, while their rivals faced the
possibility that their campaigns could come to an abrupt end.  The six candidates competing in the state raced past barren
cornfields to greet voters at coffee shops and cafes as they
made their final pitches in what remains a fluid race.  “It’s good to be among the clump at the top,” Romney said
on Fox News today. “I’m not sure exactly what will happen in
terms of one, two and three, but I think all three of us will
come out with a big boost.”  Newt Gingrich , during a CBS interview today, said “yes”
when asked if he was calling Romney a liar when it comes to
talking to voters on matters as varied as fundraising and policy
positions.  “He ought to be candid, I don’t think he’s being candid,”
the former U.S. House speaker said. “Do you really want a
Massachusetts moderate, who won’t level with you, to run against
 Barack Obama , who frankly will just tear him apart?”  Responding on Fox, Romney acted as if he was willing to
ignore the attack.  “I understand Newt must be very angry and I don’t exactly
understand why, but, look, I wish him well,” he said. “It’s a
long road ahead. He’s a good guy.”  ‘Tsunami of Negativity’  In an interview this morning on CNN, Gingrich blamed his
recent drop in polls on a “tsunami of negativity” created by
millions of dollars in negative advertising against him. The ads
have been paid for by a political action committee backing
Romney, as well as by Paul’s campaign.  “Well, actually, I thought the  Ron Paul  ads were by far
the most effective in pointing out the speaker’s background,”
Romney said on Fox. “The super-PAC that happens to endorse me
has put some ads out. You know, I can’t control those, as you
know. We’re not allowed to have coordination between the
campaign and these independent PACs.”  Romney, 64, said Gingrich has had “just as much
difficulty” in polls in  New Hampshire , where negative
advertising has not yet become prominent. He said he’s ready for
the more aggressive campaign approach Gingrich has promised.  “If the speaker decides to come after me, why, that’s part
of the process,” Romney said on Fox. “If I can’t handle this
kind of attack, why, how in the world would I handle the attack
that’s going to come from President Obama?”  ‘We Could Win’  Gingrich contended that he is regaining his footing as the
voting nears.  “I think it’s going to be a very big turnout tonight,” he
said on CNN. “I think we could win.”  That was a reversal of what he said a day earlier when he
told reporters in Independence, Iowa: “I don’t think I’m going
to win.”  Romney faces a growing challenge from Santorum, a former
U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania  who is the latest candidate to
gain popularity in polls.  Santorum is urging voters not to settle for someone who
doesn’t share their beliefs on such issues as ending abortions
and cutting  government spending  just because they think that
person can beat Obama this year.  “Ten days ago, the polls said I was going to finish
last,” he told a crowd gathered in the lobby of a hotel in
Perry, Iowa. “Polls change; convictions shouldn’t. And that’s
what I bring to the equation.”  Alternative to Romney  Republican voters have spent much of the past year
searching for a more fiscally and socially conservative
alternative to Romney, who has been unable to break a ceiling of
roughly 25 percent support in most surveys. Yet after a year
characterized by the rapid rise and fall of a number of
candidates, none has been able to maintain a lead over the
former Massachusetts governor.  As they traveled across  Iowa  with Romney, his supporters
argued that he is the best positioned to take on Obama in the
general election.  “He’s somebody that’s electable, that can win this
election in 2012,” U.S. Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota
Republican, told voters gathered in the warehouse of a paper
company in Dubuque yesterday.  Romney has focused on driving turnout in eastern Iowa,
where he gained strong backing during his failed 2008 bid.  A Long Race  While exuding a new sense of confidence, Romney’s
strategists say they are prepared for a long race to capture the
nomination.  “You’re going to see us contesting everywhere,” said
campaign strategist Eric Fehrnstrom in Davenport. “We have an
organization that’s national in scope.”  As the candidates crammed in event after event across the
state yesterday, campaign staffers called potential supporters
and urged them to attend tonight’s meetings and cast their
votes. A barrage of ads continued on local television, with the
candidates touting their records and their well-funded outside
groups criticizing their opponents. The candidates and their
affiliated outside groups have spent $5.8 million on advertising
in the state, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG;
of that, $3.7 million has gone for negative ads.  Prospective caucus-goers saw three negative ads for every
two positive ones, according to the latest CMAG data available
before the caucuses.  New Bachmann Ad  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who has
fallen in the polls since winning the Iowa Straw Poll in August,
released a new television ad yesterday. It describes her as a
“conservative fighter” and plays up her ties to Iowa, where
she was born.  Texas  Governor Rick Perry also made what could be his last
stand in the race, holding three events yesterday and wrapping
up the day in the central Iowa town that bears his name: Perry.  The  Iowa Poll  by the  Des Moines  Register newspaper,
released Dec. 31, showed Romney with the support of 24 percent
of likely Republican caucus-goers. Paul had 22 percent and
Santorum 15 percent after a surge in the final two days of
sampling.  Santorum’s late gain has made him the latest target for his
rivals.  During a campaign stop in Boone, Santorum accused Paul of
using automated telephone calls to falsely accuse him of not
supporting the Second Amendment, which ensures the right to bear
arms, and talked about his membership in the  National Rifle
Association .  Mourning His Son  Santorum also faced a question from an audience member in
Newton asking about an assertion yesterday on  Fox News  by Alan Colmes that Santorum’s manner of mourning the 1996 death of his
son, who was born prematurely, might hurt him with voters.  Santorum -- joined by his wife, who was visibly upset by
the question -- choked back emotion as he told a packed pizza
restaurant about losing the child about two hours after his
birth.  “We brought him home so our children could see him,” he
said.  Paul’s campaign is being fueled by a cadre of well-
organized, devoted supporters drawn to his libertarian, pro-
state rights positions.  As he campaigned across Iowa, Paul was joined by his son,
U.S. Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky , a favorite of Tea Party
activists. The two crossed the state, traveling almost 400 miles
from the  Missouri  to Mississippi rivers on a five-county tour.  ‘Very Big Message’  In Des Moines yesterday, the congressman from Texas stuck
to the themes that have forged the core of his support --
criticizing the  Federal Reserve  and accusing the government of
meddling in the “internal affairs” of other countries.  The Iowa caucus results, Paul said, might be “small in
numbers” but will “send a very big message.”  Many voters said they are most interested in finding the
candidate with the best chance of beating Obama.  The issue of electability against Obama is “key,” said
Jon Dunwell, 45, an undecided voter who went to a town meeting
in Newton yesterday to hear Santorum one more time.  “I’m not just voting for the candidate that has the
conservative views that I like,” he said. “It’s always the
full package.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  