-- Riksbank to ‘Wait-And-See’ After Rate Cut
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-01-03T10:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/riksbank-to-wait-and-see-after-rate-cut-governor-says.html
Sweden ’s central bank is in a “wait-
and-see mode” after cutting  interest rates  last month, Governor
Stefan Ingves said in the minutes of the latest policy meeting.  The Nordic country isn’t in need of the same low interest
rates as those countries or regions that are experiencing
“major problems,” he said in the minutes of the December
meeting published today. The board “will enter a sort of wait-
and-see mode,” since it is “extremely difficult to assess the
probability” of the bank’s main economic forecast, he said.  Sweden’s central bank last month cut its  rate (SWRRATEI)  by a quarter-
point to 1.75 percent, the first reduction since 2009, and
signaled it may keep the benchmark unchanged over the next year
as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to sap demand for its exports,
which account for about half of economic output.  Ingves said in the minutes that he’s “well aware that new
information can alter the preconditions governing future repo-
rate decisions” at the meeting that saw two of the bank’s six
board members calling for a rate cut of half a percentage point.  The Swedish krona rose 0.2 percent to 8.9059 per euro and
0.8 percent to 6.8455 against the dollar as of 10:59 a.m. in
Stockholm. Sweden’s two-year note yield rose four basis points
to 0.92 percent.  Ingves does “not give the impression of being committed to
cutting rates again in February,” said Johan Javeus, chief
strategist, at SEB AB in  Stockholm , in a client note. “The
economy needs to continue to weaken or the financial turmoil
continue to increase” for another cut, he said.  Swedish economic growth slowed for a third quarter in the
three months through September to 4.6 percent. Swedish data
indicate the largest Nordic economy continued to slow in the
fourth quarter with falling  industrial orders (SWNONSYY)  as  consumer
confidence (SWECCI)  holds near a two-year low.  There has been “an abrupt slowdown in the trade in goods
and in consumption” in Sweden, while “ unemployment (SWUERATE)  has stopped
falling and the demand for labor is leveling off,” Ingves said.
“There are clear signals that exports are slowing down and that
 GDP growth (SWGDPWYY)  will be weak in the quarters ahead.”  A further slowdown will force the central bank to lower its
main rate to 0.75 percent next year, the National Institute for
 Economic Research  said the day after the Riksbank cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  