-- Rising Risks Mean Tax-Cut Is ‘Hard’: H.K.’s Tsang
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 2012-01-03T04:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/rising-risks-mean-tax-cut-is-hard-h-k-s-tsang.html
  Hong Kong  Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said that rising economic risks make it difficult to
fulfil his 2007 pledge to further cut corporate taxes before his
term expires in six months.  “It’s hard to meet my vow to cut corporate tax,” Tsang
said in comments broadcast by Commercial Radio Hong Kong today.
“After the global financial crisis, we may see the emergence of
a worldwide recession. So it’s hard to have room to do such a
thing right now.”  Reducing levies could restore Hong Kong’s edge against
regional rivals such as Singapore as pollution and waiting lists
at international schools make the city less attractive to
international companies. Singapore narrowed the corporate tax
rate gap with Hong Kong to 50 basis points in 2010 from 10
percentage points in 1999 to attract global businesses.  “It’s understandable that he prefers to keep things
unchanged, as the government sees the looming risk of an
economic downturn,” said Raymond So, dean of the business
school at Hang Seng Management College in Hong Kong.  Tsang’s term ends June 30.  Singapore  today reported its
second economic contraction in three quarters, highlighting the
pressure that a global slowdown is putting on small Asian
economies exposed to international trade and capital flows.  Pollution, Schools  In Singapore, which typically announces its budget in
February, the government is yet to indicate any plans for
further reductions in corporate taxes. Hong Kong cut taxes for
companies by half a percentage point to 16.5 percent in 2008 to
fend off the threat from Singapore. Tsang had pledged to bring
the rate to 15 percent.  Hong Kong’s schools have failed to keep up with record
numbers of applications. In a survey of American Chamber of
Commerce members in May, 63 percent said some executives are
driven away by the lack of student places.  The city’s air pollution is linked to thousands of
avoidable deaths, the University of Hong Kong said last year,
with many due to respiratory and cardiovascular disease,
according to Thach Thuan-quoc, an honorary assistant professor.  “Some international companies may opt for Singapore over
Hong Kong because of pollution and education concerns, but Hong
Kong still has an edge in its proximity to  China ,” said So, of
the management college.  In June last year, Tsang said “You got me on that,” when
asked in a Bloomberg Television interview about his tax-cut
pledge. “I’m still trying to find the opportunity” to meet the
promise, Tsang said then in  Melbourne . “At the moment, the Hong
Kong people feel we should not reduce corporate profits tax and
while it was feasible and acceptable in 2007, it is not
acceptable now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  