-- TSA Scanner Argument Grounded by Delta Shuttle: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-01-03T00:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/tsa-scanner-argument-grounded-by-delta-shuttle-jeffrey-goldberg.html
One of the great joys of flying
the Delta Shuttle to Washington, D.C., out of the Marine
Air Terminal at  New York City ’s  LaGuardia Airport  -- oh,
what am I saying? There are no joys associated with flying
the Delta Shuttle from LaGuardia, or from anywhere.  Let me try this again: One of the small consolations
of flying the Delta Shuttle out of LaGuardia is the
absence, at the  Marine Air Terminal , of the  Transportation
Security Administration ’s patented Let’s-Look-At-
Passengers-Naked-While-They-Raise-Their-Hands-Like-We’re-
Mugging-Them Machines. (This is not, by the way, how the
federal government refers to these devices.)  The TSA  deploys two types  of advanced passenger-
screening machines in U.S. airports: Millimeter-wave whole-
body imagers and so-called backscatter X-ray devices, both
of which can detect non-metallic objects under a person’s
clothing. These very expensive machines are crucial to the
TSA’s protocol, which is why it strikes me as strange that
the security checkpoint at the Marine Air Terminal goes
without one, and instead relies on an old-fashioned metal
detector.  On busy days, more than a dozen flights are dispatched
from the Marine Air Terminal to Washington’s Reagan
National Airport, which, as anyone who has flown there
knows, is mere seconds by air from the White House and the
U.S. Capitol (as well as TSA headquarters, it should be
noted). Why would the federal government not equip this
particular terminal with its most advanced machinery? The
answer is both banal and telling.  A Brief Detour  But first, a brief detour in which we try to
understand just how important the federal government
believes these machines to be. Our guide on this side trip
is Senator Susan M. Collins of  Maine , the top Republican on
the Senate’s Homeland Security Committee. Collins is one of
the few senior legislators to take a non-prostrate position
before the gods of domestic security. She has repeatedly
questioned the use, in particular, of the backscatter X-ray
machines, which emit low levels of ionizing radiation,
which  studies have shown  increase the risk of cancer. The
trade-off between security and personal health -- and
personal liberty -- is one that Collins, to her credit,
regularly examines.  “As a frequent flyer, I just cannot believe that it is
good for people who are traveling every week, or for TSA
employees who are operating these machines, to be exposed
to ionizing radiation,” she told me recently. “I’m not
asking for weaker security, but it’s almost inevitable that
some people are getting stronger doses. Just think about
how many machines there are, how many screeners there are.
Just think what would happen if the machines weren’t
properly calibrated.”  The TSA has long claimed that the radiation absorbed
by a passenger in a backscatter X-ray is equivalent to what
he would receive in two minutes of high-altitude flying. In
other words, inconsequential. Various TSA officials have
also said the dose is roughly the same as the radiation
absorbed from eating half a potassium-rich banana, though
lately, perhaps fearing the wrath of the banana lobby,
officials have dropped this particular comparison.  Collins, citing a recent ProPublica story discussing
the small, but not entirely negligible, risk that the scans
could cause some fliers to develop cancer, asked TSA
Administrator  John Pistole  to conduct a comprehensive study
of the potential hazards. Pistole cited numerous studies
that suggested the machines posed no risk to passengers,
but he promised to conduct another one. Then he backed off
his pledge, referencing a new Homeland Security Inspector
General report that he said supported previously conducted
research.  An Absolute Promise  Collins wasn’t buying it. “John Pistole gave me an
absolute promise in a hearing that he would conduct the
kinds of studies the Europeans are doing, to analyze the
impact of the radiation on children, on pregnant women, on
someone who is being treated for cancer or someone with a
high cancer risk,” she told me. “I simply cannot believe
that this is healthy.”  When I called Pistole, he reiterated his belief that
the radiation emitted by the backscatter devices is
negligible. And when I asked him the obvious question --
why not simply replace the 250 backscatter devices
currently employed in U.S. airports with millimeter-wave
imagers (there are roughly 300 of these in use), he cited
the benefits of competition among technology manufacturers.  “This is the best thing in terms of driving innovation
and incentivizing manufacturers to produce the best
possible products at the best possible prices,” he said.  Far be it for me to downplay the importance of
“incentivizing” manufacturers in the mushrooming homeland-
security industrial complex. But it also seems important
for the federal government to limit the exposure of
Americans to extraneous radiation. I understand -- as
Senator Collins understands -- that the backscatter
machine, when properly calibrated, emits only a small
amount of radiation. But when I feel a need to be radiated,
in the dentist’s chair, or in a CAT scanner, I’d prefer the
radiation be delivered by a medical technician, not a low-
level federal-security bureaucrat.  On the broader question -- whether the American public
is being subjected to unnecessary hi-tech probing by a
callous federal bureaucracy in the name of a particular
security threat that may or may not be relevant any longer
-- Pistole is adamant: These new machines are indispensable
and clearly superior to the technology previously in place.  Back to the Terminal  Which brings us back to the Marine Air Terminal.  Why, of all airport terminals, does this one not have
the most advanced screening devices in place? According to
the TSA, the answer is simple: The devices are too big.
“Space constraints and checkpoint layout” prohibit their
installation, a TSA spokesman wrote me. The agency is
trying to “work through” the problem, he wrote.  In the meantime, I’m told, the TSA posts undercover
air marshals on all flights bound for  Washington . But air
marshals, of course, cannot detect non-metallic bombs under
clothing.  On my last visit to the terminal, a couple of weeks
ago, a TSA officer on duty told me that the floor of the
terminal would crack under the weight of one of the new
devices. So why not hire a building contractor to buttress
the floor and expand the size of the checkpoint? He told me
that this was a good idea.  So there you have it: The government believes it is in
possession of a technology so vital it is willing to dose
its citizens with ionizing radiation, but a decade after
the Sept. 11 attacks it still hasn’t figured out a way to
utilize this technology in one of America’s most sensitive
airline terminals. It’s not for nothing that Senator
Collins is skeptical of the TSA.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns.   To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at  lbeyer3@bloomberg.net  