-- Eagles to Retain Reid, Chargers Keep Turner After Teams Miss NFL Playoffs
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-03T21:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/san-diego-chargers-keep-norv-turner-a-j-smith-after-missing-nfl-playoffs.html
Coaches  Andy Reid  of the  Philadelphia
Eagles  and Norv Turner of the  San Diego Chargers  retained their
jobs after missing the National Football League playoffs.  The Chargers also said General Manager A.J. Smith will be
back in 2012, and the  Minnesota Vikings  announced that Rick Spielman would take over that same position.  The  Chicago Bears  fired General Manager Jerry Angelo and
said Mike Martz won’t return as offensive coordinator. Lovie Smith will return for a ninth season as head coach after the
Bears lost five of their final six games to finish 8-8.  Reid, 53, led the Eagles to an 8-8 record in a season that
began with his team among the favorites to win the  Super Bowl .
He has the NFL’s longest current coaching tenure, going 126-81-1
in 13 years in Philadelphia, where he has won seven division
titles.  “This season was without question the most disappointing
season since I’ve owned the team,” Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie
said at a televised news conference. “There’s no doubt in my
mind if our focus is on trying to win a championship next year,
the best coach for that is Andy.”  Philadelphia has made the playoffs nine times under Reid
and reached the Super Bowl once, losing to the  New England
Patriots  after the 2004 season. The Eagles were tied as the
third favorite to win the Super Bowl entering this season,
according to Las Vegas oddsmakers.  When quarterback  Michael Vick  signed a six-year contract
that may be worth $100 million before the season, he said the
Eagles’ expectations were to win a championship. Philadelphia,
coming off a 10-6 season, bolstered its defense with the
acquisition of free agents Nnamdi Asomugha at cornerback and
Cullen Jenkins and  Jason Babin  on the line.  Eagles’ Slow Start  The Eagles got off to a 1-4 start and were 4-8 before
finishing the season with a four-game winning streak with a
victory against Washington.  Chargers President Dean Spanos stressed continuity as he
announced that both Turner and Smith will return after San Diego
missed the playoffs for the second straight year.  “Bottom line, I believe these two men give us the best
chance to get back to the playoffs,” Spanos said today in a
statement released by the Chargers. “A.J. Smith is the best man
to improve our roster, and Norv Turner is the best man to lead
that roster on the field.”  Turner’s Record  Turner, 59, who took the Chargers to the playoffs in his
first three seasons there as head coach, is 49-31 in the regular
season in five years with  San Diego , which ended its season with
a 38-26 win at Oakland that knocked the Raiders out of playoff
contention.  “Two years ago we were 13-3, and since that time whether
it be for circumstances with contracts, injuries or guys leaving
the team, we have not been able to keep that team on the field
for an extended period of time,” Turner said during a news
conference in the final week of the regular season.  Turner took over in San Diego after seven seasons as head
coach with the  Washington Redskins  and two years leading the
 Oakland Raiders . He also has been an offensive coordinator for
four NFL teams, including the Chargers.  Turner led the Chargers to three straight American Football
Conference West division titles in 2007-09 and was chosen NFL
Coach of the Year by USA Today in 2009. San Diego reached the
AFC Championship game in his first year as head coach.  Spielman’s promotion from vice president of player
personnel was announced by the Vikings in a statement.  “Rick has proven to be a valuable member of the
organization since joining the Vikings in 2006,” team President
Mark Wilf said in a statement. “With Rick’s and Coach (Leslie) Frazier’s leadership, the Vikings are well-positioned to win
next season and beyond.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  