-- Santorum Surge Puts Ram Pickup Center Stage
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-01-03T18:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/santorum-surge-in-iowa-puts-chrysler-s-ram-pickup-center-stage.html
As poll numbers surged in  Rick Santorum ’s bid for the Republican presidential nomination, more
attention has fallen to his wheels.  While candidates such as former Massachusetts Governor Mitt
Romney and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  are
crisscrossing Iowa in large buses with their names on the sides,
Santorum has been riding in a Ram 1500 pickup lovingly called
the “Chuck Truck,” named after Chuck Laudner, his campaign
aide.  Laudner, former executive director of the  Republican Party 
of Iowa, purchased the four-door pickup in late 2006, he said in
an interview in Newton, Iowa, yesterday while his candidate
addressed more than 100 people inside a pizza restaurant.  The pickup has become a prop in the campaign for Santorum,
who frequently mentions it to audiences. His efforts to visit
all 99 of  Iowa ’s counties and hold more than 370 town hall
meetings have helped propel him in the latest polls of likely
Iowa caucus-goers who begin the 2012 presidential nomination
process tonight.  Santorum, the former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania , rose
to third place in the most closely watched Iowa poll released on
Dec. 31. The  Des Moines  Register  Iowa Poll  showed Santorum
backed by 15 percent of likely Republican caucus-goers, after a
surge in the final two days of sampling. Ahead of him were
Romney, at 24 percent, and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas 
at 22 percent.  Cameras Swarm  The “Chuck Truck” was purchased when the Ram was produced by
DaimlerChrysler AG. Daimler divested control of Chrysler in 2007.
Chrysler Group LLC, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , emerged from a
U.S.-backed bankruptcy in 2009.  In the final days on the campaign trail, Santorum is often
swarmed by television cameras as he hops into the gray truck for
his next stop as he was during a visit to a pizza restaurant in
Boone yesterday.  A line that often draws laughter on the campaign trail is
when Santorum starts talking about a graphic the New York Times
ran that showed how the candidates were traveling.  “All of these people and all of these buses and then me --
with a Ram pickup truck and one person,” he said to laughter in
Sioux City on Jan. 1.  The truck has become part of Santorum’s narrative that he’s
hardworking and spent the time to travel across the state.  “I didn’t have the money to compete here,” Santorum said.
“But we were able to do it. Why? Because money doesn’t buy Iowa
-- hard work, good ideas, strong principles” do.  Many Miles  Santorum isn’t the first candidate to get attention for his
truck. Fred Thompson, the former U.S. senator from  Tennessee  who
sought the Republican presidential nomination in 2008, used to
campaign in a red pickup that drew media attention as did Janet
Reno when running for governor of  Florida .  While Laudner’s truck has more than 178,000 miles on it, he
said he’s not planning a replacement anytime soon. He has a
second Ram with more than 300,000 miles, he said.  The campaign never intended the truck to become a prop in
the campaign, Laudner said.  “It was just him jumping in with me,” Laudner said. “I
was going out and doing intros for him.”  When Chrysler and  General Motors Co. (GM)  have come up during
this campaign season, it’s often because of the U.S. bailouts
that kept them from liquidation in 2009.  While not “a big fan” of the bailouts, “This is what I
drive,” Laudner said. “I’m not going to swap out vehicles for
a political statement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  