-- Sears Names Brookstone’s Boire Chief Merchandising Officer Amid Closings
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-01-03T18:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/sears-names-brookstone-s-boire-chief-merchandising-officer-amid-closings.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  named former
 Brookstone Inc. (BKST)  executive Ron Boire chief merchandising officer
to revamp its retail experience as the largest U.S. department
store chain works to revive sales.  Boire, 50, will lead merchandising for both Sears and
Kmart, the  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based company said today in
a statement. He was previously president and CEO of Brookstone,
an electronics chain, and also spent 17 years at Sony
Electronics Inc. in various roles.  Boire joins the retailer as Chairman  Edward Lampert , who
along with his  hedge funds  owns 60 percent of Sears, attempts to
reverse four years of declining sales. Sears tumbled 27 percent
on Dec. 27 after announcing plans to close as many as 120
stores. Same-store sales fell 5.2 percent in the eight weeks
ended Dec. 25, the company said last month.  Using technology “there’s opportunity to dramatically
change some of the presentations,” Boire said today in an
interview, without providing specific plans. “The commitment is
there to invest in great ideas.”  Sears fell 0.7 percent to $31.56 at 1:04 p.m. in  New York .
The shares declined 56 percent last year.  “There’s plenty of good people that they’ve brought in that
have not been able to turn around the business,” Matthew McGinley, a managing director at New York-based International
Strategy & Investment Group, said today in an interview. “It’s
like a revolving door there.”  Increase Investments  The company will increase investments in its best-
performing stores, Chief Executive Officer Lou D’Ambrosio said
today in an interview, adding that he’s looking for “more
theater, more engagement” for customers. He declined to say how
much Sears planned to spend.  D’Ambrosio, a former Avaya Inc. and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  executive, said in an interview last week that he
is seeking to gather more information about customers’ buying
patterns and product preferences and to boost Internet
operations. He aims to combine technology with spending on
stores to turn around the retailer.  “We’re going to take whatever actions are necessary to
restore greatness to this company,” D’Ambrosio said in an
interview.  Sears has given store salespeople more than 5,000 Apple
Inc. iPads and 11,000 iPod touches to track inventory and
customer orders.  D’Ambrosio is the fourth CEO since Lampert merged Sears
with Kmart in 2005. Lampert, who has presided over 18
consecutive quarters of declining sales, has tried several
strategies including opening smaller “specialty” stores.  Instead of reviving growth, Sears has lost customers and
market share to discounters such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
 Target Corp. (TGT) , which are attracting budget-minded consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  