-- Shell Shuts Nembe Creek in Nigeria After Crude Oil Theft
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-01-03T17:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/shell-shuts-nembe-creek-in-nigeria-after-crude-oil-theft-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  shut oil flows
of 70,000 barrels a day from the Nembe Creek Trunkline in
Nigeria due to a leak caused by the theft of crude.  The pipeline, which supplies the Bonny export terminal,
was halted Dec. 24. Shell is working on completing repairs
before the end of the month.  “What is really worrying about this leak is that it
happened on a facility which was commissioned in October 2009 to
replace an old line which was repeatedly targeted by crude oil
thieves,” Tony Attah, Shell’s vice president in charge of
health, safety and environment, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Nigeria is  Africa ’s largest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. imports. Shell, Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Chevron Corp., Total SA and Eni SpA run joint ventures with the
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump about 90
percent of the country’s crude.  More than 200 barrels of crude that leaked after oil
thieves installed two valves near a manifold on the pipeline
have been cleared up, Shell said.  Europe ’s largest oil company shut its 200,000 barrel-a-day
Bonga field last month after it leaked less than 40,000 barrels
in the country’s worst offshore spill in more than a decade.  Shell on Sept. 26 said it shut 25,000 barrels a day of
crude from its Imo River field because of oil theft. The company
on Aug. 23 declared force majeure, a legal clause that allows it
to miss scheduled deliveries for circumstances beyond its
control, on its Bonny Light crude exports after multiple
pipeline incidents. The company shut its Adibawa pipeline on
Aug. 22 after saboteurs cut crude lines, causing spills.  Attacks by armed groups targeting the oil industry cut more
than 28 percent of  Nigeria ’s crude output from 2006 to 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Attacks subsided after
thousands of militants campaigning for more local control of the
delta’s energy resources accepted a government amnesty and
disarmed in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  