-- Singapore’s Contraction Tests Resilience of Asia to Europe Crisis: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-01-03T04:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/singapore-gdp-shrinks-for-second-time-in-three-quarters-on-manufacturing.html
Singapore ’s economy shrank for the
second time in three quarters, highlighting Asia’s vulnerability
to the European debt crisis even as manufacturing strengthens in
 India  and  China .  Gross domestic product (SGDYTY)  fell an annualized 4.9 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2011 from the previous three months, when
it climbed a revised 1.5 percent, Singapore’s trade ministry
said today. The median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 5 percent contraction. The economy grew 4.8
percent in 2011 and may expand 1 percent to 3 percent this year,
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said Dec. 31.  The contraction brings into question Asia’s resilience to a
faltering global economy even as regional stocks and currencies
climbed after reports showed rising purchasing managers’ indexes
in China and India. The  Monetary Authority of Singapore , which
uses the  exchange rate  to manage inflation, eased its policy
stance last quarter as it juggled protecting growth with
containing price gains in the city of 5.2 million people.  “There is no disputing the overall story that Asia remains
somewhat resilient to the  euro zone , but we should not be overly
optimistic,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “There is still a consistent
story of slowing growth. I don’t see the effervescence in the
markets holding up for too long.”  A Purchasing Managers’ Index for India released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to the highest level in
six months in December, while one released by China’s statistics
department showed manufacturing rebounded from a contraction.
Australian manufacturing expanded for the first time in six
months in December, driven by gains in basic metals, transport
and publishing, a private survey released today showed.  Stocks Climb  A Chinese non-manufacturing PMI jumped to 56 in December
from 49.7 in November, the logistics federation and statistics
bureau said today.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks rose 1.1 percent as
of 12:34 p.m. in Singapore. It slumped about 17 percent in 2011,
halting a two-year rally in equities. Singapore’s benchmark
 Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  climbed 1.1 percent, while the island’s
dollar strengthened 0.4 percent to S$1.2920 against the U.S.
currency.  “We don’t see the  Singapore dollar  strengthening on a
prolonged basis and we expect it may grow weaker still in the
first quarter,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based
currency strategist at Malayan Banking Bhd. “People will still
flock to the  U.S. dollar  as risk remains and uncertainty lingers.
There is little to be cheery about for the Singapore economy.”  Singapore’s growth will “inevitably be affected” this
year in a “difficult” global economy, Prime Minister Lee said
Dec. 31 in a New Year message.  Uncertain Environment  “The external environment is uncertain,” Lee said. “Debt
problems in  Europe  are far from solved.”  European leaders return to work this week seeking to buy
time for the Spanish and Italian governments to wrest control
over their debt and rescue the single currency from
fragmentation in its 10th anniversary year.  Purchasing-manager indices for the U.K., Switzerland and
Norway due today will show manufacturing contracted in December,
while  Germany ’s economy probably lost jobs for a second month,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Sweden’s central
bank will release minutes of its December meeting, where it cut
its  interest rate  for the first time since 2009.  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  will also release minutes
of its December meeting, where policy makers left unchanged a
statement that economic conditions are likely to warrant
“exceptionally low” interest rates “at least through mid-
2013.”  U.S. Manufacturing  Other reports from the U.S. today may show manufacturing
and construction spending rose. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index climbed to a six-month high of 53.4
in December, according to the median of 63 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Readings above 50 indicate expansion. Spending
on construction projects advanced 0.4 percent in November from
October, the Commerce Department may say.  Singapore, located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait and home to the world’s second-
busiest container port, has remained vulnerable to fluctuations
in overseas demand for manufactured goods even as the government
boosts the financial services and tourism industries to cut its
reliance on exports.  Manufacturing rose 6.5 percent from a year earlier in the
three months ended Dec. 31, after climbing a revised 13.4
percent in the third quarter, the trade ministry said today. The
services industry grew 3.2 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, after gaining 3.7 percent in the previous three months.  Technical Recession  “Manufacturing and services will continue to be quite weak,
and won’t prove supportive of the economy,” said Chow Penn Nee,
an economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “We may
see a technical recession later this year. There is a
possibility of more easing in April” when the central bank next
reviews its monetary policy stance, she said.  The central bank had tightened monetary policy at each of
the three half-yearly reviews before its October decision to
slow gains in the currency while continuing with a modest and
gradual appreciation. It guides the local dollar against a
basket of currencies within an undisclosed band, and adjusts the
pace of appreciation or depreciation by changing the slope,
width and center of the band.  Asian nations from  Thailand  to  Indonesia  have reduced
interest rates to shield their economies from the protracted
European sovereign-debt crisis. Taiwan’s central bank left
borrowing costs unchanged for a second straight quarter last
week, while the People’s Bank of China said it will maintain a
“prudent” monetary stance and “ensure the continuity and
stability” of policy in 2012.  “In  Asia , we are already seeing easing in monetary policy
and that will continue for the rest of the year,” Chow said.
“The global recovery is still very uncertain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  