-- Sinopec Group to Buy Stakes in Devon Energy Oil Projects
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-01-03T22:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/sinopec-agrees-to-pay-900-million-for-stakes-in-five-devon-shale-projects.html
China  Petrochemical Corp., the
second-largest Chinese oil company, agreed to buy a one-third
stake in five  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  exploratory oil projects in the
U.S. for $900 million to expand holdings of reserves trapped in
shale.  The company, known as Sinopec Group, will pay $900 million
in cash and as much as $1.6 billion in Devon’s future drilling
costs, funding 125 wells in the coming year, according to a
statement from Devon today.  China National Petroleum Corp., Sinopec Group and Cnooc
Ltd. are seeking to gain technology through partnerships in
order to develop China’s shale reserves, estimated to be larger
than those in the U.S.  “In these joint ventures, the partner does typically get
some education on drilling,”  Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-based
analyst for  RBC Capital Markets , said today in an interview.  Chinese companies announced about $18.3 billion worth of
bids in 2011 for overseas oil and gas exploration and production
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sinopec
Group bought Daylight Energy Ltd., based in Calgary, for about
C$2.2 billion ($2.18 billion) last month after falling crude and
natural-gas prices made valuations attractive.  Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of gas, or
12 times the country’s conventional natural-gas deposits, the
U.S. Energy Information Administration said in April. China’s
“technically recoverable” reserves are almost 50 percent more
than the 862 trillion cubic feet held by the U.S., the EIA said.  Premium for Acreage  Sinopec Group is paying about $5,500 an acre when drilling
costs are included, Hanold said. “Market expectations were at
best $3,000 an acre, so Devon did pretty well,” Hanold said.
“There’s been a clear interest by Asian companies taking a
position in U.S. shale.”  Devon, based in  Oklahoma City , rose 6.6 percent to $66.11
at the close in New York.  Devon’s wells were the first to economically extract gas
from dense Barnett Shale in  Texas , helping trigger a resurgence
of U.S. petroleum production. After first tapping gas deposits
by drilling horizontally through rock and fracturing it,
companies are now chasing oil, worth more than gas in current
North American markets.  Selling to Drill  Devon joins  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and other U.S.
producers in raising cash to accelerate drilling by selling
asset stakes. Devon expects to spend all the so-called
“drilling carry” by the end of 2014. Chesapeake has seven
joint ventures, including one in the Utica Shale with Total SA,
 France ’s largest  oil company .  Devon spent $700 million on U.S. leases after selling $10
billion of overseas and offshore assets in 2010 to focus on
North American operations.  Chief Executive Officer John Richels said in a conference
call with analysts and investors in November that Devon began
had begun receiving offers for the package that includes 1.2
million acres (4,856 square kilometers) in the Utica Shale in
Ohio, the Tuscaloosa Shale in Louisiana, the Niobrara Shale in
Wyoming and Colorado, and tight-oil deposits in Michigan and
Oklahoma.  China Petrochemical Corp. is the parent of Shanghai- and
Hong Kong-listed China Petroleum and Chemical Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  