-- Solar Stocks Rise After LDK Agrees to Buy Germany’s Sunways
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-01-03T22:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/solar-stocks-rise-after-china-s-ldk-bids-for-germany-s-sunways.html
Solar stocks gained after  LDK Solar
Co. (LDK) , China’s second-largest panel maker, agreed to buy  Sunways
AG (SWW)  of Germany, the first acquisition by a Chinese solar company
in the world’s largest photovoltaic market.  Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index (BLGS)  of 37 companies rose
3.7 percent, the most in two weeks, led by a 7.9 percent gain in
 Hanwha SolarOne Co (HSOL) .  LDK offered to purchase Sunways, a solar-cell and module
maker, for about 24.2 million euros ($31.4 million). A record
7,400 megawatts of solar capacity was installed in Germany in
2010. The two companies said yesterday the deal is expected to
close by the end of the first quarter.  “We’re moving into a phase in the industry’s development
where we’re going to see increased M&A,” Alex Morris, an
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston, said in
an interview. “We’re in an oversupplied market right now, and
some of these guys need to be taken out just to take some
capacity off the table.”  Hanwha SolarOne rose 8 cents to $1.06 at the close in New
York.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  climbed 7.3 percent to $7.17, its biggest
gain since Dec. 20.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will host French President
Nicolas Sarkozy in Berlin next week to prepare for the European
council meeting on Jan. 30. Merkel said on Jan. 1 that she will
“do everything to strengthen the euro.”  “Signs of stability in Europe may be considered a positive
for the industry,” Daniel Ries, an analyst at Collins Stewart
LLC in New York, said by telephone. “If the euro were to
collapse this year, that would be very harsh for the solar
industry, with the largest demand pool still in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  