-- South America Soybean Crop to Slide on Drought, Oil World Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-03T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/south-america-soybean-crop-to-slide-on-drought-oil-world-says.html
South America soybean production is
expected to fall 2.9 percent after dryness and heat damaged
crops in  Brazil  and Paraguay and as conditions deteriorate in
Argentina, Hamburg-based industry researcher Oil World said.  Total output for Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay,  Uruguay  and
 Bolivia  will slide to 132.7 million metric tons in 2011-12 from
136.7 million tons a year earlier, 4.3 million tons less than
forecast in December, Oil World wrote in an e-mailed report.  Soybean futures rose 6.8 percent in Chicago trading in
December, the oilseed’s best monthly performance since August,
amid concern dry weather will curb soybean crops in Brazil and
Argentina, the largest exporters behind the U.S.  “Favorable rainfall would still result in a recovery of
soybean and corn-crop prospects in Argentina,” Oil World wrote.
“Maturation is well advanced in most Brazil and  Paraguay , where
the crops already suffered irreversible damage.”  The soybean crop in Brazil will probably drop to 71 million
tons from 75.3 million tons in 2010-11, Oil World said, cutting
its forecast by 1.8 million tons. Paraguay’s production will
fall to 7 million tons from 8.37 million tons, the researcher
said, lowering its outlook by 1.5 million tons.  “In some parts of Brazil the corn and soybean crops are
almost mature, so that rainfall from now on will partly be too
late and probably even detrimental for harvesting,” Oil World
said. “The same is true for Paraguay.”  Brazil Soybeans  The researcher said Brazilian soybean production may turn
out to be 1 million to 2 million tons below its forecast, while
Paraguay’s harvest may also come in lower than its estimate.  Argentina ’s soybean harvest is forecast to rise to 51
million tons from 49.4 million tons a year earlier, Oil World
said, cutting its outlook by 1 million tons. The outlook
requires “above-normal” rainfall soon, the researcher said.  “In Argentina rainfall in January and February would still
be very beneficial,” Oil World said. “There are significant
moisture deficits in most parts of Argentina and there is a high
risk that the required rainfall does not arrive in time to
prevent additional irreversible damage.”  Parts of Argentina and south Brazil were forecast to have
dry and hot weather early this week, causing crop stress for
corn and soybeans, AccuWeather Inc. said in a Dec. 30 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  