-- South African Corn Prices Surge on Concern Over Exports, Argentina Drought
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-01-03T15:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/south-african-corn-prices-surge-on-concern-over-exports-argentina-drought.html
South African corn prices rose the
most since October on concern local stocks are being depleted by
exports while global supplies will be curbed by a drought in
 South America .  Since the May 1 start of the marketing season, South Africa
has exported 1.96 million metric tons of corn, according to the
 South African Grain Information Service , an industry body. In
the whole of the preceding market year South Africa shipped 2.07
million tons.  “About 200,000 tons are still expected to be exported
between January and March and this will take away the extra
stock,” Brink van Wyk, a trader at  Bosveld Graan (Pty) Ltd .,
said in an interview from  Pretoria  today. “This automatically
means higher prices.”  White corn for March delivery rose 3.1 percent to a record
2,644 rand ($328) per ton on the South African Futures Exchange
in Johannesburg today, its biggest jump since Oct. 21. Yellow
corn for July delivery advanced 3.7 percent to 2,035 rand a ton,
its largest gain since Oct. 12.  South African corn stocks plunged 40 percent to 4.18
million tons as of the end of November from a year earlier,
South African Grain said on Dec. 22.  In  South Africa  white corn is used to make corn meal, a
staple food, while yellow corn is mainly fed to animals.  South American Drought  Most corn-growing areas in  Argentina , southern  Brazil  and
 Paraguay  have received less than half of their average rainfall
since Dec. 1, according to  T-Storm Weather LLC , a Chicago-based
weather forecaster. Argentina is the world’s second-biggest corn
exporter after the U.S. and normally starts reaping its crop in
March.  “More and more people are buying corn because they are
concerned about the shortages in supply due to the drought,”
Benjamin Swanepoel, a trader at Trademar Futures, said in an
interview from Johannesburg.  Two cargoes of yellow corn from  Romania  are en route to
ports in South Africa’s Western Cape province, Jannie de
Villiers, chief executive officer of Grain SA, a farmers’ group,
said in an interview. The imports would be the first of yellow
corn since the 2009/10 season. South Africa has only imported
yellow corn from Argentina, Brazil, the U.S. and  China  over the
last nine years, according to South African Grain data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  