-- Spanish Social-Security System Won’t Record 2011 Surplus
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-01-03T13:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/spanish-social-security-system-won-t-record-2011-surplus-1-.html
Spain ’s social-security system won’t
post a surplus in 2011, adding to pressure on Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  to take additional austerity measures to meet
 budget targets (EUBDSPAI) .  “There will be no surplus whatsoever,” Tomas Burgos, the
state secretary for social security, said at a press conference
in Madrid today. The former Socialist government had forecast a
surplus of 0.4 percent of gross domestic product, Burgos said,
adding it is too early to know what the exact balance will be.  Registered unemployment rose for a fifth month in December
as the economy weakened, data today showed. Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos described the the data as “bad” and said there
must be reforms to boost growth as well as measures to cut the
 budget deficit , the euro area’s third largest.  Rajoy’s People’s Party government, which took over from the
Socialists on Dec. 22, announced 14.9 billion euros ($19.4
billion) of spending cuts and tax increases on Dec. 30 as it
forecast the 2011 public deficit, which includes the central
government, semi-autonomous regions and the social security,
will be 8 percent of GDP instead of a 6 percent target. That
means the government has to cut the deficit by half this year to
meet the 2012 commitment.  “We must take into account that this is a significant
slippage,” de Guindos told reporters after a swearing-in
ceremony for officials at the  Economy Ministry . Measures to
reduce the gap must be “complemented with reforms to increase
the potential growth of the Spanish economy,” he said.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year bond (GSPG10YR)  rose 18 basis points to
5.28 percent as of 2:12 p.m. in  Madrid . That compares with a
euro-era high of 6.78 percent reached on Nov. 17.  “The markets’ perception will have to be positive because
Spain’s government is a government which fulfills its
commitments and will implement an aggressive reform,” de
Guindos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  