-- Stanford Seeks to Delay Trial After Defense Expert Witnesses Quit Over Pay
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-01-03T00:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/stanford-seeks-trial-delay-after-defense-expert-witnesses-quit-over-pay.html
R. Allen Stanford, accused of running
a $7 billion investment fraud, asked for a three-month delay in
his trial set for Jan. 23 after his expert witnesses quit over
not being paid, according to court filings.  Stanford’s experts haven’t been paid for four months, Ali
Fazel, Stanford’s lead criminal-defense lawyer, said in court
papers filed Dec. 30 in federal court in Houston. They quit last
week after the  U.S. Court of Appeals , which controls budgets for
Stanford’s publicly funded defense, ruled that it will “modify
and limit the expert budget moving forward” and withhold
payments to them until after the trial, Fazel said.  Stanford, 61, has been in custody since he was indicted in
June 2009 on charges of defrauding investors through bogus
certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank.  Stanford was declared mentally fit for trial on Dec. 22,
after completing eight months of rehabilitation at a federal
prison hospital in Butner,  North Carolina . U.S. District Judge
David Hittner found the former financier had sufficiently
recovered from head injuries suffered in a September 2009
jailhouse assault and an addiction to anxiety drugs prescribed
by prison doctors following the attack.  Fazel said in the Dec. 30 filings that prosecutors don’t
oppose a one-week delay in tomorrow’s deadline for filing expert
reports in the case.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa told Hittner last month
that the government doesn’t oppose a delay of six to eight weeks
in Stanford’s trial to give him more time to review documents
with his attorneys.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment today on the request for a three-month delay, citing
a gag order issued by the judge.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  