-- Steelers Won’t Play Ryan Clark in Denver Because of Sickle Cell Concern
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/steelers-won-t-play-ryan-clark-in-denver-because-of-sickle-cell-concern.html
Pittsburgh Steelers safety Ryan Clark
will sit out this weekend’s playoff game in Denver because the
city’s high altitude can complicate his sickle cell trait and
deprive major organs of oxygen.  Clark, 32, was found to have the condition after playing in
Denver in 2007, when he became ill and had to have his spleen
and gall bladder removed. He was kept out of a regular-season
game in Denver in 2009 and a preseason road game against the
Broncos last season.  “If he is in any more increased danger than any of the
other 21 men on the field during the course of a football game,
we were going to err on the side of caution,” Steelers coach
 Mike Tomlin  said yesterday at a news conference. “We came to
the determination he is at more risk, so we’re not going to play
him. It’s just that simple.”  Sickle cell trait occurs when a person inherits a sickle
cell gene from one parent, according to  WebMD . The person rarely
has symptoms, though there can be serious health complications
under extreme conditions or at high altitude. Sickle cell trait
isn’t the same as sickle cell disease, which turns round red
blood cells into abnormally curved shapes.  Clark said he wasn’t surprised about Tomlin’s decision,
though he thought it might be different circumstances this time
because it’s a playoff game. Clark will travel to Denver, which
is known as the “Mile High City” because it sits about one
mile (1.6 kilometers) above  sea level , and join his teammates on
the sidelines.  “Everybody knows I want to play and I would have played,”
Clark told ESPN yesterday. “I talked to my doctors and we
actually had a plan in place for me to play. All things pointed
to me going until he told me I can’t. He said he wouldn’t have
let his son play and so I’m not playing either.”  Tomlin said he told Clark he will start Ryan Mundy in his
place after talking to team doctors. Clark leads the Steelers
with 100 tackles this season.  “It’s a big game for us, but it is a game,” Tomlin said.
“We will keep it in that perspective. We have some quality,
capable men that can play the safety position for us and have
done it in the past.”  The Steelers yesterday also placed running back  Rashard Mendenhall , their leading rusher, on injured reserve with a torn
ligament in his right knee. Mendenhall was hurt in the team’s
regular-season finale and will miss the postseason.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  