-- Sterlite Raises Copper Prices on Demand Optimism, Weak Rupee
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-01-03T08:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/sterlite-raises-copper-prices-on-demand-optimism-weak-rupee-1-.html
Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) , the
nation’s biggest copper producer, raised cathode prices for the
second straight month, resisting a global decline, as the rupee
weakened and optimism grew demand will revive.  The company increased prices by 0.6 percent to 431,199
rupees ($8,101) a metric ton effective Jan. 1, it said today on
its website. Copper fell 3.6 percent last month on the benchmark
London Metal Exchange, while the  Indian rupee  fell 1.6 percent
against the dollar.  Copper demand may climb as government power and
construction projects are revived in the last quarter to meet
deadlines for the financial year ending March 31. The rise in
manufacturing indexes in  China  and  India  and an increase in
confidence among U.S. consumers last month are likely to boost
sales of metals, including copper.  “The demand is alright so far and Sterlite should be able
to sell whatever it produces,” said Bhavesh Chauhan, an analyst
at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai. “The falling rupee has boosted
the landed cost of copper and that probably prompted a price
increase.”  Tuticorin, Tamil Nadu-based Sterlite rose as much as 4.1
percent, the most in a month, to 93.95 rupees and traded at
93.55 rupees as of 1:25 p.m. in Mumbai. The benchmark Sensitive
Index jumped 2.2 percent.  Copper averaged $7,578.40 a ton in December on the LME, 0.3
percent lower than the previous month. Chinese and Indian
manufacturing gauges rose in December, suggesting that Asia’s
fastest-growing major economies are withstanding the fallout of
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The unit of  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , which sets prices each
month based on the average LME price the previous month, had cut
prices by 9.5 percent in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  