-- Wegelin Bankers Said to Be Charged by U.S. in Tax Crackdown
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-01-04T19:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/swiss-bankers-charged-by-u-s-in-tax-case-said-to-have-worked-at-wegelin.html
Switzerland’s Wegelin & Co. said
three bankers were charged with conspiring to help U.S. clients
hide more than $1.2 billion from American tax authorities.  Michael Berlinka, Urs Frei and Roger Keller helped
Americans open dozens of accounts and hide them from the
 Internal Revenue Service  after a U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax
evasion  led clients to flee bigger Swiss banks in 2008 and 2009,
according to an indictment filed yesterday in federal court in
 Manhattan .  All three employees remain at the bank, spokeswoman Albena
Bjorck said in an e-mailed statement today. Wegelin, the oldest
Swiss private bank, no longer has U.S. clients, and it is
negotiating with U.S. authorities, Bjorck said. The indictment
doesn’t name Wegelin, referring to “Swiss Bank A” and saying
all three worked at its Zurich branch.  The indictment signals a broadening crackdown by U.S.
prosecutors, who filed tax charges against more than three dozen
U.S. clients of  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s
two biggest banks, and London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest bank. They also have charged at least 24 bankers,
advisers and attorneys, including seven Credit Suisse bankers.  “This is a further example of what the government has been
saying all along -- that they are not stopping with UBS or
Credit Suisse,” said Bryan Skarlatos, a tax attorney with
Kostelanetz & Fink LLP in New York. “The criminal grand jury
investigations are continuing with respect to banks in
Switzerland and other countries.”  U.S.-Swiss Talks  The indictment comes amid U.S.-Swiss talks to resolve a
U.S. probe of offshore tax evasion. Officials seek to reach a
civil settlement with Swiss banks and resolve criminal probes of
11 of them, including Wegelin, which is based in  St. Gallen .  U.S. prosecutors charged UBS in 2009 with helping Americans
hide assets from the Internal Revenue Service. UBS avoided
prosecution by admitting it aided tax evasion, paying
$780 million and handing over data on 250 accounts. It later
disclosed another 4,450 accounts, causing U.S. customers to seek
new banks.  As those clients fled UBS and another large Swiss bank,
Berlinka, Frei and Keller and “Managing Partner A” wooed them,
according to the indictment. The bank, which is principally
owned by eight managing partners, also solicited accounts
through a third-party website, SwissPrivateBank.com, prosecutors
said.  The men told clients their undeclared accounts would stay
hidden from the IRS because the bank “had a long tradition of
bank secrecy, and, unlike UBS, did not have offices outside
 Switzerland ,” making it “less vulnerable to United States law
enforcement pressure,” according to the indictment.  Managing Partners  “In or about 2008, the managing partners affirmatively
decided to take advantage of the flight of U.S. taxpayers with
undeclared accounts by opening new undeclared accounts for many
of them at Swiss Bank A,” the indictment said. “Swiss Bank A
opened new undeclared accounts for at least 70 U.S. taxpayers.”  Berlinka, 41, began working at the bank in 2008; Frei, 51,
started in 2006; and Keller, 47, began in 2007, according to a
statement by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. The men, who live in
Switzerland, face as long as five years in prison if convicted.  “Wegelin & Co. has in the meantime ceased all dealings
with U.S. clients and the employees concerned have taken on
other tasks within the bank,” Bjorck said. The bank “has
authorized its lawyers in the U.S. to negotiate with the U.S.
justice authorities to the extent possible under Swiss law,”
she said. Wegelin declined to comment further by phone.  At least 17 others accused in the tax crackdown live
outside the U.S. and haven’t responded in U.S. court to the
charges.  Debriefings  Since 2009, about 30,000 Americans have avoided prosecution
by disclosing their offshore accounts to the IRS. Prosecutors
have debriefed hundreds of those clients to learn which banks
and advisers helped them cheat the IRS. The  Justice Department 
has used those interviews to build several criminal cases.  “The U.S. government has followed the trail of the money
in the 2009 voluntary disclosure cases,” said Paul Behling, an
attorney at Withers Bergman LLP. “They saw that it went from
the big Swiss banks to the smaller Swiss banks or out of
Switzerland and to  Hong Kong ,  Singapore ,  Israel  and  India .”  Disbarred Lawyer  The indictment details how Berlinka, Frei and Keller helped
23 U.S. clients open undeclared accounts at their bank. Kenneth
Heller, a disbarred  New York  maritime attorney who pleaded
guilty on June 27 to hiding more than $26.4 million in accounts
at UBS and Wegelin, also is referred to in the indictment. He is
scheduled to be sentenced Jan. 20.  The three bankers conspired with two other Swiss financial
advisers already under indictment, Gian Gisler and Beda
Singenberger, according to the charges filed yesterday.  “Some bankers are cooperating with the Justice Department
and turning over the names of their customers, and it’s possible
that these bankers may do the same,” Skarlatos said.  The case is U.S. v. Berlinka, 12-cr-00002, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  