-- U.S. Can Help End Child Labor by Amending 1930 Tariff Act: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-03T00:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/u-s-can-help-end-child-labor-worldwide-by-amending-1930-tariff-act-view.html
The scourge of child labor has proven
difficult to eradicate. The  International Labor Organization
estimates  that 215 million children are still being exploited
for work, much of it hazardous.  In recent years, the fair-trade movement has presented
itself as  an answer , offering, at a premium, goods and
commodities certified to have been produced without
exploitation. It is thus all the more appalling that a fair-
trade program in  Burkina Faso  has been shown,  in an
investigation  published in Bloomberg Markets Magazine, to have
used child laborers to produce cotton that wound up in most of
the cotton-underwear lines sold by Victoria’s Secret.  The scandal is a reminder that fair-trade stamps are only
meaningful to the extent the unregulated organizations that
grant them abide by their promise to enforce their own
standards. The largest of these,  Fairtrade International , which
certified the Burkina Faso cotton, is investigating its mistake.  Yet Fairtrade should have been on the alert to begin with.
 Burkina Faso  cotton is included in the U.S. Labor Department’s
 list of goods  produced by children. And the abuses within
 Victoria’s Secret (LTD) ’s program were evidently not hard to uncover.
Rampant use of children’s work was described in an unpublicized
2008 study of the cotton growers in the project. The survey was
commissioned by Victoria’s Secret’s in-country partner. In
recent weeks, Bloomberg reporter Cam Simpson discovered that
little, if anything, had improved since then.  Victoria’s Secret has serious accounting to do, as well. In
an initial response to Bloomberg, the retailer’s parent, Limited
Brands Inc., said it took the allegations seriously and is
investigating them. The company said it held its suppliers
responsible for meeting its sourcing standards, which prohibit
the use of child labor.  That won’t suffice.  Victoria’s Secret would be wise to draw inspiration from
the example of Gap Inc., which was hit in 2007 by the disclosure
that some of its clothes had been embroidered by child workers
in  India . Gap immediately  stopped the items from being sold . It
paid the children back wages, and guaranteed them support
payments, education expenses and a job, once they were old
enough.  An even better approach to abuses such as these is to
prevent them. As the world’s biggest importer, the U.S. can
significantly affect the use of underage workers overseas. The
departments of State and Labor have initiatives to  combat the
practice  globally, including programs that since 1995 have
rescued or spared 1.4 million children from exploitative labor.
Many effective nonprofit groups also are in the fight.  It’s impossible, however, for any government or
organization to detect every case. The parties in the best
position to know how products are produced are the importers.
The issue, then, is how to motivate them to care.  On Dec. 7, U.S. Representative Christopher Smith introduced
an amendment to a bill reauthorizing the  Victims of Trafficking
and Violence Protection Act , which encourages companies to each
year voluntarily disclose publicly and report to the State
Department measures they have taken to address forced labor in
their supply chains. It would be a better idea if the reporting
were mandatory for major importers, as it is in a  California law 
enacted last year that puts the onus on companies to know who
makes the goods from which they profit.  To provide real bite, Congress should amend the  Tariff Act
of 1930 . The law forbids the importation of goods that are made
using forced labor, unless U.S. consumer demand can’t be met by
similar items produced at home. The loophole renders the ban
almost useless, since courts have ruled that U.S. Customs cannot
block any product unless the U.S. makes enough of it to meet 100
percent of domestic needs.  The exclusion was intended to allow the importation of
goods such as rubber, tea and coffee, which at the time were
often grown on forced-labor plantations. The 1930 provision is
unsuited to a globalized 21st-century economy that gives
importers a wide choice of suppliers. As the dominant force in
this new era, the U.S. has an obligation to set the example.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 