-- Manufacturing Expands by Most in Six Months
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-03T21:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/u-s-manufacturing-expands-at-faster-pace-as-ism-index-increases-to-53-9.html
U.S. factories expanded in December
at the fastest pace in six months, adding to evidence
manufacturing is improving from  India  to the U.K. entering 2012.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index climbed
to 53.9 last month from 52.7 in November, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group’s data showed today. Fifty is the dividing line
between growth and contraction, and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News forecast the gauge would rise to 53.5.  Stocks surged and commodities rose as the data showed
factory orders and production grew at the strongest rates in
eight months while inventories were cut. Combined with another
report showing  construction spending (CNSTTMOM)  climbed in November, the
figures indicate the world’s largest economy accelerated in the
final months of 2011.  “Global economic activity is showing signs of life,” said
 Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets Corp.
in  New York , who correctly projected the factory gauge.
“Manufacturing in the early part of the year will keep
expanding. It’s good to know that  purchasing managers  are
feeling a bit better about the economic backdrop.”  Estimates for the factory index from 74 economists ranged
from 50 to 56. A reading above 42.5 generally indicates an
expansion in the overall economy, the group has said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.6 percent to
1,277.06 at the close in New York. The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note jumped to 1.96 percent from 1.88 percent
on Dec. 30. Crude oil for February delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  rose 4.2 percent to $102.97 a barrel, the
highest in more than seven months.  Construction Spending  A report from the Commerce Department showed construction
spending rose in November for a third time in four months.
Building outlays increased 1.2 percent, exceeding the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey that called for a 0.5 percent
gain, Commerce Department figures showed.  Manufacturing figures from around the world today showed
the industry is surviving the strains from  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis. India’s manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in
six months and a Chinese factory gauge rose by more than
economists expected, suggesting that a slowdown in the world’s
second-biggest economy may be stabilizing.  A gauge of Swiss manufacturing rose to 50.7 in December,
the first reading above 50 since August, Credit Suisse Group AG
in Zurich said in an e-mailed statement. A U.K. index rose to
49.6 from a revised 47.7.  In the U.S., the ISM report showed the production and
orders measures increased in December to the highest levels
since April. The gauges of factory inventories and customer
stockpiles showed faster rates of contraction.  Factory Employment  The manufacturing  employment index (NAPMEMPL)  rose to the highest
since June. Factory payrolls rose by 5,000 last month after a
2,000 gain in November, according to a survey of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the Labor Department’s payroll
report on Jan. 6.  A government tax credit may have contributed to an increase
in business demand for equipment in the months before the end-
of-the-year deadline. The Obama administration’s tax compromise
allowed companies to depreciate 100 percent of capital outlays
in 2011 and 50 percent in 2012.  A reviving auto industry is also boosting the  U.S. economy .
Light-vehicle sales ran at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of
13.6 million in November, the fastest since August 2009,
according to Autodata Corp.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S. carmaker, posted
November sales growth of 7 percent versus a year earlier, partly
due to Americans replacing older vehicles.  Replacement Demand  “It’s the underlying replacement demand and economy, as
well as the great new products, that are really driving it,”
 Don Johnson , GM’s vice president for U.S. sales, said on a
conference call last month.  Ford Motor Co. last week said its namesake brand exceeded 2
million U.S. sales for the first year since 2007, led by gains
for models such as the Fiesta small car and revamped Explorer
sport-utility vehicle.  Growth in  Asia  and  emerging markets  is helping sustain
orders for U.S.-produced goods while demand from Europe
stumbles.  Grand Rapids , Michigan-based  Steelcase Inc. (SCS) , which
designs and makes products for offices, is seeing room for
expansion in India and  China , while sales are uneven in Europe.  “We saw revenue growth in some countries” in Europe in
the most recent quarter, “while others were down,” James Hackett, president and chief executive officer of the Grand
Rapids-based company, said on a Dec. 22 conference call. “Our
commitment to Asia continues to pay off.”  September and October were the best months for U.S.  exports (USTBEXP) 
on record, according to figures from the Commerce Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  