-- Lowest Temperatures Since March Coming to New York, Northeast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-01-03T21:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/u-s-northeast-temperatures-above-normal-next-week-outlooks-say.html
The coldest air in at least 10 months
is forecast to fall across  New York City  and the U.S. Northeast
later today, according to the National Weather Service.  Temperatures in  Manhattan  are expected to reach 15 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus-9 Celsius) and may fall even lower north of
the city, said Joey Picca, a weather service meteorologist in
 Upton, New York .  “This is definitely the coldest air mass of the season,”
Picca said by telephone. “The last time we were at 15 was last
February on the 23rd and it was 16 on March 3.”  The weather service has issued a warning that the low
temperatures and winds of 10 to 20 mph may bring wind chill
values below zero Fahrenheit throughout parts of  New York ,
 Massachusetts , Connecticut and Rhode Island.  Milder weather may follow this week’s blast of cold
weather, according to three 6- to 10-day commercial forecasts.  The northern U.S. from the Great Plains to the Northeast
may be from 5 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit (2.7 to 4.4 Celsius) above
normal from Jan. 8 to Jan. 12, according to MDA EarthSat Weather
in Gaithersburg, Maryland. Temperatures may be even higher in
the northern Plains and western Great Lakes, according to MDA.  “The forecast here remains quite warm across most of the
North with only some detail differences expected since late last
week,” according to MDA’s forecast.  Warming Trend Seen  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants 
consume about 30 percent of the nation’s natural-gas supplies,
according to Energy Department data.  Six- to 10-day forecasts from Commodity Weather Group LLC
in Bethesda, Maryland, and from Weather Derivatives in Belton,
Missouri, call for similar warming across the northern U.S.  The low of 15 in Manhattan is expected be the coldest
weather of the week, according to the  National Weather Service .
The temperature is expected to fall to 8 degrees in Boston, 15
in Philadelphia and 20 in  Washington .  Forecasters diverge in their longer-term forecasts.  Commodity Weather Group President  Matt Rogers  predicts the
U.S. from the Great Lakes to Northeast may fall 3 degrees below
normal from Jan. 13 to Jan. 17.  MDA calls for the  Great Lakes  to have seasonal temperatures
in the same time period while the Northeast, including New York,
has temperatures 3 to 4 degrees above normal.  Salmon doesn’t issue an 11- to 15-day forecast.  The normal average temperature in New York for Jan. 10 is
about 33 degrees, according to MDA. It’s 29 in Boston, 24 in
Chicago, 43 in Atlanta, 42 in Seattle, 53 in Houston, and 55 in
Burbank,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  