-- Hu Says West Is Trying to Divide China by Using Ideology, Cultural Weapons
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-03T03:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/hu-says-west-is-trying-to-divide-china-by-using-ideology-cultural-weapons.html
The West is using cultural means to
divide  China (PRCH) , which needs to be alert to this threat, President
 Hu Jintao  said in a Communist Party magazine.  “International forces are trying to Westernize and divide
us by using ideology and culture,” Hu wrote in an  article  in
Qiushi. “We need to realize this and be alert to this danger.”  Many countries, especially Western powers, are attempting
to expand their influence through cultural hegemony, and China
must deepen and promote its own values of “socialism with
Chinese characteristics,” Hu wrote in the article, which was
published on the government’s website on Jan 1. China needs to
strengthen its cultural values as it faces possible challenges
from the West, he said.  Hu’s comments are part of a wider push by the party to
reassert its influence over Chinese culture and society,
including in television and the arts.  China ’s leaders are
grappling with the best way to manage Twitter-like social-media
sites such as  Sina Corp (SINA) .’s Weibo service that are hard for
government censors to control.  The Communist Party’s Central Committee said it will
supervise the world’s biggest online community more closely,
promote “constructive” websites and punish the spread of
“harmful information,” according to a communique from its Oct.
15-18 meeting released by the official Xinhua News Agency.  Members of the party’s Politburo visited web companies
after a deadly train crash in July.  Internet users  criticized
the government’s handling of the crash and spread commentary and
photos of the accident at odds with the official line.  Competitive Edge  The  Central Committee ’s communique also focused on
television, with the Communist Party vowing to “promote more
fine literary and artistic works” in fields such as television,
movies and photography.  That coincided with an announcement that new limits would
be imposed on the number of “overly entertaining and vulgar”
reality and talent shows aired on television. Starting this
year, the nation’s 34 satellite channels must limit themselves
to two such programs every week, according to an Oct. 25
statement on China’s State Administration of Radio, Film and
Television’s website.  In a globalized world in which people are exposed to many
ideologies and values, the country with the most cultural
influence will gain a competitive advantage, Hu wrote.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  