-- Huawei’s Supply Work in Iran Should Be Investigated, U.S. Lawmakers Say
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-01-03T23:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/huawei-s-work-in-iran-should-be-probed-by-state-department-lawmakers-say.html
Six U.S. lawmakers urged the State
Department to investigate whether Huawei Technologies Co.
violated U.S. law by supplying sensitive technology to  Iran .  Huawei, China’s largest maker of phone equipment, said Dec.
9 it would voluntarily restrict business in Iran because of that
country’s “increasingly complex situation.” The Shenzhen,
China-based company said it wouldn’t seek new customers in Iran
and will limit the scope of business with existing clients.  While calling Huawei’s decision on Iran a “positive
step,” the lawmakers in a Dec. 22 letter to U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said the company’s “previous actions and
continuing service of existing contracts with Iranian clients
may violate” an Iran sanctions law passed in 2010. The letter
was released yesterday by the office of Representative Sue Myrick, a North Carolina Republican.  The law, the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability
and Divestment Act, prohibits the U.S. government from
“entering into or renewing a contract with a company that
exports sensitive telecommunications technology to Iran,” the
lawmakers wrote.  The letter was signed by Republican Senators John Kyl of
 Arizona ,  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama and  James Inhofe  of  Oklahoma ;
Democratic Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of  Rhode Island ; and
Republican Representatives Frank Wolf of  Virginia  and Myrick.  The State Department press office didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  ‘Strict Compliance’  Prior to its Dec. 9 announcement, “Huawei’s business in
Iran was limited to providing commercial-grade
telecommunications equipment to commercial operators built to
global standards in strict compliance with all international
laws and regulations, as well as U.S. and other sanctions
regimes,”  William Plummer , a Washington-based spokesman for
Huawei, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Huawei said in November that it had sold telecommunications
equipment and a “mobile news delivery platform” to MTN
Irancell Telecommunications Services Co., Iran’s second-largest
mobile provider, and denied the gear was intended for use in
censorship.  In their letter, the U.S. lawmakers cited Wall Street
Journal and Bloomberg News reports in October that Iranian
authorities use technology purchased from foreign companies to
monitor dissidents.  The State Department should also review whether
telecommunications companies operating in Iran, including
Huawei, have violated other U.S. sanctions, “such as those
prohibiting companies from engaging in business with the Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps,” according to the letter.  Security Concerns  Huawei’s efforts to expand in the U.S. have run into
opposition from lawmakers who allege that the company is linked
to  China ’s military, an assertion that Huawei has denied. The
U.S. Commerce Department said in October it had barred Huawei
from participating in a nationwide emergency network, citing
national security concerns.  The U.S. House Intelligence Committee said in November it
had opened an investigation into the possible security threat
posed by Chinese phone-equipment makers such as Huawei. The
panel said it will focus on whether the companies’ expansion in
the U.S. provides opportunity for Chinese espionage and imperils
the U.S. telecommunications infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  