-- Uganda Keeps Key Lending Rate Unchanged
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-01-03T09:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/uganda-keeps-key-lending-rate-unchanged.html
Uganda ’s central bank left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a second consecutive month
as the currency gained and inflation slowed.  The policy rate was maintained at 23 percent, Bank of
Uganda Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile told reporters today
in the capital, Kampala. The bank boosted the rate by 10
percentage points since it was introduced in July.  Inflation in  East Africa ’s third-biggest economy slowed for
a second month to 27 percent in December after food prices,
fueled by drought last year, eased, the statistics office said
on Dec. 30. Uganda’s shilling has gained 17 percent against the
dollar since the beginning of October, curbing import costs and
giving the central bank room to keep borrowing costs on hold.  “The peaking of inflation and the recent strengthening of
the shilling shows that monetary policy is quite effective and
that  Bank of Uganda  must maintain a tight stance in order to
bring down inflation and stabilize it around its medium-term
target of 5 percent,” the governor said.  The central bank reduced the rate at which it lends to
commercial banks, known as the  bank rate , by 1 percentage point
to 28 percent. The rediscount rate, the interest investors can
earn if they redeem treasury bills and bonds before maturity,
was lowered by the same margin to 27 percent.  Credit demand by the private sector has slowed since the
central bank began raising interest rates, gaining 37 percent in
October from a year ago, down from 47 percent in September,
according to data from the central bank.  “The central bank cannot cut the rate at this level
because private sector borrowing is still high,” Alex Aheebwa,
a research analyst at African Alliance Uganda Ltd., a trust unit
and investment advisory company, said before today’s
announcement. “The private sector continues to borrow, some
from multiple sources, even at the current high rates.”  The shilling gained to 2,438 against the dollar as of 12:20
p.m. in Kampala from 2,439 before the governor began speaking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  