-- Hungary Banks, Treasury Fees, South Korea Banks, CDR Financial: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-01-03T13:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/hungary-banks-treasury-fees-south-korea-banks-cdr-financial-compliance.html
Hungary’s chances of obtaining a
bailout receded after lawmakers approved new central  bank
regulations  Dec. 30 that prompted the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union to break off talks last month.  Parliament in Budapest stripped central bank President
Andras Simor of his right to name deputies, expanded the rate-
setting Monetary Council and created a position for a third vice
president. A separate law also approved Dec. 30 makes it
possible to demote the central bank president if the institution
is combined with the financial regulator.  Hungary received its second sovereign credit downgrade to
junk in a month when Standard and Poor’s followed Moody’s
Investors Service in taking the country out of its investment
grade category on Dec. 21. The forint has fallen 15 percent
against the euro since June 30, making it the world’s worst-
performing currency in the period.  The new central bank regulations “seriously harm” the
country’s national interests, allow for political intervention
in monetary policy and threaten economic stability, the Magyar
Nemzeti Bank said Dec. 30. The laws have led to the “indefinite
postponement” of talks on a financial aid package, the central
bank said in a  statement  posted on its website.  For more, click here, and click here.  Compliance Policy  India to Allow Overseas Individual Investors to Buy Stocks  India’s government will allow overseas individual investors
to directly buy local equities as the country seeks to boost
capital inflows and reduce volatility in the stock market.  The new rule from the central bank and  stock market
regulator  is expected to take effect by Jan. 15, the government
said in an e-mailed statement Jan 1. Currently, individual
investors can only invest in Indian shares through so-called
participatory notes.  The move has been anticipated since October 2010 when a
 Finance Ministry  official, who declined to be identified at the
time, said the change was being considered. R. Gopalan,
secretary of economic affairs at the Finance Ministry, confirmed
this on Nov. 15.  The new rule will “widen the class of investors, attract
more foreign funds, and reduce market volatility,” as well as
deepen the Indian capital market, the government said in its
statement.  Foreign investors (FIINDRGP)  pulled out $495.5 million from India’s
equities last year, compared with a record inflow of $29.4
billion in 2010, data from the exchange regulator show.  FSOC Proposes Dodd-Frank Rule on Assessments for Treasury  The  Financial Stability Oversight Council , a group of
regulators charged with preventing a financial crisis, approved
a proposal Dec. 29 outlining how the U.S. Treasury’s assessment
fee would be administered.  The  proposal , which will be open for public comment for 60
days, determines which companies will be subject to an
assessment fee, identifies the total expenses necessary to carry
out the activities covered by the assessment and determines how
the fee will be calculated.  The rule is part of the sweeping financial-regulation
overhaul mandated by Dodd-Frank to prevent a repeat of the
market tumult that followed the 2008 bankruptcy of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  The fees will help replenish some
operating expenses of the FSOC, the  Office of Financial
Research , the Financial Research Fund and some covered Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. expenses.  The companies subject to the assessment are U.S. bank
holding companies with at least $50 billion in total
consolidated assets, foreign banking organizations with at least
$50 billion in total consolidated assets in U.S. operations and
nonbank financial companies required to be supervised by the
Federal Reserve Board.  The assessment rate will be announced June 2012 and
companies will be billed in early July with the first payment
due July 20. Initial assessment amounts will depend on the
president’s 2013 fiscal year budget.  Compliance Action  Liberty’s Malone Fined for Holding Stake in DirecTV Chile  Chile’s antitrust tribunal fined John C. Malone, the
billionaire owner of  Liberty Media Corp. (LINTA) , $3.6 million for
failing to abide by conditions imposed on the merger of his
cable-television company with a competitor.  The tribunal, known as TDLC, said Malone would face
additional sanctions if he doesn’t sell within six months his
direct and indirect stakes in satellite-television provider
DirecTV Chile SA, a rival of Liberty’s VTR Globalcom SA,
according to a statement posted on the tribunal’s website.  Chile’s National Economic Prosecutor sued Malone in 2008,
arguing that when VTR received approval to merge with cable TV
operator Metropolis Intercom SA in 2004, it had agreed not to
own stakes in other paid TV operators in the country.  Liberty acquired an interest in  DirecTV (DTV)  in 2008 from Rupert
Murdoch’s News Corp.  “Mr. Malone was aware of the conditions imposed on the
merger, and still maintains a stake in DirecTV Chile even after
being warned by the National Economic Prosecutor,” the TDLC
wrote in its ruling.  Courtnee Ulrich, a spokeswoman for Englewood, Colorado-
based Liberty, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  S. Korean Regulator to Focus on Crisis Management in 2012  South Korea’s financial regulator told the country’s
lenders to keep three months of foreign currency funding on hand
again this year to guard against potential market unrest
stemming from  Europe ’s debt woes and risks from North Korea
after the death of dictator  Kim Jong Il .  The  Financial Services Commission  expects volatility in
international financial markets to increase next year as
Europe’s crisis threatens global economic growth, the regulator
said in a report on its 2012 plans Dec. 29.  The commission will encourage local lenders to have enough
foreign-currency liquidity during times of emergency to avoid
the massive capital inflows and outflows that exacerbated the
country’s financial crisis in 2008.  The regulator will ask domestic banks to boost loan-loss
reserves and refrain from paying dividends that are too high to
ensure they have buffers for potential losses. It will be
“flexible” in operating capital flow measures such as the cap
on banks’ holding on foreign-currency forwards contracts and
foreign-currency liquidity ratio guidance, the government
commission said Dec. 30, without elaborating.  For more, click here.  GM Downplays  China ’s End of Policy to Attract Foreign Investment  General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest overseas automaker in
China, downplayed the risks to its expansion plans in the
world’s largest car market after the state ends a seven-year
policy to attract foreign investments.  The Detroit-based company said in a statement Dec. 30 that
it expects the new guidelines to “have minimal negative impact
on GM’s future plans in China.” Dayna Hart, a Shanghai-based
spokeswoman at GM, didn’t elaborate on the statement.  The Dec. 29 announcement, which came two weeks after China
announced it would impose punitive tariffs on U.S.-made
vehicles, means overseas carmakers will probably face
difficulties getting state approval to build future plants in
the country, according to research firm LMC Automotive. Global
automakers are counting on China and the U.S. to drive growth
this year as Europe’s debt crisis hampers the region’s economy.  Officials at  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  declined to
comment on how the changes in government policy will affect
their business in China and said current investments won’t be
hurt.  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  officials didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails, while Akihiro Nakanishi, a
Guangzhou-based spokesman for  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co., declined to
comment.  The new rules will go into effect Jan. 30, China’s National
Development and Reform Commission and the nation’s commerce
ministry said in a  statement  Dec. 29. The move, meant to allow
for a “healthy development” of China’s auto industry, won’t
apply to foreign investments in fuel-efficient vehicles, which
will still be encouraged, they said.  For more, click here.  EU Said to Prepare Draft Decision on NYSE-Deutsche Boerse Merger  European officials may distribute as soon as this week a
recommendation on Deutsche Boerse AG’s planned takeover of NYSE
Euronext, people familiar with the discussions said.  The  European Commission  team examining the case indicated
at a meeting on Dec. 21 that they are likely to propose
prohibiting the deal, according to two people familiar with the
situation, who declined to be identified as the conversations
were private. The advice is non-binding.  NYSE and Deutsche Boerse have been trying to convince
European regulators that merging to create the world’s largest
exchange operator won’t stifle competition in derivatives and
clearing. Officials told the companies at a meeting in Brussels
in mid-December that concessions they offered didn’t go far
enough to allay their concerns, two people familiar with the
talks said at the time. The last day the commission can rule is
Feb. 9.  James Dunseath, a London-based spokesman for NYSE Euronext,
and Joe Hennon, a spokesman for the European Commission,
declined to comment. Heiner Seidel, a spokesman for Deutsche
Boerse in Frankfurt, didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment.  For more, click here.  Credit Mutuel Units Inspected by French Data Protection Watchdog  Two Credit Mutuel-CIC units were inspected by France’s data
protection authority following a data system failure reported on
Dec. 28 by weekly newspaper Canard Enchaine, the Paris-based
watchdog said Jan. 1.  The Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertes
searched an information-technology unit in Strasbourg, France,
and a newspaper belonging to the bank in the French town of
Woippy, CNIL said on its  website .  “The commission is now analyzing the numerous pieces of
evidence gathered during the inspections to decide what to do,”
CNIL said.  Credit Mutuel-CIC declined to comment on the searches,
Bruno Brouchiquan, a spokesman for the bank, said in an e-mail.  Myners Wants Report on HBOS Collapse, Sunday Times Reports  Paul Myners , a former  Treasury  minister who oversaw the
bailout of U.K. banks, called on the nation’s securities
regulator to publish a report on the collapse of  HBOS Plc (HBOS) , the
Sunday Times reported.  A detailed account of the bank’s demise was the minimum a
taxpayer should expect, Myners was quoted as saying by the
newspaper.  Courts  Nasdaq Can Delist Chinese Company CleanTech, U.S. Judge Says  Nasdaq Stock Market won a federal judge’s permission to
delist a Chinese maker of wind towers over its objection that
the procedures for kicking it out are marred by bias.  U.S. District Judge Richard J. Sullivan Dec. 30 lifted the
restraining order imposed against Nasdaq by  New York  State
Supreme Court Justice Melvin Schweitzer on Dec. 20. Sullivan
also denied a request by  CleanTech Innovations Inc. (CTEK) , based in
Tieling, China, that he impose his own temporary restraining
order.  “The court finds that the state court lacked jurisdiction
to enter a temporary restraining order in a matter arising
under” the federal securities law, Sullivan wrote in his order.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Dec. 28 also
denied CleanTech’s request for a stay, which the company can
appeal to the federal court rather than the court imposing its
own restraining order, Sullivan said.  CleanTech has been fighting removal since January, when
Nasdaq asserted that the company, which makes towers for wind
turbines, intentionally withheld material information about $20
million in financing during its listing application. The company
says it provided all necessary information in a timely manner.  CleanTech alleged the exchange violated its own rules and
the company’s right to due process in “arbitrarily and
capriciously” seeking to remove it. Nasdaq’s practices are
“racially motivated” and “blatantly discriminatory,” aimed
at delisting Chinese companies, according to the complaint.  The case is Cleantech Innovations Inc. v. Nasdaq Stock
Market LLC, 11-cv-9358, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  CDR Financial, Founder Plead Guilty in Bid-Rigging Case  CDR Financial Products Inc. and its founder, David Rubin,
pleaded guilty less than a week before trial on charges tied to
a federal investigation of bid- and auction-rigging in the
municipal  bond market .  Rubin, 50, and his Beverly Hills, California-based firm
were charged along with two other employees. Prosecutors said
Rubin, who served as chief executive officer, took kickbacks for
running sham auctions for investments. The U.S. said the
defendants conspired to rig bids on contracts with local
governments to invest the proceeds of bond issues.  He pleaded guilty along with the company Dec. 30 in
Manhattan federal court. Jury selection in the trial of Rubin,
former CDR Chief Financial Officer Z. Stewart Wolmark and Vice
President Evan Zarefsky was set to begin this week. Rubin lost a
bid last week to postpone the trial because his wife is in the
final stages of terminal cancer.  Rubin, who sobbed at the Dec. 30 plea hearing, will be
sentenced April 27. His conviction is a victory for federal
antitrust prosecutors in their five-year investigation of the
$3.7 trillion municipal bond market.  The case is U.S. v. Rubin/Chambers, Dunhill Insurance
Services Inc., 09-CR-01058, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Fickes Discusses Groupon-SEC Correspondence About IPO  Mark Fickes, a partner at  BraunHagey & Borden LLP , talked
about correspondence between  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the company’s
initial public offering.  He spoke with  Cory Johnson  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bloomberg West.”  For the video, click here.  Wall Street  ‘Isn’t Powerful’ on Capitol Hill, Says Analyst Hintz  Wall Street lacks influence on Capitol Hill and regulators
have the “opportunity to move an agenda the way they want it,”
according to Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co.  “How powerful is Wall Street on Capitol Hill right now
during an election year?” Hintz said Dec. 30 on Bloomberg
Television. “I don’t think it’s very powerful at all.”  Regulators are crafting language to implement the so-called
Volcker rule included in the Dodd-Frank legislation passed to
prohibit deposit-taking banks from making speculative bets with
their own money. Financial firms have lobbied to weaken
regulations created in the aftermath of the 2008 financial
crisis, and have asked for a 90-day extension in the comment
period for the Volcker rule.  “For regulators, this is an opportunity for them to move
an agenda the way they want it,” Hintz said. “Unfortunately,
it is not a good picture for the industry going forward.”  Comings and Goings  Latvia Nominates Kristaps Zakulis as Head of Bank Regulator  Latvia’s Finance Ministry and central bank nominated
Kristaps Zakulis as head of the country’s bank regulator, the
ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  Zakulis was head of security for state-owned
telecommunications company SIA Lattelecom, according to the
statement. Zakulis’s nomination needs parliamentary approval.  Irena Krumane, the former director of the regulator,
resigned on Nov. 28 following the suspension of Latvijas
Krajbanka AS, the country’s sixth-biggest deposit bank, and
accusations of missing money at the lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 