-- Hungary Counties, Banks Agree on Debt Repayment, Gyuris Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-01-03T12:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/hungary-government-and-banks-sorted-out-county-debt-gyuris-says.html
Hungary ’s counties and their banks
have reached agreement on terms of their debt repayments, said
Daniel Gyuris, deputy head of the Hungarian Banking Association.  “The issue of county debt has been settled correctly  bank
by bank and county by county,” Gyuris said at a press briefing
in Budapest today.  Details of the agreements, which cover 187 billion forint
($773 million) in debt, were concluded by Dec. 31 and haven’t
been disclosed. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said last year that
the central government would assume responsibility for the debt
as part of an overhaul of local government. The government may
pay back the debt by using up part of the central bank’s
foreign-currency reserves, news website  Index  reported today,
citing unidentified people close to the government.  The association “isn’t aware” of any lender unable to
agree with counties on debt repayment, Gyuris said, adding that
contents of the agreements varied.  Hungarian municipalities owed almost 500 billion forint in
foreign-currency denominated debt at the end of September,
according to data from the financial supervisory authority.  Talks earlier with the government concerning “local
council debt ended on the note that any problems need to be
settled by individual municipalities and their financing
banks,”  Gyuris said.  On Dec. 29, the local council of the city of
Hodmezovasarhely asked  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ’s Hungarian unit to
share the burden of foreign-currency losses on the
municipality’s Swiss-franc denominated bonds.  The municipality, which sold 69.4 million Swiss francs ($74
million) in bonds in 2006, is servicing its debt, according to a
letter signed by Mayor Janos Lazar, who is also the ruling
Fidesz party’s parliamentary group leader.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  