-- Union Carbide Asbestos Verdict Erased by Mississippi Judge
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-01-03T21:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/union-carbide-asbestos-verdict-overturned-by-mississippi-court.html
A $322 million jury verdict in an
asbestos case against  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s Union Carbide unit and
Chevron Phillips Chemical Co. was overturned by a  Mississippi 
judge.  The companies asked the state  Supreme Court  to overturn the
verdict, saying Smith County Circuit Judge Eddie Bowen had a
conflict of interest because his parents had asbestos legal
claims, including one against Union Carbide.  The state’s high court removed Bowen from the case last
year. His replacement, Special Judge William F. Coleman, said on
Dec. 22 that the companies’ request to remove Bowen and vacate
the verdict were “well taken and should be granted.”  The May 4, 2011 verdict was the largest ever made to a
single asbestos case plaintiff, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. State punitive-damages restrictions would have
reduced the verdict by at least $260 million. Coleman’s order
doesn’t include information on a new trial. The jury award was
the ninth-largest in the U.S. overall in 2011, according to
Bloomberg data.  Dow Chemical spokesman Scot Wheeler wasn’t immediately
available to comment on the judge’s order. Bowen’s court
administrator, Judy Herrington, said he was out of the office
and wouldn’t comment on the case.  Plaintiff Thomas Brown claimed he developed asbestosis
after being exposed to the toxic fibers while mixing drilling
mud on oil rigs in the  Gulf of Mexico . He claimed Union Carbide
and Chevron Phillips knew asbestos is toxic and didn’t warn him.  The case is Brown v. Phillips Co., 2006-196, Circuit Court,
Smith County, Mississippi (Raleigh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 