-- Turkey Banks Climb Most Since November as Emerging Markets Gain
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-01-03T17:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/turkey-banks-rise-most-since-november-as-emerging-markets-gain.html
Turkish  banks (XBANK) , the country’s most
actively traded stocks by market value and volume, had their
biggest gain since November as a pickup in manufacturing around
the world boosted investor appetite for emerging-market assets.  The Istanbul Stock Exchange National Banks Index jumped 4
percent to 103,380.33 at the close of trading in Istanbul, the
most since Nov. 30.  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS (YKBNK) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s
Turkish unit, rallied 7 percent.  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISATR)  AS, the
country’s largest listed lender by assets, added 6 percent and
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the biggest by market value, rose
3.4 percent.  Emerging-market stocks advanced for a fourth day after a
pickup in manufacturing output in countries from  China , India
and the U.S. boosted optimism the global economy is weathering
Europe’s debt crisis.  “ Turkey  finally caught up as they offer compelling
value,” Bali Ekin, head of equities at Credit Europe Bank NV in
Amsterdam, said in e-mailed comments. “If you buy anything in
Turkey you have to go with the most liquid which is the
financial sector. The Asian data overnight coupled with
continued DA strength energized money flows to emerging market
and risk assets.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Financials Index gained 2.5
percent today, valuing companies in the gauge at 9.8 times
reported earnings. The ISE National Banks Index traded at 7.7
times profit.  The index of 16 Turkish banks accounts for 37 percent of
the overall value on the ISE 100 index. Garanti, Isbank and
Akbank TAS were the most actively traded stocks by value on the
market today, while seven lenders topped the list of most-active
shares by volume.  “Flows from the international side plus the overall
positive sentiment” helped push the banking shares up, said Ali Balkan, a trader at Istanbul-based brokerage BGC Partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  