-- Turkish Inflation Rate Rose in December, Straining Central Bank Rates Plan
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-01-03T08:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/turkish-inflation-rate-rose-in-december-straining-central-bank-rates-plan.html
Inflation in  Turkey  accelerated to
almost double the official target as the central bank sells
dollars and squeezes liquidity to halt a decline in the lira
that’s pushing prices up.  The  inflation (TUCPIY)  rate rose to 10.5 percent in December from
9.5 percent, the statistics agency in Ankara said on its website
today. That was the fastest rate since November 2008. The year-
end goal was 5.5 percent and the median estimate of seven
economists in a Bloomberg  survey (TUCPIY)  was 10.1 percent. In the month,
prices rose 0.6 percent.  Inflation has surged from 4.3 percent when Erdem Basci took
over as central bank governor in April. Basci is pursuing a
policy of varying  interest rates  on a daily basis to help manage
volatile capital flows. He said yesterday that the bank has
applied “additional tightening” since last week, when the lira
fell to a record low that extended its drop against the dollar
to 18 percent for the year.  “The effectiveness of the central bank’s current monetary
policy mix is still questionable,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist
at BCG Partners in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed comment.
“While we expect the bank to insist on the current policy, we
also think that annual inflation will be 8.4 percent at the end
of 2012 against the inflation target of 5 percent.”  Funding Curb  Yields on  benchmark two-year lira bonds (TRABNBM)  traded at 11.42
percent at 10:30 a.m. in Istanbul, after rising to a two-and-a-
half-year high of 11.57 percent following the inflation release.
The lira was 0.5 percent stronger at 1.8861 per dollar.  The central bank has restricted the funding it provides at
the  benchmark interest rate (TUBR1WRA)  of 5.75 percent, forcing banks to
borrow at as much as 12.5 percent. It also sold dollars on the
market for a second consecutive trading day yesterday, and has
spent more than $11 billion of reserves since July.  “The bank is stretching the limits of its unorthodox
policy framework in order to stabilize the lira and bring
inflation under control,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist
 Ahmet Akarli  wrote in an e-mailed report today. “More policy
action will be necessary.”  The lira, along with  South Africa ’s rand, was the biggest
decliner last year among emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Its drop has added as much as four percentage points
to inflation, Basci said on Dec. 27.  ‘Effective and Temporary’  Basci hasn’t changed the  benchmark rate (TUBR1WRA)  since he cut it by
half a percentage point in August. Adjusting policy through
market operations and sales of foreign currency gives the bank
the agility it needs to respond to rapid changes in capital
flows because of the European sovereign debt crisis, he says.  It’s essential that the additional tightening be “strong,
effective and temporary,” the central bank said yesterday. The
duration depends on the speed of the correction in factors that
affect inflation, it said.  This year’s 5 percent goal is achievable because inflation
will start slowing from May, according to the bank’s
projections. Its preferred measure of  core inflation (TUCXEFYY)  slowed to
8.1 percent in December from 8.2 percent the month before.  The central bank is working to achieve a “soft landing”
for Turkey’s economy, which  grew (TUGPCOYR)  8.2 percent in the third
quarter, Basci said on Dec. 12. Annual credit expansion slowed
to 31 percent in the week to Dec. 23, from 32 percent a week
earlier, the bank regulator said yesterday. The central bank has
said it wants to see loans growing at about 25 percent.  The cost of  goods leaving Turkish factories (TUPPY)  and mines rose
13.3 percent in the 12 months through December, from 13.7
percent the previous month, the statistics agency said today.
Producer prices rose 1 percent in the month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  