-- Turkish Lira Heads for Three-Week High as Bank Sells Dollars for Third Day
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-03T16:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/turkish-lira-heads-for-three-week-high-as-bank-sells-dollars-for-third-day.html
The lira headed for the highest level
in three weeks as the Turkish central bank sold dollars in the
 currency market  for a third day and signaled it would raise the
banks’ funding costs.  The lira gained 1.1 percent to 1.8737 per dollar at 6:17
p.m. in Istanbul, rebounding from last year’s 18.4 percent
depreciation, the worst performance among emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency headed for the
highest level since Dec. 12.  The bank in Ankara is estimated to have sold about $850
million, including $350 million it sold in an auction today,
Erkin Isik, a fixed-income strategist at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS
in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note. The bank started selling
dollars directly on the market Dec. 30 after seeing “unhealthy
price formations,” it said that day, sending the lira to its
strongest rally in almost three years. The bank may reduce
funding for banks at its benchmark rate of 5.75 percent and
could carry out foreign currency sales to withdraw lira
liquidity, according to Governor Erdem Basci’s presentation,
posted on the bank’s website today.  In the bank’s final monthly meeting with economists, Basci
“sounded very hawkish and said that they will keep the current
policy stance,” Isik said. “This means no more cheap funding
through the policy rate of 5.75 percent, so the average funding
cost would elevate to the vicinity of 12 percent, from eight
percent a week ago and 10.3 percent today.”  The central bank lent 3 billion liras in a one-week repo
auction at an average annual rate of 11.86 percent today,
compared with 5 billion liras at 12.02 percent yesterday. It
hasn’t provided liquidity at 5.75 percent since Dec. 28, after
the lira depreciated to a record low of 1.9224 per dollar on
concern that  Turkey ’s monetary policy will fail to contain a
burgeoning current-account deficit and accelerating inflation.
The headline inflation rate rose to a three-year high of 10.5
percent in December, the Ankara-based statistics institute said
today.  Yields (TRABNBM)  on the two-year benchmark note rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 11.53 percent, the highest
level since July 2009, according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark
Bond Index.  “We think that intervening in the currency market to
tighten lira liquidity is a very risky method,” Serhan Gok,
head of research at UBS Menkul Degerler AS in Istanbul, said in
e-mailed comments. “If the foreign exchange intervention does
not have the desired effect on the currency basket, the lira
interest rates will inevitably increase further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  