-- Vestas Plans to Restructure After Cutting Sales Forecast
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-01-04T08:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/vestas-plans-restructuring-cuts-sales-forecast-by-1-3-billion.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the biggest
wind-turbine maker, will announce a significant change to the
corporate structure after cutting its revenue forecast for the
second time since October. The stock fell 17 percent.  A total of 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of revenue
expected in 2011 will be booked this year because of delays in
connecting renewable energy projects to the electric grid and
bad weather that stalled construction of several projects, the
Aarhus, Denmark-based company said yesterday in a statement. The
shares opened at 58 kroner, down from 69.60 yesterday in
Copenhagen.  The announcement adds to a series of earnings misses that
have depressed Vestas shares about 90 percent from their peak
in 2008. Vestas and its rival  General Electric Co. (GE)  are suffering
from slower demand growth and narrowing margins caused by rising
competition from Asian companies and subsidy cuts in  Europe .  Vestas now expects sales of about 6 billion euros for 2011,
down from the 6.4 billion euros it forecast on Oct. 30, which
itself was a reduction from 7 billion euros. The two revenue
deferrals total about 1 billion euros. During a conference call
with investors, Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said
problems starting up a factory in  Germany  were under control,
though revenue would be delayed.  “We are looking at very carefully how come we have
experienced these kind of challenges when taking new
technologies to the market,” Engel said on a conference call.  No New Equity  The company gave no details of the program being announced
on Jan. 12, saying only that it wouldn’t involve tapping equity
markets for more cash and that it has no plans to seek any kind
of strategic investor.  Delays relating to weather, connecting wind plants to the
grid “and other disruptions” meant some projects would not be
counted as revenue until the first quarter of this year.  Earnings before interest and tax for last year that were
expected to be about 255 million euros were revised to an
implied forecast of zero, according to the statement.  About 100 million euros of the shortfall is due to
development costs for the company’s V112-3.0 MW turbine and
GridStreamer technology for its 2-megawatt design.  As a result, the company’s EBIT margin will be
“approximately zero percent,” with  cash flow  remaining
positive in 2011.  Vestas also said it had orders of for turbines with 7.4
gigawatts of capacity last year worth 7.3 billion euros, in step
with its forecast of between 7 gigawatts and 8 gigawatts. Some
customers postponed signing contracts for a “number of major
orders from 2011 to 2012,” according to the statement.  Delays in Europe  The delayed turbine orders mostly were from customers in
Europe, the company said during the call, and most fourth-
quarter sales originated in Europe.  The company said the commissioning problems at its
generator factory in Travemuende, Germany, were “under
control” and not expected to hurt operations in 2012.  The company will present “a significant change of the
whole organization” on Jan. 12, it said in the statement.
Vestas is due to announce full-year orders data in its annual
report on Feb. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  