-- Vestas Cuts Sales Forecast for Second Time on Project Delays
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-01-03T19:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/vestas-cuts-revenue-forecast-for-2011-amid-delay-in-projects.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s
biggest wind-turbine maker, cut its 2011 revenue forecast for
the second time since October after delays in completing
installations mainly in  Europe .  The company now expects sales of about 6 billion euros
($7.8 billion) last year, down from its previous estimate of 6.4
billion euros. Since October, it has pared the figure by about 1
billion euros, which will be booked in the first three quarters
of 2012, according to a statement today.  Vestas also said it would announce a “significant change”
to its corporate structure on Jan. 12, though it ruled out
tapping equity markets for cash. The shares have fallen almost
90 percent from their high in 2008 after a series of earnings
misses including the latest announced on Oct. 30.  Vestas and its rival  General Electric Co. (GE)  are suffering
from slower demand growth and narrowing margins caused by rising
competition from Asian companies and reductions in support from
governments in the U.S. and Europe working to curb deficits.  In October, Aarhus, Denmark-based Vestas reduced its
forecast to about 6.4 billion euros from 7 billion because of
delays in boosting output from a new factory in Germany. Today,
it said those delays were under control, though bad weather was
holding up completion of a number of its projects.  Delays and Disruptions  Delays related to weather, connecting wind plants to the
grid “and other disruptions” meant some projects would not be
counted as revenue until the first quarter of this year. That
means the company expects to reduce its earnings before interest
and tax for last year by about 130 million euros, according to
the statement.  “We are looking at very carefully how come we have
experienced these kind of challenges when taking new
technologies to the market,”  Ditlev Engel , the chief executive
officer of Vestas, said on a conference call.  Vestas also said it had orders of for turbines with 7.4
gigawatts of capacity last year worth 7.3 billion euros, in step
with its forecast of between 7 gigawatts and 8 gigawatts despite
some customers that postponing the completion of contracts for a
“number of major orders from 2011 to 2012”.  About 100 million euros of the shortfall is due to
development costs for the company’s GridStreamer technology and
its V112-3.0 megawatt turbine. Higher costs and revenue delays
will make Vestas’ EBIT margin “approximately zero percent” for
2011, according to the company.  The company said the commissioning problems at its
generator factory in Travemuende,  Germany , were “under
control” and not expected to negatively affect operations this
year.  The company will present “a significant change of the
whole organization” on Jan. 12, it said in the statement.
Vestas is due to announce full-year orders data in its annual
report on Feb. 8.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  