-- Virginia Argues Perry Can’t Challenge Ballot
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/virginia-asks-federal-court-to-dismiss-perry-s-bid-to-get-name-on-ballot.html
Rick Perry’s presidential campaign
lacks any legal basis for seeking a court order to stop Virginia
from distributing primary election ballots without his name on
them, lawyers for the state said in court papers.  Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli yesterday
asked a federal judge in Richmond to dismiss the  Texas 
governor’s bid to have his name added to the ballot for the
March 6 Republican presidential primary after the governor
failed to collect the 10,000 signatures required by state rules.  Perry “lacks standing to assert an injury arising from the
inability to circulate his own petitions because there is no
averment that he stood ready, willing and able to circulate his
own petitions and there is no basis for concluding that he would
have collected a sufficient number of valid signatures,” the
state said.  Perry last week sought a temporary order to halt state
officials from printing the ballots, or to require them to
include his name. In a lawsuit filed Dec. 27 in federal court in
Richmond, Perry claimed the state’s requirement that people who
circulate petitions be eligible or registered to vote in
 Virginia  violates his constitutional rights.  ‘State’s Interest’  “The fact is that there can be no state’s interests
protected in preventing a candidate for president of the  United
States  from standing in a public square and asking Virginian
voters for their signatures on a petition,”  Ray Sullivan , a
spokesman for the Perry campaign, said in an e-mail.
“Similarly, there is no legitimate state’s interest being
protected in requiring he unusually high hurdle of 10,000
signatures.”  U.S. District Judge John A. Gibney Jr. in Richmond said
Dec. 29 that he wouldn’t stop the printing before the next
hearing in the case, scheduled for Jan. 13. He didn’t rule on
the merits of Perry’s challenge.  Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and U.S. Representative
 Ron Paul  of Texas are the only Republicans to make it onto the
ballot for Virginia’s primary on so-called Super Tuesday, the
 Republican Party  of Virginia said last month.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  also failed to get the
required signatures from registered voters. Gingrich said last
week that someone hired to collect signatures provided false
ones.  Gibney set a deadline of Jan. 6 for the other Republican
presidential candidates to intervene in the case.  Perry, in a filing yesterday, said he plans to call three
witnesses to testify at the Jan. 13 hearing. They include Jerry Kilgore, a former Virginia Attorney General and the Virginia
chairman of the Perry campaign; Joe Allbaugh, a former George W.
Bush administration official who is now senior adviser to the
Perry campaign; and Neal Blair, a lawyer who coordinated Perry’s
efforts to get on the ballot in Virginia.  The case is Perry v. Judd, 3:11-cv-00856, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  