-- Wall Street Trades at Speed of Light Need Traffic Cops: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/wall-street-trades-at-speed-of-light-need-traffic-cops-view.html
The past year in U.S. stock markets
earned a place in the  volatility (VIX)  Hall of Fame, coming in just
behind the full-blown financial crisis years of 2008 and 2009.
For this, credit (or blame) goes to  Europe ’s debt mess, U.S.
political paralysis and upheaval in the  Middle East .  But something else was at play: the increasing dominance of
so-called high-frequency trading driven by computers and
programs that thrive on and exacerbate wild market swings.  U.S. securities regulators have been examining the trading
records and computer codes of brokers,  hedge funds  and banks.
This welcome inquiry delves into a world where buy-and-sell
orders are executed at speeds normally associated with
astrophysics, and traders profit from opportunities that may
last a few millionths of a second.  At this point, it’s beyond doubt that high-frequency
trading contributes to volatility, fueling perceptions among
retail investors that insiders have the game rigged. One need
only look at the so-called flash crash of May 6, 2010, when the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  plunged almost 1,000 points in an
hour and bounced back just as quickly. High-frequency traders
may not have triggered the crash, but  researchers  have found
that they kicked it into overdrive. Investors pulled almost $20
billion out of U.S. stock mutual funds that month, the most
since the dark days of October 2008, according to the  Investment
Company Institute .  Losing Confidence  A loss of confidence on that scale might, over time,
diminish liquidity, increase trading costs and erode investor
returns. Ideally, the Securities and Exchange Commission will
accelerate a full-scale monitoring program that gleans all
trading transactions. Such “ audit  trails” might help the
agency spot wrongdoing. But the securities industry, which will
bear much of the potential $4 billion cost to hire analysts and
buy computers that can keep up with the traders, has balked at
having such information provided on a real-time basis.  The SEC and the  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
have an added burden of drawing up rules in the absence of clear
guidance from the Dodd-Frank law, which gave short shrift to
high-frequency trading. But it’s crucial that the market
overseers take steps to limit the possible harm that high-
frequency trading can cause, without compromising its benefits,
which are lower trading costs and increased liquidity.  Here’s one suggestion: High-frequency traders can bombard
markets with buy-and-sell orders and then instantaneously issue
cancellations. This might be a legitimate tactic for price
discovery in much the same way that an auctioneer seeks to find
out how much money potential buyers are willing to offer. Yet
this also might be used to skew a market, perhaps even leading
to mini-flash  crashes  in specific securities. Regulators,
therefore, might impose some discipline by requiring traders to
stick with bids or offers outside a certain  price range  for a
specific period of time, say 1,000th of a second or longer,
before canceling.  Such a requirement would be consistent with something else
the SEC might consider. High-frequency traders now do much of
the work once performed by  humans  on the stock-exchange floors.
Regulators could ask that they fulfill an obligation to make
markets, helping maintain the functioning of the  stock exchanges 
by offering to buy and sell securities when others refuse.  Overloading market trading systems with excessive buy-and-
sell orders offers another potentially unfair advantage to high-
frequency traders. Some traders may be able to exploit the
minuscule lag between the time a transaction is recorded on a
local exchange’s electronic ticker and when it shows up on a
feed that consolidates information from all the exchanges. By
 stuffing  the system -- or another trading firm’s computer
systems -- with quotes, this lag widens, yielding trading
opportunities. Regulators might be able to combat this by
imposing a fee on traders who introduce excessive messages into
the data stream.  Computer Warehouses  Then there’s the issue of co-location. Exchanges rent space
to trading firms in their computer  warehouses , letting high-
frequency traders place their own computers just a few feet from
the ones used by the exchanges. The minimal distance between the
computers can slice a few microseconds off a transaction, which
can mean the difference between a profit and a loss. It’s hard
to see what the answer is -- proximity in markets has always
offered an advantage. We just hope rulemakers consider ways to
ensure that no one has an unfair edge simply because they can
pay the rent or find the space at all of the exchanges’ computer
centers.  As a general principle, we favor free markets. We also
believe markets function best when rules promote transparency,
and enforcement ensures integrity.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 