-- Weight-Loss Surgery Cuts Risk of Heart Death: Researchers
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-03T21:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/weight-loss-surgery-reduces-risk-of-heart-death-researchers-say.html
Weight-loss surgery prevents heart
attacks and strokes in formerly obese people and reduces the
risk of dying from cardiovascular complications, a study found.  Previous research had failed to prove that losing weight
with diet and exercise lowered heart risks. Today’s report, one
of the first to track the fate of patients who undergo surgery,
found that sustaining a lower body weight was more important
than the amount lost, the researchers said.  The study, reported in the Journal of the  American Medical
Association , didn’t find a higher benefit among those who lost
more, suggesting the current guidelines that use weight to
determine who is eligible for the operation may be misplaced.  “There are many benefits to bariatric surgery,” the
researchers, led by Lars Sjostrom, from the  University of
Gothenburg ’s Institutes of Medicine in  Sweden , wrote. “Some of
these benefits are independent of the degree of the surgically
induced weight loss.”  The research tracked 4,047 Swedish patients for about 15
years. An earlier analysis of the data found that bariatric
surgery improved quality of life and reduced the risk of
diabetes, cancer and overall mortality.  Twenty-eight of the 2,010 patients who underwent surgery
died from cardiovascular complications, compared with 49 of the
2,037 study participants who received standard medical care.
There were 199 heart attacks and strokes among the surgery
patients, compared with 234 in the other group.  Weight Differences  Those who underwent bariatric surgery lost about 23 percent
of their body weight within two years, and still weighed 18
percent less two decades later, according to the researchers.
The weight in the comparison group was stable throughout the
study.  The total difference in heart attacks, strokes and
cardiovascular death between the groups is small, wrote Edward Livingston, from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center’s division of gastrointestinal and endocrine surgery, in
an editorial. The expected benefits may not outweigh the risks
of surgery and obese people shouldn’t have bariatric surgery
unless they have other weight-related complications, he said.  The Swedish Medical Research Council and pharmaceutical
companies including  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , Sanofi,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) 
and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  helped fund the research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  