-- West Ham Ready to Sign Corluka From Tottenham, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-01-03T11:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/west-ham-ready-to-sign-corluka-from-spurs-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Corluka Move?  West Ham is preparing to sign Spurs defender Vedran Corluka
on loan for the remainder of the season,  the Sun said.   Corluka has played in three Premier League matches this
season as Kyle Walker has kept him out of the squad, the
newspaper said. The Croat, who was also linked with Roma, wants
to get playing time to gain a place in the national team for
this year’s European Championships, the Sun said.  Gunners’ Target?  Arsenal may sign Sunderland midfielder Kieran Richardson,
 the Daily Mirror said.   The 27-year-old, who started at West Ham, is looking to
move back to London and new Sunderland coach  Martin O’Neill 
wants funds to expand his squad, the newspaper said. Richardson
moved to Sunderland from  Manchester United  for 5.5 million
pounds ($8.6 million) in 2007.  Gunners’ manager Arsene Wenger likes the player and may try
to bring him to north  London , the newspaper said.  Pienaar’s Plan  Aston Villa  may sign  Steven Pienaar  from Tottenham after
the South African midfielder has struggled to get into the squad
in north London,  the Daily Mail said.   Pienaar moved to Spurs from Everton a year ago, but wants
to leave after not getting playing time, the newspaper said. The
29-year-old has been linked to a return to Everton and a move to
Sunderland, the Mail said.  Everton and Villa would like the player on loan, while
Sunderland may be willing to buy Pienaar, who’s valued at about
4 million pounds, the newspaper said.  Crosstown Move  Defender Alex may move to Queens Park Rangers after asking
to leave Chelsea,  the Mail said.   The 29-year-old may be allowed to leave for 2 million
pounds, and is also wanted by Santos and Juventus, the newspaper
said. He will start talks with the west London club today, the
Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 