-- Whitney Call Fades as Default Spike Unlikely
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-01-03T16:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/whitney-call-fades-as-default-spike-unlikely.html
Defaults in the $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market this year will again prove  Meredith Whitney  wrong, falling short of the “hundreds of billions of
dollars worth” the banking analyst predicted for 2011.  Debt on which payments are missed may rise as much as 15
percent to $2 billion in 2012, according to John Hallacy, a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch strategist, as a full recovery from the
longest recession since the 1930s eludes some states and cities.  “Given the remaining effects of the slowdown in the
economy, you could have a marginal increase in defaults,” said
Hallacy. “I don’t see it being a spike.”  Whitney, who gained prominence after predicting correctly
in 2007 that  Citigroup Inc. (C)  would  cut its dividend (C) , told the CBS
Corp. television program “60 Minutes” in December 2010 that
there may be 50 to 100 “sizeable”  defaults in 2011 .  The year was indeed marked by the largest municipal
bankruptcy filing in U.S. history. Jefferson County,  Alabama ,
sought court protection after struggling with $3.1 billion of
sewer-system debt. Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , also filed because
of burdensome incinerator bonds. A federal judge rejected the
move, ruling it wasn’t authorized.  Defaults involving missed payments totaled about $1.7
billion of face value in 2011 by Hallacy’s estimate. The total
was $2.6 billion according to Matt Fabian, a managing director
at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors,
excluding tax-exempt debt in AMR Corp.’s bankruptcy.  Wide Margin  “Meredith Whitney blew her call by a great margin, but
they still could go up,” said Richard Larkin, director of
credit analysis at Herbert J. Sims & Co. in Iselin,  New Jersey .  New York-based Whitney didn’t return a telephone call
seeking comment.  Absent widespread defaults, munis earned more than stocks,
Treasuries and commodities last year as state and local
governments cut spending and tax revenue rose for eight straight
quarters to Sept. 30, the longest string of gains since 2008,
the U.S. Census Bureau said Dec. 20.  Top-rated  10-year muni yields (BVMB10Y)  fell as low as 1.77 percent
Dec. 30, the least since data compiled by Bloomberg began in
January 2009. The market returned 10.7 percent through Dec. 30
while Treasuries earned 9.8 percent, according to Barclays
Capital indexes that track prices and interest income. The
Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  of stocks was unchanged in 2011 and
the S&P GSCI Spot Index of commodities rose 2.1 percent.  Even when adjusted for the risk of price volatility,
municipal bonds beat Treasuries, investment-grade corporate debt
and  junk bonds , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Continued Struggle  Some state and local borrowers will continue to struggle to
balance their books this year as the recovery sputters, Larkin
said. U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.8 percent annual
pace in the third quarter, the government said Dec. 22, less
than the 2 percent initially estimated.  California,  New York , Missouri and  Washington  have  midyear
budget  deficits, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures .  Detroit  may run out of cash by April and faces a
possible state takeover as Mayor Dave Bing and City Council
members disagree on how to close a $155 million deficit.  “We’re not out of the woods yet,” Larkin said. “Defaults
could go higher because the economy isn’t helping things.”  Larkin’s firm doesn’t expect defaults to exceed $20 billion
this year, with less than a fourth of that among state and local
governments. The rest will be in riskier special-purpose debt
such as revenue-backed industrial-development, housing, nursing-
home and airport bonds.  Vulnerable Issues  Investors still face vulnerability in lower-rated bonds and
from cities that haven’t dealt with revenue declines, said
 Richard Ciccarone , managing director with McDonnell Investment
Management in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois . He said about 2 percent of
the 700 cities he follows don’t have enough cash to cover 30
days of expenses.  “There’s a probability that marginal players will
default,” said Ciccarone. “I don’t think they’re going to
decrease.”  Richard Lehmann , publisher of Distressed Debt Securities
newsletter in Miami Lakes,  Florida , calculates 2011 defaults at
$24 billion worth of bonds, up from about $5 billion in 2010. He
includes missed payments and times when borrowers used reserves
to pay, plus tax-exempt airport-improvement debt tied to AMR’s
bankruptcy and muni bonds backed by tobacco-company revenue.  That measure of defaults may be at least as high or more in
2012, said Lehmann. He predicts half the $113.8 billion of
tobacco bonds outstanding may default if “they have to invade
debt reserves.”  Smaller Payments  The bonds are backed by payments from cigarette makers to
state and local governments to settle suits over smoking-related
health-care costs. Lehmann said the payments, linked to tobacco
consumption, have fallen as people quit smoking and cigarette
companies withheld money in challenges to the terms of the
settlements.  Ohio,  California  and Virginia had to make payments on
tobacco bonds from reserves in 2011, said Lehmann.  Other risks facing the municipal market this year are a
possible Detroit bankruptcy, a slowdown in  China , a collapse of
the European currency union and the looming expiration of U.S.
tax cuts, Fabian of Municipal Market Advisors said by e-mail.  “It’s a much-less-predictable year than ever,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  