-- Why We Are Uneasy About the Global Economy in 2012: Harold James
-- B y   H a r o l d   J a m e s
-- 2012-01-03T00:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/why-we-are-uneasy-about-global-economy-in-2012-commentary-by-harold-james.html
The New Year opens with greater
nervousness in financial markets and among policy makers than at
any time since the Great Depression.  The gloom is deeper even than in the aftermath of the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, a much
greater calamity than anything that actually happened in 2011
(as opposed to what people feared might happen). This dark
outlook stems from a state of mind we share with those who lived
through the Depression era: the conviction that available policy
tools are limited in their effectiveness.  The modern crisis has two parts: an inability to envisage
the long-term future; and a realization that, as a consequence,
there is no such thing as a safe or secure asset. This
combination makes for short-termism.  The difference between now and the Lehman episode is that
in 2008-2009, policy makers and average people still had faith
that magic policy bullets existed to address the crisis. In
particular, there was a broad consensus that contra-cyclical
fiscal and  monetary policy  could prevent a Great Depression.  Monetary policy did help stabilize expectations in 2009,
but the actions taken by the big industrial countries, in
particular the U.S., have been criticized in some  emerging
markets  -- notably Brazil and  Turkey  -- as a cause of inflation
and asset bubbles.  Stimulus Plans  In addition, the aftermath of the fiscal stimulus from the
first phase of the crisis has been disappointing. President
 Barack Obama ’s $747 billion package in 2009 was presented as a
necessary step to reduce unemployment below 9 percent. Judged by
that goal, it hasn’t been effective.  China ’s 4 trillion-yuan
($630 billion) stimulus kept growth going, but at the cost of an
asset and bank bubble that is now bursting.  European nations were urged by the European Union and by
other countries -- notably the U.S. -- to coordinate stimulus of
their own. But that only made many of them vulnerable when the
sustainability of sovereign debt was reassessed. After a
succession of failed summit meetings that merely exacerbated
tensions, the  European Central Bank  gave a new infusion of
credit to banks, allowing them to buy short-term government
paper, but that hasn’t stabilized expectations, either.  Policy makers face three quandaries in their efforts to
pursue short-term recovery and long-term stability; each has an
analogy from the Great Depression.  First, monetary policy is constrained in many countries by
 exchange-rate  choices. By adopting a currency, the euro-area
members threw away the exchange rate as a tool of policy by
adopting a single currency, in the same way as did countries
returning to the ties of the gold standard in the 1920s. Yet
ending that commitment would lead to a revaluation of
liabilities and would increase debt burdens that are already
regarded as intolerable.  So both keeping to the commitment mechanism and exiting the
currency are unbearably painful choices.  Second, just as in the 1930s, policy makers don’t know how
to handle the fiscal issues posed by the financial crisis.
Doubts about the sustainability of government debt produce
sudden surges in  interest rates , as  risk premiums (VIX)  rise
dramatically with perceptions that default is likely. Such
increases occur not in a linear way, but with great suddenness.  For countries on the brink, a perverse logic follows.
Government-debt service had, in general, become easier because
of the low-interest-rate environment. But hints of new fiscal
imprudence or of abandoning plans for long-term debt
consolidation and reduction would drive up borrowing costs.  Domino Effect  In those circumstances, the additional costs of debt
service easily exceed any gains that might come from some
measure of fiscal relaxation. So a policy of Keynesian stimulus
that might make sense in the short term may produce long-run
instability. The debate about  Greece , for example, is intense
not because of that country’s weight in the international
economy, but because of concerns that its troubles could presage
what will happen in  Italy , which, in turn, may be a harbinger of
developments in  France .  Third, as in some countries during the Depression era, the
ineffectiveness of policy is magnified by the consequences of
banking instability and crisis. It is the interplay between
sovereign-debt issues and financial-sector weakness that makes
the new uncertainty about country debt so toxic. In the summer
of 1931, a series of bank panics emanated from  Central Europe 
and spread financial contagion to the U.K., then to the U.S. and
France, and then to the whole world. This financial turmoil was
decisive in turning a bad recession (from which the U.S. was
already recovering in the spring of 1931) into the Great
Depression.  But finding a way out of that spiral was very tough in the
1930s and is just as difficult now. There are no obvious macro-
economic responses to financial distress. The answers, if they
exist, lie in the slow and painful cleansing of balance sheets,
and in designing an incentive system that compels banks to
operate less dangerously and to take fewer risks. But cleaning
up banks immediately makes them likely to reduce lending, and
thus exacerbate the downturn.  The only area in which we are still sure we can draw
applicable lessons from the Great Depression is trade policy. In
the early 1930s, cascading trade-protection measures were used
to combat monetary deflation.  What political process produced that reaction? The trade
quotas and tariff restrictions came about as a result of log-
rolling in Congress, as well as from a general demand for
political action. A contemporary analysis of the process, by the
political scientist E.E. Schattschneider, inspired measures that
transferred responsibility for trade policy from the  U.S.
Congress  to the president.  Fiscal Council  The modern equivalent of those lessons from trade policy
would be to think about mechanisms to bring about the long-term
improvement of fiscal policy making. In particular, it would be
helpful to devise a system to identify potential risks to fiscal
stability (such as those implied by an overextended banking and
financial system). An example of such action would be the
creation in the U.S. and elsewhere of an independent fiscal
council similar to the one established by  Sweden  after its own
experience of severe crises in the 1990s.  Moreover, there is a need to limit legislative pressure --
log-rolling -- for additional spending on locally important, but
generally dysfunctional, projects. This would be a good first
step toward narrowing the deficit and restoring confidence.  The constructive (and relatively quick) response to the
Great Depression in trade policy didn’t pay off immediately. But
in the long run it produced a much better policy environment.  This is the moment for European nations and the U.S. to
make an analogous move to reform and rationalize the political
processes that produce fiscal policy. That also is the task they
are finding so difficult.  (Harold James, professor of history and international
affairs at  Princeton University , is the author, most recently,
of “The Creation and Destruction of Value: The Globalization
Cycle.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Harold James at  hjames@princeton.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  