-- William Carey, Investor Who Backed U.S. Business Schools, Dies at Age 81
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-01-03T18:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/william-carey-investor-who-backed-u-s-business-schools-dies-at-age-81.html
William Polk Carey, who made a
fortune in real-estate finance and donated tens of millions of
dollars to improve U.S. business schools, has died. He was 81.  He died yesterday at Good Samaritan Medical Center in  West
Palm Beach ,  Florida , his firm, W.P. Carey & Co., said in a
statement. The cause was complications following a heart attack,
according to Cheryl Perry, a spokeswoman for the company. A
resident of  New York City , he was in Florida for the holidays.  The firm founded by Carey in 1973 provides sale-leaseback
and other forms of real-estate financing and manages a global
investment portfolio of about $11.8 billion, according to its
website. Based in New York, it owns almost 1,000 commercial and
industrial properties in North America,  Europe  and  Asia ,
totaling about 120 million square feet, including part of the
New York Times Building in  Manhattan .  “Bill was unwavering in his devotion to our shareholders,
and he was especially proud that we have been able to provide
increasing income to them, while providing our tenant companies
with the capital that allowed them to grow their business and
prosper,” Chief Executive Officer Trevor P. Bond said in the
statement.  In 1988, Carey established the  W.P. Carey (WPC)  Foundation as the
vehicle for his philanthropy. Its major gifts include $50
million in 2002 to Arizona State University, which renamed its
business school the W.P. Carey School of Business; $50 million
in 2006 to Johns Hopkins University to create the Carey School
of Business; and, last April, $30 million to the University of
 Maryland  School of Law in Baltimore, which he hoped would lead
to a joint law-business degree offered by Maryland and Johns
Hopkins.  Descendent of President  Carey, a descendent of U.S. President James K. Polk, never
married and said he wanted to give away most of his fortune.  “I don’t believe in having my family be rich,” he  told 
the  New York  Times in April. “They don’t need a lot of fancy
cars to drive around. My goal is to make the foundation a
billion, and then after it’s a billion, I might be old enough to
think about passing on.”  The foundation reported about $25 million in assets at the
end of 2010. Its trustees said yesterday that Carey had made the
foundation the primary beneficiary of his shares in W.P. Carey.  Carey was born on May 11, 1930, in Baltimore, where his
grandmother, Anne Galbraith Carey, had founded the Gilman
School, the nation’s first country day school, in 1897.  As a student at  Princeton University , he earned money
selling secondhand refrigerators to classmates, according to a
company  biography . (Carey told the Times that he “cut too many
classes, too many chapels” at Princeton and “resigned before
someone could ask me to leave.”) He earned a bachelor’s degree
in economics in 1953 from the Wharton School of Finance and
Commerce at the  University of Pennsylvania .  Auto Business  After serving two years in the U.S. Air Force, he joined
his stepfather’s auto dealership in  New Jersey , where he learned
about lease financing. At 28, he became owner of International
Leasing Corp. in Plainfield, New Jersey, a leading dealer of
Peugeots and other foreign cars.  After International Leasing was merged in 1964 into
Hubbard, Westervelt Mottelay Inc. -- which would be bought in
1968 by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. -- Carey led
the executive committee. He was head of real estate and
equipment financing at Loeb, Rhodes & Co. and director of
corporate finance at DuPont, Glore Forgan Inc.  In 1973, he formed W.P. Carey with his brother, Francis J.
Carey, and brother-in-law, Raymond S. Clark. His brother
survives him, as do numerous nieces and nephews, according to
his firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  