-- WJB Capital Closes Brokerage, Is Sued in New York State for Alleged Fraud
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-03T20:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/wjb-capital-group-sued-for-alleged-fraud.html
WJB Capital Group Inc. (0115414D) , the Wall
Street firm that said it shut down its brokerage operations, was
sued in  New York  over an alleged fraud.  WJB Capital and its chief executive officer, Craig Rothfeld, were accused of fraud and breach of contract by an
individual who said he made a $250,000 investment in the
company, according to a complaint filed Dec. 31 in New York
State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  The plaintiff, James McNally, said in his complaint that he
was promised “compensation for the duration of the
investment.” WJB Capital failed to pay and used the money “for
fraudulent purposes,” according to the complaint.  Rothfeld said in a phone interview that McNally provided an
eight-year, $250,000 loan to the firm, not an equity investment,
and received monthly interest.  “We deny the allegations,” Rothfeld said about McNally’s
complaint. “They are baseless and without merit.”  An attorney for McNally didn’t reply to a message seeking
comment.  WJB Capital  voluntarily ceased broker-dealer operations
today, Rothfeld said. The company was “unable to raise capital
in a manner that would have allowed the firm to continue its
operations given the current climate and the constraints that
would have been placed on everyone,” the CEO said  ‘Difficult Environment’  “Everybody knows  Wall Street  is a difficult environment,”
Rothfeld said.  Mark Skolnick, a lawyer at Platzer, Swergold, Karlin,
Levine, Goldberg & Jaslow LLP and WJB Capital’s general counsel,
said the company has some non-brokerage operations and is
exploring “other possibilities.”  WJB Capital, founded in 1993 with two agency brokers on the
floor of the New York Stock Exchange, has offices in five cities
across the U.S. and operates live trading desks for all the
nation’s major equities and options exchanges, according to its
website. The New York-based company expanded from 10 employees
to more than 100 in the past 10 years, the website says.  The case is McNally v. WJB Capital Group Inc., 650005-2012,
New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  