-- WJB Capital Faced 25% Interest on Some Debts Ahead of Brokerage Shutdown
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-01-04T14:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/wjb-capital-halts-brokerage-operations.html
WJB Capital Group Inc.  shut its
brokerage operations after a year in which the Wall Street firm
faced slower trading, a shortage of capital and interest rates
of 25 percent on some debts.  The company, which told its 100 employees about the closing
yesterday, had $8.17 million of subordinated debt, including
$1.35 million due last month, according to a 2010 annual report
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. New York-based
WJB Capital also owed $3.5 million it borrowed from executives
at interest rates of 10 percent to 15 percent, the filing shows.  The shutdown follows the collapse of MF Global Holdings
Ltd., which filed for bankruptcy Oct. 31 after a $6.3 billion
bet on the bonds of some of  Europe ’s most-indebted nations.
Smaller broker-dealers may struggle amid a decrease in equity
trading and face higher operating expenses tied to provisions of
the Dodd-Frank Act, said James Angel, a finance professor at
 Georgetown University ’s McDonough School of Business.  “There are all of those costs that are ratcheting up in a
business that is ratcheting down,” Angel said in a telephone
interview. “The regulatory environment in the Dodd-Frank world
is making things even harder, especially for smaller firms.”  WJB Capital reported net income of about $221,000 in 2010
on revenue of $45.9 million, according to the annual report.
Average daily equity-trading on major U.S. exchanges was about
7.8 billion shares in 2011, a 20 percent drop from 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Conference Call  WJB Capital called its employees into a meeting in  New York 
yesterday, with branch staff listening via a conference call, to
notify them about the shutdown, said Mark Skolnick, general
counsel for the company at law firm Platzer Swergold Karlin
Levine Goldberg & Jaslow LLP. Closely held WJB Capital has non-
brokerage operations and is exploring “other possibilities,”
he said.  The company was “unable to raise capital in a manner that
would have allowed the firm to continue its operations given the
current climate and the constraints that would have been placed
on everyone,” Chief Executive Officer Craig A. Rothfeld said in
a telephone interview. The shutdown was voluntary, he said.  Rothfeld didn’t return subsequent telephone and e-mail
messages left after regular business hours yesterday seeking
comment on the company’s debts and whether any of it had been
repaid in 2011.  Stockholder Loans  WJB Capital loaned $1.92 million to three unidentified
stockholders at a rate of 4.5 percent in January 2006, according
to the annual report filed with the SEC on June 17. In January
2009, the loan maturity dates were extended to January 2014, and
the annual interest rate was reduced to 1.5 percent. About $1.85
million was outstanding as of Dec. 31, 2010, the report shows.  The firm also had loans outstanding to 14 employees
totaling $4.81 million as of that date, with  interest rates  as
low as 0.5 percent, according to the annual report.  WJB Capital simultaneously was borrowing a combined $3.5
million from two stockholders, Rothfeld and co-founder Michael N. Romano, at interest rates of 10 percent to 15 percent. The
loans to Rothfeld and Romano are subordinated, according to the
report, which adds, “to the extent that such borrowings are
required for the company’s continued compliance with minimum net
 capital requirements , they may not be repaid.”  The company also owed $750,000 due Dec. 30, 2011 carrying a
25 percent interest rate. The lender’s identity wasn’t listed.  The accounting firm Marks Paneth & Shron LLP audited the
2010 financial statements, according to the annual report. A
message left with an assistant for Mark Levenfus, the accounting
firm’s New York-based managing partner, wasn’t returned.  ‘High-Quality Talent’  WJB Capital announced new hires as recently as last month
when the firm said it added four equity analysts, including
Bryan Maher and John Newman from Citadel Securities LLC,
according to a Dec. 8 statement.  “Fortunately and unfortunately, 2011 is providing growing
entrepreneurial firms like ours the opportunity to add more
high-quality talent,” Rothfeld said in the statement.  MF Global’s collapse has increased scrutiny of broker-
dealers of all sizes, said  Mark Williams , a lecturer at Boston
University’s School of Management. He cited Jefferies Group
Inc., the New York-based investment bank that slid 48 percent in
2011 and sought to reassure investors that it doesn’t face the
risks that destroyed MF Global.  “If the market’s looking up the pyramid, questioning
whether they can survive, then why wouldn’t the market also look
down and look at smaller shops like WJB,” Williams said.  No Bankruptcy Plans  WJB Capital doesn’t hold client funds or assets, “so
there’s no impact on customers,” said Michelle Ong, a
spokeswoman for the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. She
declined to elaborate on reasons for the shutdown.  The firm has “no plans” to file for bankruptcy, said
Skolnick, who declined to comment on whether the company plans
to pay severance.  WJB Capital and Rothfeld were accused of fraud and breach
of contract by an individual who said he made a $250,000
investment in the company, according to a complaint filed Dec.
31 in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  The plaintiff, James McNally, said in his complaint that he
was promised “compensation for the duration of the
investment.” WJB Capital failed to pay and used the money “for
fraudulent purposes,” according to the complaint. Rothfeld said
in an interview that McNally provided an eight-year, $250,000
loan to the firm, not an equity investment, and received monthly
interest.  “We deny the allegations,” Rothfeld said about McNally’s
complaint. “They are baseless and without merit.”  WJB History  WJB Capital, founded in 1993 with two agency brokers on the
floor of the New York Stock Exchange, had offices in five U.S.
cities and ran live trading desks for all the nation’s major
equities and options exchanges, according to its website.  The firm grew from 10 employees to more than 100 in the
past decade. Public brokerage records on Finra’s website list
nine owners and executive officers, including Rothfeld, Romano
and co-founder William J. Bonfanti.  Eric Ryan , a NYSE Euronext
spokesman, declined to comment.  “Trading volumes are significantly down from the prior
year, and the trend going into this year is also pointed
downward,” said  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill
& Partners LP, the New York investment bank that specializes in
financial firms. “For any broker, the current environment poses
headwinds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  