-- World Food Prices Will Probably Decline This Year, UN Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-03T17:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/world-food-prices-will-probably-decline-this-year-un-says-1-.html
World food prices will probably fall
this year, said Jose Graziano  da Silva , the new director general
of the  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization .  “We’re expecting that prices will not be growing,” da
Silva, 62, said at a press conference in  Rome  today. “There
will be some reductions. Volatility will remain.”  Declines probably will be smaller than in 2009, according
to the director general. As of February of that year, an  index  (FAOFOODI) 
of world food prices compiled by the FAO had slumped 37 percent
in 14 months. The gauge dropped 9.5 percent through last
November from a record high in February 2011 as dairy, grain and
sugar prices retreated.  Da Silva, a former Brazilian minister of  food security ,
took over at the FAO as of Jan. 1 following his election in
June. He succeeded Senegal-born Jacques Diouf, who spent 18
years at the head of the  biggest UN agency .  The FAO, whose Latin motto “Fiat panis” means “Let there
be bread,” was set up in 1945 as a specialized UN agency. Its
mandate includes raising nutrition levels and agricultural
productivity, and da Silva said he’s “optimistic” the FAO can
make progress in reducing hunger.  Hungry Children  “It’s cheaper to eradicate hunger than to live with
illness and child mortality, and children who go to school and
don’t learn because they’re hungry,” da Silva said. “All of
this, once added up, has a much higher cost.”  The director general headed the “Zero Hunger” plan
started in 2003 by  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , Brazil’s president
at the time. The FAO awarded Lula the 2011 World Food Prize for
the initiative, which reduced hunger in  Brazil  by half and cut
the portion of people living in extreme poverty to 4.8 percent
in 2009 from 12 percent in 2003, according to the UN agency.  “The starting point is to recognize that one size does not
fit all,” da Silva said. “It’s very important for each country
to find the way out of poverty based on their own experience.
There is no general formula. There is no silver bullet to cure
hunger.”  His experience with “Zero Hunger” shows government action
alone is insufficient to fight a lack of food, the director
general said. Civil society and the private sector should also
be involved, he said.  The number of people facing hunger worldwide declined to
925 million in 2010 from more than 1 billion in 2009, according
to the FAO’s most recent estimate.  “I don’t expect a dramatic increase in world hunger” this
year,  da Silva  said. “What we have is dramatic enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  