-- World’s Biggest Economies Face $7.6 Trillion Bond Tab as Rally Seen Fading
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-01-03T16:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-03/world-s-biggest-economies-face-7-6-trillion-bond-tab-as-rally-seen-fading.html
Governments of the world’s leading
economies have more than $7.6 trillion of debt maturing this
year, with most facing a rise in borrowing costs.  Led by  Japan ’s $3 trillion and the U.S.’s $2.8 trillion,
the amount coming due for the Group of Seven nations and Brazil,
 Russia ,  India  and China is up from $7.4 trillion at this time
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ten-year
bond yields will be higher by year-end for at least seven of the
countries, forecasts show.  Investors may demand higher compensation to lend to
countries that struggle to finance increasing debt burdens as
the global economy slows, surveys show. The  International
Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for growth this year to 4 percent
from a prior estimate of 4.5 percent as Europe’s debt crisis
spreads, the U.S. struggles to reduce a budget deficit exceeding
$1 trillion and China’s property market cools.  “The weight of supply may be a concern,”  Stuart Thomson ,
a money manager in Glasgow at Ignis Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees $121 billion, said in a Dec. 28 telephone interview.
“Rather than the start of the year being the problem, it’s the
middle part of the year that becomes the problem. That’s when we
see the slowdown in the global economy having its biggest
impact.”  Competition for Buyers  The amount needing to be refinanced rises to more than $8
trillion when interest payments are included. Coming after a
year in which  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s rating to AA+
from AAA and put 15 European nations on notice for possible
downgrades, the competition to find buyers is heating up.  “It is a big number and obviously because many governments
are still in a deficit situation the debt continues to
accumulate and that’s one of the biggest problems,” Elwin de Groot, an economist at  Rabobank Nederland  in Utrecht,
Netherlands, part of the world’s biggest agricultural lender,
said in an interview on Dec. 27.  While most of the world’s biggest debtors had little
trouble financing their debt load in 2011, with Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Sovereign Broad Market Plus Index gaining
6.1 percent, the most since 2008, that may change.  Italy  auctioned 7 billion euros ($9.14 billion) of debt on
Dec. 29, less than the 8.5 billion euros targeted. With an
economy sinking into its fourth recession since 2001, Prime
Minister Mario Monti’s government must refinance about $428
billion of securities coming due this year, the third-most, with
another $70 billion in interest payments, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Rising Costs  Borrowing costs for G-7 nations will rise as much as 39
percent from 2011, based on forecasts of 10-year government bond
yields by economists and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg in
separate surveys.  China ’s 10-year yields may remain little
changed, while India’s are projected to fall to 8.02 percent
from 8.36 percent. The survey doesn’t include estimates for
Russia and Brazil.  After Italy,  France  has the most amount of debt coming due,
at $367 billion, followed by  Germany  at $285 billion.  Canada  has
$221 billion, while Brazil has $169 billion, the U.K. has $165
billion,  China (PRCH)  has $121 billion and India $57 billion. Russia
has the least maturing, or $13 billion.  Rising borrowing costs forced  Greece , Portugal and Ireland
to seek bailouts from the European Union and IMF. Italy’s 10-
year yields exceeded 7 percent last month, a level that preceded
the request for aid from those three nations.  Bad Combination  “The buyer base for peripheral  Europe  has obviously shrunk
at the same time that the supply coming to the market is
increasing, which is not a good combination,” said Michael Riddell, a London-based fund manager at M&G Investments, which
oversees about $323 billion.  The two biggest debtors, Japan and the U.S., have shown
little trouble attracting demand.  Japan benefits by having a surplus in its current account,
which is the broadest measure of trade and means that the nation
doesn’t need to rely on foreign investors to finance its budget
deficits. The U.S. benefits from the dollar’s role as the
world’s primary reserve currency.  Japan’s 10-year bond yields, at less than 1 percent, are
the second-lowest in the world, after Switzerland, even though
its debt is about twice the size of its economy.  The U.S. attracted $3.04 for each dollar of the $2.135
trillion in notes and bonds sold last year, the most since the
government began releasing the data in 1992. The U.S. drew an
all-time high bid-to-cover ratio of 9.07 for $30 billion of
four-week bills it auctioned on Dec. 20 even though they pay
zero percent interest.  Tougher Year  With yields on 10-year  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  below 2 percent, an
increasing number of investors see little chance for U.S. bonds
to repeat last year’s gains of 9.79 percent. The U.S pays an
average interest rate of about 2.18 percent on its outstanding
debt, down from 2.51 percent in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Given how well they have done, we don’t think they’re any
longer a very good hedge,” Eric Pellicciaro, head of global
rates investment at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which manages
$1.14 trillion in fixed-income assets, said in a Dec. 16
telephone interview.  The median estimate of 70 economists and strategists is for
Treasury 10-year note yields to rise to 2.60 percent by year-end
from 1.95 percent at 11:27 a.m. New York time. In Japan, the
forecast for the nation’s benchmark note yield is 1.35 percent,
while it’s expected to rise to 2.50 percent in Germany, from
1.90 percent today.  Central Banks  Central banks are bolstering demand by either keeping
interest rates at record lows or reducing them, and by
purchasing bonds in a policy know as quantitative easing.  The  Federal Reserve  has said it will keep its target rate
for overnight loans between banks between zero and 0.25 percent
through mid-2013, and is now selling $400 billion of its short-
term Treasuries and reinvesting the proceeds into longer-term
government debt in a program traders dubbed Operation Twist.  The Bank of Japan has kept its key rate at or below 0.5
percent since 1995, and expanded the asset-purchase program last
year to 20 trillion yen ($260 billion). The  Bank of England  kept
its main rate at a record low 0.5 percent last month, and left
its asset-buying target at 275 billion pounds ($431 billion).  The  European Central Bank  reduced its main refinancing rate
twice last quarter, to 1 percent from 1.5 percent. It followed
those moves by allotting 489 billion euros of three-year loans
to euro-region lenders. That exceeded the median estimate of 293
billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
central bank will offer a second three-year loan on Feb. 28.  ‘Flush With Liquidity’  The money from the ECB may be used by banks to buy
 government bonds , according to Fabrizio Fiorini, the chief
investment officer at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan.  “The market is now flush with liquidity after measures
taken by central banks, particularly the ECB, and that’s great
news for risky assets,” Fiorini said in a telephone interview
on Dec. 20. “The market will have no problem taking down supply
from countries like Spain and Italy in the first quarter. In
fact, they should be able to raise money at lower borrowing
costs than what we saw in recent months.”  Italy’s sale last week included 2.5 billion euros of 5
percent bonds due in March 2022, which yielded 6.98 percent.
That was down from 7.56 percent at an auction Nov. 29. It sold 9
billion euros of bills on Dec. 28 at a rate of 3.251 percent,
compared with 6.504 percent at the previous auction on Nov. 25.  ‘Phony War’  Investors should be most worried about the period after the
ECB’s second three-year longer-term refinancing operation
scheduled in February, according to Ignis’s Thomson.  “The amount of liquidity that has been supplied by central
banks, with more to come from the ECB in February, suggests the
first couple of months will be a sort of phony war as far as the
supply is concerned,” Thomson said.  The ECB has bought about 212 billion euros of government
bonds since starting a program in May 2010 to contain borrowing
costs for Greece, Portugal and Ireland. It began buying Spanish
and Italian debt in August, according to people familiar with
the trades, who declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly about the transactions.  “There’s a lot of talk that the ECB might have to give
more direct support to the governments,”  Frances Hudson , who
helps manage about $242 billion as a global strategist at
Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh, said in a Dec. 22
telephone interview.  Following is a table of bond and bill redemptions and
interest payments in 2012 for the Group of Seven countries,
 Brazil , China, India and Russia, in dollars, using data
calculated by Bloomberg as of Dec. 29:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  