-- ‘A Time to Kill’ Brings Grisham Tale to Broadway: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-10-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/-a-time-to-kill-brings-grisham-tale-to-broadway-review.html
 A thriller of the sort rarely seen
on Broadway these days, John Grisham’s “ A Time to Kill ” brings
a satisfying, if unsettling, courtroom drama to the Golden
Theatre with an engaging cast playing juicy dramatic characters
in a lurid tale spiked with a mild frisson of sex.  Set in  Mississippi  in the early 1980s, this is the story of
a black father who has killed the two white men accused of
brutally raping his 10-year-old daughter.  His defense is handled by scrappy white local lawyer, up
against a state prosecutor angling to make the case his ticket
to the governor’s mansion.  Assisting the lawyer are his booze-addled mentor and --
here’s the sex angle -- a smart, attractive female law student
who seems indifferent to the fact that he’s married.  The 1996  film  starred  Matthew McConaughey ; doing the honors
in Rupert Holmes’s stage version is Sebastian Arcelus, who plays
the besotted newspaper editor Lucas Goodwin in “ House of
Cards ” on Netflix. He’s a bantamweight actor given ballast by
the deeply felt performance as his client of John Douglas
Thompson, who recently made an outstanding Othello off-Broadway,
which should give you some idea of his latitude as an actor.  They’re supported by several veterans: Fred Dalton Thompson
as the judge; Patrick Page (yes, the amiable villain Green
Goblin, from “Spider-Man, Turn Off the Dark”) as the
prosecutor and Tom Skerritt as the mentor. Ashley Williams is
the sharp-witted law student. Tonya Pinkins (“Caroline, or
Change”) is the defendant’s wife.  Thin Roles  They’re all appealing, in comic-strip-thin roles. Holmes
(“The Mystery of Edwin Drood”) has streamlined the narrative
almost to the point of flash cards.  Ethan McSweeny’s staging, in contrast, is oddly stilted,
with drawn-out scene changes (the sets are by James Noone) and
portentous music (by Lindsay Jones) that drag the story-telling
for no apparent reason.  Still, the twists and surprises of Grisham’s efficient
revenge-tragedy come through and the actors are good company for
a couple of hours; I never was bored.  At the Golden Theatre, 252 W. 45th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Joe Mysak  on
 books .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 