-- A Republican Senator Doubts His Party Can Govern
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-10-21T21:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/a-republican-senator-doubts-his-party-can-govern.html
It’s the day after Congress voted to
fully reopen the federal government and raise the debt ceiling.
The senator I’m meeting, who would fall roughly in the middle of
the Senate’s Republicans if they were lined up by ideology,
voted with the majority. “I’m being shredded by the Tea Party
radio people today,” he says, although he doesn’t seem
concerned about it. “That is what it is.”  His bigger concern: He doesn’t think that his party is
ready to govern the country.  The Republicans who were in the public eye during the
shutdown have generally been either the party’s top
congressional leaders or its most vocal hard-liners. Most
Republicans in Congress don’t fall into either category. This
senator -- who requested anonymity so he could describe the
party’s problems candidly -- is part of that less-high-profile
contingent. My impression is that his views are widely shared
within it.  He never thought that Republicans should demand that
Congress defund President  Barack Obama ’s health-care plan as the
price of keeping the government open or raising the debt
ceiling. When Tip O’Neill was speaker of the House, the senator
observes, Democrats could have tried to use the same tactics to
force President Ronald Reagan to repeal the tax reform he had
signed or, for that matter, the postwar law that allowed “right
to work” states. They would have lost, too. “You don’t have to
be a defeatist to be able to count.”  When your party doesn’t hold the White House, he says,
“You should do your best to find fights you can win.” And when
you have to fight losing battles, make sure that your allies
know that’s what you’re doing. A lot of conservatives, he
thinks, were misled about what a partial government shutdown
could achieve.  Some conservative groups, he says, also took a novel
approach in demanding that elected officials share not only
their policy goals but also their tactics, and treating
disagreement over tactics as a betrayal of principle. Their
efforts sometimes produced amusing results. The senator’s office
got phone calls urging him to vote against “keister” and
“cluster” rather than cloture, for instance, and to “stand
with Tom Cruise,” presumably meaning Senator Ted Cruz.  The dysfunction of the last few weeks won’t seriously hurt
the Republicans’ chances of taking the Senate next year, in his
judgment. But it certainly won’t help. He notes that three
Senate candidates -- Tom Cotton of  Arkansas , Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia and Steve Daines of  Montana  -- were
among the 87 House Republicans who voted to reopen the
government. He thinks that all three still have a good shot at
winning in 2014, but not quite as good as they did before the
shutdown.  He also expresses a deeper anxiety. At a Senate Republican
lunch the day of the vote, someone mentioned that the party
wasn’t ready to run the Senate: If Republicans had held a
majority in both the House and the Senate, they wouldn’t have
been able to pass anything in either chamber. The senator thinks
such a turn of events would have been “incredibly damaging.”  He heard a similar sentiment from the other chamber of
Congress: House Republicans from his state have told him how
much happier some of their colleagues would be if they were in
the minority and could just lob spitballs at the Democrats. “We
have to really think how we become the governing party,” he
says.  By contrast, he says, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell originally had “a realistic strategy” on the budget,
one that accurately gauged how much Republicans could achieve.
“It was not a go-to-the-moon strategy, but we don’t have enough
fuel to get to the moon.”  The questions that his colleagues need to ask themselves,
the senator says, are “What have we learned?” and “How do we
not repeat this?” Most Republican senators, it seems to me,
emerged from the shutdown fight with the same views they had
going in. Those who thought it was a mistake found confirmation
of their views in the party’s  sagging poll numbers  and lack of
accomplishments; those who favored it thought it could have
worked if the skeptics hadn’t sabotaged it.  Republicans might still take the Senate next year. They are
lucky that control depends on state-by-state contests, and not
on voters’ weighing whether they think the party should run the
Senate -- or has the capacity to do it.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor
at National Review.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 