-- Abe Security Panel Calls for Review of Japan Arms Exports Curbs
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-10-21T13:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/abe-security-panel-calls-for-review-of-japan-arms-exports-curbs.html
An advisory panel to Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe called for a review of Japan’s self-imposed curbs on
arms exports and said the country’s defense industry should
become more competitive.  Japan should take a more active role in global security,
the panel of academics said in a draft of the country’s first
ever national security strategy released today. The draft
referred to the rising influence of  China  in the region and
provocations by  North Korea , as well as growing marine and cyber
space threats.  The report comes 10 months after Abe swept to power vowing
to protect Japan’s territory amid a dispute with China over
uninhabited islands in the  East China Sea . He increased Japan’s
defense budget for the first time in 11 years and is seeking to
pass legislation this year to establish a National Security
Council, in a bid to bring security policy more firmly under
political control.  “We will contribute more than in the past to world peace,
stability and prosperity,” the panel, led by Shinichi Kitaoka,
president of the International University of Japan, said in a
copy of its report distributed to media.  Japan loosened a four-decade effective ban on arms exports
in 2011 and Kyodo News reported earlier this month that the
government would allow the export of engine parts by  Kawasaki
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7012)  for use by the British navy. Current
restrictions  forbid arms exports  to communist countries,
countries subject to a United Nations arms embargo and countries
involved in or likely to be involved in international conflict.  The panel’s report is set to be debated by Abe’s ruling
 Liberal Democratic Party  and its Buddhist-backed coalition
partner New Komeito, as well as related ministries. Abe intends
to have a finalized strategy approved by cabinet in early
December, Kyodo reported last weekend.  The new strategy, meant to cover the next 10 years, will
form the basis for the National Defense Program Guidelines,
which are set to be revised by the end of the year and on which
 Japan ’s military spending and equipment plans will be based.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  