-- Abe Will Decide for Himself on Yasukuni Visit, Suga Says
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-10-21T08:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/abe-will-decide-for-himself-on-yasukuni-shrine-visit-suga-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
will make his own decision on visiting the Yasukuni Shrine,
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said, after an aide to
the premier indicated he may go before the end of the year.  “As I have said many times, the prime minister feels deep
regret that he was not able to pay his respects during his first
term in office,” Suga told reporters in  Tokyo  today. “In any
case, the prime minister will make the decision himself from a
broad perspective” on whether to visit, he said.  Trips by Japanese leaders to the shrine, which honors the
country’s war dead including World War II leaders convicted as
Class A war criminals, spark anger in parts of  Asia  that
suffered under Japanese occupation. Abe has not visited Yasukuni
publicly since his election win in December, amid a territorial
dispute with  China  that has prevented the two countries from
holding a summit for almost 18 months.  Ruling Liberal Democratic Party lawmaker Koichi Hagiuda
said he thought Abe would visit the shrine during his first year
as leader. “I believe that he will definitely visit at some
point,” Hagiuda said yesterday on Fuji Television.  Abe opted against a visit during the autumn festival which
ended yesterday, sending a traditional “masakaki” offering,
according to an official in the shrine’s public relations
department who asked not to be named because of policy. Two
members of the cabinet, Internal Affairs Minister Yoshitaka Shindo and National Public Safety Commission chairman Keiji Furuya, made the pilgrimage and about 160 lawmakers paid their
respects as a group, Kyodo News reported.  China Protest  The Chinese government summoned  Japan ’s ambassador last
week to lodge a protest. “If Japan stayed hell-bent on
militarism, then there will be no future for its relationship
with its Asian neighbors,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters in Beijing today.  “We hope that Japan will honor its commitment and
statement on historical issues and take concrete actions to win
the trust of its Asian neighbors and the international
community,” Hua said.  Kyodo reported on Oct. 19 that Abe said he regretted not
going to Yasukuni during his first term as premier, citing
comments made to reporters. Nobuo Kishi, Abe’s younger brother
and a vice foreign minister, went to the shrine on Oct. 19,
Kyodo reported.  Tensions between the two nations have remained high since
Japan purchased three disputed islands in the  East China Sea  in
September 2012. Since then Chinese patrol boats have regularly
plied the waters near the islands, known as Senkaku in Japan and
Diaoyu in China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  