-- Actelion Rises After Winning Approval of Lung Medicine
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-10-21T15:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/actelion-rises-after-winning-approval-of-lung-medicine.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  rose the most in more
than 17 months after winning U.S. approval for the lung drug
Opsumit, giving the Swiss company a successor to a best-selling
medicine that loses patent protection in late 2015.  Opsumit, also known as macitentan, won approval from the
 Food and Drug Administration  as a once-daily pill for the
treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, the agency said
Oct. 18 in a statement. The agency didn’t require a “black-box
warning” that the drug may cause liver damage.  “The absence of a black box warning on Opsumit’s label for
liver toxicity and no mandated liver function tests should drive
the shares to outperform today,” Peter Welford, an analyst at
Jefferies International Ltd., wrote in a report.  The approval may revive interest in Actelion as a takeover
target,  Andrew Weiss , an analyst at Bank Vontobel AG, said in a
report today. Actelion Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel
bet the future of the company he co-founded on Opsumit,
including fighting off a hedge fund that sought seats on the
board and wanted the company to consider selling itself in 2011.  Actelion rose 5.9 percent to close at 68.40 Swiss francs at
5:30 p.m. in Zurich, the biggest advance since April 30, 2012.
Actelion returned 51 percent this year through Oct. 18,  compared
with  a 20 percent return for the Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical
Index.  Sales of the drug will reach about 996 million francs ($1.1
billion) in 2017, according to the average of six analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Opsumit Availability  The company’s current top seller, Tracleer, had sales of
1.5 billion francs last year, accounting for 87 percent of
revenue. The drug has been losing market share to  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s Letairis, after the FDA allowed the  Foster City ,
California-based company to remove a reference to the risk of
liver damage from the drug’s label in 2011.  Similar to other members of its class, Opsumit will carry a
warning that it shouldn’t be used by people who are pregnant,
the FDA said.  Physicians are advised to measure signs of liver damage
prior to initiation of Opsumit and repeat during treatment as
clinically indicated, Actelion said in a statement. Opsumit will
be available to U.S. patients next month, the company said.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  sells Letairis outside the U.S. under
the brand name Volibris. Tracleer’s U.S. patent expires in
November 2015, and in Europe it may face generic competition
from the first half of 2017.  Drugs Class  Opsumit, Tracleer and Letairis belong to a class of drugs
called endothelin receptor antagonists that are designed to
treat pulmonary arterial hypertension, an incurable disease in
which the arteries that carry blood from the heart to the lungs
narrow, making the heart work harder and causing elevated  blood
pressure . That causes symptoms such as chest pain, dizziness and
shortness of breath. The disease affects from 1 in 100,000
people to 1 in 1 million people, according to the American Lung
Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net 
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  