-- Madoff Had No Rules for Credit Card Use, Jury Told
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/madoff-offices-not-secured-for-five-days-fbi-agent-says.html
Bernard Madoff  was generous to his
employees and didn’t have policies in place for corporate credit
cards used by executives to pay for family vacations and
thousands of dollars worth of wine, a jury was told.  There wasn’t an obvious business purpose for many charges,
including trips to Disney World and  Las Vegas , that Madoff’s
securities firm paid each month, Charlene White, whose job
included running dozens of monthly reports and helping process
company checks, told jurors yesterday in the trial of five
former employees accused aiding Madoff’s $17 billion fraud.  “There weren’t any rules,” White testified. It’s
“correct” that no expenses were ever turned down and there
wasn’t a reason to be suspicious, she said under cross-examination by defense lawyers.  White, who started as a temporary employee at Madoff’s
securities firm in 1993, was the second witness to testify in
the first criminal trial stemming from the fraud uncovered at
the peak of the financial crisis five years ago. U.S. District
Judge Laura Taylor Swain in  Manhattan  said the trial could last
as long as five months.  Joann Crupi, one of the former employees on trial who
joined Madoff straight out of college in 1983 and went on to
manage some of the largest accounts, charged thousands of
dollars in personal expenses on her corporate card, the U.S.
alleges, and never declared it as income.  Airfare, Wine  White was asked by prosecutors yesterday to confirm the
expenses on American Express statements displayed on screens for
the jury, including Crupi’s repeated airfare to  Orlando ,
 Florida , and Las Vegas and numerous charges at Wine Library in
Springfield,  New Jersey , including $519.76 in January 2007.  Daniel Bonventre, Madoff’s operations chief who worked with
the company’s general ledger and is also on trial, signed
company checks to pay for his personal American Express card,
including tens of thousands of dollars for shopping trips to
Barneys, airfare to Saint Martin, rooms on the island at Hotel
Isle de  France  and dues for his Richmond County Country Club in
 Staten Island , according to statements displayed for the jury.  White said she never had a reason to believe it was wrong
for the company to pay Bonventre’s personal expenses, and that
Madoff was generous in general to employees and threw parties
for everyone to attend. She said she never interacted with
Madoff other than saying hello in the office.  No Quarantine  Earlier yesterday, the FBI agent who arrested Madoff the
morning of Dec. 11, 2008, told jurors the agency didn’t secure
or “quarantine” any portion of his offices until about five
days later.  When the FBI changed the locks and installed security
cameras on the 17th floor of the lipstick-shaped skyscraper in
Midtown Manhattan where the business operated, the same measures
weren’t taken with the two other floors Madoff used, Special
Agent Theodore Cacioppi said.  The investigators determined “there was legitimate
business activity on the 18th and 19th floors,” said Cacioppi,
who worked on the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation’s white-collar
crime squad. The 17th floor, he said, was used to carry out
“the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history.”  Lawyers for Bonventre have said he was part of Madoff’s
legitimate broker-dealer unit and had nothing to do with the
fraud.  Massive Fraud  The evening before Madoff was arrested, Cacioppi said he
received a message on his BlackBerry from his supervisor
alerting him that a massive fraud had been uncovered. The agent
said he hadn’t heard of Madoff before then, and that his team
assembled at 4:30 a.m. the next day to prepare for the arrest.  Cacioppi, who has worked for the FBI since 2002, said he
and another agent interviewed Madoff for about an hour before
they arrested him at his home, with his wife, Ruth, present. Two
other agents who waited outside then took Madoff to be
processed, while Cacioppi visited Madoff’s offices to meet
briefly with other agents and investigators from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, he said.  The special agent said he then went to a  law firm  to
interview Madoff’s two sons, Mark and Andrew, who he said hadn’t
been willing to be interviewed until then.  The other defendants are Annette Bongiorno, who worked for
Madoff for 40 years, including as his personal secretary, and
helped run the company’s investment advisory business, and
computer programmers Jerome O’Hara and  George Perez , who helped
generate millions of corporate documents.  In Dark  Prosecutors allege the group assisted Madoff by fabricating
fake account statements and regulatory filings for years to keep
anyone from finding out about the scheme. The defendants, who
have all pleaded not guilty, claim Madoff deceived them and kept
them in the dark about his activities.  Cacioppi, a former lawyer who earned a bachelor’s degree in
sociology from the University of  Vermont , worked on the Madoff
case for about six months and is now a team leader for one of
the agency’s underwater evidence recovery units, staffed by
scuba divers who search for guns and cars used in crimes.  Prosecutors asked Cacioppi to explain to the jury a series
of photographs taken by investigators inside Madoff’s offices
after his arrest. The images depicted empty desks, rows of
seized computer hard drives and servers and tables stacked with
papers and office supplies where they were left by employees
they day the firm was shut down. Some of the images showed
Christmas decorations, including a large snow man by a printer
and candy canes on a wall.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in Manhattan at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  