-- Thai Stocks Tumble Most Worldwide on Amnesty Bill: Bangkok Mover
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-10-21T09:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/thai-stocks-tumble-most-worldwide-on-amnesty-bill-bangkok-mover.html
Thailand ’s  stocks  fell the most in a
month, with the benchmark index posting the biggest drop
worldwide, amid speculation that a bill granting amnesty for
political offenses will spur protests against the government.  The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  dropped 2.4 percent to 1,448.54 at
the close in Bangkok, its biggest decline since Sept. 23 and the
steepest drop among global equity gauges tracked by Bloomberg.
 Minor International Pcl (MINT) , the operator of fast-food restaurant
chains and hotel resorts, slumped 5.3 percent. Central Plaza
Hotel Pcl fell 6.4 percent.  A parliamentary committee voted last week to add a clause
to the ruling Pheu Thai party’s bill that would annul legal
cases stemming from the country’s 2006 coup, including the
conviction of former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , the
Nation reported Oct. 18. Thailand’s government, now led by
Thaksin’s sister Yingluck Shinawatra, the same day extended the
use of the Internal Security Act for some parts of Bangkok
through Nov. 30 to control protests.  “Investors are concerned the ruling coalition’s attempt to
pass a revised amnesty bill will revive tension,” Kasamapon Hamnilrat, the head of research at Krungsri Securities Co. in
Bangkok, said by phone. “Without this concern, Thai stocks
should gain as most overseas factors are positive.”  The opposition Democrat Party will oppose the bill in
parliament and support public demonstrations to prevent the
measure, Abhisit Vejjajiva, former prime minister and the
party’s leader, said on the party’s  website  today. Opposition
groups may rally against the bill, the Nation reported.  Demonstrations by supporters and opponents of Thaksin --
who was removed from power by the coup -- have led to an airport
seizure, business center blockages and arson attacks in Bangkok
during the past seven years. Thailand has had nine military
coups and more than 20 prime ministers since 1946.  The baht weakened 0.1 percent to 31.09 per dollar. The
yield on the government’s 3.625 percent bonds due June 2023 rose
two basis points to 3.83 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  