-- Akzo Cost Savings Propel Profit as Rivals Look at Europe
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-10-21T11:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/akzo-cost-savings-propel-profit-as-rivals-look-at-europe.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  beat analysts’ profit
predictions for the first time in a year, with Chief Executive
Officer Ton Buechner’s savings plan gaining traction as U.S.
competitors test the Dutch chemical maker’s dominance in Europe.  Akzo rose the most in two years after reporting third-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization gained 7 percent to 456 million euros ($624
million). Profit exceeded the 444 million-euro average of six
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Markets remain challenging, and
Akzo’s performance will largely be driven by reorganizing, Chief
Financial Officer Keith Nichols said today.  “It’s going to be through a lot of self-help measures
rather than a recovery in the market” that earnings will grow,
Nichols said on a conference call with analysts.  Six years after the $17 billion purchase of Imperial
Chemical Industries, Amsterdam-based Akzo is tackling the
resulting overlaps and inefficiencies that have led cash
generation to lag behind peers such as  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG) 
Buechner is marking his second year in the CEO post by extending
earnings-improvement programs as Pittsburgh-based PPG and
Minneapolis-based Valspar Corp. look to expand in Europe.  Akzo, which supplies coatings for Airbus SAS’s double-decker A380 airliner,  jumped  as much as 9.5 percent to 53 euros,
the biggest intraday gain since September 2011, and was trading
up 9 percent at 1:06 p.m. in Amsterdam. Prior to today, the
stock had declined 3 percent this year. By contrast, PPG has
added 30 percent, buoyed by a U.S. decorative paint operation
bought from Akzo for $1.05 billion after the Dutch company
abandoned a push into that market.  Management Meeting  Since taking the job, Buechner has replaced senior
executives to help push his agenda and accelerate a 500 million-euro efficiency program’s deadlines by a year. Earlier this
month, he assembled more than 200 managers for a two-day meeting
where he pressed the need for change and detailed his vision.  “The proof is going to be how the next few quarters pan
out and delivery of our 2015 targets as a first major
milestone,” Nichols said today. “It’s getting our cash
generation stronger, getting back to cash positive, improving
our performance relative to peers, which is clearly something
that these results begin to hint that it’s having some effect.”  Akzo is streamlining its manufacturing network, with
production of organic peroxides being transferred from a site in
Deventer,  Netherlands , to other facilities. Such measures helped
lift the  return on sales  to 8 percent in the third quarter from
6.3 percent a year earlier.  More Measures  Additional savings measures are planned, and Akzo will
update investors in February on how those will boost earnings,
Nichols said. Cash inflow from operating activities improved to
552 million euros in the third quarter from a year-earlier 460
million euros.  “You mustn’t get too excited too quickly, as the economic
backdrop remains challenging across the globe,” Nichols said in
a phone interview. “The tailwinds aren’t going to be there.”  The Dutch company is shouldering added expenses as
construction markets struggle to recover and U.S. companies,
buoyed by upbeat home markets, look further afield for growth.
Valspar won a contract last year to supply tinting machines at
U.K. home-improvement chain B&Q, replacing Akzo’s equipment.
Valspar acquired Inver Group this year to tap markets for
industrial coatings in  Italy ,  France ,  Germany  and  Poland .  PPG’s Strategy  PPG won’t “shy away from Europe” and will consider
acquisitions, given there are signs that the deterioration in
markets is abating, Chief Financial Officer Frank Sklarsky told
analysts on an Oct. 17 call. Demand should stabilize and turn
the corner in 2014, he said.  Takeover opportunities in the region’s paint industry may
include a possible disposal involving the Materis business that
Paris-based private-equity firm  Wendel SA (MF)  has owned since 2006.  Akzo’s brands and market share in markets such as the U.K.
and the Benelux region are strong enough to withstand any
encroachment, and the Dutch company is pursuing growth in Russia
and  Turkey , Nichols said.  Valspar’s expansion into Europe is small in scale, though
Akzo is watching developments closely, the CFO said.  “We can defend our position, and you can see that coming
through in these results,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  