-- Thames Sewer Plan May Be Triple Industry Average: BNEF
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-21T10:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/thames-water-super-sewer-plan-may-triple-profit-bnef.html
Thames Water Utilities Ltd.’s
“super sewer” may generate profit at triple the industry
average should the company win regulatory approval to build the
4.1 billion-pound ($6.6 billion) project, according to a  London 
researcher.  Proposals by the U.K.’s largest water supplier to pay for
the Thames Tideway Tunnel by increasing household wastewater
charges by as much as 80 pounds a year may generate after-tax
returns on equity as high as 24 percent, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance said today. That’s more than three times the estimated 7
percent return for other water utilities, the report showed.  Days after regulator Ofwat rejected the utility’s request
to raise bills 8 percent a year, the findings may threaten plans
for a 25-kilometer (16-mile) tunnel Thames Water says is crucial
to upgrade a Victorian-era system that strains to cope with
London sewage, sometimes sending raw effluent into the waterway.  While utilities say such costly investments are needed to
modernize systems, they’ve been criticized by Ofwat for posting
profits and questioned by critics for paying low taxes as bills
rise. Britain’s water companies have been urged to share gains
with customers and seek more moderate bills ahead of a price
review due to be concluded in December 2014.  Under the super-sewer plan, a special purpose vehicle whose
likely investors would be wealth and infrastructure funds as
well as Thames Water and its shareholders would be created that
would receive any profits, with investment details not yet
known.  Other Options?  There may be other options besides an expensive tunnel,
BNEF said. There’s been no “in-depth” study of cheaper
alternatives such as managing stormwater at the source and using
more efficient technologies, according to the report.  “For the last 10 years the Thames Tideway Tunnel has been
presented as the only feasible solution to London’s unacceptable
sewage overflows,” BNEF Chief Executive Officer  Michael Liebreich  said. “This report shows that this is most likely not
the case.”  Liebreich urged a study of such techniques, looking at
their use by other cities, “before rushing ahead with an
infrastructure project which risks handing an extraordinary
windfall to investors at the expense of householders.”  Thames Water says on its website the sewer is “urgently”
needed to protect the Thames from increasing pollution. It’s
seeking final consent for the tunnel, which would follow the
course of London’s river capturing untreated waste from the
waterway’s most polluting overflow points.  Thames Water’s dividend policy has left it unable to fund
the tunnel using capital reserves or by borrowing, according to
BNEF. Ofwat on Oct. 16 rejected a plan by the utility with 14
million customers to raise bills by about 8 percent a year to
buy land for the sewer. BNEF says adding 31 pounds to 35 pounds
by the 2020s would match industry returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  