-- Animal Spirits Revived as Tea Party Delays Taper: Credit Markets
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-10-21T15:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/animal-spirits-revived-as-tea-party-delays-taper-credit-markets.html
Higher risk assets are back in
demand as investors turn their attention to the sudden prospect
of Federal Reserve stimulus extending into 2014 after a
government shutdown did more to damage the reputations of
lawmakers than to fixed-income securities.  Returns for the year on bonds of companies worldwide turned
positive this month for the first time since May. Emerging
markets are posting their first back-to-back monthly gains of
2013. Yields on 10-year Treasuries, which are a benchmark for
everything from corporate debt to mortgages, fell last week to
the lowest levels since Aug. 9, keeping alive the three decade
bull market in bonds.  “There’s a degree of animal spirits,”  Scott MacDonald ,
head of research a MC Asset Management Holdings LLC, the
investment firm majority-owned by Mitsubishi Corp. that oversees
$600 million. “It’s been a challenging year in the bond market
and here’s your opportunity to play catch up.”  Investors who pulled $123 billion from bond funds in June,
July and August on concern the Fed was preparing to scale back
its unprecedented  stimulus measures  are now putting some of that
back as a Bloomberg News survey of economists shows the central
bank may not reduce its bond purchases until March. Standard &
Poor’s estimates the government shutdown shaved at least 0.6
percent from growth in the world’s biggest economy this quarter.  Erasing Losses  Stocks in the U.S. are trading at records amid the broadest
rally in at least a quarter century. The  Standard & Poor’s  500
Index jumped to a record on Oct. 18 and the index gained 2.4
percent last week, the most since July. Shares of more than 45
companies in the benchmark gauge have risen this year, the most
since at least 1990, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Corporate bonds from the riskiest to the most creditworthy
borrowers worldwide have gained 0.9 percent this year, erasing a
loss that reached 2.2 percent in June, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Corporate & High Yield Index show. The rebound is
poised to spare investors from the first annual loss since 2008.  Average yields fell 0.1 percentage point last week to 3.61
percent, the biggest decline since the week ended Sept. 20,
after U.S. lawmakers ended a budget stalemate that partially
closed the government for 16 days and raised the nation’s
borrowing limit to avert a potential default by the world’s
biggest borrower. Yields have dropped from a 14-month high of
3.97 percent on Sept. 5.  ‘Knee-Jerk’  The solution is temporary, as lawmakers in Congress voted
to fund the government only through Jan. 15, and suspend the
debt ceiling through Feb. 7. Tea Party-allied Republicans, such
as Texas Senator  Ted Cruz , said last week they would keep
fighting against President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care law,
which they demanded the government defund.  “It’s kind of a knee-jerk reaction to the fact that the
worst-case scenario didn’t play out,” said  James Kochan , Wells
Fargo Funds Management LLC’s chief fixed-income strategist. “If
I had a dollar for every time I lived through a so-called debt-ceiling crisis, I’d retire.”  Americans are expressing frustration with members of
Congress, according to a Pew Research Center  survey . A record 74
percent of registered voters say most members of Congress
shouldn’t be re-elected in 2014, with 18 percent saying they
should, according to the poll released Oct. 15. In October 2010,
51 percent said most incumbents shouldn’t be returned to office.  Cutting Losses  An index of everything from U.S. Treasuries to dollar-denominated corporates on the cusp of junk is up 1.7 percent
since the day before the Fed’s Sept. 18 decision to maintain its
$85 billion off monthly bond purchases.  That cut the decline for the year on the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Broad Market Index to 1.5 percent from more
than 4 percent last month, when the index was poised for its
biggest annual loss in data dating back to 1976.  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasuries dropped to 2.54
percent on Oct. 18, a 12-week low on an intraday basis, from 3
percent on Sept. 6.  Emerging-market dollar-denominated bonds have returned 2.4
percent this month, following a 2.7 percent gain in September,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. The rally
has trimmed losses for the year to 5.18 percent from as much as
11 percent in June. Yields declined to an average 5.77 percent
from an almost two-year high of 6.5 percent on Sept. 5.  Fund Flows  “We are becoming much more bullish on  emerging markets 
right now,” Bob Maes, a  money manager  who oversees about 3
billion euros ($4.1 billion) for KBC Asset Management SA, said
in a telephone interview from Luxembourg. “The debt ceiling and
fiscal issues will further delay Fed tapering. It’s a quite
benign environment.”  The gains are emboldening investors to start redeploying
cash after the unprecedented $123 billion that TrimTabs
Investment Research estimated was withdrawn from bond funds in
the three months ended Aug. 28.  Investors funneled $626 million into U.S. high-yield bond
funds in the week ended Oct. 16, the most in three weeks,
according to data compiled by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- by S&P.  They poured $635 million into long-term corporate bond
funds, the data show. Company debentures maturing in more than
15 years have gained 1.9 percent this month, about 1.7
percentage points more than returns on bonds coming due between
one and three years, the biggest outperformance since April,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Rock & Roll  The two-biggest exchange-traded funds that focus on  junk
bonds  reported about $759.4 million of deposits in the two days
after Oct. 16, when the federal government ended its stalemate
over the budget, Bloomberg data show.  Investor demand spurred 7 million of shares created in the
$9.8 billion  SPDR Barclays High Yield Bond ETF (JNK) , the most for a
two-day period since November, and 5.1 million of shares in
BlackRock Inc.’s $16 billion iShares iBoxx $ High Yield
Corporate Bond  ETF (HYG) , the most for the period since January 2012,
the  data  show.  “The market is positioned from a supply-demand balance
where high-yield can rock and roll going into the end of the
year,” said Jason Rosiak, the head of  portfolio management  at
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Asset Management. The
Pacific Life Insurance Co. affiliate oversees about $4.3
billion.  Sales Paralyzed  The shutdown and debt-ceiling stalemate largely paralyzed
issuance of new corporate debt in the U.S. following the biggest
month ever in September, led by Verizon Communications Inc.’s
record $49 billion bond sale on Sept. 11. Dollar-denominated
sales of $59.9 billion this month are down from $212.3 billion
in September, Bloomberg  data  show.  A measure of corporate-credit risk in the U.S. reached the
lowest level in almost six years last week.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 5.5
basis points last week to a mid-price of 71.3 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the least
since November 2007 in data that adjust for the effects of the
market’s shift to a new version of the index last month. The
index traded at 72.1 basis points today at 11:01 a.m. in  New
York .  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose today from the lowest in 3 1/2
years, climbing 1.5 to 86.3.  Leveraged Loans  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  In the market for speculative-grade loans, the Standard &
Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index rose from an almost
two-month low, climbing 0.07 cent last week to 97.57 cents on
the dollar. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has returned 3.51
percent this year.  In the $3.7 trillion municipal- bond market , benchmark 10-year AAA  yields  fell in September at the fastest pace since 2011
after the Fed’s decision not to taper.  State and local bonds rallied compared with their federal
counterparts amid the U.S. government shutdown. The ratio of 10-year yields, a gauge of relative value, declined to 102 percent
on Oct. 15, the smallest since Sept. 26.  An index measuring the health of U.S. financial conditions
reached a record the day Congress arrived at a fiscal deal.  Treasury Bills  The Bloomberg U.S. Financial Conditions Index, which
combines everything from money-market rates to yields on
government and corporate bonds to volatility in equities, added
0.07 last week to 1.53 and was at 1.54 today. The gauge, which
rises as conditions improve, reached 1.55 on Oct. 16, the
highest in data dating back to January 1994.  Rates on one-month Treasury  bills  fell to 0.015 percent on
Oct. 18, after surging to a six-year high of 0.45 percent two
days earlier. Investors dumped the shortest maturity U.S.
government debt on concern principle and interest payments would
be delayed or defaulted on if a budget agreement wasn’t reached.  While the jump in bill rates proved to be short lived, the
shutdown did cost the U.S. more to borrow. The $35 billion in
three-month bills the Treasury sold on Oct. 15 were auctioned at
a  discount rate  of 0.13 percent, the highest since February
2011. That compares with 0.01 percent at the Sept. 30 auction.  The U.S. sold $30 billion of six-month bills the same day
at a rate of 0.15 percent, more than double the 0.06 percent
rate on the same maturity securities sold the prior week.  “It’s impressive how quickly we’ve come back from the
edge,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist in New
York at BNP Paribas SA, one of 21 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed and are required to bid at Treasury auctions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  