-- Maple Leaf Foods Considers Selling Canada Bread Stake
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-10-21T20:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/maple-leaf-foods-considers-selling-canada-bread-stake.html
Maple Leaf Foods Inc. (MFI) , a Canadian
producer of meats and baked goods, is considering the sale of
its 90 percent stake in Canada Bread Co. to focus on its protein
business.  A review of options for Maple Leaf’s bakery business is
expected to conclude in early 2014, Chief Executive Officer
Michael McCain said today on an investor call.  “We are confident that our bakery business can deliver
significantly higher levels of profitable growth,” McCain said
in a statement before the call. “The only question is how best
to realize the future value of this business.”  Maple Leaf is closing plants while increasing efficiency at
others as part of a seven-year restructuring plan to make its
global protein business more profitable, McCain said.  Canada 
Bread makes fresh and frozen flour-based goods and sells them
through brands including Dempster’s, Olafson’s and Olivieri,
according to the statement.  Canada Bread, based in Etobicoke, Ontario, rose 8.5 percent
to C$66.17 at 3:55 p.m. in Toronto. Maple Leaf climbed 10
percent to C$14.63 at the close, the most in 13 years.  The bakery unit will either be sold at a price that
recognizes its value or Maple Leaf will keep running it, Chief
Financial Officer Michael Vels said during the investor call.
“We’re best suited at Maple Leaf to sell the entire business or
retain it,” he said.  Maple Leaf has established a committee of independent
directors to oversee the review and the use of proceeds should
the stake be sold. Funds from a sale may go to debt repayment,
reinvestment in the company and returning capital to
shareholders, Toronto-based Maple Leaf said.  The company is working to finish modernizing and
streamlining its protein business, which sells products
including seasoned chicken breasts and no-preservatives cold
cuts, by 2015, said McCain.  “Once that’s done we will be faced with a protein business
that is in an outstanding market position in Canada,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  