-- Apollo Tyres Asks Judge to Dismiss Cooper Takeover Suit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-10-21T15:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/apollo-tyres-asks-judge-to-dismiss-cooper-takeover-suit.html
Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY)  asked a judge to
dismiss a lawsuit brought by  Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB)  to force a
$2.5 billion takeover, contending Cooper hasn’t lived up to its
part of the bargain.  Cooper has been “unable for a matter of months to access
basic financial material about a significant portion of its
business,” in violation of the contract, and thus the case
should be dismissed and a trial set for Nov. 5 to Nov. 7 should
be canceled, Raymond DiCamillo, an Apollo lawyer, said in an
Oct. 18 letter to Delaware Chancery Judge Sam Glasscock III.  An attorney for Cooper, Stephen Norman, replied in a letter
to the judge that the trial should be held.  “This court has already twice rejected the very same legal
argument,” Cooper wrote of the Apollo request. “There is no
reason for the court to reconsider.”  Glasscock didn’t immediately rule today on Apollo’s motion.  Cooper, based in Findlay,  Ohio , said June 12 that it would
be bought by Apollo for $35 a share. Cooper sued Apollo to
enforce the buyout after the Gurgaon, India-based company failed
to close the deal by an Oct. 4 deadline.  Cooper contends that Apollo agreed to use its “reasonable
best efforts” to complete the transaction or pay a
$112.5 million “reverse breakup fee” to walk away.  Apollo bases its dismissal request on Cooper’s contention
that it “has no control over” Chinese joint venture partner
Chengshan Group Co. and cannot get its books and records.  The case is Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. v. Apollo Holdings
Pvt Ltd., CA8980, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Chancery Court in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 