-- Arab Bank Gets U.S. Supreme Court Query in Terrorism Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-21T14:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/arab-bank-gets-u-s-supreme-court-query-in-terrorism-case.html
The U.S. Supreme Court asked the
Obama administration for advice on sanctions imposed against
Arab Bank Plc in a lawsuit by victims of overseas terrorist
attacks.  A judge imposed the penalty after Arab Bank disobeyed court
orders to turn over account records. In its Supreme Court
appeal, the bank argues that it can’t supply the information
without violating the criminal laws of  Jordan , Lebanon and the
Palestinian territories.  The sanctions would potentially make it easier for the
victims to prove their case at trial. Jurors would be told they
could infer from the Amman, Jordan-based bank’s failure to
produce the documents that it intentionally provided financial
services to terrorist groups.  A trial has been scheduled to start in April in federal
court in  Brooklyn , New York. The case would be the first U.S.
trial in a terrorism-financing suit against a bank.  The dispute centers on allegations that Arab Bank backed 24
attacks from 1995 to 2004 in  Israel  and the Palestinian
territories perpetrated by Hamas, the militant Islamic group
considered a terrorist organization by the U.S. and European
Union. The bank allegedly helped provide payments to the
families of  suicide bombers .  Arab Bank faces hundreds of claims under the U.S. Anti-Terrorism Act. The lead lawsuit is being pressed by six American
families, including Courtney Linde, whose husband, John Linde
Jr., was killed in 2003 while working as a private security
guard in the  Gaza Strip .  Limited Defense  Under the sanctions, imposed by U.S. District Judge Nina Gershon and left intact by a federal appeals court, Arab Bank
would be limited in the defenses it could mount. The lender
would be barred from using any of the withheld evidence at trial
and from making any argument that might have been disproven
using the account information.  In August, a judge threw out thousands of claims pressed by
non-Americans under a different law, the Alien Tort Statute.
That ruling followed a Supreme Court decision limiting the law’s
reach.  The high court directed its request today to U.S. Solicitor
General Donald Verrilli, the administration’s top courtroom
lawyer.  The Supreme Court case is Arab Bank v. Linde, 12-1485.  The
district court case is Linde v. Arab Bank Plc, 04-cv-02799, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net  