-- Areva Secures U.K. Reactor Order Worth More Than $2.7 Billion
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-10-21T15:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/areva-secures-u-k-reactor-order-worth-more-than-2-7-billion.html
Areva SA (AREVA) ’s Chief Operating Officer
said a contract to supply two nuclear reactors and control
systems for a new station at Hinkley Point in southwest England
is worth more than 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) and ends a
six-year lull in orders for its flagship reactor.  The deal may be supplemented by an order to provide nuclear
fuel for the station when the contract is finalized next year,
Philippe Knoche said today in an interview on the sidelines of a
conference in Paris. Areva shares surged as much as 9.6 percent,
the most since April 4.  Electricite de France SA , together with partners Areva and
two Chinese nuclear companies, agreed today to construct the
plant. The project will cost about 16 billion pounds ($26
billion) and take 10 years to build, Paris-based EDF said in a
statement. The project is conditional on the European Union
agreeing the terms of state aid.  Areva’s EPR reactor has been overlooked in recent years in
tenders in the  United Arab Emirates ,  Finland  and the  Czech
Republic . Construction work on EPR’s by Areva and EDF in Finland
and France respectively, have suffered from delays and cost
overruns.  EDF will own 45 percent to 50 percent of the Hinkley Point
project, while Areva will take a 10 percent stake. China General
Nuclear Power Corp. and China National Nuclear Corp. will hold
30 percent to 40 percent of the project.  Taking a stake in the U.K. project “is exceptional,” and
“isn’t Areva’s business model,” Knoche said. The aim is that
the investment “won’t interfere” with the company’s 2016
financial targets, he said.  EPR Target  After the nuclear accident at Fukushima in Japan two years
ago, Areva Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel set a target to
sell 10 EPR reactors by the end of 2016.  The target is “aggressive,” Knoche said. He didn’t rule
out concluding talks to sell two EPRs in China next year. There
is “no fixed timeframe” for negotiations to sell two similar
reactors in India, where an election next year may delay
discussions, he said.  The company is preparing for tenders in Saudi Arabia,  South
Africa  and  Poland . Areva and Japan’s  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7011)  are also in exclusive talks to sell four smaller Atmea
reactors in  Turkey , Knoche said.  The Hinkley Point C plant, about 150 miles west of London
on the southern edge of the Bristol Channel, will have a total
capacity of 3.3 gigawatts, enough to supply 5 million homes for
60 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ; 