-- Harper Says Canada to Loosen Takeover Rules Beyond EU
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-10-21T19:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/harper-says-canada-to-loosen-takeover-rules-beyond-eu.html
Canada will relax rules on foreign
investment for the U.S.,  Mexico  and 12 other countries as a
result of its free trade pact with the European Union.  Canada announced last week it will raise the threshold for
reviewing foreign investment from EU countries to C$1.5 billion
($1.5 billion) from C$344 million, as part of its trade
agreement with the region. Canada will similarly boost the
review limit for non-EU countries with which it has signed trade
pacts, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said.  “By necessity, it should be understood it raises that
threshold not only for  Europe , but for all countries with which
we have trade agreements,” Harper said in an Oct. 18 interview
in Brussels.  The move underscores the importance Harper is placing on
the U.S. and Europe as he seeks foreign capital to sustain the
recovery, even as scrutiny of investment from emerging countries
such as China is heightened. Canada’s free trade partners,
including the EU, produced about $36.4 trillion last year,
representing about half of global output, according to
International Monetary Fund data.  “Obviously, the 42 countries in the world with which we
have free trade agreements are good partners that give us few or
no concerns,” Harper said. More than half of foreign direct
investment in  Canada  comes from the U.S., according to
Statistics Canada data.  Review Threshold  The Canadian government currently reviews foreign takeovers
of businesses with assets of at least C$344 million. Harper said
last year he will raise that threshold to C$1 billion in
enterprise value for private investment, while keeping it at the
existing level for state-owned enterprises.  “With respect to raising foreign takeover thresholds,
provisions in the Canada-European Union Trade agreement will be
extended to all of Canada’s FTA partners,” Adam Taylor,
director of communications for Canadian Trade Minister Ed Fast,
said in an e-mail.  Investment by Chinese state-owned companies in Canada’s
energy industry has become contentious, prompting Harper to
implement investment restrictions for state-owned companies last
year, including a ban on future  oil-sands  takeovers except under
“exceptional circumstances.”  After that policy came into effect, mergers and
acquisitions in the oil sands fell this year to the lowest since
2004, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Smaller developers
including  Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH)  and  BlackPearl Resources Inc. (PXX)  are
lagging behind peers after the government introduced the rules.
Athabasca fell 41 percent since the rules were made public on
Dec. 7, versus a 12 percent total return for the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Energy Index.  Security Concerns  Canada is also stepping up scrutiny of security in studying
foreign takeovers. The government cited national security
concerns in rejecting  Manitoba Telecom Services Inc. (MBT) ’s C$520
million sale of its Allstream unit to an investment firm co-founded by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  this month.  Harper said in the interview that BlackBerry Ltd., which
has drawn the interest of foreign companies such as  Lenovo Group
Ltd. (992) , should be wary of a potential sale that raises national-security concerns.  Canada has increasingly relied on foreign capital to
finance investment, running cumulative current account  deficits 
of C$265 billion since the last quarter of 2008. The current
account is the broadest measure of international trade.  Under the Canada-EU pact, EU investments can still be
reviewed to determine whether they are of “net benefit” and
meet national security requirements, Harper said.  ‘Far-Fetched’  “I think it would be far-fetched to see any kind of
European investment as a national security challenge,” he said.  In addition to the U.S., Mexico and the EU, Canada has free
trade agreements with Norway, Iceland, Switzerland,
Liechtenstein, Panama, Jordan, Colombia, Peru,  Costa Rica ,
Chile, Israel and  Honduras .  Canada is also negotiating free trade agreements with
Japan, South Korea,  India  and  Singapore  and is part of the
Trans-Pacific Partnership trade talks seeking a Pacific-region
agreement.  While the Trans-Pacific trade talks are the second-most
important initiative for the country right now, Harper said they
are “dwarfed” by the EU agreement.  “The TPP today consists principally of countries that
Canada already has trade agreements with or are very small
economies,” Harper said in the interview last week after
announcing the EU trade agreement. “The one big exception of
which is Japan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  