-- Arteris Sees Rousseff Brazil Road Plan as Lacking Profit
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e ,   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-10-21T13:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/arteris-sees-rousseff-brazil-road-plan-as-lacking-profit.html
Arteris SA Chief Executive Officer
David Diaz said  Brazil ’s road auction plans, part of President
Dilma Rousseff’s $98 billion effort to spur growth, are flawed
because traffic estimates are too high and cost projections low.  Brazil’s failure to attract bids for the BR-262 highway
shows companies are hesitant about potentially unprofitable
projects, said Diaz, who became CEO after the nation’s third-largest toll-road operator was  bought  last year by  Brookfield
Infrastructure Partners LP (BIP)  and Abertis Infraestructura SA. The
government may have to offer more attractive terms, he said.  “For BR-262, we have a different vision of the costs of
investment and a different vision of traffic,” Diaz said in an
interview on Oct. 17 at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo office. “We want
simple investments, without a lot of complexities, in areas
where we are already operating and with a low level of
investment and a high amount of traffic.”  BR-262 has become a symbol of Brazil’s challenges in
finding operators to invest 46 billion reais ($21.2 billion) in
the tollway licenses. The government had to dangle a 7.2 percent
return to lure bidders after a 5.5 percent offer got no interest
in January. The lone successful auction, for the BR-050 highway,
was won last month by Consorcio Planalto, a group of nine small-and medium-sized companies.  2016 Olympics  The roads are the first piece of Brazil’s 212 billion-real
infrastructure program, including rails and ports, to go to
auction to eliminate bottlenecks blamed for stalling economic
growth.  While the administration has sought to get work under way
before next year’s  World Cup  soccer tournament and the 2016 Rio
de Janeiro Olympic games, the  International Olympic Committee ’s
inspection team said after an August visit to Rio that it was
concerned that there may be delays in getting the city ready.  Arteris operates nine road concessions in Brazil and wants
to “invest, invest, invest,” Diaz said.  Revenue (ARTR3)  at the company
rose 15 percent last year and 23 percent in 2011.  All companies bidding in highway auctions say the
government is overestimating traffic and underestimating
investment needs, according to Felipe Silveira, an analyst at
brokerage Coinvalores who rates Sao Paulo-based Arteris as buy.  Less Aggressive  “If road managers don’t see the return level they’re
seeking, they’re not going to be very aggressive in their
proposals and the auctions won’t work, as happened with
BR-262,” Silveira said. Arteris’s efforts to damp risk make
sense “because its controlling shareholders changed recently
and they are still trying to better understand infrastructure
projects in Brazil.”  Four road licenses, of a total of nine, are to be auctioned
by year’s end. This comes as the number of new vehicles more
than doubled from 2009 to 2012, to an annual average of 3.5
million, according to  Luciano Coutinho , president of state
development bank BNDES. Vehicle output will rise to 5.7 million
in 2017 from an estimated 4.3 million this year, automaker trade
group Anfavea predicts.  “There are huge needs and the question is how much private
capital is going to those needs, not one of lack of private
capital,” Gabriel Goldschmidt, senior manager of infrastructure
and natural resources for Latin America and the Caribbean at
International Finance Corp., said in a telephone interview
“It’s not that there is no interest.”  BNDES will finance as much as 70 percent of the road
investments and is guaranteeing 87.5 billion reais for
infrastructure financing from 2012 to 2014, according to an
Agencia Estado report on Oct. 18.  State Financing  “BNDES financing is very attractive,” Arteris’s Diaz
said. “It’s hard for private banks to offer better terms.”  Even without winning any of the new concessions, Arteris
has outperformed the Ibovespa index this year, rising 3.7
percent through Oct. 18, while the benchmark gauge of Brazilian
equities fell 9.1 percent. CCR SA, a rival, fell 8.6 percent and
EcoRodovias Infraestrutura e Logistica SA slid 8.1 percent.
Today, Arteris rose 0.7 percent to 19.78 reais at 11:08 a.m. in
 Sao Paulo , while CCR was up 0.3 percent top 17.84 reais and
EcoRodovias fell 1.4 percent to 15.68 reais.  The government’s return rate and traffic studies are just
two components of the road projects, the press office of
Rousseff’s chief of staff wrote in an e-mailed statement.  “If the winner is more efficient than what the study
accounts for, the company can appropriate all of the gains from
that efficiency,” according to the statement, which said that
the leveraged rate of return for roads is 16 percent.  Brazil’s transportation regulatory agency, known as ANTT,
didn’t respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Conservative Bid  Rousseff’s administration has shown new willingness to
compromise on a concession framework, according to Glaucia Calp,
head of Fitch Ratings’ infrastructure and project finance group
for  Latin America .  “The government has been adopting a more pragmatic
approach compared to the beginning of the year,” Calp said by
telephone from Sao Paulo.  Diaz said that while Arteris had synergies with its
existing operations and BR-050, the company offered the most
conservative bid, 5.1 percent less than the maximum toll price
of 0.0787 real per kilometer. Consorcio Planalto, the winning
consortium, had offered 0.04534 real per kilometer, a 42.4
percent discount. The winner will invest 3 billion reais in the
437-kilometer concession over 30 years.  If small companies can participate, they must have “the
technical and financial capacities to carry it through,”
International Finance’s Goldschmidt said. “Some infrastructure
projects are extremely complex and challenging; some are
simpler. Just because a company is small doesn’t make it
inexperienced; it may have a certain know-how for that specific
challenge.”  Economic Growth  Consorcio Planalto’s companies have as much as 60 years of
experience and have already worked on highway construction, said
Carlos Prado, the group’s director.  Tollway operators are talking to the government about
improving profit and margins, and providing more flexible
timelines, Diaz said. There are differences of opinion on
expected traffic flow, Diaz said, because some estimates are
based on economic growth projections that are now out of date.  Brazil’s economy may grow at a 2.48 percent rate in 2013,
according to an Oct. 11 central bank survey of economists, about
a third of the 2010 level of 7.5 percent.  “Everything is about profitability. The government
establishes a ceiling price, so we do our studies and with this
ceiling price we’ll see if it gives expected profitability,”
Diaz said. “The government has one vision of the GDP, of
traffic, of costs, and we have another.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  