-- Autos at 170 MPH Replace China Rice Paddies at GM Tracks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-21T21:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/autos-at-170-mph-replace-china-rice-paddies-at-gm-tracks.html
About 2 1/2 hours’ drive west of
Shanghai, the patchwork of paddy fields and small factories
gives way to a  giant oval  embankment, partly shielded by a metal
fence and clumps of trees.  The gatehouse is the first of several barriers to keep
prying eyes from restricted areas; uniformed guards roam the
compound’s 37 miles (60 kilometers) of roads; guests are handed
black plastic stickers to cover their mobile-phone lenses.  This is  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s 1.6 billion  yuan  ($261
million) proving ground in Guangde county, a corner of Anhui
province hemmed in by mountains that’s better known for its
chestnuts. While test tracks have been part of vehicle
development for decades, the new GM facility and others are
another sign of the growing importance of  China  to global
automakers.  Global carmakers are building bigger, more comprehensive
testing facilities in the world’s largest auto market to develop
models tailored for local tastes, such as bolder grilles and
comfier back seats with added legroom.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , vying with
GM to sell 3 million units in China this year, is to open an
even bigger proving ground next year.  “This is something which basically makes a statement: I
believe this market is going to be one of the most -- if not the
most -- important for the next 10 years,” said Ivo Naumann, the
Shanghai-based managing director of advisory firm AlixPartners
LLP. “Therefore, I need to fully cater to the demands and
requirements of this market, and that means I have more and more
product development inside China.”  Time Constraints  In a rapidly changing and growing market such as China,
being able to respond nimbly to shifts in consumer trends also
gives carmakers an edge, according to AlixPartners.  GM in April announced plans to spend $11 billion through
2016 on expanding in China. Four new assembly plants will, when
completed, boost annual capacity to 5 million vehicles -- double
the number of cars it sold in the U.S. last year.  Volkswagen,  Europe ’s largest automaker, opened a factory in
southern  Guangdong province  last month, part of a 9.8-billion
euro ($13.4 billion) commitment to build and develop more models
in China by 2018. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based company plans to
boost its line-up of offerings for Chinese customers to 90 cars,
 sport utility vehicles , vans and heavy trucks by 2015 from 70
now.  Stress Test  About 500 employees work at the year-old Guangde center,
putting locally made Buicks, Chevrolets and Cadillacs through
tests to mirror driving conditions in China, which overtook the
U.S. in 2010 as the Detroit-based automaker’s top market.  “When you own the facility you can do what you need, and
if you need the engineers to do something different you can test
it out right then and there,” said Mark LaBaere, president of
Pan Asia Technical Automotive Center Co., the research and
development venture between GM and Chinese partner  SAIC Motor
Corp. (600104)  “When you share a facility, sometimes a secured area is
not so secure.”  Security is important in this slice of the business. Car-enthusaist websites and publications routinely try to be the
first to show pictures of new models, which leads to spy-versus-spy intrigue, like cars disguised by patterned wraps or even
temporary external bodies.  On a trip to Guangde last month, engineers put cars in
black-and-white camouflage through repeated rounds on the 5.6-mile banked track, hitting speeds of more than 170 miles per
hour. Vehicles were doused with salt water to test for
corrosion; others ran through the gears driving up and down a
custom-built bridge; sections of bumpy, cracked and pot-holed
road stressed suspensions and durability.  The results are recorded, analyzed and improvements made at
GM’s research center in  Shanghai , where it also operates
factories with SAIC Motor.  Testing Home  GM’s models built in China -- including the Buick LaCrosse
and Chevrolet Cruze hatchback introduced this year -- are tested
at Guangde. Before, engineers had to decamp from Shanghai to a
rented government-owned center in Beijing. Or ship cars to GM
tracks overseas, delaying the process.  The Guangde investment has also proved a boon for some
local businesses, such as the restaurant and hotel run by Sun
Xiaoqin.  “Roads around here have improved,” said Sun, 45, who
farms the vegetables and chickens she serves to diners. “It’s
good that GM chose our town. More people come through now, and I
have more customers.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  