-- Lawrence Klein, Nobel Winner for Econometric Models, Dies at 93
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-10-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/lawrence-klein-nobel-winner-for-econometric-models-dies-at-93.html
Lawrence Klein, the  University of
Pennsylvania  economist who won the 1980  Nobel Prize  for his
computer-based models that help governments forecast the future
and act accordingly, has died. He was 93.  He died on Oct. 20 at his home in Gladwyne, Pennsylvania,
according to the  New York  Times, citing his daughter, Hannah
Klein.  The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences awarded Klein the
1980 Nobel in economics “for the creation of econometric models
and the application to the analysis of economic fluctuations and
economic policies.” His Wharton Models, named for the
University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, became widely used
by nations and regions to predict gross national product,
exports, investment and consumption, as well as the potential
impact of government policies.  “Thanks to Klein’s contributions,” the Nobel committee
 said , econometrics -- the use of mathematics, statistics and
theory to forecast fluctuations in business and the economy --
“is now to be found all through the world, not only at
scientific institutions but also in public administration,
political organizations and large enterprises.”  A former graduate student under  Paul Samuelson  at
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , Klein taught at Penn for
33 years. One of his earliest models, in 1946, predicted that
the end of World War II wouldn’t send the  U.S. economy  back into
depression, which was a widespread fear, according to a 1980
 article  in Time magazine. Klein’s correct call helped win
respectability for econometric models, Time said.  Presidential Adviser  Klein was chief economic adviser to  Jimmy Carter  during his
successful 1976 presidential campaign, then returned to academia
rather than take a position in the new administration. In
declining an appointment, he avoided controversy over his brief
membership, in the 1940s, in the Communist Party.  “I have always believed that people have misjudged the
accuracy of economic forecasting,” Klein wrote in an
autobiography for the  Nobel Foundation . In real-life tests such
as the aftermath of wars, shifts in government economic policy
and recessions, “econometric models outperformed other
approaches,” he said.  Lawrence Robert Klein was born on Sept. 14, 1920, in Omaha,
Nebraska, the second of three children of Leo and Blanche Klein,
who worked for a wholesale grocer, according to a 1980 article
in the New York Times. Growing up during the Great Depression
“was to have a profound impact on my intellectual and
professional career,” he wrote.  Samuelson’s Student  He earned his undergraduate degree from the University of
California-Berkeley in 1942, then moved to MIT in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, for his doctoral studies under Samuelson -- “the
rising star of the period,” as he recalled. He got his Ph.D. in
1944.  He joined the econometrics team at the Cowles Commission of
the  University of Chicago , worked on modeling in Canada, visited
economists in Europe, then returned to the U.S. to work at the
 National Bureau of Economic Research .  At the  University of Michigan  from 1950 to 1954, he
lectured in economics and worked in its Survey Research Center
to construct an influential business-forecasting model with his
student,  Arthur Goldberger .  After four years at Oxford University’s Institute of
Statistics, where he built an economic model for the U.K., he
moved to Philadelphia to join the faculty at Penn.  The American Economic Association  awarded  him the John
Bates Clark Medal in 1957.  Wharton Econometrics  In the 1960s, Klein worked on econometric forecasting
models first for the  Brookings Institution  and the Social
Science Research Council, then for Penn’s Wharton School. The
latter model became the foundation for Wharton Econometric
Forecasting Associates Inc., a non-profit organization created
to support the university’s  economics department .  Klein also worked on models for nations including Japan,
Israel and Mexico.  Project Link , an effort he founded in 1969 to
coordinate economic forecasting around the globe, now operates
under the auspices of the  United Nations  and the  University of
Toronto .  Klein taught at Penn until 1991, when he became a professor
emeritus. He continued his work at Wharton Econometrics, now
 part  of IHS Global Insight Inc. He helped found Economists
Against the Arms Race, now known as Economists for Peace and
Security.  In addition to his daughter Hannah, survivors include his
second wife, the former Sonia Adelson; daughters Rebecca Kennedy
and Rachel Klein; a son, Jonathan Klein; and seven grandchildren
and four great-grandchildren,  according  to a death notice on the
website of Joseph Levine & Sons funeral home in Philadelphia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  