-- Bega Cheese to Take Time Studying Any Improved Warrnambool Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-10-21T00:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/bega-cheese-to-take-time-studying-any-improved-warrnambool-bid.html
Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA) , the No. 1
shareholder in  Australia ’s Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory
Co., will study in coming weeks any improved offer for the dairy
producer that’s the subject of rival bids.  “That’s the period of time we will take to think about
what we will do with our offer,” Bega Cheese Executive Chairman
Barry Irvin said today in a phone interview. Warrnambool, which
has a market value of A$453 million ($437 million), supplies
milk to make Philadelphia cream cheese.  Warrnambool, the maker of brands including Sungold and
Warrnambool cheddar, is trading at a record after receiving
offers from Bega Cheese, Murray Goulburn Cooperative Co.,
Australia’s biggest milk processor, and  Canada ’s  Saputo Inc. (SAP) 
Buying Victoria state-based Warrnambool would allow the bidders
to add production to meet rising demand in  Asia .  The competition for Warrnambool won’t rush Bega into
improving its offer of 1.2 shares and A$2 cash for each
Warrnambool share, Irvin said. “We don’t feel pressured to have
to make one today or tomorrow.”  Warrnambool rose as much as 3.6 percent to A$8.17 a share.
That’s 8.9 percent more than the A$7.50 a share offer Murray
Goulburn made last week, and more than the Saputo’s A$7 a share
and Bega’s A$6.80 a share.  Bega Cheese, a New South Wales state-based producer,  holds
18 percent  of Warrnambool and Murray Goulburn holds 17 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Warrnambool has rejected Bega’s bid as too low and
unanimously recommended Saputo’s offer. Directors are scheduled
to meet to consider the bid by Murray Goulburn, the company said
last week.  Bega Cheese, which made its cash and share offer last
month, said it expects to win approval for a possible takeover
from the anti-trust regulator within the next two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  