-- BHP Billiton Raises Iron Ore Output Forecast After 23% Increase
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-10-22T16:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/bhp-billiton-raises-iron-ore-output-forecast-after-23-increase.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, raised its full-year iron ore production
forecast after first-quarter output of its biggest earning unit
jumped 23 percent.  Production of the steelmaking material was 48.8 million
metric tons in the three months ended Sept. 30, from 39.8
million tons a year earlier, Melbourne-based BHP said today in a
statement. That compares with the 47.8 million ton median
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The increase coincides with rising demand from  steel mills 
in  China , the biggest buyer of the raw material, where imports
gained to a record 75 million tons in September. Iron ore is the
biggest contributor to BHP’s  profit , comprising 43 percent, or
$12.2 billion, of its earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization in the 2013 fiscal year.  “You will continue to see these guys push out more  iron
ore ,” said Chris Drew, an analyst in Sydney with Royal Bank of
 Canada . “You’ve seen an upgrade to iron ore expectations for
the year, which should support earnings.”  BHP advanced 4.2 percent to 1,950.5 pence by the close in
London, the highest in two months. It climbed 2.35 percent to
A$37.05 in Sydney trading, also the highest in more than two
months. The company has outperformed its global peers this year,
slipping 0.1 percent compared with a 21 percent decline in the
110-company Bloomberg World Mining Index.  Total iron ore output will rise to 212 million tons this
year from its earlier forecast of 207 million tons, after
improvements in the supply chain at its West Australian mines
delivered record production. It sees a “strong” outlook for
steel production underpinning demand, Jimmy Wilson, the
company’s head of iron ore said in a  presentation  last week.  Bull Market  Iron ore entered a  bull market  in July as users in China
replenished stockpiles that shrank in March to the lowest level
since 2009. Prices at Tianjin measured by The Steel Index Ltd.
have rallied 21 percent from this year’s low on May 31 to
$133.30 a ton today.  Morgan Stanley this month boosted forecasts for the first
and second quarters of next year. Iron ore will average $130 a
ton in the first three months, $5 more than previously forecast,
and $120 in the second quarter, up from $117, analysts  Peter Richardson  and Joel Crane wrote in a report.  “Our pursuit of productivity gains and operating
excellence is already yielding strong results,” Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Mackenzie  said in the statement. “There is no
better example than in our iron ore business.”  Net Income  BHP in August reported a 30 percent drop in net income in
the last fiscal year to $10.9 billion. Only Rio de Janeiro-based
 Vale SA (VALE5)  and  Rio Tinto  Group of London, ship more iron ore than
BHP.  Rio Tinto, the second-biggest iron-ore shipper, last week
also reported record ore production at its mines in Australia’s
Pilbara region.  BHP’s total petroleum output was a record 62.7 million
barrels of oil equivalent, up 2 percent from a year earlier.
That beat the 60.3 million barrel median estimate of 6 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Full-year production forecast for petroleum was maintained
even as the company carries out planned maintenance at its
Pyrenees site in  Australia  this quarter, which it said would
halt a floating production storage and off-take facility for
about one month.  The company expects to take a charge of about $100 million
in fiscal 2014 as its optimizes its gas program and terminates
rig contracts. BHP’s onshore U.S. rig count declined to 27 from
40 during the quarter, it said.  Output of coking coal, BHP’s fourth-largest source of
revenue, rose 14 percent on the previous year to 10.2 million
tons, it said in the statement.  Thermal coal output gained 3 percent to 19.6 million tons,
BHP said. Copper advanced 6 percent to 403,300 tons.  BHP maintained its full-year output guidance for coal and
copper, it said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  