-- U.S. Banks Say Proposal to Limit Leverage Arbitrary, Harmful
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-22T20:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/big-u-s-banks-say-proposal-to-limit-leverage-arbitrary-harmful.html
Some of the largest U.S. banks said
a proposed rule to increase the capital they hold against
potential losses is arbitrary and would put them at a
disadvantage against non-U.S. banks facing easier requirements.  The leverage ratio -- proposed by banking regulators at 5
percent for holding companies and 6 percent for their banking
units, targets banks with the most assets. In comment letters
yesterday, New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest  U.S.
bank , said the idea could worsen an uneven global playing field
for U.S. banks, and  State Street Corp. (STT)  said the regulators’
proposal showed “no evidence” that they studied the potential
impact on banks.  “The minimum ratios are highly arbitrary,” said Stefan Gavell, Boston-based State Street’s head of regulatory affairs,
in a comment letter. The rule could squeeze global custody
banks’ ability to provide client access to “core payment,
clearing and settlement functions,” he wrote.  The  Federal Reserve , Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. proposed a tougher
limit on U.S. firms than those agreed to in Basel III
international accords. The leverage cap -- also affecting
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
 Bank of America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp.  -- is meant to limit vulnerabilities in the
financial system seen in the 2008 credit crisis.  Basel Backstop  The July proposal is intended to be a backstop to the Basel
III risk-based capital rules already set by the U.S. regulators.
This week, the agencies will also propose a rule setting a
higher standard for the minimum amount of easy-to-sell assets
banks have to hold to tide them over during a credit drought.  “A forceful application of the 6 percent requirement
contemplated here to the full range of gross bank exposures will
clearly create significant benefits for financial stability,”
nonprofit group Americans for Financial Reform wrote in a
comment letter.  Citigroup Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  and Brian Leach, its head of franchise risk and strategy, said that the
leverage standards -- if the final rule tracks Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision ideas for derivatives and securities
financing transactions -- could put U.S. banks “at a
competitive disadvantage, exacerbating an already uneven playing
field for U.S. financial institutions.”  Capital Demands  While Gerspach said last week Citigroup already meets the
proposed capital demands, analysts at Goldman Sachs said in a
July report that the capital shortfall at all the banks could
approach $98 billion -- a gap the report said banks are capable
of bridging within three years. Among holding companies, Morgan
Stanley and Bank of  New York  Mellon have the most ground to make
up, according to the report.  “Portions of the proposal could operate at cross-purposes
with other recent macroprudential, capital, and liquidity
reforms,” BNY Mellon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Gerald Hassell  said in a letter yesterday. As proposed, it could
“totally change the fundamental balance present in the existing
U.S. regulatory capital framework.”  Because the proposed leverage demands are well above the 3
percent agreed to in Basel, financial industry groups said the
simple capital equation could displace risk-based capital as the
main buffer instead of acting as a backstop.  ‘Fundamental’ Flaw  “There is a fundamental conceptual flaw in a  leverage
ratio  in that it ignores risk, notwithstanding that capital is
specifically intended to act as a buffer to risk,” Brett
Waxman, associate general counsel at New York-based trade group
the Clearing House Association LLC, wrote in a letter. The ratio
discourages the holding of low-yield, low-risk assets such as
mortgages and government securities, he said.  “The prospect of an excessive, overriding leverage ratio
would effectively require much more capital to be held for
banks’ least risky assets, such as cash,” according to a
comment letter signed by the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association,  American Bankers Association  and Financial
Services Roundtable. The groups asked regulators to exempt cash
and Treasuries from asset calculations.  Some have advocated even higher leverage minimums, such as
former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair , who favors an 8 percent
minimum.  ‘Improves’ Transparency  “A leverage ratio is easy to understand, comparable across
firms, and difficult to ‘game’,” Bair, chairman of the
Washington-based Systemic Risk Council, wrote in an Oct. 15
comment letter. “This dramatically improves market transparency
about a firm’s risk.”  Two Democratic lawmakers urged more stringent ratios.  “Every financial crisis has one critical ingredient:
excess leverage,” wrote Representatives John Conyers of
Michigan, and Alan Grayson of  Florida . “Whether these
liabilities are in the form of derivatives and off-balance-sheet
assets or overvalued tulips pledged as collateral, too much debt
without loss-absorbing equity to match it is simply too
dangerous to exist.”  Tod Burwell, president and chief executive officer of BAFT-IFSA, an international financial-services trade group, said in a
comment letter that the rule should be postponed until there’s
further agreement at the Basel committee and a comprehensive
impact study is done. He said the proposal could hamper “global
trade flows” needed for economic recovery.  Other Banks  The comment letters also included concerns that the rule
sends ripples beyond the eight banks directly affected.  “It would potentially create incentives for organizations
to hold higher-yielding, higher-risk assets, which likely would
lead to a distortion of how the market prices these higher-risk
assets,” said a letter from banks including  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF) ,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  and  SunTrust
Banks Inc. (STI)  “Even institutions that are not subject to the
enhanced leverage ratio requirement would feel the impact of
changes to asset pricing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 