-- Billionaire Developer Buying Land Shows RBA Cuts Work: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-10-22T05:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/billionaire-developer-buying-land-shows-rba-rate-cuts-working.html
To gauge whether Australian central
bank Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s two-year monetary  easing cycle  has
done enough to revive growth, ask  Australia ’s sixth richest man.  Developer Harry Triguboff has bought new sites, is building
a 600-unit apartment block on Queensland’s Gold Coast and plans
to boost hiring as record-low borrowing costs stir demand.  “ Interest rates  are very important,” the 80-year-old
billionaire founder of Meriton Pty, Australia’s biggest
apartment developer, said in a telephone interview from
Brisbane. “Because they dropped, so the market has improved.”  Rising home prices and employment gains in the  construction
industry  are heralding a revival in business confidence even as
investment in mining wanes. The prospect of an economic recovery
is prompting money markets to price in the end of the central
bank’s easing cycle, which started in late 2011 and brought
borrowing costs to an unprecedented low of 2.5 percent.  “The $64,000 question is can the pick up in home prices
translate into construction, which is what creates jobs, and at
this stage the evidence points to a modest upswing,” said
 Warren Hogan , chief economist at Australia &  New Zealand  Banking
Group Ltd. “Rate cuts from here bring in some risk of
overcooking the  property market . I think the RBA is comfortably
sitting where it is.”  Traders are now pricing in an 8 basis-point increase for
the cash rate over the coming year, according to a Credit Suisse
Group AG  index  based on swaps. That contrasts with market
estimates for a further 41 basis points of cuts on Aug. 6, when
the RBA most recently lowered the benchmark.  ‘Further Recovery’  After its rate reductions in late 2011 and early 2012 did
little to spur lending and construction, the RBA is now noting a
pickup in activity. “Dwelling construction remained higher than
a year earlier and forward-looking indicators pointed to a
further recovery in the second half of 2013,” the RBA said in
 minutes  of its October meeting released Oct. 15.  Bill Evans , chief economist at Westpac Banking Corp. who
was among the first to correctly predict the start of the rate-cut cycle in 2011, this month pushed out his forecast for more
reductions to 2014 as the central bank gauges whether the pickup
in housing activity is sustained.  The typical residential construction upturn adds about 2
percentage points to  gross domestic product  growth over a two to
three-year cycle, according to Michael Blythe, chief economist
in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s
largest lender. Every A$1 spent building homes generates A$1.31
of spending elsewhere in the economy, while each A$1 million
outlaid generates 17 jobs, he wrote in an Oct. 15 research note.  ‘Enough’s Enough’  “It won’t take much for the RBA to say ‘enough’s enough,
we want to take the wind out of the sails of the house-price
pickup,” said Stephen Koukoulas, managing director of Canberra-based Market Economics Pty. He is the only economist among 31
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  who expects the central bank to begin
raising rates in the first quarter of next year.  Home prices  surged to a record in September, driven by
dwelling values at all-time highs in the eastern cities of
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. The RP Data-Rismark capital city
index jumped 5.5 percent from a year earlier across Australia’s
major cities, 0.7 percent above the previous record in October
2010. Sydney and Melbourne led gains in the three months to
Sept. 30, climbing 5.2 percent and 5 percent.  Mike Kane, chief executive officer of building materials
company Boral Ltd., has noted signs of improvement in New South
Wales,  Western Australia , and Queensland states.  “We’ve seen actually the bottom in terms of our building
products and our construction materials,” he said in an
interview with Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside Business
program broadcast on Oct. 20.  China Property  Elsewhere, home prices in China’s four major cities rose
the most since January 2011 last month. New home prices climbed
in 69 of the 70 cities the government tracked in September from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today.  In the U.S., employers probably added more workers last
month than in August and the jobless rate held at the lowest
level since 2008, a Bloomberg survey showed, indicating the
economy was gaining momentum before the fiscal gridlock in
 Washington  forced some federal agencies to close for 16 days.  It may take a while for construction to offset Australia’s
broader employment slowdown. The Treasury expects the  jobless
rate  will climb to a 10-year high of more than 6 percent next
year, from 5.6 percent in September, as a once-in-a-century
mining investment boom wanes.  Mining Losses  The  mining industry  shed 2,800 workers in the 12 months
through August, according to government data, while
manufacturing lost 42,400 jobs, continuing a 15-year decline as
the strong local dollar hurts competitiveness.  Helping stem the rise in unemployment is construction,
where 79,700 jobs were generated in the 12 months through
August. That’s the most in almost seven years and compared with
64,100 lost in the year earlier period, the data shows.  Triguboff, whose company last year built 1,700 apartments
in New South Wales and Queensland states, is worth $5.1 billion
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  “Buying land doesn’t mean I can hire more people
tomorrow,” Triguboff said. “But we will be hiring more people
within the next two or three months.”  Rising Confidence  The billionaire’s optimism is reflected more broadly:
Confidence among Australian  households  and  businesses  jumped
after  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition last month
defeated  Kevin Rudd ’s minority Labor government, ending three
years of a hung parliament.  That has helped spur gains for Australia’s dollar, which
traded at 96.52 U.S. cents at 4:34 p.m. in Sydney. The Aussie
has gained about 8.4 percent since Aug. 30, the most among 10
major developed currencies after New Zealand, spurred by the
recovery in confidence and the  Federal Reserve ’s decision not to
taper its bond purchase plan.  The Aussie’s rebound leaves RBA Governor Stevens weighing
the contractionary force of a stronger currency versus rising
home prices and signs of a construction recovery.  “I personally would continue to think that a lower
currency than this would be helpful in rebalancing the growth
sources of the economy,” Stevens said in response to questions
after a  speech  in Sydney on Oct. 18. “I’d prefer it to be lower
than this rather than higher.”  That preference may ensure Stevens won’t rush to damp the
housing recovery with higher borrowing costs even as he avoids
spurring home prices with further rate reductions.  “While there is scope for a final cut, we continue to
think that we are near the end of this easing cycle,” said Su-Lin Ong, Sydney-based head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of  Canada . “The  base rate  is
likely to remain at a historical low throughout 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  