-- BlackBerry Search for Bidders Depends on Patent Stockpile
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-10-21T20:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/blackberry-search-for-bidders-depends-on-patent-stockpile.html
Even as  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB) ’s sales
tumbled in recent years, the company continued amassing patents,
building an intellectual-property hoard that’s now central to
its effort to entice bidders.  The struggling smartphone maker received 986  patents  last
year, a 49 percent increase from 2011, according to figures
compiled by the Intellectual Property Owners Association.
BlackBerry’s patents are valued at anywhere from $1 billion to
$3 billion, depending on how many of them have already been
licensed out, analysts and patent experts estimate.  Working in BlackBerry’s favor: The patents cover similar
technology as Apple Inc.’s intellectual property, and much of
the portfolio is only a few years old. The downside is that the
market for such assets has cooled. Previous patent buyers such
as  Apple (AAPL)  and Google Inc. amassed broad portfolios in patent
deals two years ago.  “This is an incredibly volatile market,” said Ron Laurie,
managing director of  Palo Alto , California-based Inflexion Point
Strategy, who advises companies on patents. “It all depends on
perceived demand and strategic value.”  A higher patent valuation would help the company as it
seeks offers better than  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) ’s
tentative $4.7 billion buyout proposal, even if it means
breaking the company up to get the fullest value for the assets.  Patent Mentions  Apple, whose iPhone is now the best-selling smartphone,
cites BlackBerry’s technology 1,295 times in its own patent
applications, according to MDB Capital Group LLC, a  Santa
Monica , California-based patent-investment bank. The rivals
credit each other more than any other two North American device
makers. Companies are required to identify competing technology
to ensure they aren’t claiming something already patented.  Lisette Kwong, a Waterloo, Ontario-based spokeswoman for
BlackBerry, and Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple,
declined to comment.  Given its connections to Apple and an average patent age of
just 3.4 years, the portfolio may fetch $2 billion to $3
billion, according to MDB. That value may be lower if BlackBerry
has already licensed much of its technology, said Erin-Michael Gill, managing director of MDB Capital. Widely licensed patents
have less use for new deals or court challenges.  ‘Trivial Amount’  “If that’s the case, the financial buyers no longer have
much interest -- and the strategics don’t need them,” Gill
said. “Then it would go from multibillion dollars to a trivial
amount, probably just a few hundred.”  MDB’s estimate reflects what the patents would fetch as
stand-alone assets without liabilities a buyer of the whole
company would face. The cost of shutting the hardware unit could
be $800 million, according to BMO Capital Markets.  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  pegs the value of BlackBerry’s
patent portfolio at about $1.6 billion, with the phonemaker’s
enterprise network of servers at $550 million to $1.1 billion.
Add those assets to the $2.6 billion in cash the company had at
the end of last quarter, and you get close to the $4.7 billion
Fairfax is offering.  BlackBerry, which redefined what a phone could do more than
a decade ago, has been eclipsed by Apple and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , which offered a slicker range of smartphones and tablets.
BlackBerry’s share of the global smartphone market shrank to 2.9
percent in June -- down from 19 percent four years earlier --and
last quarter sales plunged 45 percent from a year earlier.  BlackBerry slipped 1.6 percent to $8.25 at the close in  New
York . The stock has fallen almost 31 percent this year and
remains more than 90 percent below its 2008 peak.  Potential Bidders  Fairfax, BlackBerry’s largest shareholder, is trying to
line up financing and partners for its bid to take the company
private. BlackBerry co-founders  Mike Lazaridis  and Douglas Fregin, who together control 8 percent of BlackBerry’s shares,
said this month they’re also mulling a bid. Lazaridis holds 178
BlackBerry patents, according to MDB.  After signing a nondisclosure agreement, Cerberus Capital
Management LP is in the early stages of considering an offer to
acquire all of BlackBerry, a person with knowledge of the
situation said last week. Lenovo Group Ltd. also signed a
nondisclosure agreement and is actively considering a bid, the
Wall Street Journal reported last week.  Fregin and Lazaridis declined to comment on any specific
interest in the patents through their spokesman  Mike Sitrick .
 Peter Duda , a spokesman for Cerberus, also declined to comment.
Spokesmen for Fairfax and Lenovo did not immediately return
messages seeking comment.  ‘Including Apple’  In addition to patenting more of its own technology,
BlackBerry has also bought patents from bankrupt  Nortel Networks
Corp. (NRTLQ)  and built a whole new operating system. Cupertino,
California-based Apple received 1,136 patents last year.  Patents last 20 years from the date of their application,
making BlackBerry’s 3.4-year average appealing, Gill said.  “There’s 15-plus years of useful life to this portfolio,
which is significant,” he said. “Anybody that cares about
Apple is going to care about this portfolio -- including
Apple.” Not all patents are created equal. In the typical
portfolio, as little as 5 percent of patents have any real value
as a fit with other companies, Laurie said. That makes it hard
to predict what BlackBerry’s ultimate sales price will be, he
said.  ‘Weird Business’  “The market’s signaling a viewpoint that what’s important
is what people think rather than what’s in the portfolio,”
Laurie said. “It’s a weird business.”  BlackBerry’s 9,268 granted patents and applications include
190 patents related to information security, which remains the
core of its appeal to government, bank and military customers
like the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  While the BlackBerry 10 operating system failed to resonate
with consumers, its underlying QNX technology is a platform for
devices that manage nuclear-power plants, car info-tainment
systems and unmanned aerial drones for the U.S. military.
Customers that use QNX include Porsche,  Cisco (NOK1V) ,  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and Caterpillar Inc.  Even with those assets, BlackBerry is unlikely to be able
to command the same premium as Nortel or Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. did for their patents in 2011 because the market
has changed, Laurie said. Back then, Apple, Google and Microsoft
Corp. were battling in court over smartphone technology. Lately,
they have refrained from new lawsuits against each other as they
work through the old cases. That means they may not need to buy
more patents, Laurie said.  Nortel Auction  In July 2011, a consortium of five companies led by Apple
won the auction for a portfolio of more than 6,000 patents from
Nortel for $4.5 billion, compared with Google’s initial bid of
$900 million. BlackBerry paid about $770 million for its share.  Six weeks later, Google agreed to pay $12.5 billion for
Motorola Mobility, another former mobile-phone pioneer that had
fallen on hard times, primarily for a patent portfolio it could
use as a bulwark against litigation involving its Android
operating system.  A more recent deal by Nokia Oyj shows patents still have
plenty of value, including their ability to create fresh
revenue.  The Espoo, Finland-based company, which last month agreed
to sell its handset business to Microsoft for $7.2 billion, kept
control of its patents, which now generate more than 500 million
euros ($676 million) a year in licensing revenue, its annual
report shows. Since similar portfolios generate more than $1
billion a year, BlackBerry should be able to average at least
$100 million in licensing revenue annually, Gill said.  “Even if strategic buyers like Apple, Google or Samsung
don’t have the same enthusiasm that they might have had two
years ago, the floor value a financial buyer would put on the
assets means it’s still going to go for a meaningful amount,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  