-- Bo Appeal Decision to Be Announced Oct. 25, Chinese Court Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2013-10-21T16:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/bo-appeal-decision-to-be-announced-oct-25-chinese-court-says.html
A Chinese court on Oct. 25 will
announce its decision on former Politburo member Bo Xilai’s
appeal of his life sentence for corruption, abuse of power and
bribery, the court said on its  website  yesterday.  Bo, 64, was found guilty last month of taking 20.4 million
 yuan  ($3.35 million) in bribes, embezzling 5 million yuan and
abusing his power. He received a life term in prison, the
harshest sentence meted out to a former or sitting member of the
elite Communist Party Politburo in three decades.  Bo proclaimed his innocence at the trial and called the
bribery charges something “even the lousiest TV drama
scriptwriter wouldn’t create.” He then appealed the sentence to
the Shandong High People’s Court, which said in a statement it
will announce its decision at 10 a.m. on Oct. 25.  His downfall came as the party was in the midst of a once-a-decade leadership transition, and he was mentioned as a
possible candidate for the Politburo Standing Committee before
his ouster. The sentence fits a broader campaign against the
corruption that President Xi Jinping has said poses a threat to
party rule.  Bo’s sentencing came more than a year after his wife, Gu Kailai, was convicted of murdering British businessman Neil
Heywood. Heywood’s death in November 2011 set off a chain of
events that culminated in the removal of Bo in March 2012 from
his job as the top official in the city of Chongqing, following
the attempted defection to the U.S. of his police chief.  Zhou Yongkang  On the day of Bo’s sentencing on Sept. 22, scholars who
study Chinese politics, including Dali Yang of the University of
Chicago and Joseph Cheng of the City University of Hong Kong,
said an appeal would probably result in little or no change to
the verdict.  Since Bo’s trial in August, Xi’s anti-graft campaign has
focused on people tied to Zhou Yongkang, until last year head of
 China ’s security services. Zhou praised Bo’s achievements in
Chongqing just days before Bo was ousted from the job.  Xi set up a special unit for a probe into Zhou, the South
China Morning Post reported yesterday, citing three people it
didn’t identify. The move reflects Xi’s personal interest in the
case and concerns that the party’s Central Commission for
Discipline Inspection doesn’t have the proper experience
handling criminal investigations, according to the report.  A formal criminal probe of Zhou would be the first
targeting a current or retired member of the Politburo Standing
Committee since the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Hong Kong at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  