-- BOE Is Watching for Signs of Excessive Housing Debt, Taylor Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-21T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/boe-is-watching-for-signs-of-excessive-housing-debt-taylor-says.html
Bank of England  official  Martin Taylor  said policy makers are watching for signs that banks or
borrowers may become over-extended as the housing market
strengthens.  The central bank’s Financial Policy Committee is also
monitoring for “signs that borrowers were not in a position to
withstand an eventual rise in  interest rates , signs in general
that a more speculative market might be developing,” he said in
a speech today in Wolverhampton,  England . “Housing boom and
bust and financial stability make uneasy bedfellows.”  Taylor, a member of the FPC, said the panel “has an eye on
developments” in the  property market .  Asking prices  for London
homes rose an “unsustainable” 10.2 percent in October,
Rightmove Plc said in a report today, adding there is no risk of
a property bubble outside of the capital.  It isn’t the FPC’s job to contain house-price increases,
Taylor said. The  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors called
on the committee last month to limit house-price increases to 5
percent a year.  “If you have an economic recovery, rising numbers of
households and very tight supply -- all of which we seem to have
at the moment -- it would be surprising if” prices didn’t
increase, Taylor said. The addition of low interest rates and
the government’s Help to Buy program has created “some vigorous
facilitation of demand,” he said.  Taylor said calls for the FPC to tame the housing market
demonstrate that people “see the point” of the committee,
though he’s also concerned that “expectations both of the scope
of our role and of our ability to achieve an outcome are
expanding so fast.”  ‘Fashionable Backstop’  Taylor, a former adviser at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., was a
member of the U.K.’s Independent Commission on Banking. He said
the government’s request that the FPC assess Help to Buy
annually shows that the panel is “fast becoming the most
fashionable backstop in town” though that “probably will not
be enough to ensure we are well liked.”  “As we take on responsibility to backstop policies
designed by others to pursue their objectives, the balance of
our work will shift, away from adjusting the structure of the
financial system to make it more resilient and towards
monitoring the current situation for emerging risks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  