-- SK Broadband Markets Dollar Bond as Spreads Reach One-Month Low
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-10-21T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/bond-risk-falls-in-australia-japan-credit-default-swaps-show.html
SK Broadband Co. (033630) , a Seoul-based
 Internet service provider , is marketing U.S. dollar-denominated
bonds after yield premiums on notes in the currency in  Asia  fell
to a one-month low.  The telecommunications company is offering five-year
securities to yield about 200 basis points more than Treasuries,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified because the terms aren’t set. Spreads on dollar
securities in the region dropped to  286 basis points  more than
Treasuries on Oct. 18, the lowest since Sept. 20, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Vingroup Joint Stock Co.,  Vietnam ’s largest shopping mall
owner, and Anton Oilfield Services Group are also considering
dollar bonds. The planned offerings come amid expectations for
the U.S. central bank to only start reducing bond purchases in
March, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Corporate bonds worldwide have gained 0.98 percent this month,
erasing a loss that reached 2.5 percent in June, the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Corporate & High Yield Index shows.  “Risk appetite has returned but the market is still
cautious,” said Edwin Chan, Hong Kong-based head of Asian
credit research at UBS AG. “Issuers are waiting on the
sidelines for the right opportunity, while investors exercise
discipline and are not just indiscriminately buying.”  Vingroup and Anton Oilfield will arrange investor meetings
from this week, according to people familiar with the matters.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  was little changed at 132.5 basis points
as of 8:31 a.m. in  Singapore ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  prices show.
The measure is on track for a 23.9 basis-point fall this month,
the most since June 2012, CMA data show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index decreased 1.5 basis points to
84 basis points as of 9:07 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup
Inc. prices. The gauge is on track for its lowest level since
Sept. 19, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 1 basis point to 105
as of 11:00 a.m. in Sydney, National Australia Bank Ltd. prices
show. The benchmark, which has ranged from 96.1 to 149.5 this
year, is poised to drop 20.2 basis points this month, according
to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the private market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  