-- Bradford, Wayne Are Out for Year After Injury-Filled NFL Day
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-10-21T20:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/bradford-wayne-are-out-for-year-after-injury-filled-nfl-day.html
St. Louis Rams quarterback  Sam Bradford  and Indianapolis Colts wide receiver Reggie Wayne will
miss the rest of the season after tearing knee ligaments, two of
the injuries sustained by National Football League starting
players yesterday.  Tampa Bay Buccaneers running back Doug Martin tore a labrum
in his shoulder and may miss the rest of the year, according to
the NFL Network. Chicago Bears quarterback  Jay Cutler , Houston
Texans running back  Arian Foster  and Philadelphia Eagles
quarterback Nick Foles also left games early due to injury.  Green Bay Packers tight end Jermichael Finley was taken off
the field on a stretcher unable to move after a helmet-to-helmet
hit from Cleveland Browns safety Tashaun Gipson. Finley remains
in the hospital today, is performing daily activities and is in
good spirits, according to Packers coach  Mike McCarthy .  “No one wants to leave the field like that, it’s a common
fear of anybody who’s ever played the game,” McCarthy told
reporters. “He’s got a lot of support and a lot of love.”  McCarthy called the injury “significant,” adding that it
was too early to know exactly what happened or when Finley could
return to the team.  “Keep him in your thoughts & be patient,” Blake Baratz,
Finley’s agent, said yesterday on his Twitter account.
“Football doesn’t matter right now.”  Bradford, 25, tore the anterior cruciate ligament of his
left knee in the fourth quarter of a loss to the Carolina
Panthers, the Rams said on their Twitter account. Wayne tore the
same ligament in his right knee last night against the  Denver
Broncos , according to Colts coach Chuck Pagano. Recovery time
for a torn ACL is typically six months or more.  Shoulder Injury  Martin, who rushed for 90.9 yards per game last season,
tore his labrum in the third quarter against the  Atlanta
Falcons , the NFL Network said. He will miss the rest of the
season for the winless Buccaneers, and probably will be replaced
by Mike James, according to the report.  Buccaneers coach  Greg Schiano  said today that Martin had
tests on his shoulder and that he probably wouldn’t play on Oct.
24 against the Panthers. He said the team did not believe it
would be season-ending.  A Pro Bowl selection in 2008, Cutler will miss at least
four weeks with a torn groin muscle suffered in the first half
against the Washington Redskins, the Bears said.  Foster, who is fifth in the NFL in rushing this season,
said after yesterday’s game that he injured his hamstring and it
“doesn’t seem too severe,” according to ESPN. The network also
reported that Texans linebacker Brian Cushing broke his left leg
and will miss the remainder of the season.  Kevin Cooper, a spokesman for the Texans, didn’t respond to
an e-mail regarding Foster and Cushing.  Foles, 24, suffered a concussion at the end of the third
quarter against the  Dallas Cowboys , the Eagles said today on
their Twitter account.  Michael Vick , the Eagles’ starter heading
into the season, is recovering from a hamstring injury and has
missed the last two games.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  