-- Brazil to Gauge Dollar Swap Demand as Libra May Fuel Real Rally
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-10-21T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/brazil-to-gauge-dollar-swap-demand-as-libra-may-fuel-real-rally.html
Brazil  will evaluate demand for
rolling over currency swaps that mature Nov. 1 as the auction
today of a field holding the country’s biggest oil discovery may
fuel a rally of the real.  The central bank will study today if there are market
conditions for holding auctions on Oct. 22, 23 and 24 to roll
over $8.9 billion in currency swaps aimed at supporting the
currency, according to a statement posted on its website. Today
the government will also sell the rights to explore the Libra
offshore field and the winner will pay a 15 billion reais ($6.9
billion ) signing bonus.  “The flows from the Libra auction will affect the demand
for the swap rollovers,”  Pedro Tuesta , Latin America economist
at 4cast Ltd. in  New York , said in a phone interview. “Any
foreign company involved may have to bring dollars from
offshore.”  The real has gained more than any other currency in the
world since the central bank announced on Aug. 22 a $60 billion
intervention plan to defend the currency. While a stronger
currency helps the central bank fight above-target inflation by
reducing the cost of imports, it hurts Brazilian exporters.  The currency declined from a four-month high on Oct. 18
amid speculation the central bank won’t roll over all of the
swaps maturing Nov. 1 as it seeks to contain short-term gains,
according to Jose Carlos Amado, a foreign-exchange trader at
Renascenca Corretora in  Sao Paulo .  The real fell 0.8 percent to 2.1700 per dollar on Oct. 18,
after reaching 2.1523 per dollar the day before, the highest
level since June 14.  Real  Brazil’s currency weakened to a 4 1/2-year low in August,
prompting the central bank to announce a program of offering
currency swaps and dollar credit lines through the end of the
year. The real has gained 12 percent since then, reducing its
decline to 7 percent over the past 6 months.  The program of currency swaps and credit line auctions
“has proved successful in curbing volatility” and could be
extended beyond year-end as the U.S. Federal Reserve winds down
monetary stimulus, central bank President Alexandre Tombini said
in prepared remarks for an Oct. 12 speech during meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund  in  Washington .  Energy Minister Edison Lobao told reporters in Brasilia
Oct. 19 that the government plans to hold the Libra auction
today even if there is only one bidder.  State oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3)  will not need the
Treasury’s help to pay its part of the signing bonus for the
Libra field, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told the daily
Estado de S.Paulo yesterday. Petrobras will have a stake of at
least 30 percent in the consortium that wins the Libra auction
and will owe a corresponding portion of the signing bonus, said
Mantega, who is also the oil company’s chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  