-- Brazil Sends Army to Protect First Pre-Salt Oil Sale
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-10-21T14:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/brazil-sends-in-army-to-protect-first-pre-salt-oilfield-auction.html
(Corrects time of auction in second paragraph.)  The Brazilian government is
dispatching army troops to protect the auction of a $184 billion
oilfield today in a  Rio de Janeiro  hotel.  Soldiers, army vehicles, helicopters and navy ships are
guarding the hotel in a beach-side suburb of Rio where companies
including China National Petroleum Corp.,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
and  Total SA (FP)  are expected to vie for one of the world’s two
largest offshore fields at 3 p.m. local time, as oil workers
protest the concession. The security operation, which also
includes police forces, began over the weekend.  The Libra auction will be the first since  Brazil  announced
the discovery of the so-called pre-salt oil reserves in 2007 in
the biggest discovery this century. The country’s main oil union
has been protesting the auction with pickets outside the
headquarters of state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , or Petrobras,
in downtown Rio and strikes that began last week to demand that
the state retain control of the field. By law, Petrobras will
hold at least a 30 percent stake and will act as operator.  The security deployment follows nationwide street protests
that started in June over an increase in bus fares and expanded
to include demands for better education and the removal of Rio
Governor Sergio Cabral. Protesters last week entered the Energy
Ministry in Brasilia.  At least 24 injunction requests had been filed in different
Brazilian cities through yesterday requesting the suspension of
the auction, with at least 18 dismissed by courts, Rio de
Janeiro-based newspaper O Globo reported late yesterday, citing
the national prosecutor’s office.  Libra is estimated to hold between 8 billion and 12 billion
barrels and development will require a 400 billion-real
investment during the 35-year concession, according to Brazil’s
oil regulator. That would make it one of the two biggest
offshore  oil fields  in the world together with Brazil’s Lula.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  