-- Buyout Firms Raise Record Loans in U.S. for European Companies
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-10-21T14:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/buyout-firms-raise-record-loans-in-u-s-for-european-companies.html
European companies owned by private-equity firms are raising a record amount of leveraged loans in
dollars to take advantage of lower rates offered by U.S. lenders
competing for deals.  Springer Science & Business Media GmbH, a German academic
publisher, and child car-seat maker Britax Childcare Ltd. were
among companies borrowing a total $14.5 billion this year,
almost triple the $5.2 billion raised over the same period of
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s equivalent
to 32 percent of the volume raised in euros, up from 23 percent
last year, the data show.  Companies are taking advantage of soaring demand for
riskier assets as the  Federal Reserve  holds down borrowing costs
to fuel the U.S. economic recovery. The average interest margin
on first-lien leveraged loans in dollars ranges from 350 basis
points to 400 basis points more than benchmark lending rates
compared with a spread of 425 basis points to 475 basis points
for loans in euros, according to Marlborough Partners, a London-based debt advisory firm. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  “We are seeing more European companies tapping the U.S.
market where they can get better pricing and covenant
flexibility than in  Europe ,” said John Foy, the head of
leveraged finance at Prudential Plc’s M&G Investments, which
manages more than 234 billion pounds ($378 billion). “U.S. loan
funds are having record inflows this year as investors look for
yield. It’s just too much money chasing too few deals.”  Fund Inflows  Investors poured more than $55 billion into funds that buy
leveraged loans this year, representing a 74 percent increase in
assets under management from 2012, according to an Oct. 10
report from Bank of America Corp. The average margin for first-lien leveraged loans in dollars fell to 400 basis points from
449 basis points over the same period, Bloomberg data show.  European companies borrowing from the U.S. market this year
raised leveraged loans equivalent to 5.2 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, compared with 4.7
times for deals in euros, according to Marlborough Partners.  Britax, owned by buyout firm  Nordic Capital , raised a $280
million covenant-light term loan B earlier this month that
offered an interest margin of 350 basis points more than Libor,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an
initial spread of 500 basis points more than the euro interbank
offered rate the Chertsey, England-based company paid on a 162
million-euro ($222 million) facility agreed in 2010, Bloomberg
data show.  Covenant-light loans and bonds typically give companies
more financial leeway as they don’t contain financial-maintenance provisions requiring the borrower to meet
restrictions such as the level of debt relative to earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  “The U.S. financing market is attracting many issuers and
tempting many more,” said  David Parker , a London-based managing
partner at Marlborough Partners. “That’s putting pressure on
European lenders to entertain lower pricing and more covenant-loose transactions, much to the delight of European borrowers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  