-- Caesars Says Grand Jury Probes Possible Bank Law Violations
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-21T20:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/caesars-says-grand-jury-probes-possible-bank-secrecy-violations.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  said
U.S. regulators and a grand jury are investigating alleged Bank
Secrecy Act violations at its flagship Las Vegas casino. Nevada
gaming officials are also involved.  Desert Palace Inc., owner of Caesars Palace, was told on
Oct. 11 that the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network is investigating whether to assess a civil
penalty and take enforcement action, the Las Vegas-based company
said today in a  filing . A U.S. grand jury is investigating,
Caesars said. The casino company declined further comment.  Over the past four days, investors in Caesars, the biggest
operator of U.S. casinos, learned the company was under the
scrutiny of federal regulators and two states. Caesars pulled
out of a project in Boston and ended a licensing deal for a
hotel in  Las Vegas , after Massachusetts investigators
recommended the company’s permit be denied. Today, Caesars
disclosed the money-laundering probe and said officials also
raised questions about the head of its online gaming business.  “If federal laws have been violated, that could very well
lead to disciplinary action based upon Nevada gaming laws,”
A.G. Burnett, chairman of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, said
in an e-mail. The state is investigating matters regarding
Caesars Palace and is working with U.S. regulators, he said.  Caesars, the largest owner of U.S. casinos, fell 4.8
percent to $17.81 at the close in New York. Caesars’ 10 percent
notes maturing in December 2018 declined 0.8 cent on the dollar
to 47 cents, increasing the yield to more than 31 percent.  The company said it’s cooperating with federal
investigators.  Banking Probe  “Governmental authorities have been increasingly focused
on anti-money laundering policies and procedures, with a
particular focus on the gaming industry,” Caesars said in
today’s filing.  Caesars left the  Boston  project on Oct. 18 over concerns
raised by state officials. They cited one of the parties
involved in the Las Vegas hotel project, past jobs held by the
head of its interactive unit and the parent company’s $23
billion in debt.  Massachusetts officials recommended the company not be
licensed, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman said
in an Oct. 19 telephone interview.  Caesars signed an agreement with Gansevoort Hotel Group to
rebrand Bill’s Gamblin’ Hall & Saloon on the  Las Vegas Strip 
into a boutique hotel. Arik Kislin, an investor in Gansevoort,
was identified in German court filings as allegedly having ties
to organized crime in  Russia , according to a 2012 report in the
 New York  Post.  Massachusetts Report  Gansevoort agreed to end its role in Las Vegas to minimize
any controversy for Caesars, Nancy Friedman, a spokeswoman for
the hotel, said in an e-mailed statement. Kislin’s lawyer, Lisa
Cohen, told the Post at the time that he had “no recollection”
about the company with the alleged mob ties.  The report by Massachusetts gaming investigators also noted
matters related to the CEO of Caesars Acquisition Co., a unit of
the company that is selling shares to the public, and his work
at public companies in the gaming industry prior to his
employment with Caesars, the company said in today’s filing.  Mitch Garber, the CEO of Caesars Acquisition, served in the
same position at PartyGaming Plc starting in April 2006, as the
U.S. began cracking down on illegal online betting.  Garber halted U.S. online gambling operations five months
after arriving. PartyGaming entered into a non-prosecution
agreement with the U.S. Attorney in New York in 2009, forfeiting
$105 million as part of the deal.  Caesars has offered shareholders the opportunity to buy
stock in Caesars Acquisition in a transaction that is expected
to close Nov. 18. The new company will have a stake in Caesars
Interactive, which operates online.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  