-- California Costliest Since ’08 Seen Spooking Buyers: Muni Credit
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-10-21T14:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/california-costliest-since-08-seen-spooking-buyers-muni-credit.html
The biggest rally in five years in
 California  debt has some investors balking on concern that the
state’s finances are increasingly vulnerable to swings in the
economy and tax revenue.  The most-populous state is selling $2.2 billion in general
obligations starting today, its largest such offer since April,
according to data from the treasurer’s office. Record strength
in its economy and tax boosts championed by Governor Jerry Brown
have earned credit-grade increases this year from Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. It hasn’t had a higher mark from
Moody’s Investors Service since 2001.  Yet at  0.31 percentage point , the extra yield investors are
willing to accept on 10-year California bonds has shrunk to the
skimpiest since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
spread is less than that on debt from  Michigan , with a rating
two steps higher. For some buyers, the cushion isn’t enough,
given that the fiscal gains are tied to volatile revenue such as
capital-gains taxes.  “It’s definitely less attractive,” said Michael Johnson,
managing partner of Gurtin Fixed Income Management LLC, which
oversees $7.5 billion in Solana Beach, California. “It still
provides more yield than a lot of places in the market, but
spreads have come in so tightly that it’s certainly less
attractive than it has been.”  Ratings Action  Fitch raised California to A, sixth-highest, in August
after lawmakers passed a $96.3 billion budget in June that
incorporated the 75-year-old Democratic governor’s more
conservative revenue forecasts and set aside a $1.1 billion
reserve. He also forecast a surplus this year, the first in
almost a decade. S&P raised the rating to the same level in
January, the first boost since 2006. Moody’s grades it four
steps below the top.  California securities are beating the $3.7 trillion
municipal market amid the worst year for local debt since 2008.
The state’s bonds have earned about 0.3 percent in the past
three months, while the rest of local borrowings lost about 0.4
percent, S&P data show.  The yield spread on California obligations is down from a
peak of about  1.7 percentage points  in July 2009, when an
impasse over how to close a budget deficit led the state to
issue IOUs to make ends meet, Bloomberg data show.  The state is “trading as if it’s going to be upgraded,”
said Tom Metzold, co-director of municipal investments in  Boston 
at Eaton Vance Management, which oversees about $28 billion in
local debt. “I’m not as sanguine about California.”  Gamut Run  California “has been everywhere between AAA and BBB,” two
levels above junk, in the past 35 years, Metzold said. “Maybe
it’s already topped out.”  Investors may have a different view, in light of the recent
crisis over the partial government shutdown and the U.S. debt
ceiling, said Tom Dresslar, a spokesman for Treasurer Bill Lockyer.  “Investors may be able to distinguish between California,
which has made great strides to improve its fiscal management
and standing, and the weaknesses of the federal government,”
Dresslar said.  Sale Week  The world’s ninth-largest economy is scheduled to sell tax-exempt and taxable obligations,  according  to Lockyer’s office.
The debt will be offered to individual investors today and
institutions such as mutual funds tomorrow, with final pricing
that day.  Proceeds will go toward building schools, parks and
libraries, to retrofit buildings against earthquakes and to
refinance some higher-cost debt.  In preliminary marketing today, the state is offering 10-year debt at 3.15 percent, or about 0.32 percentage point above
benchmark securities, according to a person familiar with the
sale who asked not to be named because the deal isn’t final.  In April, California sold debt maturing in 2023 to yield
2.37 percent, or about 0.54 percentage point above top-rated
munis, Bloomberg data show.  Returns on California general obligations may be limited
after the rally of the past year, said Jim Schwartz, head of
muni research at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which oversees about $108
billion of local debt. California will still find demand from
in-state individuals seeking tax-exempt income, he said from New
York.  Brown’s Victory  In November, voters approved Brown’s proposal to boost the
statewide sales tax and increase levies on income of $250,000 or
more. Income taxes have accounted for about 63 percent of
revenue this fiscal year, according to the Finance Department.  By increasing reliance on levies on top earners, including
capital gains, California has made itself more vulnerable to
fluctuations in the economy, said Emily Raimes, a Moody’s vice
president.  Moody’s A1 rating -- second-lowest for a state, after
 Illinois  -- recognizes California’s sensitivity to boom-and-bust
cycles, she said.  A strengthening economy alone won’t earn California a
higher mark, absent changes that make revenue less volatile or
require lawmakers to set aside a larger financial cushion,
Raimes said in an interview.  “We don’t want or expect their rating to go down when
their finances go down or go up when their finances go up,”
Raimes said.  Revenue Key  S&P could raise California again if revenue beats
projections consistently and Brown and lawmakers work to reduce
the state’s long-term debt burden, said Gabriel Petek, a senior
director in U.S. public finance in San Francisco.  California had about $103 billion of gross tax-supported
debt in 2012, ranking it first among U.S. states, according to
Moody’s. It placed seventh on a debt per capita basis.  California’s two largest revenue sources -- taxes on income
and sales -- both exceeded projections in Brown’s budget by more
than 9 percent in September, according to an Oct. 16  bulletin 
from the state Finance Department. Since the fiscal year began
in July, general-fund tax collections have outpaced Brown’s
estimates by 0.7 percent, the department said.  A Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  index  tracking
California’s economy was the highest since at least 1979 in
August. At the same time, the jobless rate was 8.9 percent that
month, exceeding the 7.3 percent national average.  Stocks Signal  The best predictor of California’s revenue is the
performance of the stock market,  Jason Sisney , deputy state
legislative analyst for state and local finance, said at the
Bond Buyer’s California Public Finance Conference in Los Angeles
Sept. 25.  The S&P 500 index of shares has gained about 22 percent
this year, after a 13.4 percent increase in 2012.  The state is equivalent to a company whose performance
depends on the economic climate, BlackRock’s Schwartz said.  “During good times, they look like an AA, and in bad
times, they look like a BBB,” he said.  California’s sale is among $7.5 billion of long-term muni
issues scheduled this week. It’s the busiest slate since July,
and is up from $4.3 billion last week as borrowing climbs after
the deal to raise the U.S. debt ceiling.  Ten-year benchmark munis yield 2.83 percent, the highest
since Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  