-- Canada Dollar Snaps 3-Day Gain on Central Bank Forecast Views
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-10-21T21:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/canada-dollar-gains-on-speculation-of-lift-from-u-s-jobs-report.html
The Canadian dollar snapped three
days of gains on speculation the  Bank of Canada  will downgrade
its economic forecasts after a government shutdown hampered
growth in the U.S.,  Canada ’s largest trading partner.  The currency rose earlier against the majority of its 16
most-traded peers before the U.S. releases data tomorrow that
may show hiring picked up last month. The Bank of Canada will
release a rate decision along with its monetary policy report
Oct. 23. Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said earlier this
month that the nation’s economy will expand more slowly than had
been forecast. The U.S. government reopened Oct. 17 after a 16-day shutdown, which shaved 0.6 percentage point from annualized
fourth-quarter growth, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  “If nonfarm payrolls tomorrow come in as expected, or the
revision comes in somewhat stronger, the danger would be for a
dollar rally.” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst at the online
currency trading firm Oanda Corp., by phone from Toronto. “If
the U.S. numbers do come out stronger, Canada will actually
benefit by association with the  U.S. economy .”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.2 percent to
C$1.0304 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys
97.05 U.S. cents.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer fell to the lowest in almost three months.
The three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate fell to
1.14 percent, the lowest since July 29. Risk reversals measure
the premium on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus
buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  Dollar Strength  “When the dollar is independently strong, it tends to pull
CAD with it on the crosses,” said  Adam Cole , head of Group of
10 currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada, by phone from
 London . “When the dollar is up against everything, it tends to
be up less against Canada as CAD gets pulled along as a kind of
mini-dollar.”  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bond  fell, with
yields rising two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
2.55 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
lost 15 cents to C$91.12.  Futures of crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 1.7
percent to $99.10 per barrel in New York.  The Bank of Canada is projected to keep its benchmark
 interest rate  at 1 percent, according to the median estimate of
22 economist surveyed by Bloomberg.  Nonfarm payrolls in the U.S. grew by 180,000 jobs in
September, up from a 169,000 increase the previous month,
according to the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey with 93
responses. The  unemployment rate  stayed at 7.3 percent, a
separate survey shows.  Sales Report  Canadian  wholesale sales  rose for a second month in August
on the fastest gain in motor vehicles in two years.  Sales rose 0.5 percent to C$49.8 billion ($48.4 billion),
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa, compared with the median
estimate for a 0.3 percent gain in a Bloomberg  survey  with 11
responses.  “Canada is faced with different headwinds because we’re
obviously very tied into the U.S., but we haven’t participated
in the same types of rallies as euro and sterling have,” said
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of  Nova
Scotia , by phone from Toronto. “We’re looking at the outlook
for nonfarm and I think it’s just giving back a little bit.”  The loonie is among the three worst performing developed
nation currencies this month with a 0.8 percent decline against
nine peers tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index.
The U.S. dollar has also fallen 0.8 percent while the Swedish
krona’s 1.3 percent decline is the biggest drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  