-- Canada Stocks Rise as Materials Producers Rally on Growth Bets
-- B y   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-10-21T20:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/canada-stocks-rise-as-metal-producers-rally-on-fed-stimulus-bets.html
 Canadian stocks  rose  for a fifth
day, the longest winning streak since May, as a rally among
miners on speculation that economic growth will spur commodity
demand overshadowed a drop among energy producers.  Detour Gold Corp. and  Alacer Gold (ASR)  Corp. each added at least
6.8 percent to pace advances among producers of raw materials.
Maple Leaf Foods Inc. jumped 10 percent as the company said it
might sell its 90 percent stake in Canada Bread Co. Athabasca
Oil Co. slid 2.9 percent to the lowest since May to pace
declines among energy producers.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 50.44
points, or 0.4 percent, to 13,186.53 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.
Trading was 9.5 percent above the 30-day average.  “If you have global growth, companies can make longer-term
decisions, which means expansion in production and employment,
and therefore everyone’s using more commodities,” Paul Gardner,
portfolio manager at Avenue Investment Management, said in a
phone interview from Toronto. He helps manage C$300 million
($290 million). “If you have an economy back on track in the
U.S., you will have normalized GDP growth, and that’s better for
commodities.”  The benchmark Canadian equity gauge has rallied 2.3 percent
in the past five sessions, giving it the longest string of gains
streak since May that left the index at the highest level in
more than two years.  Economic Growth  U.S. equities jumped to a record last week after lawmakers
ended a 16-day partial government shutdown and reached a debt
agreement that averted a default. Data from  China  showed
economic growth accelerated for the first time in three
quarters, with gross domestic product gaining 7.8 percent in the
third quarter. China and the U.S. are the biggest consumers of
commodities and Canada’s largest trading partners.  The S&P/TSX Materials Index jumped 1.6 percent today, the
most among 10 groups in the benchmark gauge. Gold producers
rallied, as the metal’s price advanced for the third time in
four days in New York. Speculation that the Federal Reserve
would delay tapering monthly bond buying boosted gold’s appeal
as a store of value.  Detour Gold rose 8.9 percent to C$8.08 and Alacer Gold
added 6.8 percent to C$2.98.  Endeavour Silver Corp. gained 4.8 percent to C$4.60 as the
price of the metal for December delivery jumped 1.7 percent.  Maple Leaf Foods, the Toronto-based maker of meats and
packaged goods, surged 10 percent to C$14.63 for the biggest
gain in 13 years. The company said it is considering selling its
90 percent stake in  Canada  Bread.  Bombardier Gains   Bombardier Inc. jumped 4.3 percent to C$5.30, a two-year
high, after the world’s third-largest airplane maker said it
received 30 new firm orders for its Learjet 85 aircraft from
Flexjet LLC.  Montreal-based Bombardier’s share price has risen for four
straight sessions amid optimism that the company’s agreement to
sell as many as 30 CSeries aircraft to a Chinese leasing company
may prompt fresh deals with customers from the Asian nation.  Energy companies slid 0.1 percent as a group, halting a
three-day advance, as the price of crude for November delivery
dropped 1.6 percent. Inventories increased to the highest level
in three months in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil-consuming
country.  Athabasca Oil fell 2.9 percent to C$6.09 for its fifth
straight drop. The oil-sands developer that began publicly
trading in 2010 plunged last week following an Alberta court’s
decision to allow an aboriginal group to appeal the provincial
regulator’s approval of the company’s Dover project.  Atlantic Power Corp. dropped 5 percent to C$5.16 after the
company was downgraded to underperform from neutral at Macquarie
Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  