-- Canada Consumer Sentiment Falls Third Week on Job Outlook
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-21T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/canada-consumer-sentiment-falls-third-week-on-job-outlook.html
The Bloomberg Nanos Canadian
Confidence Index fell for a third consecutive week as optimism
over  job security  deteriorated.  The measure of the economic mood of Canadians fell to 58.0
in the seven days through Oct. 18, from 58.5 the previous week.
The reading for job security dropped to 66.6 from 68.4.  Employment  has grown  by 113,100 positions through
September, the slowest pace since 2001 outside of the last
recession, as manufacturers and governments fire workers to cut
costs. Discouraged young people dropped out of the labor market
faster than new jobs were created in September, reducing the
 participation rate  to the lowest in more than a decade.  “Sentiment declined primarily due to rising concerns about
the domestic labor market which reflects the slower pace of
overall economic activity,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “Disenchantment with the
labor market, especially among younger people that are exiting
the workforce due to lack of opportunity, is likely to become a
rising policy concern as  Canada  heads into 2014.”  Prime Minister Stephen Harper re-opened Parliament last
week with a so-called Throne Speech that lays out the
government’s agenda saying jobs and the economy are its top
priorities. Harper signed a free-trade pact with the European
Union the government says will create 80,000 Canadian positions.  ‘Three-Week Slide’  The trade agreement and the end of the U.S. government
shutdown may trigger a rebound in confidence, said Nanos
Research Group Chief Executive Officer  Nik Nanos , who added the
index’s recent decline was driven by political deadlock in the
U.S., which consumes about three quarters of Canada’s exports.  “With the U.S. debt-ceiling impasse ended and Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper ’s focus on a trade deal with  Europe , we
may see an abatement of the three week slide in Canadian
 consumer confidence ,” said Nanos, head of the Ottawa-based
research company.  Optimism over future conditions climbed in the latest
survey. The share of people who believe the economy will improve
in the next six months rose to 20.1 percent, from 19.9 percent
in the previous survey, and 37.4 percent said real estate values
in their area would rise in that period, up from 36.8 percent.  About 21.5 percent said their finances have improved over
the last year, down from 21.6 percent in the prior survey.  The Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Confidence Index has two sub-indexes: the Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Pocketbook Index on
personal finances, and the Bloomberg Nanos Expectations Index on
future views. The data in the indexes date to 2008 and are based
on phone interviews with 1,000 people, using a four-week rolling
average of 250 respondents. The results are accurate to within
3.1 percentage points.  Economic Outlook  The Expectations Index, based on surveys about the outlook
for the economy and real estate prices, fell to 56.0 from 56.2,
according to the Nanos report.  The Pocketbook Index, based on survey responses to
questions about personal finances and job security, fell to 60.1
from 60.8.  Consumer  sentiment  climbed to a two-year high last month as
the Canadian housing market averted the “hard landing” that
some policy makers and analysts had been warning about. Existing
home  sales  rose for a seventh month in September and prices were
up 8.8 percent from a year earlier, the  Canadian Real Estate
Association  said in an Oct. 15 report.  Output Drivers  The  Bank of Canada  has blamed tepid global demand for
weakness in the nation’s economy, as exports and business
investment fail to take over from tapped out consumers as output
drivers. The central bank will cut its growth forecast for the
second half of this year to between 2 percent and 2.5 percent at
an Oct. 23 rate decision, Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem
said in Toronto earlier this month.  The central bank’s policy interest rate has been 1 percent
since September 2010 in the longest pause since the 1950s, and
Governor Stephen Poloz said the economy’s expansion has
“disappointed.”  “What we need is growth that is significantly above 2
percent to begin reducing the excess capacity that we have in
the economy,” Poloz said while attending a meeting of Group of
20 officials in  Washington  on Oct. 11.  Canadian consumer  prices  advanced at a 1.1 percent pace for
a second month in September, close to the bottom of the central
bank’s target range,  Statistics Canada  said Oct. 18.  There are signs Canada will benefit from reviving global
demand as the U.S. rebound gathers steam, according to  Avery Shenfeld , CIBC World Markets chief economist. Global output may
accelerate to more than 4 percent next year while U.S. growth
quickens to 3.2 percent from 1.5 percent in 2013, he told
investors Oct. 17 at the Bloomberg Focus Day Symposium in
Toronto.  “If the rest of the world actually starts to grow at a
faster clip, that’s critical to getting growth here in Canada,”
said Shenfeld, who predicts Canada’s output growth will
accelerate to 2.3 percent in 2014 from 1.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  