-- Catholic Hospital Group Heads for $8 Billion in Debt: Muni Deals
-- B y   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-10-21T04:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/catholic-hospital-group-heads-for-8-billion-in-debt-muni-deals.html
Catholic Health Initiatives will
become the second-biggest bond issuer among U.S. hospitals after
issuing $1.7 billion in debt in five states starting this week.  The Englewood, Colorado-based nonprofit, which operates 87
health facilities across 18 states, will refinance and issue new
debt through conduits from Chattanooga,  Tennessee , to Bremerton,
 Washington , over the next month, starting with a $1.2 billion
sale this week. The sales, a year after the group’s last
issuance, will bring its outstanding debt, including variable-rate bonds and commercial paper, to $8 billion, offering
documents show.  The health group’s grade was lowered one step by Standard
and Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings this
month to their fifth-highest levels, with the companies citing
declines in  cash flow  due to expansion plans and mounting debt.  “When we think about it in terms of the long-term vision
for the company, the increased cost is worth it in terms of the
investment that we’re making internally,” said Nick Barto,
senior vice president of capital finance, in a phone interview.  The offering is among $7.5 billion of long-term municipal
issues scheduled for this week as 10-year benchmark yields hover
near 2.83 percent as of Oct. 18, the highest since Sept. 20. The
total, the biggest weekly supply since July, is up from $4.3
billion last week.  Shutdown Scenario  Individuals pulled $1.3 billion from muni-focused mutual
funds in the week through Oct. 16, nearly double from the prior
period, as the U.S. entered the third and final week of a
partial government shutdown.  Catholic Health Initiatives serves as the obligor for debt
issued through municipalities. With $4.1 billion in bonds
outstanding, it’s the third-largest muni issuer in the hospital
industry, behind Oakland, California-based Kaiser Credit Group,
at $6.3 billion, and St. Louis-based Ascension Health Credit
Group, at $5.3 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  By issuing so much debt, Catholic Health Initiatives “may
have gotten out a bit over its skis,” said Alan Schankel,
managing director at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, in a research note Oct. 17.  Hospital debt is beating the municipal market this year,
losing 3 percent compared with 3.2 percent. It has beaten the
$3.7 trillion muni market for the past five years, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Priya Anand in  New York  at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  