-- McDonald’s to BlackRock Add Jets as Luxury Models Rebound
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-21T16:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/mcdonald-s-to-blackrock-add-jets-as-luxury-models-rebound.html
U.S. corporations including
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are starting to return to
the market for large  business jets  after putting off aircraft
upgrades since the recession five years ago.  Shipments of planes with about 10 or more seats, the so-called super-midsize segment and larger, will rise more than 10
percent this year and by less than 10 percent in 2014, even with
global jet deliveries poised to fall in 2013,  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  said in its annual industry forecast today.  Big, long-range private aircraft, the types favored for
Fortune 500 companies’ fleets, are a bright spot amid the
worldwide pullback. Honeywell projects that buyers in North
America, anchored by the U.S., will get 61 percent of worldwide
deliveries during the next five years, up from 53 percent in
2012’s forecast for the first gain “in recent history.”  “They just basically went dormant during the downturn and
now they’re coming back on,” said Chief Executive Officer Larry Flynn at  Gulfstream Aerospace , which makes the  new G650  jet able
to seat as many as 19 people. “It’s a significant market
opportunity.”  U.S. private-jet flight hours rose 1.5 percent this year
through August, and the three-month moving average was at the
highest since mid-2011, according to an Oct. 14 report from
Joseph Nadol, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in  New York .  Sales Momentum  Honeywell found increasing momentum for sales in  North
America , with buyers planning purchases equal to 28 percent of
the region’s jet fleet in the next five years. That number had
held stagnant at about 25 percent for the last six years,
Honeywell said.  Planes in the super-midsize segment and bigger include
models such as  Bombardier (BBD/B)  Inc.’s  Challenger 300  and Gulfstream’s
G280, each seating about 10 people, on up to models like the
G650. Large planes will account for more than 80 percent of
business-jet spending “in the near term,” Honeywell said.  Dwindling small-aircraft demand means that global business-jet deliveries in 2013 will fall to a range of 600 to 625 after
2012’s 649, according to Honeywell, which surveyed 1,500
corporate flight departments. Delays in new jet programs are
chiefly responsible for the drop, not weaker sales, it said.  Worldwide deliveries during the next 10 years will total
9,250, down from last year’s forecast for 10,000 planes,
according to  Morris Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell, whose
aviation products include business-jet engines. It released the
forecast at the National Business Aviation Association
convention in Las Vegas.  Aspirational Buyers  “The biggest, most-expensive jets are outperforming
starter/low-end jets,” said George Ferguson, a senior analyst
at Bloomberg Industries in Skillman, New Jersey. “The ultra-rich and the bigger corporations came through the downturn of
2008/2009 fine and can still afford expensive biz jets. The
aspirational buyers had incomes change the most due to the
downturn and they haven’t returned to the market.”  U.S. companies deferred fleet renewals as the worst slump
since the Great Depression crimped profits. Private jets also
became symbols of business arrogance in 2008 when U.S. automaker
CEOs flew to  Washington  in corporate planes to lobby Congress
for federal assistance to the industry.  Europe ,  Asia  and the Middle East will all see a smaller
share of shipments during the next five years, while Latin
America was unchanged at 18 percent, according to the forecast,
which didn’t give raw numbers.  U.S. Market  “The biggest installed base of corporate jets is in the
U.S., and a fair amount of those are with the Fortune 500
companies,” Gulfstream’s Flynn said in a telephone interview
ahead of the NBAA expo. “They’re not new to business aviation,
so there’s a fleet replacement opportunity.”  Upgraded planes are beginning to appear in U.S. fleets.
McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, purchased a
Bombardier Challenger 605, which carries as many as 13
passengers, in February to replace an existing jet, said Rebecca
Hary, a spokeswoman for the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, bought a
Gulfstream G550 in December, according to Federal Aviation
Administration registry records.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  purchased a
G550 in June, and health-care products maker  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
bought one in August, the FAA records show.  Company Reaction  Jim Olson , a Starbucks spokesman, didn’t respond to e-mail
and telephone messages seeking comment about the plane for the
world’s largest coffee-shop operator. Ernie Knewitz, a Johnson &
Johnson spokesman, referred questions back to the FAA document,
and  Brian Beades , a BlackRock spokesman, declined to discuss the
company’s jet.  Large aircraft have an important niche, said Rob Wilson,
president of Honeywell’s  general aviation unit .  “You have companies that need to do more business over
longer distances and with more people,” Wilson said. “If you
superimpose on that lower  interest rates  and company access to
debt markets, you have all the ingredients for a steady, robust
demand increase.”  That shift toward bigger planes is paying off for
Gulfstream, which began delivering the G650, its newest jet, in
December. CEO Flynn said demand is so great that buyers have a
four-year wait. Its range of 6,000 nautical miles (11,100
kilometers) is almost twice that of a  Boeing Co. 737-800  jet.  “My phone rings off the wall with customers who want it
sooner,” Flynn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Las Vegas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  