-- Chamber Says It Will Vet Candidates on Fiscal Pragmatism
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-10-21T15:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/chamber-says-it-will-vet-candidates-on-fiscal-pragmatism.html
Thomas Donohue, the president and
chief executive officer of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said
that while his organization respects the small-government
instincts of Tea Party Republicans, he can’t support efforts to
shut down the government or block increases to the debt ceiling.  “We do believe that to advance those interests by putting
the country’s whole financial system at risk is not a good
idea,” Donohue told reporters at a breakfast sponsored by the
Christian Science Monitor today.  Donohue, who said he wasn’t singling out any particular
group for criticism, added that his organization will be
evaluating candidates in 2014 races based on their willingness
to secure the nation’s long-term economic health and the broader
interests of business. An understanding of the risks of a
government default on its obligations is part of the assessment,
he said.  “I can’t stress enough what a default on our foreign debt
-- not on our private debt and not on the debt to the Federal
Reserve or any of that -- but a real default would put us in a
position that changed our position around the world that
increased our interest costs.”  Cruz Criticized  Donohue also criticized Senator Ted Cruz, the Texas
Republican who led the campaign to tie government funding and a
raising of the debt ceiling to an effort to defund or delay key
aspects of the Affordable Care Act. That demand, also embraced
by House Republicans, helped trigger the 16-day partial
government shutdown.  “If you’re going to rush to the net all the time, you
better have a lot of movement to the left and right,” Donohue
said of Cruz’s approach, adding that more ideological members of
Congress often soften their stances over time. “He hasn’t shown
he can do that yet.”  Asked by a reporter whether the Chamber’s message to Cruz
was to “sit down and shut up,” Donohue said: “That’s one of
the things we could work with him on.”  More broadly, Donohue said his group seeks to turn the
congressional agenda back to broader goals of industry after the
partisan clash that ended last week. A bipartisan deal, pushed
first through the Senate, avoided default and ended a shutdown
that began Oct. 1 that took $24 billion out of the U.S. economy.  Final Deal  The final deal establishes new deadlines in a broader
debate over spending and taxes that began after Republicans took
control of the House in 2011. It funds the government at
Republican-backed spending levels through Jan. 15, 2014, and
suspends the debt limit through Feb. 7. It also establishes
budget negotiations with a Dec. 13 target -- setting up
political combat over taxes and spending on programs including
Social Security and Medicare.  Donohue said the Chamber’s top goal will be bipartisan
agreement on an overhaul of the Social Security and Medicare
entitlement programs, because a delay will cause “Draconian”
changes to both that could hamper economic security and the
economy.  He also said there is still a chance that lawmakers will
advance some key goals of the Chamber in this Congress, which
ends in early January, 2015.  Trade Pact  Donohue said he sees a strong likelihood for approval of
fast-track trade negotiating authority in Congress, which could
enable completion of trade deals including the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, he said. Officials from the 12 nations negotiating
the pact say their goal is to have an agreement by the end of
the year.  He also said he remains confident Congress will complete a
comprehensive immigration-law rewrite by the end of 2014.  “We already have a bill out of the Senate, and there’s
another year plus in this Congress.”  In its political efforts, the Chamber is a top donor in
elections and Donohue made clear 2014 will be no exception.  The Chamber spent $35.7 million in the 2012 elections,
according to the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics in
 Washington . In the 2010 midterm elections, the Chamber spent a
total of $33.8 million.  The Chamber will focus its political efforts in the 2014
midterm elections on keeping a Republican majority in the House
of Representatives, Donohue said.  “It will be a long two
years” if Democrats regain control of the House, he said.  Field Staff  Bruce Josten, the Chamber’s executive vice president, said
the Chamber will spend “tens of millions of dollars” in House
and Senate races next year, although the group’s process of
picking candidates won’t start until early next year. Josten,
the Chamber’s top lobbyist, also said the Chamber is boosting
its election-year field staff to 20 from 14 during the last
election cycle.  The Chamber is the latest -- and arguably most prominent --
business voice expressing disquiet with the actions of
Republican lawmakers aligned with the Tea Party movement.  Joe Murphy, chairman of the Ferco Aerospace Group in
Franklin,  Ohio , criticized the influence of Tea Party groups
that have condemned Republican lawmakers who voted to reopen the
government.  “People are fed up,” Murphy said. “They’ve gone so far
right and so radical, people of my ilk say, ‘I don’t want to be
associated with these people.’”  Gregory Bloom, president of  Irvine , California-based Seal
Science Inc., a federal contractor that manufactures gaskets and
seals, said the shutdown is harming his company’s
competitiveness. Bloom said a highly trained engineer who was a
job candidate with his company was so concerned about future
spending cuts that he decided to take a position elsewhere.  “I see that as one of the greatest risks to national
security,” Bloom said. “Although I’m a conservative generally,
our national security has to be decoupled. We have to maintain
our security in protecting Americans and secondarily get out
fiscal house in order. The two of them should not be linked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  