-- China Metal Recycling Chairman Says He’s Never Broken the Law
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-10-21T08:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/china-metal-recycling-chairman-says-he-s-never-broken-the-law.html
The chairman of  China Metal
Recycling Holdings Ltd. (773) , the company that Hong Kong’s securities
regulator accused of fabricating sales, said he’s never done
anything unlawful.  “I have never broken the law, nor have my company’s
management,” Chun Chi Wai said today outside a courthouse in
the city. A petition to wind-up the company “is not in line
with the best interest of the public, lacking a fair and just
reason,” he said.  The Securities and Futures Commission won a court order in
July to appoint provisional liquidators to the company, which
called itself China’s biggest scrap-metal dealer. It’s the first
time the  regulator  has asked a court to wind-up a company to
protect investors, as it cracks down on accounting fraud by
companies selling shares to the public.  Chun and his wholly-owned Wellrun Ltd., which said in July
it’s the largest shareholder of  China  Metal, will be allowed to
enter as respondents to the proceedings, judge Jonathan Harris
said in a Hong Kong court today. He adjourned the proceedings to
March 10.  Chun and Wellrun will file evidence opposing the wind-up
proceedings, Alexander Lee, a solicitor representing the two
parties, said today outside the court.  The wind-up petition “will have a significant impact to
the company’s operations, and it may affect its profits, causing
great losses to shareholders,” Chun said.  China Metal inflated the size of its business to gain a
listing in Hong Kong in 2009, the SFC said July 29. The company
falsified a majority of purchases from its three major suppliers
from 2007 to 2009, it said.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and China
Metal Recycling, HCCW 210/2013, in Hong Kong’s Court of First
Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  