-- China CSeries Lease Deal Buoys Bombardier Sales Effort, CEO Says
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-10-21T02:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/china-cseries-lease-deal-buoys-bombardier-sales-effort-ceo-says.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s agreement to sell
as many as 30 CSeries aircraft to a Chinese leasing company may
prompt fresh deals with customers from the Asian nation for the
world’s third-largest airplane maker, Chief Executive Officer
Pierre Beaudoin said.  The conditional deal with CDB Leasing Co., whose identity
was revealed last week, will help Bombardier woo more buyers in
 China  by offering a leasing option, Beaudoin said yesterday in
an interview at the Mexico Business Summit in Guadalajara,
Mexico. The company has “a lot of good conversations going on”
with Chinese airlines, he said.  “You’re able to offer a complete product to the airlines,
you sell them airplanes but you can also lease them airplanes,”
Beaudoin said. “We did that in  Russia  and it’s really starting
to work well with airlines coming on. So I expect the same thing
in China. It’s a good first step.”  A sale to CDB Leasing would be a boost to Bombardier, which
is depending on the CSeries to almost double annual revenue
toward the end of the decade. The CDB Leasing deal, which
Bombardier announced in 2012 without disclosing the name of the
customer, includes a conditional purchase agreement for five
CS100 and 10 CS300 jets, with options for an additional five
CS100 and 10 CS300 planes, Bombardier  said  Oct. 18.  There’s a high probability that the current conditional
agreement with CDB Leasing will be converted into a firm order,
according to  RBC Capital Markets .  Mexico Manufacturing  Beaudoin said Bombardier would probably add more work to
the company’s aviation-related manufacturing operation in
Mexico, without specifying a timetable. He said Mexico could
potentially handle final assembly of a plane in the future,
dependent on an agreement between Mexico and the U.S.  Federal
Aviation Administration .  “There is a day where I can see an airplane coming out of
Mexico,” he said.  Bombardier is likely to bid in all the major passenger rail
projects proposed by Mexico President Enrique Pena Nieto,
Beaudoin said. Tenders on new proposed lines connecting Mexico
City with Queretaro and Toluca, as well as a tourist train on
the Yucatan peninsula, will probably be offered early next year,
Deputy Minister of Transportation Carlos Almada said Oct. 8.  Beaudoin declined to identify the partners Bombardier may
join with in the bidding. Investment in the projects will total
about 97 billion pesos ($7.6 billion), Almada said.  “We feel like we can participate in all of them,”
Beaudoin said “We feel we can put a very compelling offer on
the table that will permit these projects to open rapidly and on
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in  Mexico  City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  