-- China Mobile Slumps as Earnings Miss Analyst Estimates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-22T08:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/china-mobile-posts-largest-profit-drop-since-1999-as-costs-rise.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
largest phone company, slumped the most in more than a year in
Hong Kong trading after posting profit that missed analyst
estimates amid rising network costs.  The stock  dropped  3.4 percent to HK$82.15 at the close in
Hong Kong trading, the largest decline since Aug. 17, 2012. Net
income fell 8.8 percent to 28.4 billion yuan ($4.7 billion) in
the third quarter, according to figures derived from nine-month
results, missing the 31.1 billion-yuan average of five analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Li Yue, fighting to stem a decline
in the carrier’s share of China’s 1.2 billion wireless users,
plans commercial fourth-generation services that will boost
 capital spending  49 percent this year to more than $31 billion.
The company doesn’t have a deal to sell  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
said it faces “severe difficulties” from instant-messaging
apps such as  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ’s WeChat.  “The company needs to bear a huge 4G expense this year,”
Ricky Lai, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Guotai Junan
International Holdings Ltd., said in a phone interview. “China
Mobile will have a difficult time in the coming quarters.” He
recommends investors accumulate the shares.  The  shares  have lost 9 percent this year, compared with a
2.9 percent gain in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  4G Licenses  Third-quarter  sales  at Beijing-based China Mobile rose to
159.9 billion  yuan , compared with the 152.8 billion-yuan average
of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “China Mobile’s earnings decline has been long overdue and
the 3Q miss may signal management’s intention for a cost
restructuring,” Sydney Zhang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a report today. “We think 4G
won’t help its earnings until two-three years later and 4G could
face strong competition.”  China’s government may issue licenses for commercial 4G
services toward the end of this year, the company said in March.
The carrier, which built a trial 4G network in 15 cities in
2012, said in February it would expand that to 100 cities this
year with 200,000 base stations that can reach a population of
500 million.  While the issuing of 4G licenses will help the company
transform and make structural adjustments, it will also place
pressure on the allocation of resources, Chairman  Xi Guohua  said
in the statement. China Mobile’s share of wireless users fell to
63 percent at the end of August from 68 percent a year earlier.  WeChat Challenge  The move to 4G may help the company win agreements with
handset makers that haven’t supported its homegrown 3G network,
including Apple. China Mobile is the only one of the country’s
three carriers not offering the iPhone.  China Mobile is close to a deal to sell the iPhone, a
person familiar with the matter said last month. The earnings
release didn’t mention the handset.  Costs of the 4G expansion previously borne by the state-owned parent are now being shouldered by the listed unit, the
carrier said in March.  Xi also cited challenges from “Over The Top” products
including instant-messaging apps. WeChat, known as Weixin in
Chinese, poses the biggest such threat to  China  Mobile, Lai
said.  “Many users now prefer Weixin rather than traditional
voice or texting,” Guotai Junan’s Lai said. “China Mobile is
suffering from this substitution.”  China Mobile is projected to report a 0.8 percent drop in
full-year net income to 128.18 billion yuan, according to the
average of 19 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The
company last reported an annual decline in 1999.  A $993 million write-off on old equipment led the company
to report a 30 percent drop in net income in 1999, its first
profit decline since listing in October 1997.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  