-- China Stocks Rise Most in Week as Cabinet Spurs Tech
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-21T08:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-as-companies-report-earnings.html
China’s stocks  rose the most in a
week, led by consumer and technology companies, after the
government called for “unrelenting” implementation of economic
policies including increased domestic consumption.  Shanghai Metersbonwe Fashion & Accessories Co. (002269)  jumped 10
percent, leading gains in consumer companies reliant on economic
growth, after Shenyin & Wanguo Securities recommended the stock.
 Shanghai Baosight Software Co. (600845)  paced the rally in technology
shares after signing a contract to provide data-center services
to Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  Yunnan Copper Industry Co. (000878)  slid
4.6 percent, the most since June, as rising stockpiles indicated
slowing demand for the metal.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.6 percent to 2,229.24
at the close, the biggest gain since Oct. 11. The government
will boost financial support to small businesses, cut
overcapacity and look for new engines to drive consumption, the
State Council said in a statement yesterday. The nation’s
leaders will meet in November to map out policies to reform the
economy and sustain long-term  growth  at about 7 percent.  “There are lots of positive expectations about economic
reforms including boosting domestic consumption before next
month’s Communist Party meeting,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at
West China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The economy is
stabilizing and data are improving, which adds confidence to the
market.”  Consumer Stocks  The CSI 300 Index advanced 1.9 percent to 2,471.32. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slipped 0.2 percent. The
Shanghai Composite fell 1.5 percent last week as companies
linked to Shanghai’s free-trade zone tumbled on concern gains
were excessive. The index has rebounded 14 percent from its
four-year low on June 27.  Measures of consumer discretionary and staples producers in
the CSI 300 rose at least 3.5 percent, the biggest gains among
10 industry groups.  Shanghai Metersbonwe surged to the highest level in a year.
Shenyin & Wanguo upgraded its rating on the stock to buy today,
citing an earnings “inflection point” next year. The company
said in an exchange statement it plans to offer 6.6 million
shares as incentives to two executives.  Qingdao Haier Co. (600690) , China’s biggest refrigerator maker,
jumped 10 percent to 16.73  yuan  after the stock was rated buy in
new coverage at UBS AG.  Third Plenum  China’s economic expansion accelerated to 7.8 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau
said Oct. 18, reversing a two-quarter slowdown that put the
government at risk of missing its 7.5 percent growth target for
2013.  While the economy is “stable and trending for the
better,” and the nation has the ability to achieve this year’s
targets, the foundations of the rebound are “not yet firm,”
the State Council, or cabinet, said in the statement.  Next month’s gathering will be the third full meeting of
the party’s current  Central Committee , including President  Xi Jinping , Premier  Li Keqiang , ministers and the heads of the
biggest state firms and banks. It was at such a third plenum in
late 1978 that  Deng Xiaoping  and his allies inaugurated a series
of reforms that began to open up China to foreign investment and
loosen state controls over the economy.  A measure of technology companies in the CSI 300 added 2.9
percent, the third-biggest gain among industry groups. Shanghai
Baosight Software surged by the 10 percent daily limit to 33.18
yuan. Neusoft Corp. gained 4.5 percent to 17.60 yuan.  Copper Outlook  The Shanghai Composite trades at 8.8 times projected
earnings for the next 12 months, compared with the seven-year
average of 15.4, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Yunnan Copper, the fourth-largest producer, slumped 4.6
percent to 9.44 yuan. Copper prices declined as stockpiles in
 China  rose for a third week. The company said on Oct. 14 its net
loss probably widened to as much as 1.55 billion yuan ($254.3
million) in the first nine months from 40.5 million yuan a year
earlier.  China’s listed companies are required to release third-quarter earnings by the end of the month.  The nation’s smaller companies, the world’s best performers
after shares more than doubled since December, are poised to
retreat as earnings disappoint investors, according to Central
China Securities Co.  The ChiNext Index has gained 136 percent since last year’s
low on Dec. 3, compared with a 6.5 percent advance by the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Small Cap Index and a 17 percent increase in
the CSI 300. The ChiNext jumped 3.8 percent today.  “Small-cap stocks have likely already peaked,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities in Shanghai. “The
shares have been ramped up this year because investors believe
they represent the future of  China’s economy . The rally will
reverse as the economy slows and profits miss estimates.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  