-- China One-Year Bond Yield Climbs Most in a Week on PBOC Outlook
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-10-21T02:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/china-one-year-bond-yield-climbs-most-in-a-week-on-pboc-outlook.html
China ’s one-year government bond
yield rose the most in more than a week on speculation a pickup
in the world’s second-largest economy will prompt the central
bank to tighten monetary policy.  Song Guoqing, an academic adviser to the People’s Bank of
China, said yesterday the authority may lean toward tightening
this quarter should inflation accelerate. The PBOC gauged demand
for sales of 91-day bills this week, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  “The bias is moving toward tightening,” said Suan Teck
Kin, an economist in  Singapore  at United Overseas Bank Ltd.
“The recovery is still uneven so the PBOC won’t raise  interest
rates , but will adjust liquidity in the financial system through
money-market operations.”  The yield on the 3.48 percent notes due July 2014 climbed
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.52 percent as
of 10:36 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to prices from the China
Interbank Market. The rate fell five basis points last week.  China’s economy  expanded 7.8 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, after a 7.5 percent gain in the previous
three months, the National Bureau of Statistics reported last
week. The  consumer price  index gained 3.1 percent in September,
the most since February, official data showed Oct. 14.  The overnight repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, rose eight basis points to
3.06 percent in the biggest advance in a week, according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed payment to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, increased two basis
points to 3.98 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It fell in each of the last seven weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  