-- China Gamblers Lured From Macau Seen Reviving Queensland
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-10-21T07:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/china-gamblers-lured-from-macau-seen-reviving-queensland-retail.html
Sandwiched by forested hills and the
Great Barrier Reef, the town of Cairns and its surrounding
region are enduring a tourist slump. More than a third of the
 3,892 hotel rooms  in the tropical Australian getaway were empty
in the three months through June.  Hong Kong investor Tony Fung has plans to reverse that with
a A$4.2 billion ($4 billion) casino resort, complete with
artificial lagoon, 18-hole golf course and 25,000-seat arena.
The complex will almost double the number of hotel rooms in a
region where oversupply has fueled an  18 percent slump  in
overnight rates since 2007.  Companies including billionaire  James Packer ’s  Crown Ltd. (CWN) 
and  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)  are studying plans to expand
or add casinos in Cairns’ home state of Queensland to lure
Chinese tourists away from  Macau , the world’s largest gambling
hub. A record  110,100 Chinese  arrived in Australia in February,
more than double the  42,600  who came during all of 1995, and
 China  is now the country’s biggest source of  tourist revenue .  “Whether they gamble or not, casinos are one of the prize
attractions” for Chinese tourists, said Justine Chien, director
of Sydney-based tour agent Golden Dragon Travel Pty. ‘They’ve
all been to Macau already. They want to see the different
casinos around the world.’’  Crown shares rose 2.4 percent to a record close of A$17.15
in Sydney today, while Echo increased 0.4 percent to A$2.68, its
highest close in a week.  Global Competition  Queensland, more than twice the size of  Texas  and with a
 shoreline  longer than  India’s , is seeking to emulate Singapore.
Asian tourists to the city state helped  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) 
and  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  resorts draw $5.85 billion in revenue
in 2012, according to Bloomberg Industries data.  “We’re in a global competition for tourists and the
offering we have at the moment, I’m afraid, is not up there with
our competitors,” Queensland Premier Campbell Newman said Oct.
14 while announcing plans to offer as many as three new casino
licenses. “The infrastructure that we have in this state is
from a different era.”  Other Asian countries are moving in the same direction.
 Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  wants to build casino resorts in
 Japan  and the  Philippines  amid Macau land and labor constraints,
Lawrence Ho, Packer’s partner in the joint venture, said in a
Sept. 28 interview. Crown is also planning a resort in  Colombo 
that would create 2,600 jobs,  Sri Lanka ’s government has said.  Queensland’s government is the nation’s most indebted, with
a deficit forecast at about $7.3 billion for the 12 months
ending June. The state now has four casinos.  “A decade ago most cities were happy to have just one,”
said Sacha Krien, a CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets analyst in Sydney.
“Now with budget pressures a number of them are considering
allowing new ones or expanding the ones they have.”  Sydney Changes  With at least one casino in every state and territory of
 Australia , no new license has been granted  since 1996 . That’s
changing. Crown’s planned $1.2 billion venue overlooking Sydney
Harbour was moved to the final stage of a three-step approval
process by the New South Wales state government in July. That’s
a threat to Echo, which has been trying to lure Chinese high-rollers by sprucing up its nearby Star casino.  Packer is interested in taking on Echo in Brisbane too, he
said Oct. 1.  Queensland will welcome applications for redeveloping a
riverfront site in the state capital, which includes Echo’s
existing Treasury casino, Newman said in an e-mailed statement
Oct. 14. The state can sustain two more Singapore-style
integrated resorts, he said.  Treasury is too small to attract enough tourists, according
to Echo’s Chief Executive Officer John Redmond.  Ridong Out  “It’s a casino, it’s not a resort destination,” he said
in an Aug. 22 interview. “You need to build or develop
something at a scale that allows you to be able to compete with
the rest of the world.”  Redeveloping the area could cost A$2 billion, Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst Larry Gandler wrote in a Sept. 18 note to
clients. With “proper planning and design,” a resort built to
an equivalent standard would cost about A$700 million, Redmond
said in an Feb. 21 investor call.  A 50-minute drive to the south of Brisbane, the  Gold Coast 
city council says it hopes to build  another casino resort  and
cruise ship terminal on an  artificial island  in a coastal
lagoon. Four groups put in applications for what the government
calls a “ potential multi-billion dollar ” project.  At least one has walked away. Uncertainty about whether a
license would be granted led Ridong (Gold Coast) Development
Pty., owned by Chinese property developer  Zhuhai Ridong Group
Ltd. , to back away from plans to invest more than A$10 billion,
Steven Haggart, the unit’s CEO, said by phone on Sept. 24. He
didn’t immediately return a message left today on his mobile
phone asking if Ridong’s position has changed.  Potential  New projects, in particular Fung’s Cairns casino, still
have the “potential to reinvigorate Asian tourism” in the
state, home to  29 percent  of the Australia’s hotel beds, said
Matthew Jones, director of Liquor & Gaming Specialists Pty., a
Brisbane-based consultancy.  “If someone is prepared to build something of a much
higher standard, that’s going to encourage more visitors,” he
said by phone.  Fung’s Aquis is the most ambitious so far. With 3,750 hotel
rooms as well as 1,335 villas and apartments according to its 
plan , it could accommodate more people than  Singapore ’s two
 integrated resorts  put together.  That may be a stretch, said Justin Casey, managing director
of Macau-based  Asia  Pacific Gaming Consultancy.  “Everyone’s got a marble floor, chandelier and a Chinese
restaurant now,” he said. “If you had a pocket full of money
and you were looking to establish a new destination in Asia, I
don’t know Australia would be the first cab off the rank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  