-- Co-Operative Bows to Bondholders in Revising Bank Rescue Plan
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-10-21T09:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/co-operative-bows-to-bondholders-in-revising-bank-rescue-plan.html
The Co-Operative Group Ltd. bowed to
bondholder pressure and said it will revise its plan to plug a
capital shortfall its banking unit as the  BBC  reported it may
lose control of the division to its creditors.  “We have been engaging with different bondholder
constituencies and seeking to balance the requirements and
expectations of these parties,” Manchester, England-based Co-Operative said in a statement today. “Many elements of any
recapitalization plan will be materially different” to its
initial proposal in June.  Co-Operative Group, which traces its roots to Britain’s
19th-century industrial north, is under pressure from British
regulators to plug a 1.5 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) capital
shortfall at its banking operation by the end of 2014. The
lender said in June it would try to raise 500 million pounds by
asking bondholders to exchange subordinated debt for new equity
and senior debt, a plan that would leave Co-Operative in control
its banking unit.  Co-Operative Group may now lose control of the lender after
bondholders rejected the initial proposal, the BBC reported on
its website today, without saying where it obtained the
information. A new plan may be made public on Oct. 28, the BBC
said. A Co-Operative spokesman declined to comment on the
report.  Co-Operative Bank’s 500 million euros ($684 million) of
2.375 percent senior bonds due in October 2015 gained 1.06 cents
in the euro to 95.787 cents, the highest since May, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Separately, the  bank  said it will set aside an additional
100 million pounds to 105 million pounds to cover costs such as
compensating clients who were wrongly sold payment-protection
insurance. The lender has about 4.7 million customers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  