-- Coal Industry Eyes Comeback as Efficient Plants Encourage Use
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-10-21T19:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/coal-industry-eyes-comeback-as-efficient-plants-encourage-use.html
Coal use in the U.S. is set to grow
this year and next from a two-decade low as more efficient coal
plants that can withstand new environmental regulations supplant
old ones, an industry group predicted.  Hal Quinn, the president of the National Mining
Association, said coal use is projected to be up 7.5 percent
this year compared to 2012, and its use will continue unabated
through 2020, despite the boost in production of natural gas and
a deadline of 2015 for a new set of regulations from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency. Because of those rules, a
number of older, smaller power plants will close, Quinn said.
That doesn’t mean overall coal use will fall.  “Larger, more efficient units will be running at a higher
capacity,” Quinn said in a meeting with Bloomberg reporters and
editors in Washington. “You will see a repositioning or
resizing.”  The Washington-based association for producers such as  Arch
Coal Inc. (ACI)  and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  called the EPA’s proposals to
curb pollution from mercury, sulfur dioxide and now greenhouse
gases economically unjustified and an overreach. Still, even as
it worries about the impact of those rules, it’s predicting that
coal production and use in the U.S. will continue.  Coal use in the U.S. has bounced back this year, rising
more than 8 percent over the first six months of 2013 compared
to the same period in 2012, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration. Natural gas for next-month delivery
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange has gained 11 percent this
year. Natural gas prices have more than doubled since hitting a
recent low in April of 2012.  Relying on authority in the four-decade-old Clean Air Act
and a 2007 Supreme Court decision applying the law to carbon-dioxide emissions, the EPA is set to finalize rules for
greenhouse-gas emissions from power plants.  Investors aren’t betting on coal: The Stowe Global Coal
Index of 32 production, transportation and mine-service
companies has fallen 45 percent since the beginning of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  