-- Cold Creeps Toward Eastern U.S. as October Gives Way to November
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-10-21T13:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/cold-creeps-toward-eastern-u-s-as-october-gives-way-to-november.html
Temperatures in the eastern U.S.
will probably stay below normal through the start of November,
said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Readings from the Great Plains to the East Coast are
expected to be at least 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 2.8
Celsius) lower than usual today until Nov. 4, Rogers said.
Computer forecast models predict cold air will cross the central
and eastern U.S. in waves as October ends and November begins.  The last big cold push is about eight to 12 days away, and
“it does run the risk of being stronger, especially for the
Midwest,” Rogers said. Temperatures are expected to fall at
least 5 degrees below normal in the region this week, he said.  Below-normal temperatures tend to increase energy
consumption because more people turn up thermostats to heat
homes and businesses. November marks the start of the cooling
season, when most natural gas is burned in the U.S.  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas
demand, according to the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm. About 49 percent of all
homes use the fuel for heating.  Frost and freeze alerts were posted today for northern
Illinois and Indiana, including  Chicago , according to the
 National Weather Service . Highs in Chicago will remain in the
mid-40s through the week with lows in the 30s and a chance of
light snow tomorrow.  Chicago’s temperatures will be at least 13 degrees below
normal tomorrow and the day after, said MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The normal average temperature in New York for Oct. 30 is
about 54 degrees, according to  MDA . In  Boston , it’s 50; in  St.
Louis , 55;  Dallas , 64; Chicago, 48; and in Burbank, California,
it’s 64.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  