-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise; Citigroup Issues $2 Billion in Bonds
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-21T21:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-citigroup-issues-2-billion-in-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
increased from the lowest level in almost six years.  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  sold $2 billion of senior notes.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.9
basis point to 72.3 basis points at 5:01 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index ended last
week at the lowest level since November 2007 in data that adjust
for the effects of the market’s shift to a new version of the
index in September.  The measure has plunged more than 12 basis points since
Oct. 8 amid speculation that a 16-day partial government
shutdown did enough damage to the economy to prompt the  Federal
Reserve  to keep bolstering credit markets by maintaining
unprecedented stimulus measures until next year.  “As an investor, you feel safe and comfortable buying
bonds in this low-rate economy and with tapering being pushed
out,” Matthew Duch, who helps oversee $12 billion as a  money
manager  at Bethesda, Maryland-based Calvert Investments Inc.,
said in a telephone interview.  The swaps index typically climbs as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls at it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Fiscal Strife  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans , an
advocate of monetary stimulus, said fiscal strife in  Washington 
will probably delay the central bank’s tapering of its monthly
bond purchases. The  Federal Open Market Committee  will pare its
monthly pace of asset buying to $70 billion from $85 billion at
its March 18-19 meeting, according to the median of 40 responses
in an Oct. 17-18 Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
committee is scheduled to begin a two-day meeting on Oct. 29.  “October’s a tough one,” Evans said in a CNBC interview
today. “We need a couple of good labor reports, and evidence of
increasing growth, GDP growth, and it’s probably going to take a
few months to sort that one out.”  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, issued 3.875
percent, 10-year securities to yield 130 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The debt is expected to be rated Baa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S. mortgage lender, sold
$1.5 billion of 2.15 percent senior notes due January 2019 that
are expected to be rated A2 by Moody’s, Bloomberg data show.
Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , also issued $2 billion of
5.375 percent, 30-year subordinated debt through its holding
company that may be rated A3, the data show.  The ability of speculative-grade companies to manage their
cash needs improved this month, according to the Liquidity-Stress Index from Moody’s Investors Service.  The liquidity of high-yield companies in the U.S. improved
even as the economy dealt with the debt-ceiling turmoil and a
partial shutdown of the government, according to Moody’s, which
said yesterday its Liquidity-Stress Index fell to 3.7 percent as
of mid-October from 3.8 percent in September.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 3.8 basis points to 348.3 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries tightened 0.7 basis point to 125
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 1.1 to 650.7.  Investment-grade securities are rated Baa3 or higher at
Moody’s and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  