-- Credit Suisse Investment-Grade Credit Trader Kenny Said to Leave
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-10-21T20:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/credit-suisse-investment-grade-credit-trader-kenny-said-to-leave.html
Jim Kenny, formerly co-head of U.S.
investment-grade credit trading at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , has
left  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, according to four people
briefed on the matter.  Steve Feinberg, previously Kenny’s co-head, will lead the
New York-based group on his own, said two of the people, who
requested anonymity because the move hasn’t been announced.  Credit Suisse said in July that its credit-trading unit,
which had a top-three market share, earned the highest return of
any of the businesses within its investment banking and trading
division. The business had about $970 million in revenue in the
first half of this year, up from about $920 million in the same
period of 2012. The Zurich-based firm is scheduled to report
third-quarter results this week.  Drew Benson, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, declined to
comment. Kenny also declined to comment.  Kenny worked at Bear Stearns Cos. from 1997 until 2008,
when the New York-based firm collapsed and was bought by
JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to records with the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. He joined Credit Suisse later
that year.  Trading Slows  Average daily volume of  investment-grade bonds  in the third
quarter was $11.6 billion, down 13 percent from the second
quarter and up 8.2 percent from the third quarter of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies have sold $937 billion of investment-grade bonds
in the U.S. this year, the data show, helping boost the total
volume of outstanding notes to $4.3 trillion from $3.9 trillion
a year ago on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate
Index. The debentures are losing 1.4 percent this year after an
average return of 11.7 in each of the four years after 2008, the
data show.  Trading of corporate bonds hasn’t kept pace with the
expansion of the market. Average daily trading volume has fallen
to 0.3 percent of the $5.5 trillion U.S. corporate bond market
from 0.5 percent of a $3.5 trillion market in 2009, according to
data from Finra and Bank of America Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  