-- Cruz Is Unapologetic as Republicans Criticize Shutdown
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-10-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/cruz-is-unapologetic-as-republicans-criticize-shutdown.html
Senator  Ted Cruz , the Texas
Republican who was among the architects of the 16-day partial
federal government shutdown, remained unrepentant as senior
members of his party criticized his tactics in fighting
Obamacare.  Asked on ABC’s “This Week” if he would support another
government shutdown unless the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act of 2010 is defunded, Cruz said yesterday he “would do
anything, and I will continue to do anything I can, to stop the
train wreck that is Obamacare.”  The entire effort “was a fool’s errand to start with,”
Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican and former
presidential contender, said on CNN’s “ State of the Union ”
yesterday. He said the shutdown aimed at blocking President
 Barack Obama ’s signature health-care law hurt the Republican
brand. “The question is, how deep and how long?”  Lawmakers reached an agreement Oct. 16 to open the
government, which had been partly shuttered since Oct. 1 as
Congress failed to compromise on the fiscal 2014 budget and
raising the amount the U.S. can borrow. The deal funds the
government through Jan. 15 and suspends the debt limit through
Feb. 7, setting the stage for another possible showdown.  While strife over the budget and debt ceiling unsettled
some investors, U.S. stocks rose last week, sending the  Standard
& Poor’s  500 Index to a record as Congress reached the budget
deal and speculation grew that the  Federal Reserve  will maintain
monetary stimulus. Treasuries gained for the first time in three
weeks.  Conflict Ahead  Lawmakers are aiming to produce a budget compromise by 
Dec. 13, setting the stage for more conflict over taxes and 
spending on programs such as  Social Security  and Medicare.  The shutdown shaved at least 0.6 percentage point from the
U.S. economic growth rate this quarter, Standard & Poor’s said
on Oct. 16. Americans in October were the  most pessimistic  about
the nation’s economic prospects in almost two years, according
to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  “There will not be another government shutdown,” Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” program yesterday. “You can count on
that.”  Jeb Bush, the Republican former governor of Florida and a
possible Republican presidential candidate in 2016, told ABC’s
“This Week” yesterday that “tactically, it was a mistake to
focus on something that couldn’t be achieved.”  Bush also said Obamacare would have proven itself not to
work, and that the push to defund may have “crowded out” the
problems it is now encountering. Online policy marketplaces
launched this month have been fraught with technical glitches.  Rose Garden Address  President Obama will address the issues with a speech in
the Rose Garden today at 11:25 a.m. in Washington, according to
a White House statement. Almost half a million applications were
submitted nationwide through the state and federal marketplaces,
according to the e-mailed statement.  As the Democratic administration deals with getting the
health-care law up and running, Republicans’ favorability was at
a record low of 28 percent, down 10 percentage points from the
previous month and 15 percent below Democrats, according to a
Gallup poll conducted Oct. 3-6.  Hillary Clinton , a potential Democratic presidential
nominee in 2016, alluded to the 16-day stalemate over the
weekend while speaking at a rally in support of family friend
 Terry McAuliffe , who is running for Virginia governor in the
Nov. 5 election.  “When politicians choose scorched earth over common
ground, when they operate in what I call the ‘evidence-free
zone,’ with ideology trumping everything else, we’ve seen that
families in Virginia and across the country have felt the
consequences,” Clinton said to the crowd in  Falls Church , a
suburb of Washington.  “We need to make sure that government does not go through
another round of brinkmanship,” Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  