-- TD Not Spending Time ‘Trolling’ for U.S. Bank Deal, Clark Says
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-21T19:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/td-not-spending-time-trolling-for-u-s-bank-deal-clark-says.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Canada ’s
second-largest lender by assets, isn’t on the lookout for
another U.S. retail bank and doesn’t need to do a deal, Chief
Executive Officer Ed Clark said.  “We’re not spending our time trolling the M&A market in
the  United States , calling people up and saying, ‘Any chance
you’d give me your bank?’,” Clark said on an Oct. 17 investor
call, a  transcript  of which was posted today on the Toronto-based lender’s website. “We’ve been basically absent the
deposit-gathering buying business for the last three or four
years.”  Clark discussed topics including an Oct. 13 Sunday Times
article suggesting Toronto-Dominion is considering a bid for
Citizens Financial Group Inc., the U.S. retail lender owned by
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc . Clark previously dismissed
such a deal in February, saying it didn’t meet the bank’s
criteria.  “What I said is still where we would be today,” Clark,
66, said when asked about the report during the call. “We don’t
need a deal.”  Toronto-Dominion would need the market to endorse a deal
since it would involve raising substantial equity, Clark said.
Any transaction would have to be “financially great” for
investors, he said.  “As one of the largest shareholders in this bank, I don’t
want to do a deal that isn’t good for the shareholders,” Clark
said.  Still, TD would be obligated to consider any transactions
that became available, he said.  Clark spoke generally about the criteria for pursuing a
large U.S. deal during the call, including the need to find cost
savings.  Cost Savings  “If we buy in-market franchises with large cost-cutting
synergies, you have to believe that you can execute that, that
you can actually take those costs out, because if you don’t take
the costs out, then the deal doesn’t work,” he said.  Toronto-Dominion has become more interested recently in
Citizens Bank, which is valued at about 8 billion pounds ($12.9
billion), the Sunday Times reported this month, citing
unidentified analysts. Toronto-Dominion dismissed reports of
interest in Citizens before, including during a Feb. 28 earnings
call.  “Last quarter I indicated that if we were to look at a
larger deal, it would need to fit the bank strategy, timing and
risk appetite,” Clark said at the time. “In addition, it would
need to meet our financial hurdles and be supported by the
market. We do not believe that a transaction to acquire RBS’
Citizens Bank is available that meets these criteria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  