-- Dassault Sells High-Ceiling Comfort With $45 Million Jet
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-22T07:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/dassault-sells-comfort-with-high-ceiling-45-million-private-jet.html
Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , the maker of
Rafale combat planes, introduced a business jet that features a
taller cabin for extra comfort to help it compete with long-range Gulfstream Aerospace and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  models.  The Falcon 5X will seat as many as 16 and has a typical
range of 5,200 nautical miles, linking  Los Angeles  with London
or Paris with Beijing, Paris-based Dassault Aviation said
yesterday at the annual National Business Aviation Association
meeting in Las Vegas. The jet will retail for $45 million.  The cabin will measure six-and-a-half feet at its highest
point, the tallest for aircraft made specifically for business
aviation, and the cross section will be the widest, said John Rosanvallon, the president of Dassault Falcon Jet. The jet will
have more cabin area than the larger current Falcon 7X flagship
that can span 6,000 nautical miles, and will compete with the
Gulfstream G450 and Bombardier’s Global 5000, he said.  “We’re starting a whole new generation of cabin,”
Rosanvallon said in  Las Vegas . “This market segment in the
5,000 nautical mile range, mid-40s in terms of price and new,
much more comfortable cabin was a segment that really needed
some attention.”  The 5X, which is scheduled for first flight in 2015,
reflects the change in the business-jet market after the last
recession, with companies seeking to fly farther in roomier
planes. Deliveries for large-cabin aircraft will grow more than
10 percent this year, while smaller jets will decline, according
to a  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  survey.  Bigger Plans  Dassault had begun designing a smaller aircraft before the
recession and scrapped it in favor a larger jet to meet demand,
Rosanvallon said. Dassault expects to receive regulatory
approval for the jet in 2016 ahead of first customer hand-overs
in 2017. Three planes will be involved in flight trials.  “We believe passengers will simply love this cabin and the
capability of this airplane,” said Eric Trappier, chairman and
CEO of Dassault Aviation, during a mock-up presentation of the
plane in Las Vegas. The aircraft “will occupy a sweet spot in
terms of long-range capability and operational flexibility,” he
said.  Dassault shares advanced 0.3 percent to 903 euros at 9 a.m.
in Paris. The stock has risen 21 percent this year, valuing the
planemaker in which Airbus SAS parent European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. holds a 46 percent stake, at 9.2 billion
euros ($12.6 billion).  Silvercrest Engines  The company has tapped  Safran SA (SAF) ’s Snecma unit to provide
the two Silvercrest engines also being used by the Citation
Longitude in development for  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Cessna unit. With
improved aerodynamics and engines, the Falcon 5X will burn 50
percent less fuel than rivals, Dassault said.  Honeywell will be Dassault’s avionics provider on the 5X,
with a turbulence-detecting radar for smoother flying. The jet
will include a head-up display, built by  Israel ’s  Elbit Systems
Ltd. (ESLT) , that can blend infra-red images and digitally stored data
to aid pilots flying in poor visibility.  The plane fits between the longer-range 7X and the 900LX,
which typically has a range of 4,750 nautical miles, and isn’t
expected to take away sales from either of those models,
Rosanvallon said. A new airplane such as the 5X should have a
product life of 25 to 30 years and sales of more than 500
aircraft, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  