-- David Jones CEO Zahra Quits for Personal Reasons Amid Weak Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-10-21T06:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/david-jones-ceo-zahra-quits-for-personal-reasons-amid-weak-sales.html
David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  Chief Executive
Officer Paul Zahra will quit  Australia ’s second-largest listed
department store company after three years in the role.  Zahra, a former general manager of stores and operations
who’s worked at the chain since April 1998, was leaving for
personal reasons and will continue in the job “with unqualified
support of the board” until a successor starts, the Sydney-based company said in a regulatory statement.  Zahra had focused on improving profitability at the 175-year-old chain amid weak sales driven by competition from online
retailers and fragile  consumer confidence . Sales from stores
open at least 12 months only increased in three quarters since
he started the job in June 2010, and the company’s annual
revenue fell 10 percent during that period.  David Jones  needs “someone that really knows how to run a
store” as a replacement, Simon Marais, non-executive chairman
of the company’s third-largest shareholder Allan Gray Australia,
said by phone, adding that he was “neutral” on Zahra’s
performance in the job. “There must be a lot of people overseas
that know how to run these businesses.”  Shares rose 0.7 percent to close at A$2.85 before the
after-market announcement in Sydney today. The stock has  dropped
37 percent  since Zahra took over on June 18, 2010, compared to a
21 percent fall in larger rival  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  and an 18
percent gain in the S&P/ASX 200 index.  Quarterly sales fell to an eight-year low in the three
months ended April 27 this year as the company stepped back from
discounting that Zahra considered unsustainable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  