-- Detroit Retiree Lawyer Says Pensions Live on Forever
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-21T21:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/detroit-retiree-lawyer-says-pensions-live-on-forever.html
Detroit ’s retired municipal workers
can never have their pensions legally reduced, even if a
disaster makes the bankrupt city “cease to exist,” a retirees’
lawyer told a judge.  Should it be left with only one citizen to pay taxes,
Detroit would still have an obligation to keep paying monthly
pensions, attorney Thomas R. Morris, who represents an
association of retirees, said today in court.  “If the city of Detroit were to cease to exist,”
Michigan’s constitution would still require the pensions to be
paid, Morris told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes in the
next-to-last round of legal arguments about whether the city
should be thrown out of bankruptcy. In that situation, Michigan
would face a constitutional crisis, Morris said.  Employees and retirees are fighting to end the city’s
$18 billion bankruptcy, saying the case illegally threatens
protected benefits. Detroit and its critics return to court Oct.
23 for a multiday trial in which city and state officials,
including Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , a Republican, may
testify about whether the bankruptcy case should continue.  The city council today voted to reject a proposal by
Detroit’s emergency manager to borrow $350 million from  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  to help fund a settlement with a group of creditors and
provide the city with cash.  Council Alternative  Under the state law that made bankruptcy lawyer Kevyn Orr
the emergency manager, the council, within seven days, must
propose an alternative to the financing to prevent it from being
implemented.  Orr’s spokesman, Bill Nowling, said the vote has no impact
because the council isn’t going to offer an alternative. The
proposed loan will now go before a state financial emergency
loan board for approval, Nowling said in an e-mail.  To remain in bankruptcy, the city must show that it either
tried to negotiate with creditors or talks were impractical,
that it intends to develop a plan to adjust its debt and that it
was authorized by the state to file the case.  As part of the trial, Rhodes asked lawyers on both sides to
present evidence about why state lawmakers added a spending
provision to the emergency manager law adopted last year.  Union and retiree lawyers claim that law, PA 436, is
invalid because the  Michigan  Legislature adopted it with minor
changes after voters rejected the measure in a statewide
referendum. Because the emergency manager who put Detroit under
court protection was appointed under that law, the bankruptcy
should be thrown out, critics argue.  Governor Testifies  Earlier this month, Snyder testified under oath about why
he authorized Orr to file the bankruptcy. That testimony was
videotaped. One of the city’s unions has subpoenaed Snyder to
testify in court.  Detroit filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy amid
negotiations between Orr, bondholders, public workers and
retirees. Orr said six decades of economic decline left Detroit
unable to fully pay creditors, including retired workers, and
still provide necessary services.  Union and retiree lawyers claim the city didn’t negotiate
in good faith and instead presented a take-it-or-leave proposal.  Rhodes said that if the union and retiree lawyers are
correct, the pension protection either violates Chapter 9 of the
U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  or no city in Michigan can ever file for
court protection under that law unless it promises to never cut
pensions.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at 
7606 or  schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  