-- Devon, Crosstex Form Midstream Company to Combine Assets
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-10-21T16:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/devon-crosstex-form-midstream-company-to-combine-assets.html
Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  and Crosstex
Energy Inc. agreed to form a new business that will acquire all
of Crosstex’s shares and combine the two companies’ pipelines
and processing facilities.  The to-be-named entity will consist of a master-limited
partnership and a general partner controlling it, both of which
will be publicly traded, Devon and Crosstex said in a joint
statement today. Shareholders in Dallas-based Crosstex, which
had a market capitalization of $983 million yesterday, will each
receive one unit in the general partner and a one-time payment
of about $2 a share.  Devon, which will control both of the partnerships and be
the new company’s largest customer, is contributing assets
valued at $4.8 billion. The business will have about 7,300 miles
(12,000 kilometers) of pipelines, 13 processing plants and six
fractionators as well as storage, terminals and a trucking fleet
to move oil and natural gas.  “This deal is like marrying your high school sweetheart,”
Ethan Bellamy, a Denver-based analyst for R.W. Baird & Co.,
wrote in an e-mail. “Crosstex provided excellent  customer
service  to Devon for its midstream needs for years, and that
proved to be the foundation of this merger.”  The new company will have an enterprise value of about
$8.84 billion, he estimated.  Crosstex Rise  Both Crosstex and  Crosstex Energy LP (XTEX) , the partnership it
controls, rose by the most since May 2009. Crosstex gained 51
percent to $31.10 at 11:14 a.m. in  New York  while Crosstex
Energy LP climbed 35 percent to $27.48. Devon, based in  Oklahoma
City , increased 2.4 percent to $64.72.  The new company is expected to have adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about
$700 million next year, according to the release. Its assets
will be in the  Barnett Shale , Permian Basin and Eagle Ford in
Texas, as well as the Haynesville, the Utica of Ohio and the
Marcellus in the eastern U.S.  Devon said in June it planned to form a master-limited
partnership to own a minority stake in its U.S. midstream
business. At the time, Devon said it planned to use proceeds to
fund continuing operations. The master-limited partnership
structure is attractive for assets like pipelines with steady
returns because an MLP doesn’t pay corporate income tax and has
more cash available to return to investors.  Shareholder Support  The transaction, expected to close in the first quarter is
structured to be tax-free, the companies said. It’s subject to
shareholder and regulatory approvals.  Holders (XTXI)  representing about
22 percent of Crosstex’s outstanding shares, including
Blackstone Group LP, have agreed to vote in favor of the deal.  Bank of America Corp. served as financial adviser and
Vinson & Elkins LLP provided legal advice to Devon. Crosstex and
various special committees associated with the company or its
partnership were advised by Greenhill & Co., Citigroup Inc.,
Simmons & Co. and Evercore Partners Inc. Baker Botts LLP,
Richards Layton & Finger PA, Potter Anderson Corroon LLP,
Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell LLP gave legal advice.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  