-- Discover Profit Drops 6.9% on Boost in Loss Reserves
-- B y   F a n n i   K o s z e g   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-22T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/discover-profit-declines-6-9-as-u-s-consumer-spending-slows.html
Discover Financial Services (DFS) , owner
of the fourth-biggest U.S. payments network, posted a 6.9
percent profit drop as it set aside more funds to cover soured
loans. The shares fell in extended trading.  Third-quarter  net income  declined to $593 million, or $1.20
a share, from $637 million, or $1.24, a year earlier, the
Riverwoods, Illinois-based company said yesterday in a
statement. That missed the $1.21 average  estimate  of 22 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Discover added $333 million to its reserve for soured
loans, an increase of $197 million from a year earlier. The
“larger-than-expected loan-loss provision was the primary
source of the modest miss,” Jason Arnold, an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets , said in an e-mail. That “may lead shares to
give a little back.”  Discover fell 2.3 percent to $52.51 at 4:50 p.m. yesterday
in extended  New York  trading, and dropped as low as $50 after
results were announced. The shares had gained 39 percent this
year through the close of regular trading,  outpacing  the 27
percent advance for the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Financials Index.  Chief Executive Officer David Nelms, 52, is seeking to
drive more transactions to Discover’s global network, in
addition to those from the lender’s traditional credit-card
clients. The firm said earlier this year that it will help
online processor PayPal extend its reach to 2 million brick-and-mortar merchant locations by the end of 2013.  Next Step  Discover is still in the process of signing and
implementation. “The next step will be the launch of these
various initiatives,” Nelms in an interview. “Profits should
follow after that.”  The company sets loan-loss reserves on a forward-looking
basis. The recent government shutdown and debt-ceiling standoff
weren’t considered when setting the reserves.  “A bigger driver for loan losses is job losses,” Nelms
said in the interview. “If our forecast were showing higher job
losses we would take that into account.”  Total loans increased 5.2 percent to $62.7 billion from a
year earlier, helped by a 4 percent increase in credit-card
loans, according to the statement. Discover card sales rose 3.2
percent to $28 billion, and write-offs fell to 2.05 percent, the
company said.  “Card loan growth continues to exceed industry growth
while charge-offs achieved new record lows,” Nelms said in the
statement.  Revenue climbed 2.8 percent to $2.06 billion, matching the
average estimate of analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, said Oct. 16 that third-quarter profit rose 9.3
percent to $1.37 billion on higher worldwide card spending.
McLean, Virginia-based  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  said the next
day that net income slid 5.2 percent to $1.12 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Fanni Koszeg in New York at 
 fkoszeg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  