-- JPMorgan’s $13 Billion Lesson
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-21T23:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/don-t-worry-jpmorgan-can-take-it.html
$13 billion is a lot of money. The 
amount, which  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has tentatively agreed to 
pay to settle numerous mortgage-related claims, has been variously
 described as excessive, unfair and, in  one overheated instance , 
a tribute that President  Barack Obama ’s minions extracted from 
the bank “to appease their left-wing populist allies.”  There is, of course, another way to look at it: It simply
shows the rule of law operating as it should.  Yes, $13 billion is the  largest  amount paid by a financial
firm in a settlement with the U.S., and it equals more than half
of JPMorgan’s 2012 profit. Yet the deal encompasses
investigations by three U.S. attorneys, two state attorneys
general and three federal regulators.  And keep in mind the scope of the alleged misdeeds. The
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  charged JPMorgan in a 2012
 lawsuit  with routinely understating important measurements that
investors relied on to gauge default rates, including loan-to-value ratios and the percentage of non-owner-occupied homes. The
bank allegedly failed to follow its own underwriting guidelines
when approving loans and used appraisals that it knew were
inflated. Even when third-party firms that the bank hired to
conduct due diligence said many of the loans didn’t meet bank
guidelines, it packaged them into securities anyway, the lawsuit
says.  Despite being one of the  largest  mortgage issuers in the
U.S., the bank had only five or six people on its due-diligence
desk, which had to review as much as $2 billion in loans a
month. Barry Zubrow, the bank’s chief risk officer, told the
U.S. Financial Crisis Inquiry  Commission  that “there was a
tradeoff between certain financial covenants and protections
versus a desire to maintain market share.”  The FHFA is not singling out JPMorgan. At least 16 other
banks face similar probes -- including Bank of America Corp.,
from which the U.S. is seeking at least $6 billion. And while
it’s true that the settlement covers claims against Bear Stearns
Cos. and Washington Mutual Inc., both of which JPMorgan took
over at the government’s urging in 2008, this isn’t unusual or
unfair. When Fiat SpA bought Chrysler Group LLC, it became
liable for the warranties on Chrysler’s cars.  Anyway, JPMorgan has reaped benefits from those
acquisitions, both completed for less than a song. It booked a
$2 billion gain when it bought $3.9 billion in Washington Mutual
equity for $1.9 billion. Some of the mortgages it inherited may
be performing well enough for the bank to record gains in
upcoming quarters. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York financed
the Bear Stearns purchase -- which came with a lucrative prime
brokerage unit plus a midtown Manhattan skyscraper -- with a $30
billion loan.  It’s also true, as some critics of the settlement point
out, that the government should have overhauled Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac long before the housing bust, and regulators should
have required banks such as JPMorgan to have more capital to
absorb mortgage losses.  Still, it’s a leap to go from this argument -- that the
government encouraged easy money and excessive risk-taking -- to
say that it countenanced illegal or even criminal behavior. No
one forced JPMorgan to violate its own underwriting rules,
pursue market share at any cost, file materially false
prospectuses, or put a bare-bones team in charge of due
diligence.  It’s also important to note that, even with the $13 billion
payment, JPMorgan isn’t out of the woods. An investigation of
the bank’s bond sales by a U.S. attorney in  California  won’t be
part of the settlement, raising the possibility that JPMorgan
may have to defend itself against criminal charges. The bank
also faces investigations into its hiring practices in Asia and
whether it aided  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan’s chairman and chief executive
officer, is reported to have personally pursued this settlement
with the federal government. If he and the bank’s board think
it’s unfair, they are free to reject it. The best answer to
charges of unfairness may well be their decision not to do so.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 