-- Dubai Property-Bubble Concerns Overdone, Goldman Sachs Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-10-21T15:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/dubai-property-bubble-concerns-overdone-goldman-sachs-says-1-.html
Concerns that Dubai’s property
market is a bubble are exaggerated as new regulations focused on
curbing speculation and an increasing supply helps keep values
down, according to a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. report.  Property prices are 36 percent below their 2008 peak even
after rising by about a third from a low in the second quarter
of 2011, analysts including Eyad Faraj, Matija Gergolet and
Harsh Mehta wrote in a report published today.  Dubai home values climbed at the fastest pace in the world
in the second quarter, a survey by broker Knight Frank LLP
showed, stoking concern that the market may be overheating. The
increases will slow down over the next 12 months after the
return of speculators sparked “unsustainable” gains, Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. said in an Oct. 3 report.  The surge prompted the sheikhdom’s Land Department to
double property registration fees to 4 percent starting Oct. 6.
The real estate regulator is requiring developers to set aside a
portion of a project’s costs to limit the effect of advance
sales in financing construction. Restrictions on mortgage
lending, expected from the United Arab Emirates central bank
this year, will also help cool the market, Goldman said.  Political Stability  Dubai’s relative political stability and high rental yields
of 5 percent to 6 percent will maintain its attractiveness to
investors, according to Goldman. That compares with global
yields of 2 percent to 3 percent, the analysts wrote. Last year,
approximately 34 percent of Dubai’s property investors were from
 South Asia , followed by 15 percent from Arab countries.  In neighboring Abu Dhabi, residential prices have
stabilized and rents are increasing in the best areas, helped by
the relocation of around 10,000 state employees from Dubai in
the past eight months, the analysts estimated.  Abu Dhabi’s government in Sept. 2012 required all its
employees and those of state-related companies to live in the
capital to receive housing allowances. The law sparked the
relocation of workers who for years had commuted from Dubai
where they enjoyed lower rents and better infrastructure.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  had its rating raised two levels to
BB at  Standard & Poor’s  with a stable outlook, the ratings
company said in a statement today. The rating is two levels
below investment grade.  Aldar,  Abu Dhabi ’s largest developer, is taking a more
cautious approach to new projects, aims to increase sources of
recurring income and is reducing its debt, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  