-- Health-Care False Claims Cases Reap $18.3 Billion, Report
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-10-21T23:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/health-care-false-claims-cases-reap-18-3-billion-report.html
Federal and state governments
recovered $18.3 billion between 2008 and 2012 from lawsuits and
criminal cases claiming health-care companies overbilled,
according to an advocacy group that encourages whistle-blowers.  Taxpayers Against Fraud, a Washington-based group, released
a  study  showing total health-care recoveries, excluding whistle-blower payments, rose to $5.8 billion last year from $1.5
billion in 2008. Those totals include criminal fines and state
false claims recoveries, two figures not normally tallied.  Still, recoveries are a small fraction of the $2.8 trillion
the U.S. spends annually on health care, or 17.8 percent of the
gross domestic product, according to the  World Health
Organization . Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who
sponsored a 1986 amendment that propelled the U.S. law forward,
said the Justice Department should do more to deter companies
than collect payments.  “Right now, it’s a cost of doing business,” Grassley said
in an interview. “When it’s a cost of doing business, behavior
isn’t going to change and criminal prosecution needs to be
pursued. When you jail somebody, it makes a bigger point than
any fine you’re going to get.”  The health-care recoveries involve dozens of companies,
including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest drugmaker;
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the biggest U.K. drugmaker;  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,
the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker by sales; and  McKesson Corp. (MCK) ,
the largest U.S. pharmaceutical distributor. Many of the
settlements involve corporate integrity agreements pledging
compliance with the law.  29 States  Most cases were filed under the federal  False Claims Act ,
the law that lets citizens sue on behalf of the government and
share in any recovery. Twenty-nine states have similar laws.
Most of the recoveries by the U.S. between 1987 and 2012 were in
health-care cases, where the government recovered $24.1 billion,
according to  Justice Department  statistics.  Between 2008 and 2012, the civil U.S. recoveries amounted
to $9.4 billion, according to the Justice Department. The TAF
report shows that criminal fines associated with false claims
recoveries over the same period were $4.5 billion, while state
recoveries were $4.4 billion. Taken together, the civil,
criminal and state false claims recoveries account for the five-year total of $18.3 billion.  Whistle-Blowers  Whistle-blowers over that period collected $1.4 billion
beyond the $9.4 billion paid to the U.S. The law allows whistle-blowers to recover between 15 and 30 percent. Not every case
settled by the U.S. was initiated by whistle-blowers.  The TAF report argues that the federal government recovers
about 20 times more than it spends on investigations and
prosecutions of health-care fraud cases.  Whistle-blowing is increasing in other sectors, including
finance and taxation. With programs in place at the Securities
and Exchange Commission, the  Internal Revenue Service , and the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, many more cases are
coming, according to  Patrick Burns , co-executive director of
TAF.  “We are on the edge of a new era of incentivized integrity
programs,” said Burns. “It takes a long time to investigate,
negotiate and litigate these cases, but I think we will see
billions recovered under these programs in the years ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  