-- East Europe Loan Revival Needs Stronger West Rebound, Fitch Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-10-21T07:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/east-europe-loan-revival-needs-stronger-west-rebound-fitch-says.html
Eastern Europe needs a more robust
economic recovery in the continent’s west and an improvement in
loan quality to spur credit growth,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Western Europe, home to lenders that control three-quarters
of the east’s banking industry, must display “a longer and
sustained period of stability,” according to Artur Szeski,
Warsaw-based director of Fitch’s financial-institutions
department. That would help banks in Bulgaria,  Croatia ,  Romania ,
Hungary and Slovenia as they grapple with bad loans, he said.  “There’s some pickup in the  euro zone  but it’s still not
enough to increase the demand for lending across the central and
eastern European market,” Szeski said in an Oct. 14 phone
interview. “Banks are very much focused on solving the issue of
non-performing loans. That’s the most important challenge for
them now. Credit growth isn’t at the top of the agenda.”  Eastern Europe relies on its western neighbors as a market
for exports and a source of investment for banks and businesses.
The economy of the 17-nation euro area will shrink 0.4 percent
this year before expanding 1 percent in 2014, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , which raised previous forecasts for
a 0.6 percent contraction and 0.9 percent growth.  Western lenders with units in eastern Europe include
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and  Erste Group
Bank AG. (EBS)  A stronger recovery in the west would buoy corporate
profitability, increase appetite for credit, limit banks’ loan
losses and free up resources to lend, according to Szeski.  ‘Weak’ Lending  Private credit growth remained “weak” at the start of the
year, advancing 1 percent in the first quarter, the Vienna
Initiative, a group of banks, regulators and policy makers that
helped prevent an eastern European financial collapse in 2008
and 2009, said in a July report.  Europe’s financial industry remains fragile and next year’s
planned balance-sheet assessment by the  European Central Bank 
“provides a critical opportunity to put the system on a sounder
footing,” according to the IMF. The spotlight will be on
eastern European loan losses as  credit quality  may be worse than
reported because banks there have less rigorous rules for
recognizing bad debt, the fund said last month.  The Vienna Initiative said in July that there was an
“urgent need to deal with rising non-performing loans.” Bad
debt accounted for 18 percent of total lending in Lithuania last
year, while the ratio was 16.9 percent in Bulgaria, 16.8 percent
in Romania and 13.2 percent in Slovenia, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  2014 Peak  Bad-loan ratios should peak in Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia,
Hungary and Slovenia next year while they may deteriorate
slightly in Poland and will probably remain unchanged in the
 Czech Republic  and Slovakia, according to Szeski.  The MSCI World Bank Index of developed-market lenders has
risen 20 percent this year, compared with a 0.7 percent decline
for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Bank Index.  Emerging Europe’s gross domestic product will grow 2.3
percent in 2013 and 2.7 percent next year, according to the
Washington-based IMF.  Funding withdrawals by western European banks accelerated
in the first quarter, according to the Vienna Initiative, which
said its assumption that “the second wave of funding reductions
that started in mid-2011 would taper off did not prove
correct.”  The process has remained orderly and when economic growth
picks up, western lenders will provide more funding to their
eastern subsidiaries because that region “still offers very
good returns” even if “funding has become more expensive,”
according to Szeski.  “Parent banks are very unlikely to provide billions of
euros of funding as in the past,” he said. “Reliance on
parental funding will decrease and sources of funding for growth
will be much more diversified and balanced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  