-- ECB Urged to Use Single Rule on Bad Debt for Bank Exams by EBA
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-10-21T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/ecb-urged-to-use-single-rule-on-bad-debt-for-bank-exams-by-eba.html
The European Union’s top banking
regulator urged the  European Central Bank  to use its standards
on how to classify bad debt for a health check of lenders’
balance sheets next year.  The  European Banking Authority  also said the examination,
known as the asset quality review, should be completed by
October 2014 to give the EBA time to use the data in stress
tests next year. The agency proposed that supervisors consider
any loan more than 90 days overdue or “from any debtor assessed
as unlikely to pay its credit obligations in full” as non-performing, the London-based EBA said.  “The aim of these recommendations is to contribute to a
coordinated approach in the way competent authorities evaluate
banks’ credit portfolios,” the EBA, set up in 2011 to harmonize
banking rules across the 28-member EU, said in a statement on
its website today.  Policy makers at the Frankfurt-based ECB last week
discussed the ground rules for its probes into the health of the
130 banks it will start supervising next year. The check-up is
part of the ECB’s demands for assuming the burden of overseeing
banks from Deutsche Bank AG to  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , and the
first assessment of the industry since a round of stress tests
two years ago.  Legally Binding  The EBA proposal would see loans that were more than 90
days late with repayments on more than 20 percent of its
outstanding debt classified as non-performing. The agency also
clarified rules on forbearance, where banks shift the terms of a
loan to account for a change in the debtor’s own income.  The rules come into force at the end of next year and the
EBA’s recommendation to the ECB to apply the standards early in
its balance sheet review is non-binding.  The point of the asset assessment, as explained by ECB
President  Mario Draghi  earlier this month, is to remove doubts
overshadowing  Europe ’s banking system at a time when he is
trying to foster a recovery from a  record-long recession .  Investors in European banks expect up to 15 lenders to have
to raise as much as 50 billion euros as a consequence of the
ECB’s exam, according to a survey of 146 investors by Morgan
Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  