-- EDF Agrees to Build U.K.’s First Nuclear Plant Since 1995
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s ,   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-21T12:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/edf-agrees-on-deal-to-build-first-u-k-nuclear-plant-since-1995.html
Electricite de France SA  will build
the U.K.’s first nuclear reactors since 1995 after reaching a
deal with the government on guaranteed prices for the power
they’ll generate.  EDF, together with partners  Areva SA (AREVA)  and two Chinese
nuclear companies, agreed to construct the plant at Hinkley
Point in southwest  England  after the government offered a power
price that’s almost double today’s market rate. The project will
cost about 16 billion pounds ($26 billion) and take 10 years to
build, the Paris-based company said in a statement.  “This deal means 16 billion pounds of investment coming
into the country and the creation of 25,000 jobs,” Prime
Minister David Cameron said in a statement released in London
today. “This also marks the next generation of nuclear power in
Britain, which has an important part to play in contributing to
our future energy needs.”  The decision caps more than a year of negotiations with the
French utility and marks the cornerstone of Cameron’s effort to
lure 110 billion pounds of investment into Britain’s aging
electricity infrastructure by the end of the decade. Regulators
have warned that the U.K. risks blackouts unless it speeds
efforts to replace obsolete power plants.  “This decision could have a positive domino effect on the
U.K. nuclear industry as an uncertainty that plagued the sector
in recent years has finally been removed,” said George Borovas,
head of international nuclear projects at law firm Pillsbury
Winthrop Shaw Pittmann LLP. “Additional new-build projects are
likely to follow.”  Strike Price  EDF will earn at least 92.50 pounds a megawatt-hour over a
period of 35 years at Hinkley Point. The so-called strike price
is above the 49-pound market average in the past year. If EDF
goes ahead with a second nuclear project at Sizewell in Suffolk
the strike price will fall to 89.50 pounds. The government will
also offer loan guarantees to help 65 percent of the cost of
construction.  EDF will own 45 percent to 50 percent of the project, while
Areva, which will supply the reactors, will have 10 percent.
China General Nuclear Power Corp. and China National Nuclear
Corp. will have 30 percent to 40 percent of the project. Talks
are taking place with other interested parties for as much as 15
percent.  The project is conditional on agreeing terms for state aid
with the European Union, EDF said.  Financial Support  The financial support for new nuclear stations may prove
controversial at a time when consumers and the Labour opposition
are bridling over rising utility bills.  Energy costs for U.K. households have risen 45 percent on
average from 2007 through 2012 even though the nation suffered
its worst recession in a generation. Labour leader Ed Miliband
has said he would cap household bills if he wins the election
due in 2015.  “Labour supports the development of new nuclear power
stations in Britain as part of a balanced, secure and clean
energy mix,” Caroline Flint, Labour’s spokeswoman for energy,
said in an e-mail. “The potential costs of this agreement make
it all the more crucial that we end the rip-offs and have an
energy market that people trust.”  The support for nuclear energy is less than the 155 pounds
being offered to offshore wind farms. The government has been
trying to reduce those subsidies to limit the impact on power
bills even as it encourages cleaner forms of power generation
that would meet commitments to rein in greenhouse gases.  Renewing Nuclear  Renewing the nuclear industry is central to Cameron’s plans
for keeping electricity flowing as older oil, coal and nuclear
plants retire from service.  The government has promised to cut carbon dioxide emissions
by 34 percent in 2020 from 1990 levels. Failure to build the 16
gigawatts of new nuclear capacity the government is seeking by
2025 would jeopardize the carbon targets, Parliament’s Energy
and Climate Change Committee said in March.  Government backing for the Hinkley Point project may lead
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ,  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA to proceed with their
own nuclear plants in Britain, which has decided to press ahead
with atomic power as Japan and  Germany  wind down their
industries following the meltdown in Fukushima two years ago.  EDF intends to build two EPR reactors made by Areva at
Hinkley Point, about 150 miles west of London on the southern
edge of the Bristol Channel. They will have a total capacity of
3.3 gigawatts, enough to supply 5 million homes for 60 years.  Great Opportunity  “The EPR project at Hinkley Point represents a great
opportunity for the French nuclear industry,” EDF Chairman
Henri Proglio said in today’s statement.  EDF already owns eight nuclear stations totaling almost 9
gigawatts in the U.K., though only its 1.2-gigawatt Sizewell B,
the U.K.’s youngest plant completed in 1995, is scheduled to
stay open past 2023.  Areva’s reactor design was approved for use in the U.K. by
the Office for Nuclear Regulation and the Environment Agency in
December. EDF won planning permission for Hinkley Point on March
19. The site already houses two smaller reactors that EDF says
are due to be decommissioned around 2023.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  