-- Legoland Operator Merlin Entertainments Plans IPO in London
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-10-21T09:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/legoland-operator-merlin-entertainments-to-sell-shares-in-london.html
Merlin Entertainments Group Ltd.,
the private-equity backed owner of Madame Tussauds and the
London Eye, plans to raise 200 million pounds ($324 million)
selling shares in a London initial public offering.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Lego
Group owner Kirkbi A/S are also expected to sell part of their 
stakes in the offering, the company said today in a statement. 
The owners are seeking an enterprise value, or the sum of 
Merlin’s equity and net debt, of about 4 billion pounds, 
according to two people familiar with the matter, who asked not 
to be identified because the sale has yet to be completed. A 
London-based company representative declined to comment on the 
valuation.  Merlin comes to the market in a year when IPOs on European
exchanges have raised about $17 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, compared with $10 billion in the same
period of 2012. Private-equity shareholders including Terra
Firma Capital Partners Ltd. and Permira Advisers LLP are selling
their stakes in companies via London IPOs as investors return to
 Europe ’s markets on the strength of an economic recovery.  Merlin, which also runs Legoland parks, said it will use
proceeds of the IPO to repay debt and cover the expenses.  “The directors of Merlin believe that the global offer
will position Merlin for the next stage of its development by
providing the appropriate long-term ownership structure,” the
company said in the statement. “The global offer will also
assist the group in retaining and incentivising employees.”  Net Debt  Merlin, which had net debt of about 1.3 billion pounds at
the end of 2012, abandoned a sale to the public three years ago
in favor of selling a stake to CVC, and opted against a  New York 
IPO earlier this year, people familiar with the matter said.  Merlin said today that revenue rose 11 percent to 889
million pounds in the 35 weeks ended Aug. 31, or 7.1 percent on
a comparable basis. The company is developing a Legoland site in
Dubai and has identified potential locations in  Japan  and  South
Korea . It also has longer term plans to expand in  China .  At least 20 percent of the shares will be publicly traded
after the IPO. Kirkbi, which owns 75 percent of the Lego Group,
“intends to remain a long-term strategic shareholder.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc, along with
Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Unicredit
Bank AG are managing the Merlin IPO, according to today’s
statement. Lazard Ltd. is financial adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net 
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  