-- Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan Mull New Probe Nile Dam Impact
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-10-21T07:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/egypt-ethiopia-and-sudan-mull-new-probe-nile-dam-impact.html
Ethiopia ,  Sudan  and Egypt agreed to
examine the regional impact of a $4.2 billion dam being built on
a Nile river tributary in Ethiopia after experts said earlier
studies were inconclusive.  A meeting of water ministers and delegates in Sudan’s
capital, Khartoum, on Nov. 4 will discuss conducting a new study
of the hydropower project’s downstream effect and more detailed
appraisals of its environmental and social impact, said Fekahmed
Negash, head of the Ethiopian Water Ministry’s Boundary and
Transboundary Rivers Affairs Directorate.  The 6,000-megawatt Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, set to
be  Africa ’s largest when completed in 2017, has raised concern
in Cairo that it will reduce the flow of the Nile, which
provides almost all of  Egypt ’s water.  In a June report, a group of international experts said
Ethiopia’s analysis of the dam’s impact was “very basic, and
not yet at a level of detail, sophistication and reliability
that would befit a development of this magnitude, importance and
with such regional impact.”  Next month’s meeting “will be on the way forward on the
implementation of the recommendations of the International Panel
of Experts,” Fekahmed said Oct. 18 by phone from Ethiopia’s
capital, Addis Ababa.  As suggested by the panel, which included two specialists
from each country and four international experts, the assessment
will weigh the impact of other Ethiopian dams planned on the
 Blue Nile , which originates in Ethiopia and is the largest
tributary of the Nile, Fekahmed said.  Dam Reservoir  Ethiopia is the source of 86 percent of the water that
flows into the Nile, the world’s longest river that runs 4,160
miles (6,700 kilometers) through 11 countries from Burundi in
the south to Egypt, where it empties into the  Mediterranean Sea .
Ethiopia has said it will take five to six years to fill the 74
billion cubic-meter (2.6 trillion cubic-feet) reservoir created
by the dam.  Ethiopia won’t stop construction of the dam, which will
produce electricity partly for export, Ethiopian Prime Minister
Hailemariam Desalegn told reporters in  Addis Ababa . The project
can benefit the region if all sides show “political
commitment” to it, he said Oct. 4.  Sudan backs the dam, which will “bring many benefits and
blessings for us,” Sudanese Information Minister Ahmed Bilal
Osman said in June.  Structural Concerns  Concerns raised by the panel about the structure of the dam
being built in western Ethiopia, 30 kilometers (18 miles) from
the Sudanese border, have been addressed by contractor Salini
Costruttori SpA, according to Fekahmed. The Rome-based company
is able to adjust its design during construction as it has a
contract to manage the entire project, he said.  The panel’s call to assess the stability of the rocks on
which the foundations of the main dam and an auxiliary dam will
rest was a “reminder” to Salini to “take care of this in the
design,” Gideon Asfaw, an Ethiopian civil engineer who sat on
the panel, said in an interview.  “Whatever you find there is an engineering solution to
it,” he said in Addis Ababa on Oct. 11. “There is no cause for
alarm regarding the geological formation or the foundation
design.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  