-- HeidelbergCement Sells Bonds as Junk Yields Decline in Europe
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-10-21T15:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/heidelbergcement-selling-bonds-as-junk-yields-decline-in-europe.html
HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  sold bonds in
Europe as borrowing costs for junk-rated companies fell to the
lowest in 4 1/2 months.  The third-largest cement maker issued 300 million euros
($410 million) of seven-year notes to yield 3.375 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield
investors demand to hold speculative-grade bonds fell 42 basis
points this month to 4.4 percent, the lowest since May 28,
Bloomberg  bond index  data show.  Demand for riskier assets is growing amid speculation the
Federal Reserve will hold down borrowing costs to offset the
impact of the U.S. government shutdown. The central bank will
delay trimming its stimulus program until March after the 16-day
stoppage cut fourth-quarter economic growth by 0.3 percentage
point, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 40 economists
last week.  “Investors are more comfortable in bonds generally and
especially in high yield after the government shutdown caused
U.S. growth to slow, delaying expectations for tapering,” said
Martin Reeves, head of high yield at Legal & General Investment
Management, which oversees about $2.45 billion of sub-investment-grade debt. “The fact that tapering isn’t expected
to happen imminently is propelling yields lower.”  The average yield investors demand to hold speculative-grade bonds in euros instead of government debt fell 52 basis
points this month to 441 basis points, the least since November
2007, Bank of America Merrill Lynch  index data  show.  Receptive Market  The cost of insuring the securities against losses is
holding near the lowest since January 2008, with the Markit
iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50 high-yield
companies climbing 3 basis points to 346 basis points.  HeidelbergCement was marketing its first bonds in more than
a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds from
the 3.25 percent bonds through its HeidelbergCement Finance
Luxembourg SA unit will be used for general corporate purposes,
according to the person, who asked not to be identified because
they’re not authorized to speak about it.  “We had seen the market was receptive to high-yield
issuers so we chose to issue now,” Group Treasurer Henner Boettcher said in a telephone interview. “This is a record-low
coupon for the company. The bond was oversubscribed and it’s
already trading well in the secondary market.”  The Heidelberg, Germany-based cement maker’s four-year
bonds sold in March 2012 pay a coupon of 4 percent, Bloomberg
data show. Moody’s Investors Service rates the company at Ba1,
one level below investment grade.  Also in the new issue market today,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s
biggest bank, is selling 1 billion euros of 12-year lower tier 2
subordinated notes in euros that can be bought back by the
company after seven years, according to a person familiar with
the matter. The notes will yield 410 basis points more than the
mid-swap rate.  Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA , the fourth-largest Italian
bank also known as UBI Banca, raised 750 million euros from
notes due April 2017 yielding 195 basis points more than swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  