-- Telecom Italia Is Said to Withdraw Network Spinoff Proposal
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-10-22T16:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/telecom-italia-is-said-to-withdraw-fixed-line-spinoff-proposal.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  plans to
terminate a proposed spinoff of its telephone network, removing
an option to raise funds for debt reduction, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  The company intends to recommend to its board at a Nov. 7
meeting that the plan, which was approved by directors in May,
be withdrawn, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the deliberations are confidential. The move would officially
end a project already stalled by a July regulatory decision.  A separation of Telecom Italia’s copper and fiber network,
valued at about 14 billion euros ($19 billion), had been in the
making for more than a year and would have provided a way to cut
 debt  via a stake sale, as well as leverage to bargain for
lighter regulations. The Agcom authority on July 11 ordered the
Milan-based carrier to cut the fees it charges rivals for using
its landline grid, forcing the company to put the plans on hold.  The process of the spinoff, championed by former Chief
Executive Officer Franco Bernabe, has also slowed after
shareholder  Telefonica SA (TEF)  agreed last month to gradually
increase its influence in Telecom Italia. Madrid-based
Telefonica prefers Telecom Italia to turn around a slide in the
company’s revenue in its domestic market without carving out the
fixed-line grid, said two people familiar with the Spanish
carrier’s thinking. They asked not to be identified because the
discussions were private.  ‘Strategic Baby’  “While potentially justified on paper, the spinoff plan
has faced too much opposition to survive the resignation of its
father,” said Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maffe, a professor of
business strategy at Milan’s  Bocconi University , calling the
project Bernabe’s “strategic baby” to give Telecom Italia a
sustainable  capital structure .  Spokesmen at Telecom Italia and Telefonica declined to
comment on the spinoff proposal.  Telecom Italia fell as much as 3.1 percent and closed 1.2
percent lower at 72.6 cents in Milan, valuing the company at
13.1 billion euros. The stock is up 6.3 percent this year after
eight consecutive years of decline.  Bernabe resigned on Oct. 3 as executive chairman after
clashing with the board over strategic directions. His deputy,
Marco Patuano, was put in charge as the carrier seeks a new
chairman. Patuano is expected to present on Nov. 7 a turnaround
plan that will address how to pare $39 billion in net debt.  Junk Rating  Following Bernabe’s resignation, Moody’s Investors Service
has cut Telecom Italia’s rating to  junk , citing uncertainty over
the company’s ability to strengthen its balance sheet
sufficiently to offset a decline in revenue and earnings in its
domestic market.  Among options to raise cash include a capital increase and
a sale of Brazilian carrier  Tim Participacoes SA. (TIMP3)  Telecom Italia
has valued its 67 percent stake in Tim at a minimum of $12
billion in preparation for any possible sale, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said this month.  Fully separating a fixed-line network -- considered
strategic assets by many governments -- would be unseen among
European carriers in recent years. The move would also have
involved the transfer of as many as 20,000 positions.  Telecom Italia had discussed a sale of a stake in the new
company to state-owned lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA
after a separation, people familiar with the matter said earlier
this year. This month, Cassa Depositi’s Fondo Strategico
Italiano fund agreed to acquire a controlling stake in
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s power-plant division for about $1 billion.  ‘Always Open’  Cassa Depositi CEO Giovanni Gorno Tempini told reporters
today in Milan that the door is “always open” on the future of
Telecom Italia’s network. He didn’t elaborate.  Defense and telecommunications are among industries deemed
strategic by Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s administration, which
has signed a decree giving the state a say in any sale of fixed-line network to a foreign buyer.  A spinoff would take at least six to 12 months and is
unlikely to ease pressure on its ratings,  Fitch Ratings  said the
day after Bernabe resigned.  Standard & Poor’s , which plans to
complete its own review next month, said on Oct. 7 that a
downgrade to junk was “the more likely outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  