-- Emerging Stocks Rise 5th Day on China as Petrobras Soars
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-10-21T21:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/emerging-stocks-retreat-from-5-month-high-as-industrials-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
a fifth day after China called for reform measures to
consolidate the nation’s recovery.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa rallied to
the highest level since May as  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  soared.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.1 percent to
1,042.66. The Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.6 percent. The
Ibovespa rallied as Petrobras surged 5.3 percent after a group
led by the state-run  oil company  won a license to develop
Brazil’s biggest oil discovery under terms that exceeded
estimates. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index climbed 3.5
percent, while  Poland ’s WIG20 Index jumped to a nine-month high.  China will boost financial support to small businesses, cut
overcapacity and look for new engines to drive consumption, the
State Council said in a statement yesterday. The nation’s
leaders will meet in November to map out policies to reform the
economy and sustain long-term growth at about 7 percent. The
 Federal Reserve  won’t taper bond purchases until March as the
government shutdown slowed growth, a Bloomberg survey showed.  “It improves the China story, it takes some of the risk
and volatility out of it,”  Peter Sorrentino , who helps manage
about $14.7 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati,
said by phone. “That in a way will benefit the global story.
With the U.S. taper being on hold, we’re pretty favorably
disposed towards emerging markets right now.”  The benchmark gauge for developing nations has slid 1.2
percent this year to trade at 10.8 times projected  earnings ,
compared with the  valuation  of 14.3 for the MSCI World Index.  Options Prices  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund dropped 0.2 percent to $43.24. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
declined 5.6 percent to 18.86.  The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  rose 1.3 percent as Petrobras jumped the most
since Aug. 22. The company and partners Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
Total SA, Cnooc Ltd. and China National Petroleum Corp., pledged
to the government the minimum 41.65 percent of profit oil, or
the barrels remaining after all costs are covered, to win the
35-year project in deep waters of the Atlantic Ocean. Bank of
America Corp. said in an Oct. 14 report that profit oil of less
than 50 percent would be seen as beneficial for Petrobras.  Most Russian equities retreated as crude oil, the nation’s
main export earner, declined. The Borsa Istanbul National 100
Index gained for a fourth day as Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS
jumped the most in a month. Poland’s WIG20 Index climbed to the
highest level since Jan. 24 as Bank Pekao SA extended a three-day rally to 5 percent.  China, India  China’s stocks  rose the most in a week. Shanghai
Metersbonwe Fashion & Accessories Co. jumped 10 percent, leading
gains in consumer companies reliant on economic growth.  Shanghai
Baosight Software Co. (600845)  paced the rally in technology shares after
signing a contract to provide data-center services to Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex rose, holding at a three-year high,
amid better-than-estimated corporate earnings. Engineering
company  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  rallied to a three-month high and
 Asian Paints Ltd. (APNT)  surged about 6 percent after reporting profit
that beat forecasts.  Thailand ’s SET Index dropped the most among 94 world gauges
tracked by Bloomberg amid speculation that a bill granting
amnesty for political offenses will spur protests against the
government.  Nineteen out of the 24 developing-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg retreated. The rand depreciated for the first time
in four days against the dollar on bets Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  will revise fiscal targets this week.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  slid three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 308 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  