-- Tencent Gains as Barclays Says Among Top Internet Picks
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-10-21T10:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/tencent-gains-as-barclays-says-among-top-internet-picks.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , Asia’s
biggest Internet company, surged to a record in  Hong Kong 
trading after analysts at Barclays Plc named it among its top
picks in  China ’s online sector.  The shares rose 4.2 percent to close at a record HK$447.80,
giving the company a market value of $107 billion. Tencent,
along with  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU)  and  Ctrip.com International
Ltd. (CTRP) , are the top picks for Chinese Internet stocks, Barclays
analysts led by Alicia Yap said in a report today.  Tencent, which has doubled annual revenue in the past two
years, is tapping into the sevenfold surge in China’s online
population since its 2004 initial public offering with games, e-commerce and the WeChat instant messaging service. The stock is
also benefiting from a rally in U.S. Web stocks as Google Inc.
and Facebook Inc. reached record highs last week, said Billy Leung, an analyst at RHB Research Institute Sdn. in Hong Kong.  “Tencent has higher revenues and net income and is more
diversified. So I would say that the market is appreciating this
increasingly,” said  Duncan Clark , the Beijing-based chairman of
BDA China Ltd., which advises technology companies. “WeChat has
over 100 million users outside China and Tencent is more active
in taking stakes in leading games or social companies
overseas.”  Last month Tencent paid $448 million for a 36.5 percent
stake in Sohu.com Inc.’s Sogou search unit, China’s third
largest. The company controls Riot Games Inc., a Los Angeles
online-game publisher.  Shenzhen, China-based Tencent had 990 million registered
instant messaging accounts at the end of the second quarter
compared with about 1 million accounts in 1999, according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  