-- Terra Firma Joins Blackstone in Cashing in on Europe IPOs
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-10-21T12:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/terra-firma-joins-blackstone-in-cashing-in-on-europe-ipos.html
Guy Hands’s Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  are joining a growing list
of private-equity firms that are making this the busiest year
for U.K. initial public offerings since at least 2010.  Terra Firma, the Guernsey, Channel Islands-based firm, has
begun an IPO of U.K. wind-power generator Infinis Plc that will
value the company at 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) including
debt. Blackstone is leading a sale of part of its stake in
Merlin Entertainments Group Ltd., the owner of Madame Tussauds
and the  London  Eye.  Issuers in the U.K. have announced more than 70 IPOs this
year, the most since at least 2010, when 84 companies disclosed
plans to go public, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
IPOs in Europe raised about $17 billion this year, the data
show, compared with $10 billion in the same period in 2012 as
the benchmark FTSE 100 has gained 12.4 percent and buyout firms
have re-entered the market.  “Sponsors have seen a series of transactions not just get
done, but get done well over the course of 2013,” said Adam Young, head of equity advisory at Rothschild in London. “They
are now confident of there being a wide enough window to trade
if they push the button.”  Investors have snapped up shares of companies including
 Foxtons Ltd. (FOXT) , the London-based estate agent BC Partners Ltd.
took public in September, and  HellermannTyton Group Plc (HTY) , a maker
of cable ties and fasteners owned by Doughty Hanson & Co.
Foxtons has gained about 25 percent and HellermannTyton has
risen 42 percent since its shares began trading in March.  Infinis IPO  Terra Firma plans to seek to value Infinis at about 1.5
billion pounds including debt, said two people with knowledge of
the deal who asked not to be identified as the details are
private. Infinis plans to offer a dividend of 55 million pounds
in the year ending March 2015, its first full financial year
following the IPO, the company said today in a statement.  Blackstone, CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Lego Group owner
Kirkbi A/S expect to sell part of their stakes in Merlin’s IPO,
according to a statement. At least 20 percent of the shares will
be publicly traded after listing.  “The IPO market is now definitely open for European
sponsors, though for how long is anyone’s guess,” said Mark Dighero, a partner at London-based law firm Allen & Overy LLP
who advises private-equity firms.  Other private-equity backed companies planning to go public
in 2014 include Copenhagen-based ISS A/S. The provider of
contract cleaning staff, which is owned by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s leveraged-buyout unit and  Sweden ’s EQT Partners AB, this
month appointed advisers for an IPO, Sky News reported.  “IPO windows tend to be short and unpredictable,” said
Michael Abraham, co-head of the Financial Sponsors Group for
Europe, the Middle East and  Africa  at investment bank UBS AG.
“So if you want to hit the window, and we have one right now,
you need to prepare thoroughly beforehand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  