-- EU Exit Would Hurt London’s Place as Financial Hub, Report Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-10-21T11:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/eu-exit-would-hurt-london-s-place-as-financial-hub-report-says.html
A U.K. exit from the European Union
could hurt  London ’s position as a financial center and weaken
the country’s attempts to influence legislation, according to a
report whose contributors include two former Bank of England
officials.  A decision by the U.K. to leave the EU would “put at risk
both London’s position and the strength of one of the country’s
most successful sectors,”  John Gieve , former deputy governor
for financial stability and  David Green , who spent 30 years as a
senior supervisor at the central bank and then headed
international policy at the Financial Services Authority, wrote
in a report published by Regent’s University, London.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in January he wants a
referendum on EU membership by the end of 2017, following a
renegotiation of Britain’s relationship with the bloc. Deputy
Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  this month called on business leaders
who oppose leaving the EU to make their position plain.  A “Britain outside the EU would certainly count for less
and less on its own account,” Peter Sutherland, chairman of
Goldman Sachs International, said in the report. In its trade
with “the remaining EU, the U.K. would obviously be expected to
observe the rules of the Single European Market, as it does
currently -- these rules developing over time with little or no
British influence on their evolution.”  Almost 80 percent of U.K. business leaders say Britain
should remain a member of the EU, a survey by the  Confederation
of British Industry  found last month. Only 10 percent said it
was in Britain’s interests to leave the bloc, according to the
U.K.’s biggest business lobby group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  