-- EU Is Damned Either Way on Ukraine
-- B y   J a m e s   S h e r r
-- 2013-10-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/eu-is-damned-either-way-on-ukraine.html
With little more than a month to go
before the European Union is due to sign trade and association
 agreements  with four former Soviet nations,  Europe ’s leaders
face an impossible dilemma over Ukraine.  The EU can sign  the deal  at a ceremony in the Lithuanian
capital of Vilnius on Nov. 28-29, allowing Ukraine to manipulate
the rules and standards that define the union. Or its member
countries can refuse and risk consigning Ukraine to a future
under more authoritarian rule and deeper dependency upon  Russia .  Given the unpleasantness of that choice, it came as no
surprise Oct. 21 when EU foreign ministers meeting to  discuss 
the issue in Luxembourg gave no clear recommendation either way
on what their governments would do.  In immediate terms, the issue turns on the fate of former
Ukrainian Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko . Her imprisonment most
visibly symbolizes the selective justice that EU leaders said
her country would need to overcome for the agreement to be
signed, as well as for the associated Deep and Comprehensive
Free Trade  Area  to come into effect.  President  Viktor Yanukovych  refuses to pardon Tymoshenko,
who was  convicted  in 2011 of abuse of office for her negotiation
of a natural gas contract with Russia while she was prime
minister. At the same time, the state has frozen two further
cases it opened against her, and intricate efforts are under way
to allow her to seek medical treatment under custody in Berlin
while guaranteeing her exclusion from Ukrainian politics.  Turning Tables  There probably is no such guarantee that the EU could
accept. Opinion polls  suggest  that if a free and fair election
were held in Ukraine today, Yanukovych would probably lose, with
or without Tymoshenko in the running. In 2015, when elections
are due to be held, the risk is that Tymoshenko would prevail
even in a rigged contest. For Yanukovych, the stakes involve not
only losing power but also a turning of the tables and his own
possible imprisonment for abuse of power.  Tymoshenko, however, is only a stumbling block. The deeper
issues are twofold. First, unless  Ukraine  changes the way the
state and economy work, it could suffer hardship under the free-trade area and possibly damage the EU’s single market. This is
why, in December 2012, the EU made the association  conditional 
on progress in three areas -- justice, the electoral system and
institutional reform (a polite euphemism for severing the link
between politics, business and crime).  The past few weeks have witnessed unprecedented activity in
Ukraine to make the required changes to legislation. Several
high-profile figures subjected to selective justice have been
released from prison or had travel bans lifted. Nevertheless,
perceptions persist that these efforts are for show and that
Ukraine’s patrimonial system of power and rent-seeking remains
firmly in place. So although, for example, the criminal code has
been much improved, the interior ministry, the prosecutor’s
office and tax service remain unreformed. Most personnel
associated with the malpractice Ukraine has agreed to end remain
in place. What does this say about the government’s intentions?  Yanukovych did not create the link between politics,
business and crime in Ukraine, but since his election in 2010,
he has expanded the abuses of a predatory and deprofessionalized
state that discourages entrepreneurship and embitters ordinary
citizens. He views association with the EU as a political
resource rather than a blueprint for change.  Forfeit Leverage  If the EU signs the agreement with Ukraine, it will
vindicate the tactics of a tenacious, uncooperative and
unpopular government. It will also risk an anti-EU backlash in
Ukraine as rules are applied selectively and the rigors of the
free-trade area bite. If, however, the EU refuses to sign, it
will forfeit any leverage it has and risk propelling Yanukovych
into hard authoritarianism.  Without Ukraine, the EU’s Eastern  Partnership  -- for which
November’s trade and association agreements are the substance --
will probably atrophy. The initialing of the equivalent
agreements with  Moldova  and  Georgia  might provide some
compensation but probably not enough to arrest the trend.
 Armenia , the fourth country that was due to sign an association
agreement, has already had a last-minute change of heart, under
pressure from Russia.  Russia is the second major issue for the EU. It has
invested enormous political capital into a competing scheme of
integration in its neighborhood, the Eurasian Customs Union,
which it hopes to develop into a more politically integrated
Eurasian Union. The EU’s Eastern Partnership, like the bloc
itself, is a normative project built upon principles and
practices. These are markedly different from the
“civilizational” norms and “cultural code” that Russia wants
to maintain in what it calls its sphere of privileged interests.  Unlike an association with the EU, the Eurasian alternative
does not require Ukraine to improve its standards of governance,
reform its system of justice, strengthen property rights, or
apply best practices to the relationship between business,
consumers and the state. To date, only Russia, Kazakhstan and
 Belarus  -- all authoritarian nations -- have joined the Eurasian
Customs Union.  The EU might express regrets if Ukraine and other Eastern
Partnership countries were to opt freely for President  Vladimir Putin ’s vision, but it would not seriously object. But the EU
has expressed concern that these countries are being coerced
into making the choice.  Putin says this is just business -- if Ukraine lowers its
tariffs on EU imports, the Customs Union must take “protective
measures.” Yet this does not explain the leaking of an
inventory of actions that Russia has contemplated taking against
Ukraine should it sign up with the EU, its threat to withdraw
 security guarantees  from Armenia, the brutal choices put to
Moldova over energy and migrant workers, or the raft of trade
blockages on unsubstantiated sanitary grounds taken against
these countries in recent months.  Russia’s choices are much clearer than those facing the
EU’s leaders. If Ukraine enters the EU’s normative space,
Putin’s effort to build what he calls a “distinctive”
civilizational model to the EU’s rule-based one will be
moribund. Russia is determined not to let this happen and,
thanks to Ukraine’s self-inflicted infirmities, sees little
chance that it will, whether it signs the EU’s Association
Agreement next month or not. Vilnius will not be the end of this
story.  (James Sherr is an associate fellow in the Russia and
Eurasia program at  Chatham House  in London, and author of "Hard Diplomacy and
Soft Coercion: Russia's Influence Abroad")  To contact the writer of this article:
James Sherr at  JSherr@chathamhouse.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 