-- EU Leaders May Call for Rapid Deal on Bank Stress-Test Backstops
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-21T16:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/eu-leaders-may-call-for-rapid-deal-on-bank-stress-test-backstops.html
European Union leaders are set to
call on their finance ministers to make urgent headway in
agreeing on how to handle banks that founder in European Central
Bank-led assessments next year.  Nations must put in place “a comprehensive and coordinated
approach in preparation for” the exams, according to a draft
version of conclusions to be adopted by EU heads of government
at an Oct. 24-25 summit in Brussels.  “It should involve all appropriate arrangements, including
national backstops,” for lenders that struggle in the tests,
according to the document. Ministers should complete the plan by
the end of November.  The Oct. 21 draft conclusions, obtained by Bloomberg News,
omitted a reference to a “European approach” on backstops in
an Oct. 14 version, highlighting the skirmishing on how
centralized the EU’s approach to troubled banks should be.  Policy makers at the Frankfurt-based ECB last week
discussed the ground rules for its probes into the health of the
130 banks it will start supervising next year. The check-up is
part of the ECB’s demands for assuming the burden of overseeing
banks from Deutsche Bank AG to  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   While the ECB has called for governments to make sure that
robust arrangements are put in place for handling weaknesses
exposed by the tests, finance ministers including  Germany ’s
Wolfgang Schaeuble have warned that lenders shouldn’t expect to
have direct access to euro-area firewall funds.  Leaders expect “full support and cooperation by the
national supervisors to ensure complete transparency, which is
key for the credibility of the exercise,” according to the
document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  