-- EU Panel Backs Fines Up to $137 Million in Privacy Law
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-10-21T17:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/eu-panel-backs-fines-up-to-137-million-in-privacy-law.html
The owners of Internet search-engines risk fines as high as 100 million euros ($136.8 million)
for data-protection violations under a European Union privacy
law approved by a European Parliament committee.  The privacy overhaul would target companies that handle
information about EU citizens, even when data processing takes
place outside the 28-nation bloc, according to the draft law
that won the backing of the European Parliament’s civil
liberties and justice committee in Strasbourg, France, today.  Jan Phillipp Albrecht, a German Green Party politician
sponsoring the bill in the EU assembly, also won permission to
negotiate a fast-track agreement with national governments. To
become law, the draft rules need the backing of the full
European Parliament and EU governments.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , based in  Mountain View , California, and
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  are among several U.S. Internet companies that
have faced scrutiny in the EU for possible privacy-rule
violations over their use of personal data. EU data-protection
officials have pushed Google, Microsoft Corp. and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  to
limit the amount of time they store search records. The same
group criticized  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook for
policy changes that may have harmed users’ privacy rights.  In a bid to harmonize fining powers across the EU, data-protection watchdogs across the bloc for the first time would be
empowered to fine companies as much as 5 percent of yearly
global sales or 100 million euros -- whichever is greater,
according to the draft.  Street View  To date, the heaviest penalty levied by an EU privacy
regulator was a 100,000-euro fine by French authorities in 2011
for Google’s unauthorized collection of personal data for its
Street View mapping service.  EU Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  in January 2012
presented plans to reform the bloc’s current rules dating back
to 1995. Google and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  were among companies to warn
the EU in 2011 against “overly strict” data-privacy curbs that
may harm technology development in the region.  “Tonight’s vote also sends a clear signal: as of today,
data protection is made in Europe,” Reding said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  