-- EU Said to Restart Turkey’s Entry Talks After Three-Year Break
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-10-21T08:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/eu-said-to-restart-turkey-s-entry-talks-after-three-year-break.html
The European Union will resume entry
talks with Turkey after a three-year halt, three officials said,
seeking to give the Turkish government an incentive to
strengthen civil rights.  Representatives of the 28 EU governments agreed today in
Luxembourg to the restart, the officials said on condition of
anonymity because they’re not authorized to speak publicly.
Turkey’s bid had been postponed in June after Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  suppressed civic protests against his
decade at the helm.  While Turkey will still be a long way from getting in, the
European Commission said the prospect of membership is the best
way of turning the country into a European-style democracy.  Turkey has a “pressing need to develop a truly
participatory democracy, able to reach out to all segments of
society,” and advancing the entry bid would be “an important
step,” the Brussels-based commission, which manages EU
enlargement, said last week.  The EU’s post-Cold War expansion reached an interim climax
in July with the arrival of  Croatia , once part of  Yugoslavia .
Croatia, which started the process on the same day as  Turkey  in
2005, took eight years to be admitted.  During the same time, Turkey has made it only 1/35th of the
way through a checklist of legislative and policy changes
required of would-be members. The stalemate reflects the EU’s
waning appetite to take in new countries as the debt crisis and
recession drive up unemployment and give rise to nationalist
stirrings, in both rich and poor EU countries.  The next phase of talks will align Turkey’s regional
affairs policies with EU norms. A date for the negotiating
session will be set by European affairs ministers at a meeting
in Luxembourg tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  