-- Ex-Jefferies Executive Loses Bid to Toss TARP Charges
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/ex-jefferies-managing-director-litvak-loses-bid-to-toss-charges.html
Ex-Jefferies & Co. managing director
Jesse C. Litvak lost a court bid to throw out charges that he
defrauded customers of more than $2 million on trades of
residential mortgage-backed securities.  Litvak, who has pleaded not guilty, was indicted in January
on charges of securities fraud, fraud connected to the Troubled
Asset Relief Program and making false statements to the federal
government. Alleged victims include investment funds, among them
six established by the U.S. Treasury Department in 2009 as part
of its response to the financial crisis.  U.S. District Judge Janet C. Hall in New Haven,
 Connecticut , denied a motion to dismiss the indictment in a
ruling dated yesterday, rejecting Litvak’s argument that the
Public-Private Investment Program created to distribute TARP
funds was a private vehicle managed by a private contractor and
therefore falls outside of the government’s jurisdiction.  The Public-Private Investment Funds that are the alleged
victims of Litvak’s fraud were “government-created entities
using mostly taxpayer money to achieve a government program’s
purposes,” Hall wrote in her ruling.  “It is simply not the case that Litvak’s interactions with
the PPIFs would have been the same had the government not been
an investor, for the PPIFs would not exist but for the
government’s decision to both create, fund and supervise them,”
she wrote.  Litvak is charged with 11 counts of securities fraud and
may face as long as 20 years in prison on each count if
convicted. He’s also charged with one count of TARP fraud, which
carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison, and four counts
of making false statements to the government, each punishable by
as long as five years in prison. He’s free on a $1 million bond
and scheduled to go on trial in February.  The case is U.S. v. Litvak, 13-cr-00019, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  