-- Texas Instruments Forecasts Profit That Trails Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-22T13:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/texas-instruments-forecasts-fall-short-of-analyst-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
analog-chip maker, forecast sales and profit that may fall short
of analysts’ estimates as some customers cut orders ahead of an
anticipated slowdown in demand for their products.  Fourth-quarter profit will be 42 cents to 50 cents a share
on revenue of $2.86 billion to $3.1 billion, the Dallas-based
company said yesterday in a statement. That compares with
average analyst estimates of 51 cents and $3.11 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Rich Templeton  is completing a
shift to analog and embedded-processing markets and moving away
from modems in mobile phones, an industry now led by  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM)  While that diversification has shielded Texas Instruments
from a slump in any single area, such as personal computers,
other markets may be beginning to slow.  “Even those areas like industrial and infrastructure that
have been relative stalwarts are feeling a bit fatigued,” said
 Cody Acree , an analyst at Williams Financial Group in  Dallas  who
 recommends  buying the stock. “They are on the margin a bit more
cautious than would be seasonally normal.”  Texas Instruments fell 2.4 percent to $39.99 at 9:52 a.m.
in  New York . The stock had gained 33 percent this year through
yesterday.  The forecast reflects the typical decline in fourth-quarter
demand from auto makers and industrial companies, Chief
Financial Officer Kevin March said in an interview. Orders
aren’t being canceled at a higher rate than usual, he said.  Seasonal Drop  “The signals are suggesting that this is a normal demand
environment,” March said.  Third-quarter profit fell 20 percent to $629 million, or 56
cents a share, from $784 million, or 67 cents, in the same
period a year earlier. Sales fell 4.3 percent to $3.24 billion.
On  average , analysts had estimated profit of 53 cents on revenue
of $3.23 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting costs of production, rose to a record 54.8 percent,
topping the 53.9 percent average analyst estimate.  Texas Instruments’  semiconductors  are used in almost every
type of electronic device that needs a chip, from military
munitions and blood pressure monitors to industrial air
conditioners. The company’s scope makes its earnings an
indicator of demand across the economy.  Texas Instruments started exiting the business of digital
baseband processors used in mobile phones more than a year ago
and sales will fall to about $50 million in the fourth quarter,
the company said. Qualcomm now dominates that market.  While the shift to analog has eased the company’s
dependence on the mobile-device market, Texas Instruments still
supplies cheaper components such as power-regulation chips and
audio processors for phones. Its products are also used as power
regulators in PCs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Ian King} in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  