-- Texas Abortion Laws Will Close Clinics, Witness Testifies
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   M o n t g o m e r y
-- 2013-10-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/texas-abortion-restrictions-tested-at-trial-in-austin.html
New Texas laws requiring abortion
doctors to have local hospital admitting privileges will likely
force clinics to close, compelling women seeking the procedure
to travel substantially farther, a trial witness said.  Joseph Potter, a University of Texas demographer, testified
for Planned Parenthood yesterday in federal court in Austin,
Texas, in a trial over the group’s challenge to the privileges
measure and a provision barring anyone except a doctor from
administering abortion-inducing drugs.  Clinics that close probably won’t be replaced by new
facilities that comply with those abortion-related regulations
and others signed into law by Governor  Rick Perry  on July 18,
Potter told U.S. District Judge Lee Yeakel.  “My opinion is that is unlikely,” he said. Seventy-six
family planning clinics closed after 2011 funding cuts and none
of those reopened, Potter said.  Planned Parenthood last month sued to block the hospital
affiliation and drug dispensing requirements set to take effect
Oct. 29, arguing they unconstitutionally burden women’s rights.  Texas Solicitor General  Jonathan F. Mitchell  disputed those
assertions in his opening statement yesterday, saying the group
had no evidence to support its claims and was wrongly trying to
shift the burden of proof to the government.  Abortion Clinics  The legislation, Texas House Bill 2, also bans abortions
after the 20th week of pregnancy and, as of Sept. 1, 2014,
requires abortion clinics to meet the same standards as
ambulatory surgical centers. Those provisions weren’t challenged
in Planned Parenthood’s lawsuit.  “This is an important day for those who support life and
for those who support the health of Texas women,” Perry, a
Republican, said in a  statement  announcing he’d signed the
legislation.  Debate over the issue in June catapulted to prominence
Democratic state Senator Wendy Davis of Fort Worth, whose
filibuster against the bill drew national media coverage.  Davis on Oct. 3 kicked off a bid to be the first Democrat
elected governor of the second-biggest U.S. state in area and
population since Ann W. Richards in 1990.  Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott, a named defendant in
the Planned Parenthood case, is seeking the Republican
nomination to succeed Perry.  Constitutional Issues  While Planned Parenthood initially sought a preliminary
court order blocking the laws, Yeakel on Oct. 8 set the case for
a trial before him yesterday on the constitutional issues. Both
sides waived their right to a jury.  Yeakel yesterday urged attorneys for both sides to proceed
expeditiously, saying the trial’s purpose isn’t to challenge the
legality of abortion.  “This court’s job is not to rule on whether women should
be allowed abortions,” he said. The issue is whether the
challenged legislation falls within “existing constitutional
confines or whether it does not.”  The legislation requires a doctor who performs the
procedure to have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30
miles (48 kilometers) of his clinic. It also eliminates the
availability of drug-induced abortions after the seventh week of
a pregnancy.  Abortion Drugs  Two drugs that will induce an abortion when used in
combination are typically taken a day or two apart, according to
court papers. The first, Mifepristone -- also known as RU-486 or
Mifeprex -- is typically administered by a doctor.  The second, Misoprostol, also called Cytotec, can be taken
by a patient at the time and place of her own choosing, a
practice that would be ended by the new law, according to
Planned Parenthood’s complaint.  The affiliation rule will force one in three health centers
currently providing abortions to stop, ending services in six
cities, Planned Parenthood said in court papers. The requirement
may cause more than 22,000 women a year to be denied access to
abortions, the group said.  The 30-mile rule is unjustified because fewer than 0.3
percent of abortions nationwide result in hospitalization,
according to Planned Parenthood.  Mitchell, the state’s lawyer, disputed the group’s claims.  ‘Any Evidence’  “They do not have any evidence, let alone proof, to back
up these assertions,” he told Yeakel yesterday.  “The Supreme Court has recognized that the state’s
interest in promoting fetal life is present throughout
pregnancy,” Mitchell said. “The Constitution allows the state
to protect fetal life in this manner, so long as its regulations
do not impose an ‘undue burden’ on abortion patients.”  The state hasn’t called any witnesses yet.  “I believe that both of these provisions will harm women -
- harm  Texas  women,” Paul Fine, a Houston doctor who performs
the procedures, testified yesterday as Planned Parenthood’s
first witness. The rules are “absolutely not” necessary, he
said.  He also said restrictions on drug-induced abortions might
deprive many women of an alternative to the surgical procedure.
For some women who may be at greater risk of complications than
others from that surgery, medicine abortions are a reliably safe
alternative, Fine said.  ‘Three Decades’  “It’s turning the clock back three decades,” the doctor
said.  He told the court many Texas hospitals, including those
affiliated with religious organizations, will probably refuse to
grant privileges to doctors associated with abortion clinics.  Deputy Attorney General John Scott asked Fine during cross-examination if he knew the state had a law barring hospitals and
other medical facilities from discriminating against doctors who
perform abortions.  Fine said he wasn’t aware of the law.  Potter, the University of Texas professor, identified
himself as the lead investigator for the school’s  Texas Policy
Evaluation Project  and said he’d helped compile the study upon
which Planned Parenthood based its claim that 22,000 women will
lose abortion access under the new law.  Potter also said he supports abortion rights.  During cross-examination by Scott, Potter was unable to
answer some questions including the names of at least two Bexar
County clinics that would likely close as a result of the new
requirements.  Potter said much of the information in the study was
gathered by other researchers. His testimony continues today.  “The abortion issue is a big issue in this country,”
Yeakel said in opening comments yesterday. “It’s a divisive
issue.”  “At the end of the day, these issues” are likely to be
heard by the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans and the U.S.
Supreme Court, Yeakel said. He said he “would be shocked” if
the losing parties don’t appeal his decision.  The case is Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas Surgical
Health Services v. Abbott, 13-cv-00862, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
David Montgomery in federal court in Austin, Texas,
at  daveyjoe2005@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  