-- Exercise Takes Teens’ Grades to Good From Average, Study Shows
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-10-21T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/exercise-takes-teens-grades-to-good-from-average-study-shows.html
Regular exercise boosted teens’ exam
results in a U.K. study, findings that suggest getting the
recommended hour of daily physical activity might increase
grades by one level.  The more children exercised at age 11, the better they did
at school at English, math and science, not only at 11, but also
at 13 and at 15 to 16. Performance at age 15 to 16 rose for
every extra 17 minutes of exercise for boys and every 12 minutes
for girls, according to the  research , published today in the
British Journal of Sports Medicine.  The study’s authors propose that students who meet
guidelines of being active for 60 minutes a day could raise
their average grade in the General Certificate of Secondary
Education exams taken at age 15 to 16 from C to B, in an nine-step system,  John Reilly , a professor of physical activity and
public health science at the University of Strathclyde, said in
an e-mailed message.  “Our study suggests that the effect of physical activity
may be quite large,” Reilly said. Because even the most active
children got less than 60 minutes of exercise a day, the effect
is speculative. “The actual levels of daily physical activity
at age 11 were quite low,” Reilly said. Boys clocked 29 minutes
of moderate to vigorous physical activity a day, compared with
18 minutes a day for girls.  Accelerometer Measured  Recent studies that have shown a link between activity and
school performance have been limited by their small size, the
report said.  The researchers studied a cohort of 5,000 children born
between 1991 and 1992 in the south west of  England . The
children’s activity was measured by an accelerometer for between
three and seven days.  The scientists adjusted for factors likely to influence
academic success, such as socioeconomics, how much oily fish
they ate, and the child’s current weight.  The researchers couldn’t pinpoint how exercise pushes
academic achievement, but the effect was most pronounced for
girls in science, pointing to a possible gender difference in
the way activity affects female brains.  The  World Health Organization   recommends  an hour of
moderate to vigorous exercise daily for children from age five
to 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  