-- Leyland Retires as Manager of MLB’s Tigers After Eight Seasons
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-10-21T16:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/leyland-retires-as-manager-of-mlb-s-tigers-after-eight-seasons.html
Jim Leyland retired as manager of
the  Detroit  Tigers after eight years in which he led them to
three 90-win seasons and two World Series appearances.  Leyland, 68, announced the decision today in a televised
news conference at Comerica Park in Detroit, two days after the
Tigers lost to the Boston Red Sox in the American League
Championship Series.  “I spent the last 24 hours telling myself I would not get
emotional today, and I’m not going to,” said Leyland, who later
battled back tears while thanking members of the Tigers’
organization. “It has been a thrill.”  The wins leader among active Major League Baseball
managers, Leyland has been on a one-year contract extension for
the last two seasons, according to ESPN.  Leyland said he informed General Manager Dave Dombrowski of
his decision in early September. He said he told his players
after the final loss in  Boston .  “I didn’t know how to take it when they clapped,” he said
with a grin.  The Tigers were 93-69 this season, finishing atop the AL
Central for the third consecutive season. Last year the team was
swept in four games in the World Series by the San Francisco
Giants. Detroit fell to the St. Louis Cardinals in a five-game
World Series in 2006, Leyland’s first season as manager.  “These last eight years have been a very memorable time
for the Detroit Tigers’ organization,” Dombrowski said. “We
will miss him a great deal in the dugout, on the field.”  In 22 major-league seasons with the Tigers, Colorado
Rockies, Florida Marlins and Pittsburgh Pirates, Leyland is
1,769-1,728. A three-time Manager of the Year winner, he
captured a World Series title with the Marlins in 1997.  Giants manager Bruce Bochy will become baseball’s active
leader in wins with 1,530.  Leyland said he will remain with the Tigers in a role that
is yet to be determined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  