-- Fed’s Evans Says Government Shutdown Will Probably Delay Taper
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-10-21T14:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/fed-s-evans-says-government-shutdown-will-probably-delay-taper.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans , an advocate of monetary stimulus, said
fiscal strife in  Washington  will probably delay the central
bank’s tapering of its monthly bond purchases.  “October’s a tough one,” Evans said in a CNBC interview
today. “We need a couple of good labor reports, and evidence of
increasing growth, GDP growth, and it’s probably going to take a
few months to sort that one out.”  Policy makers, who meet again next week, will pare the
monthly pace of asset buying to $70 billion from $85 billion at
their March 18-19 meeting, according to the median of 40
responses in an Oct. 17-18 Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Forecasters pushed out their estimates following the partial
government shutdown, which they said reduced growth by 0.3
percentage point this quarter.  The 16-day partial closing, which took place as Republicans
and Democrats clashed over passing a budget and lifting the
nation’s borrowing limit, was resolved last week when President
 Barack Obama  signed legislation opening the government until
Jan. 15 and suspending the debt ceiling through Feb. 7. Congress
now is attempting to reach a budget deal by Dec. 13.  “It’s very difficult to feel confident in December given
that we’re going to repeat part of what just took place in
Washington,” Evans said.  Closing Disrupted  The closing disrupted the collection and publication of
economic data reports, which the Fed says it needs to gauge
whether the expansion can handle a slowdown in the central
bank’s $85 billion-per-month pace of asset purchases, a policy
known as quantitative easing.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  delayed the taper in
September because it needed evidence of sustainable labor-market improvement, and “we haven’t had a lot of data since the
meeting,” said Evans, who is a voting member of the group. The
FOMC’s last two meetings this year are scheduled for Oct. 29-30
and Dec. 17-18.  Evans, who didn’t put a number on the cost of the federal
shutdown, said that government actions have shaved at least one
percentage point from U.S. economic growth this year. Asked if
quantitative easing could increase in the face of more deficit
reduction, Evans said “we’re going to have to go into every
meeting and look at the landscape.”  Inflation Turning  “If we saw a different kind of outlook, or if inflation
started turning down, we’d have to ask ourselves whether we
could add more,” Evans said, adding that he favors providing as
much monetary accommodation as is needed. He said he doesn’t see
a clear limit to how far the Fed’s balance sheet can be
expanded.  “There’s a tremendous amount of capacity, we could go on
as long as necessary, especially if we were in a period of
falling inflation,” Evans said. “I’m not looking for that to
happen. I think the economy is going to do better, especially
once a number of these headwinds step down and stop causing
trouble.”  Evans also said today that he’s “been surprised that the
markets have not been able to look at our separate tools” of
quantitative easing and forward guidance. The Fed has pledged to
keep the main  interest rate  near zero as long as unemployment
exceeds 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation doesn’t go
above 2.5 percent.  “There’s nothing that we have said about our forward
guidance that should cause anybody to think that we’re going to
step back prematurely,” said Evans. “That is before we hit 6.5
percent or even, you know, we might go on longer than that.”  The  unemployment rate  was 7.3 percent in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  