-- Female Suicide Bomber Blamed as Russian Bus Blast Kills Six
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-10-21T15:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/female-suicide-bomber-blamed-for-russian-bus-blast-that-killed-5.html
A suspected female suicide bomber
killed six people on a bus in the Russian city of Volgograd in
what would be one of the biggest terror attacks in the country
since a blast at Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport in 2011.  Twenty-eight people were hospitalized after the attack in
Volgograd, about 900 kilometers (560 miles) southeast of the
Russian capital, the Investigative Committee  said  on its
website. Eight of the injured are in an intensive care unit,
according to the law-enforcement agency in Moscow, which opened
a criminal probe.  The bomber was tentatively identified as a 30-year-old
native of the southern Russian region of Dagestan, the
Investigative Committee  said . Russian state television showed
footage of a fireball shooting out the right side of the bus,
recorded on a dashboard camera from a car behind the explosion.  “Attacks such as that in Volgograd illustrate the ability
of regional militants to undertake attacks outside the North
Caucasus republics themselves,” Matthew Clements, chief analyst
for  Russia  and the CIS at IHS Country Risk in  London , said in an
e-mailed note. “This is important in the context of the nearby
February 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics.”  Volgograd, once known as Stalingrad, is located less than
700 kilometers from Sochi, the  Black Sea  resort that will host
next year’s Winter Olympics. Russian federal troops have fought
two wars after the collapse of the  Soviet Union  against
separatists in nearby regions of the North Caucasus.  Chechen Rebels  Chechen rebel leader  Doku Umarov , who has claimed
responsibility for three of Russia’s deadliest terror attacks,
released a video in July calling on Islamic militants to target
the February Games. Umarov claimed responsibility for organizing
the Domodedovo bombing.  A suicide bombing claimed by Islamic militants at
Domodedovo, the busiest air hub in Russia, killed at least 37
people in January 2011. Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the
brothers accused in April’s Boston Marathon bombing, were
immigrants of Chechen descent who had moved to the U.S. from
Dagestan.  President  Vladimir Putin  stepped up security in the North
Caucasus region near the Black Sea after the Tsarnaev brothers
became suspects in the Boston Marathon bombing. Russia is
collaborating with the law-enforcement agencies of more than 80
countries to identify possible threats to the  Olympic Games ,
according to the Federal Security Service.  Putin’s Meeting  Putin is scheduled to meet muftis tomorrow to discuss
cooperation between Russia’s Islamic organizations and the state
tomorrow in Ufa, the capital of Bashkortostan, the Kremlin press
service said by e-mail today.  Putin is receiving information about the Volgograd bombing
from the special services, the president’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , was cited as saying by Interfax. He declined to say if
Putin has issued any orders in connection with the attack,
according to the news service.  Officials from the  Interior Ministry  said earlier the blast
may have been caused by faulty gas equipment on the bus, RIA
reported. Investigators have discovered fragments of an
explosive device at the site, the news service said, citing an
unidentified law enforcement official.  “It was a really terrible scene,” an eyewitness
identified only as Ivan said in a telephone interview with
state-run television station  Rossiya 24 . The bus was driving in
an industrial area far from the city center when all of the
windows and an escape hatch were blown out by the blast, said
the man, who said he was driving behind the bus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  