-- FIFA Grants Seen Wasted as Blatter Roadshow Arrives in Caribbean
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-10-21T10:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/fifa-grants-seen-wasted-as-blatter-roadshow-arrives-in-caribbean.html
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  arrives
in the Caribbean this week seeking to tighten financial
oversight in a region where some projects funded by grants from
soccer’s governing body floundered.  A plan to develop a national team for the  Turks and Caicos
Islands  “in the middle of nowhere” flopped, according to
former squad member Chris Gannon. FIFA said in April it has had
“difficulties” with projects on Antigua: an  undated picture on
its website  of a planned $400,000 field shows a waterlogged plot
of disused land.  Blatter will meet with officials from 22 Caribbean soccer
associations and the U.S. and  Canada  at a  five-day seminar  in
the Cayman Islands starting today. The trip is part of a global
roadshow that aims to ensure Blatter’s reforms to increase
accountability and transparency reach national federations, said
FIFA general secretary  Jerome Valcke , who also is attending.  “FIFA cannot work at the top of the pyramid if at the
bottom of the pyramid the member associations don’t have the
same level of organization,” Valcke said in a video on the
ruling body’s website.  Zurich-based FIFA is implementing reforms following the
ousting or resignation since 2011 of executives including
Trinidad-based  Jack Warner ,  Brazil ’s  Ricardo Teixeira  and
Mohamed  Bin Hammam  of Qatar amid ethics investigations.  About a
dozen Caribbean officials   received suspensions , fines or
warnings in 2011 for their involvement in a meeting where former
FIFA presidential candidate Bin Hammam allegedly offered bribes.
Bin Hammam has denied wrongdoing.  Audited Accounts  The Caribbean associations are part of the CONCACAF
confederation, which also oversees soccer in North and Central
America. The region has received $260 million of FIFA’s
developments funds that have totaled about $2 billion since
1999. On July 1, FIFA began requiring national associations to
put building contracts of more than $50,000 out to tender and
file audited annual accounts.  The Turks and Caicos Islands Football Association  was
awarded $438,000 in 2001 to build an “international standard”
field three years after it became affiliated to the global
governing body, according to FIFA’s website.  By 2005, under pressure from Warner to enter  World Cup 
qualifying, players had to hold raffles to finance travel to
away matches, said Gannon, a British expatriate firefighter who
was on the team.  “The idea to put out a national team was barmy,” Gannon
said in a phone interview from  Bolivia . “It would have been far
better to invest in five-a-side pitches for kids.”  Warner’s Legacy  Warner was president of CONCACAF for 21 years through 2011
before he quit amid allegations of bribery during that year’s
FIFA presidential election. He denies wrongdoing, saying he was
ousted for challenging FIFA’s “oligarchy.” Warner said his
CONCACAF legacy included “$37 million in the bank, three
offices and unmeasured goodwill,” according to his notes from
an April speech in Trinidad.  He was replaced last year by Fidelity Ltd. banker Jeffrey Webb, who heads the  Cayman Islands  Football Association which is
hosting this week’s meetings.  FIFA has since 2010 agreed to finance an artificial field
and academy in the Turks and Caicos Islands. Its projects there
have had a positive impact, with the “international standard”
field able to be used for small-sided games, FIFA said.  Not-for-profit FIFA didn’t elaborate on why the Antigua
development projects had stalled.  ‘Positive Examples’  “While a few projects have been less good, there are
plenty of very positive examples in the CONCACAF region,” FIFA
said in an e-mail, citing grass fields and facilities for indoor
and beach soccer in the Bahamas.  Gannon said green paint was used to cover bald patches on
the Turks and Caicos Islands field because it was too expensive
to water. The team hasn’t prospered in the intervening years:
after a spike in 2006 it’s now bottom of FIFA’s  world rankings 
alongside Bhutan and  San Marino .  “We’d hoped interest might pick up, but the majority
aren’t interested,” Gannon said. “They wouldn’t recognize
 David Beckham  if he turned up to play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  