-- Firefighters Battle Australia Blazes as Weather to Worsen
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S i n
-- 2013-10-22T04:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/firefighters-battle-to-contain-australia-blazes-in-weather-lull.html
Emergency crews in  Australia ’s most-populous state are battling to contain wildfires raging through
bushland west of Sydney before weather conditions worsen.  Firefighters bulldozed containment lines through the Blue
Mountains region and used helicopters to help backburn tracts of
forest, New South Wales Rural Fire Service Commissioner Shane
Fitzsimmons told reporters today.  More than 2,000 emergency personnel are tackling about 60
blazes across the state, including 13 that are uncontained,
Fitzsimmons said.  Authorities  urged residents of some townships
in the Blue Mountains, about 80 kilometers (50 miles) west of
Sydney, to leave their homes or face being isolated without
power for several days if the fire front reaches them.  All schools in the region will be closed tomorrow, with the
Bureau of Meteorology forecasting temperatures will rise and
winds will reach 55 kilometers per hour.  State Premier Barry O’Farrell declared an emergency at the
weekend, giving police and firefighters the power to forcibly
evacuate people, tear down threatened buildings and cut off
power and gas supplies.  More than 200 homes have been destroyed by the blazes,
while the  Insurance Council  of Australia says claims so far
total A$93 million ($90 million). A 63-year-old man who died
from a heart attack while protecting his home from a fire on the
Central Coast, about 110 kilometers north of Sydney, is the only
recorded fatality, according to police.  Crews joined two neighboring fires in the Blue Mountains to
burn off fuel and prevent them merging with a third blaze when
the weather worsens tomorrow, Fitzsimmons said.  The nation’s bushfire season has started early after the
warmest September on record.  Wildfires are a regular feature of Australia’s warmer
months. In February 2009, bushfires across Victoria state killed
173 people and destroyed 150 homes in the worst blazes in
Australian history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Sin in Sydney at 
 msin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  