-- FirstRand Sees West African Expansion as Nigeria Deals Rise
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-10-21T15:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/firstrand-sees-west-african-expansion-as-nigeria-deals-rise-1-.html
FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , owner of  South
Africa ’s second-largest bank, plans to build its West African
business by financing regional infrastructure projects and
increasing investments in Nigeria.  “Growth of our rest-of-Africa business is increasingly
faster and larger than South Africa and part of that is
attributed to the push in Nigeria, Ghana and West Africa,”
Michael Larbie, chief executive officer of the Nigerian unit and
regional head of West Africa, said in Oct. 18 interview in
Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital.  FirstRand’s Rand Merchant Bank has completed more than $1.6
billion of deals in Nigeria since February, including providing
credit lines for banks and finance for  Dangote Group  and  MTN
Group Ltd. (MTN) ’s mobile-phone business, Larbie said. The company is
looking at transactions in  Ivory Coast  and  Senegal  and is
focused on other countries that are “democratically and
economically stable, with good fundamentals,” he said.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Barclays Plc and Johannesburg-based
FirstRand are among the banks expanding in West Africa where
countries, including Nigeria, the continent’s top oil producer,
and Ghana, are growing faster than developed nations.  FirstRand opened an investment banking unit in Nigeria in
2012 and also obtained a license for fixed-income trading from
the Securities and Exchange Commission. The bank expects its
business in Nigeria, where it has a pipeline of deals in the
power, cement and ports industries, to grow at a faster pace
than gross domestic product, which the finance ministry projects
to increase by 6.5 percent this year, said Larbie.  Growth Prospects  While delays to oil and gas industry regulation have hurt
investment and growth, the government’s sale of 14  power plants 
will boost Nigeria’s GDP by 1.5 percentage points to 2.5
percentage points as it increases manufacturing capacity, said
Larbie.  “We are excited by the growth prospects we see in Nigeria
and West Africa,” he said. “A foreign bank will be encouraged
to take up deals in the country, when local banks are willing to
share in the risk.”  Larbie “strongly believes” the bank will eventually open
a retail business in the country, even after FirstRand ended
talks to buy Nigeria’s Sterling Bank Plc in 2011.  The lender is “actively looking” at opening an office in
Ghana, after ending negotiations to buy Merchant Bank Ghana on
July 12, said Larbie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  