-- Flug Style to Smooth Israel Succession After Netanyahu Snubs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-10-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/flug-style-to-smooth-israel-succession-after-netanyahu-snubs.html
Karnit Flug, the Bank of  Israel ’s
prospective new governor, is a conciliator who won’t allow the
manner of her appointment to disrupt working relations with
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s government, according to
analysts and former colleagues.  Flug was twice passed over to succeed  Stanley Fischer ,
staying on as caretaker even as she was publicly excluded from
the shortlist as recently as a week ago. Only Netanyahu’s
inability to agree on a candidate with Finance Minister Yair Lapid led to this week’s turnaround, in which Flug, 58, became
the first woman nominated to head Israel’s central bank.  Flug won’t allow that history to affect her ties with the
prime minister, who will “discover that she is very
businesslike and professional,” said Ephraim Kleiman, a
professor of economics at The Hebrew University. The
government’s turnabout might even work in Flug’s favor, as “the
fact that they were forced to ask for her gives her a certain
amount of power,” he said.  The  Bank of Israel ’s autonomy combined with Fischer’s
reputation lent weight to his occasional criticisms, especially
over what he saw as loose fiscal policy. Flug takes over at a
time when the government is seeking to trim the budget. Her
challenges include balancing the demands of exporters, who want
low rates to cap the shekel’s gains, with a housing market that
surged as borrowing costs declined.  ‘Right People’  Flug’s style in addressing such questions would be to
solicit a wide range of views, said Asher Blass, a former chief
economist at the central bank who’s known the governor-designate
since they were undergraduates in  Jerusalem .  “I think she will consult with the right people,” Blass
said. “She’s certainly not the type of person who says, ‘I know
everything, I don’t have to talk to anyone.’ She is a person who
will delegate.”  Israeli stocks and bonds gained after Flug’s Oct. 20
nomination. The  TA-25 (TA-25)  equity index added 0.7 percent that day,
paring the gain by 0.1 percent yesterday. The yield on benchmark
debt maturing in March 2023 has dropped 3 basis points to 3.61
percent, the lowest since May.  Some analysts wonder if Flug’s style may limit her impact.
“She doesn’t stand out as somebody with authority,” said Yakir Plessner, a former deputy governor of the central bank. “Maybe 
once she is governor, that will bring out aspects in her that 
weren’t visible before.”  ‘Has the Courage’  Fischer said he expects Flug to be an “excellent”
governor. “She has the courage to deal with problems,” he told
Channel 2 television in an interview from  New York .  Flug’s appointment came two weeks after President  Barack Obama  nominated  Janet Yellen  to become first female head of the
Federal reserve. Elvira Nabiullina was appointed to lead
 Russia ’s central bank in June.  “This decision calls for a celebration,” said Rivka Carmi, president of Israel’s Ben-Gurion University of the Negev
and its first female leader. “I don’t understand why it took so
long, but she won this job on her own merits and she’s a
wonderful role model for women in Israel.”  Flug, the daughter of economist and Holocaust survivors’
advocate Noah Flug, left  Poland  for Israel at the age of three,
and studied at the  Hebrew University of Jerusalem  and  Columbia
University  in New York. She worked at the  International Monetary
Fund  before joining the Bank of Israel. She is married to Hebrew
University economist Saul Lach and they have two grown children.  ‘Embarrassing Spectacle’  Netanyahu disregarded Fischer’s recommendation of Flug when
he nominated  Jacob Frenkel , a former Bank of Israel governor,
and then Leonardo Leiderman, chief economist at  Bank Hapoalim (POLI) 
Ltd., only to have both withdraw during the vetting process. He
also unsuccessfully approached former Treasury Secretary
 Lawrence Summers  for the job.  Even after those plans fell through, Lapid said on Oct. 15
that three candidates were in the frame and Flug wasn’t among
them. Lapid and Netanyahu reversed course when they announced
her nomination, saying they were “impressed by Dr. Flug’s
performance as acting governor in recent months.”  “The selection process was an embarrassing spectacle, but
Netanyahu deserves credit for being able to come back to Karnit
after saying no to her face,” said Vered Dar, who worked with
Flug at the Bank of Israel and met with her regularly as chief
economist at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  ‘Apologize and Beg’  As acting governor since Fischer’s departure at the end of
June, Flug presided over an unexpected interest-rate cut last
month. She also stepped up the foreign-currency purchases, aimed
at paring the shekel’s rise, that Fischer had instituted.  Even as she steered policy, Flug acknowledged her
disappointment at being passed over, signaling she’d quit the
bank once Fischer’s successor was installed.  “Only over the past two months, when I encountered the
force of the opposition to appointing me as the bank’s governor,
did the thought enter my mind that perhaps I was also
disqualified because I am a woman,” she said in a September
interview with Yediot Aharonot newspaper.  Meanwhile, members of parliament including Labor Party
leader Shelly Yachimovich were pressing for her stopgap role to
be made permanent.  After Leiderman pulled out, Yachimovich told Haaretz
newspaper: “Netanyahu and Lapid should go to the home of Dr.
Karnit Flug to apologize and beg her to take the job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  