-- Ford Plans to Reduce Number of Suppliers by 40%
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-10-21T20:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/ford-wants-to-pare-number-of-suppliers-by-40-executive-says.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the U.S. automaker
that purchases about $100 billion worth of parts annually, plans
to reduce its roster of suppliers by 40 percent to cut the cost
of building its cars and trucks.  Ford’s long-term goal is to buy parts from about 750
suppliers, from 1,260 last year, said Hau Thai-Tang, who became
group vice president of global purchasing in August. The second-largest U.S. automaker is reducing the number of platforms that
serve as the base of its vehicles, paring development costs and
enabling the company to source from fewer suppliers.  “We still think that there’s plenty of opportunities for
us to get down to the 750 number and still have plenty of
competition and allow us to get the best ideas from the most
innovative suppliers,” Thai-Tang told reporters today at a
briefing in Dearborn,  Michigan , where Ford is based.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , 68, has boosted
profitability at Ford by reducing the number of its vehicle
platforms to 14 today, from 27 in 2007, his first full year with
the company. Ford’s lineup will slim down further to nine
platforms by 2017, Thai-Tang said.  Savings from consolidating its platforms has boosted profit
margins and enables the company to introduce new and refreshed
cars and trucks more frequently. The company earned $35.2
billion from 2009 through 2012 after losing $30.1 billion in the
previous three years.  Ford buys about 80 percent of its parts from its largest
100 suppliers and about 60 percent from its 65 biggest parts
makers, said Thai-Tang, 47.  Better Results  “We want a long-term strategic partnership with key
suppliers, and by doing that, we’ll get better business results
for the two of us,” he said.  Automakers and their suppliers are facing capacity
constraints as production increases to meet rising demand, said
Thai-Tang, who was vice president of engineering before his
promotion to his current post. U.S. sales of cars and light
trucks are on pace for the best year since 2007.  “Everyone is running flat-out,” he said. “We’re a lot
more exposed in terms of any production issues because you just
can’t recover.”  The constraints are contributing to problems Ford has had
with quality, Thai-Tang said. Ford’s first-half quality metrics
were mixed, and it  downgraded  its internal forecast for results
to improve for the full year after the second quarter.  Maximum Output  The company is trying to protect itself by measuring its
suppliers’ average production per week and how close they are to
maximum output, Thai-Tang said. Ford assigns a yellow rating,
indicating caution, to one of eight capacity actions that the
automaker is studying because some suppliers are operating at
maximum production rates too frequently, he said.  “We’re working with the suppliers to address that,” he
said. The rest of the capacity actions are rated green, and he
declined to give more specifics about the projects the company
is studying or how many suppliers are maxed-out.  Consolidation of the supply base through mergers and
acquisitions has been limited, Thai-Tang said. Suppliers based
in  North America  and  China  as well as private-equity firms are
looking to buy companies. Distressed suppliers, many of which
are based in  Europe , are likely to be sellers, he said.  Ford slipped 0.2 percent to $17.50 at the close in  New
York . The shares have climbed 35 percent this year compared with
a 22 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  