-- France Summons U.S. Envoy on NSA Spying Report in Monde
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-10-21T19:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/france-summons-u-s-envoy-on-nsa-spying-report-in-monde.html
The French government expressed
outrage at a report that the U.S. National Security Agency
eavesdropped on millions of phone calls inside  France  and
demanded that the U.S. halt the spying.  The Foreign Ministry in Paris summoned the U.S. ambassador
after  Le Monde , using documents disclosed by former NSA
contractor Edward Snowden, reported that the U.S. intercepted
and recorded 70.3 million bits of “telecommunications data”
from Dec. 10, 2012, to Jan. 8, 2013.  “This type of practice between partners that intrudes on
the private sphere is totally unacceptable,” French Foreign
Minister Laurent Fabius told  reporters  in Luxembourg today. “We
have to see to it very quickly that this practice ceases.”  Fabius is due to meet tomorrow with U.S. Secretary of State
 John Kerry , who was in Paris for talks held today with Arab
foreign ministers to discuss Israeli-Palestinian peace
negotiations. Kerry said he and his French counterpart will
discuss this issue just as they work closely on many other
matters.  While saying he couldn’t comment on U.S. intelligence
activities, Kerry said “lots of countries are engaged in the
activity of trying to protect their citizens and the world.”  “Protecting the security of our citizens in today’s world
is a very complicated, very challenging task and it is an every
day, 24-7-365 task, unfortunately, because it there are lots of
people out there seeking to do harm to other people,” Kerry
said. President  Barack Obama  told the  United Nations General
Assembly  that the U.S. is reviewing how it conducts its
electronic intelligence activities, Kerry said.  Snowden’s Documents  Allegations based on data provided by Snowden, who was
granted asylum by Russia as he faces espionage charges in the
U.S., have stirred tensions between the U.S. and countries
including Germany and  Brazil .  Mexico ’s government condemned the
alleged hacking of the e-mail account of then-President  Felipe Calderon  in 2010, saying such actions are unacceptable and
violate international law.  U.S. Ambassador Charles Rivkin met today with Fabius’s
chief of staff.  “We demanded that a tangible response to our concerns be
forthcoming as soon as possible,” according to a ministry
statement.  Kerry’s meeting tomorrow with Fabius “will mostly be about
the situation in  Syria  and other regional matters, but this
issue will also be discussed,” the ministry said in the
statement, referring to alleged spying.  Kerry Visit  Le Monde said NSA targets included undersea cables and
Internet infrastructure operated by Alcatel-Lucent SA and
Wanadoo, now owned by  Orange SA. (ORA)   “Orange is working actively hand-in-hand with the French
government,” said Estelle Ode-Coutard, a Paris-based
spokeswoman for the company. Valerie La Gamba, a spokeswoman for
Alcatel-Lucent, declined to comment in an e-mail.  In Mexico, the foreign ministry yesterday reiterated a call
for the Obama administration to conduct an exhaustive
investigation of NSA conduct.  “In a relationship between neighbors and partners, there’s
no room for the practices that allegedly took place,” according
to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  