-- Fugitive Ex-UBS Wealth Management Chief Weil Arrested in Italy
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-10-21T09:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/fugitive-ex-ubs-wealth-management-chief-weil-arrested-in-italy.html
Raoul Weil, the fugitive former head
of  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s global wealth management business, was arrested in
Bologna after checking into a hotel under his own name and
triggering an alert to  Italy ’s authorities.  Weil, 53, was arrested at I Portici Hotel Bologna at 1:45
a.m. on Oct. 19 and taken to the city’s Dozza prison, a Bologna
police spokeswoman said today. Weil declined to comment through
his lawyer, Aaron Marcu of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP.  U.S. federal prosecutors said in a 2008 indictment that
Weil and other executives failed to implement effective
restrictions to stop UBS’s U.S. clients from evading taxes after
the bank agreed in 2001 to identify account-holders and tell the
 Internal Revenue Service  about their income. Weil, who at the
time ran UBS’s wealth management business, resigned and was
declared a fugitive by the U.S. government in 2009. UBS said the
same year that Weil left to focus on his defense.  UBS avoided U.S. prosecution in 2009 by admitting it aided
 tax evasion , paying $780 million and handing over data on 250
accounts. It later disclosed information on about 4,450 more
accounts.  UBS today declined to comment on Weil’s arrest, while an
official for I Portici Hotel didn’t have an immediate comment.  Weil became the chairman and chief executive officer of
global wealth management and business banking in 2007, taking
over from Marcel Rohner, who was appointed UBS CEO. From 2002 to
2007, he was head of the wealth management international unit.
Weil first joined Swiss Bank Corp., which later merged with
Union Bank of Switzerland to form UBS, in 1984. He has a degree
in business and economics from the University of Basel.  Weil this year became the CEO of Reuss Private Group AG,
which manages more than 4 billion Swiss francs ($4.4 billion) in
assets, after previously being involved with the company in an
advisory capacity, according to an April statement on the Swiss
firm’s website. The company isn’t commenting on Weil’s arrest,
Martin Forster, a senior partner, said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  