-- Fulham Beats Crystal Palace 4-1 as Kasami Volley Sparks Comeback
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-21T23:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/fulham-eases-to-4-1-win-over-palace-after-conceding-early-goal.html
Fulham fought back with three
volleyed goals to beat London rival Crystal Palace 4-1 and move
clear of the relegation zone in English soccer’s Premier League.  Palace went ahead at Selhurst Park last night on Adrian
Mariappa’s early header. Pajtim Kasami and Steve Sidwell then
struck first-time volleys to put Fulham ahead at halftime, and
 Dimitar Berbatov  and Philippe Senderos added second-half goals.  “We had to earn the right to play,” Sidwell said in a
televised interview. “Pajtim’s goal was very special. I just
caught mine sweet.”  Fulham secured back-to-back league wins for the first time
this season to move up three places to 14th in the 20-team
standings, with 10 points from eight games. Fulham has the same
record as  Aston Villa , which is 13th on alphabetical order. A
fifth straight loss leaves Palace second last with three points.  Mariappa’s seventh-minute header put the Eagles ahead
before the strikes by Kasami and Sidwell turned the game around.  In the 19th minute, Kasami took a long pass on his chest
and struck a dipping volley from the right-hand edge of the
penalty box into the top-left corner. Sidwell gave Fulham the
lead just before halftime by smashing another volley into almost
the same spot as Kasami from about 22 yards (20 meters) after
Bryan Ruiz’s free kick bounced back off the wall.  Fulham struck from corners in the 50th and 55th minutes to
match its biggest winning margin in a Premier League away game.
Berbatov’s header made it 3-1 before Senderos volleyed in at the
far post to complete the rout.  “That first goal was something else and it knocked us a
bit,” Palace manager  Ian Holloway  said. “We then made mistakes
at set-pieces. It’s an unforgiving division but we must bounce
back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  