-- Germany’s SPD Seeks to Tap Transaction Tax for Bank-Failure Fund
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-10-21T13:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/germany-s-spd-seeks-to-tap-transaction-tax-for-bank-failure-fund.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
potential coalition partners, the  Social Democrats , want to make
implementation of a proposed  financial-transaction tax  a
requirement for participation in a European banking union.  Germany  is one of 11 euro-area countries that support the
tax plan, which the European Commission estimates could generate
as much as 35 billion euros ($48 billion) annually in its
current form. Only participating states will have a vote on the
proposal. In January, the U.K. filed a legal challenge to the
EU’s decision that allowed the 11 states to proceed.  “This tax should be made a condition for joining the
banking union,” Carsten Schneider, budget spokesman for the
Social Democrats, or SPD, said today in a written reply to
questions. “For the SPD, it’s important that taxpayers in the
future are no longer liable for banks.”  The 28 EU states have set a year-end deadline to reach a
common position on a proposal by  Michel Barnier , the bloc’s
financial-services chief, for a Single Resolution Mechanism that
would centralize the handling of euro-area banks in financial
trouble and have a common fund financed by a levy on the banking
industry.  Germany has led the attack on Barnier’s plan, challenging
its legal basis and warning it could weaken governments’ control
over their budgets.  The SPD will push for using financial-transaction  tax
revenue  to fill the Single Resolution Fund when the party begins
coalition talks with Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  on Oct. 23,
Schneider said.  Under Barnier’s plan, a designated bank levy would take 10
years to fill the fund. While transaction-tax revenue would
replace Barnier’s levy during the topping-up process, once the
fund is full, the planned levy would kick in, Schneider said.  The SPD rejects Merkel’s preference for having a network of
national regulators handle bank resolution. Last month, the
party’s finance spokesman, Carsten Sieling, proposed putting the
 European Central Bank  in charge of failing lenders in addition
to the ECB’s oversight of banks, which is scheduled to begin in
November 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  