-- German Retailer Douglas in Discussions on Buying Nocibe
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-10-21T11:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/german-retailer-douglas-in-discussions-on-buying-nocibe.html
Douglas Holding AG, the German
cosmetics retailer owned by Advent International Corp., is in
exclusive talks to buy French competitor Nocibe SA to strengthen
its position in  Europe ’s fragrance market.  Douglas’s shareholders are negotiating to acquire Nocibe
from Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP in a deal that would
create France’s largest perfume chain by outlets, the Hagen-based company said today in a statement, without disclosing a
price. Nocibe may be valued at about 500 million euros ($684
million), people with knowledge of the matter said in July.  A takeover would be “a big opportunity to build-up our
position in the perfumery market in Europe,” Douglas Chief
Executive Officer Henning Kreke said on a conference call.
“France is a particularly important market. We will continue to
look at growth opportunities in France.”  Douglas is the fourth-biggest French fragrance retailer,
while Nocibe, based in Villeneuve d’Ascq near the northern city
of Lille, is third-largest. The combined group would rank second
in the industry by revenue, behind  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) ’s Sephora SA. Douglas currently has 170 stores in
France, where it has 1,000 employees and revenue of about 130
million euros, Kreke told journalists. Nocibe has 455 outlets
with 3,000 employees and revenue of 470 million euros, he said.  Advent’s Acquisition  Manfred Kroneder, head of Douglas’s perfume business, said
in June that the company wants to become the leader in its main
European markets and plans to grow through targeted
acquisitions. Douglas has as much as 500 million euros ($684
million) available to expand the division in the next seven
years, he said at the time. Douglas owners declined to comment
today on other countries where the company plans to expand.  Advent bought control of Douglas for 1.5 billion euros in a
transaction that was completed in July. The founding Kreke
family is the German retailer’s other owner.  Charterhouse acquired Nocibe from Bridgepoint Advisers Ltd.
in 2006 for 490 million euros. Charterhouse was also holding
talks with LBO  France  on a possible sale of Nocibe, people with
knowledge of the process said in May.  Nocibe was created in 1984. The company sells its own
beauty products as well as others such as La Petite Robe Noire
fragrance by Guerlain and TommyGuns shampoo. Nocibe also offers
beauty services such as facials and makeup courses. The
acquisition of Nocibe would create a chain of 625 stores with
about 4,000 employees, Douglas said today.  The transaction is subject to customary approvals,
including the completion of the consultation process with the
workers’ councils and antitrust clearance, Douglas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net  