-- Ghana’s Eurobonds Retreat as Deficit Target Raised: Accra Mover
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-10-21T15:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/ghana-s-eurobonds-retreat-as-deficit-target-raised-accra-mover.html
Ghana ’s Eurobonds dropped for the
first time in six days, sending yields higher after Finance
Minister Seth Terkper said rising wages and falling gold prices
means the budget deficit will be more than initially forecast.  Yields on the debt due August 2023 advanced four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.91 percent by 4:05 p.m.
in  London , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A close at
that level will be the highest in almost a week.  The fiscal gap in Africa’s second-biggest gold producer
will be 10 percent of gross domestic product, Terkper said in an
interview on Oct. 19. The government was initially targeting 9
percent. Prices for the metal slumped 21 percent this year and
the government’s wage bill accounts for about 70 percent of tax
revenue.  “The fact that investors were made aware that the fiscal
situation that was promised all this while will not be achieved
is making some price the yields higher,” Sampson Akligoh, head
of research at Accra-based Databank Financial Services Ltd.,
said by phone.  Ghana began removing subsidies on gasoline, diesel and
other petroleum products in February to reduce spending. Water
and electricity tariffs were raised this month as the slide in
the cedi reached 13 percent this year against the dollar, the
worst in  Africa  after the rand and currencies that are pegged to
it.  “This is the first time the government has admitted that
savings on the removal of fuel and utility subsidies are not
enough to cap the deficit due to the wage-bill burden,” Akligoh
said.  The cedi weakened as much as 0.4 percent before trading
unchanged at 2.19 per dollar by 3:12 p.m. in Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  