-- Ghana’s Terkper Seeks Budget Gap Below 9% of GDP in 2014
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-10-21T12:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/ghana-s-terkper-seeks-budget-gap-below-9-of-gdp-in-2014.html
Ghana  will target a budget deficit
of less than 9 percent of gross domestic product next year after
rising government worker wages and falling gold prices made that
goal unreachable in 2013, Finance Minister Seth Terkper said.  The gap will be 10 percent this year, before narrowing to
below 9 percent in 2014, Terkper said by phone on Oct. 19. He
declined to provide an exact number because the budget details
haven’t been completed.  Fitch Ratings  last week cut Ghana’s sovereign credit rating
to B, five levels below investment grade, because public worker
wages and a drop in revenue from gold will prevent the
government from meeting budget goals after posting a 12.1
percent deficit last year. A 21 percent drop in the price of
gold, Ghana’s biggest foreign-exchange earner, sapped government
revenue and made it harder to meet the target. The country also
exports cocoa and oil.  “Ghana is still credible,” Terkper said. “We have a
second oil field coming up and are confident of our medium-term
growth prospects. We will bounce back to even more improved
ratings.”  While the government’s cutting of subsidies for fuel, water
and electricity have reduced spending, it has been unable to
adequately curb public salary increases, Fitch said. The wage
bill accounts for about 70 percent of  tax revenue . The rate of
increases will slow next year after surging this year because of
one-time payments, Terkper said.  ‘Moderate Stance’  “The current wage trajectory is not sustainable,” he
said. “That is why we need a more moderate stance.”  The nation cut subsidies for utilities and fuel, introduced
new taxes and will start selling more five- and seven-year bonds
to lock in lower borrowing costs. A committee is reviewing
salary increases, Terkper said. The debt to GDP ratio of 49
percent is within “sustainable limits,” he said.  The cedi has dropped 13 percent this year against the
dollar, the second-worst performing currency in  Africa  after the
South African rand, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cedi strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.1876 a dollar as of
12:39 p.m. in Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andres R. Martinez at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net  