-- Global Funds Turn Net Buyers of Won Forwards, Bank of Korea Says
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-21T09:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/global-funds-turn-net-buyers-of-won-forwards-bank-of-korea-says.html
Global funds were net buyers of
South  Korea ’s won in the non-deliverable forwards market over
the last three months as speculation eased that the  Federal
Reserve  was on the brink of reining in monetary stimulus.  Overseas investors bought $3.9 billion more won than they
sold using the contracts in the last three months, after net
sales of $9.7 billion in the second quarter and $11.1 billion in
the first, Bank of Korea said in a statement today. The data was
based on trades between offshore traders and banks based in
South Korea. The Fed will hold off from trimming its $85 billion
of monthly debt purchases until March, according to the median
prediction in an Oct. 17-18 survey by  Bloomberg News . Cuts were
forecast for December in a similar survey a month earlier.  “Offshore investors have been neglecting the won, as
opposed to won-based assets, because of the risk of
intervention,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst at
Samsung Futures Inc. in  Seoul . “This data may signal that
foreign investors have turned long on the won against the
dollar.”  The won touched a nine-month high of 1,059.75 per dollar in
Seoul today, before closing 0.1 percent weaker on the day at
1,062.31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-month
NDF fell 0.2 percent to 1,064.25, after strengthening in all but
one of the last eight weeks.  Global funds have pumped more than $11.7 billion into  South
Korea ’s equities since Aug. 22, the last day of net sales, stock
exchange data show.  Intervention Risk  South Korea is monitoring fund inflows and currency moves
to identify speculative activities and will prevent “herd
behavior,” Finance Ministry Director Kim Seong Wook said Oct.
18. A stronger currency erodes the competitiveness of the
nation’s exports, which account for around half of its gross
domestic product.  Domestic companies sold $10 billion more won than they
bought in the forwards market in the third quarter as exporters
delayed repatriating their overseas income on expectations that
the won would strengthen, according to the central bank’s
statement. That compares with net purchases of $7.7 billion in
the second quarter and $7 billion in the first.  “This indicates that the won may rally further as local
companies may sell more dollars that they’ve been holding,”
said Jeon at Samsung Futures.  Morgan Stanley forecast the won will strengthen to 1,000
versus the dollar on improved “quality” of inflows into South
Korea’s bond market in recent years and on the potential for
political pushback against the intervention by the  Bank of
Korea , according to an Oct. 17 research note by Geoffrey
Kendrick, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian currency and rates
strategy. The report didn’t give a timeframe for the move.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  