-- Glorious Property Halts Trading on Possible Privatization
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-21T08:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/glorious-property-halts-trading-on-possible-privatization-plan.html
Glorious Property Holdings Ltd. (845) , the
Chinese developer owned by billionaire Zhang Zhirong, suspended
share trading in Hong Kong citing a possible privatization plan.  Glorious shares were halted from 9 a.m. Hong Kong time
pending the release of a possible privatization proposal by the
controlling shareholder, according to a statement to the stock
exchange from the Hong Kong-based developer. The stock rose 6.9
percent to HK$1.24 on Oct. 18.  Glorious has recorded slowing property sales this year,
while sales plunged and new orders declined at the shipping
company controlled by Zhang, according to the companies. The
possible privatization was unexpected because Glorious never
talked about such plans, according to Chen Duo, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG and Hugo Hou,
an analyst at Haitong International Securities Co.  “The plan will be good news for shareholders if they
actually manage to get it done,” said Chen, who estimates the
deal will require about HK$3 billion ($387 million). “It
remains uncertain as to where the funding would come from as
Zhang’s shipping and property businesses are both not doing well
this year.”  Property, Shipping  Zhang, the founder and biggest shareholder in Glorious and
 China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , quit from
the boards of the two companies in November after another
company he controlled agreed to pay $14 million to resolve U.S.
insider-trading claims. His departure is unrelated to that
matter, iPR Ogilvy in Hong Kong, which handles his public
relations, said in an e-mailed reply to questions from Bloomberg
News.  Glorious shares have fallen 15 percent this year, compared
with a 3.6 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   Two phone calls to Glorious spokeswoman Doris Chung were
not answered.  The developer sold 4.96 billion yuan ($814 million) of
properties in the first nine months, compared with 8.9 billion
yuan the same period a year earlier.  Sales of Zhang’s shipping company Rongsheng plunged 71
percent in the first half of the year and the cash and cash
equivalents decreased by 1.27 billion  yuan  to 871 million yuan
as of the end of June, the company said.  Zhang has shares worth $1.23 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. He owns 40.7 percent of Rongsheng
and 68.4 percent of Glorious, according to filings to Hong Kong
Stock Exchange.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  