-- Goldman Sachs Vice Chairman to Step Down at End of Year
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-21T21:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/goldman-sachs-vice-chairman-to-leave-firm-at-end-of-year.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said J. Michael Evans, a vice chairman who ran  emerging markets  and was
seen as a potential successor to Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, is retiring after more than 20 years at the bank.  Evans, 56, will step down at the end of the year and become
a senior director, the New York-based company said today in a
statement.  Evans ran businesses including the securities division,
equity trading and equity-capital markets in a career that
featured positions in  New York ,  London  and  Hong Kong . In 2011,
he was named to lead the emerging-markets units as part of
Blankfein’s push to be “Goldman Sachs in more places.”  “Michael’s deep commitment to the firm, his unrelenting
focus on our clients and his broad global market knowledge have
left an extraordinary mark at Goldman Sachs,” Blankfein, 59,
said in the statement.  Evans, one of four vice chairmen among the bank’s executive
officers, led with E. Gerald Corrigan the business-standards
committee, a group set up in 2010 to review policies and
practices after Goldman Sachs was sued by the Securities and
Exchange Commission for misleading investors on a 2007 sale of a
mortgage-linked investment.  After that appointment, Evans was seen as a potential
successor to Blankfein along with President  Gary Cohn , the
Financial Times wrote in 2010. Goldman Sachs paid Cohn 12
percent more than Evans’s $17 million for 2012, the first time
since the financial crisis that Blankfein’s deputies were given
differing compensation.  Blankfein’s Plan  Blankfein told Bloomberg Television earlier this year that
he had no plans to leave after seven years in the top job.  “The combination of this being who I am and what I do and
having absolutely no other interests makes me think this is what
I’ll be doing for a while,” Blankfein said in February.  Evans, a Canadian, graduated from  Princeton University  in
1981. He won an Olympic gold medal in rowing in 1984, the same
year he earned a master’s degree from Oxford University. Evans
was named a partner in 1994, a year after he joined Goldman
Sachs from  Salomon Brothers .  Evans owns about $230 million of Goldman Sachs stock,
according to an April filing, which counts vested options, stock
awards and family trusts.  In 2001, he became co-head of the equities business and
rose to co-head of the firm’s securities division, which
includes all trading.  Conflicts, Transparency  Evans was named chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia Pacific in
2004, moving to Hong Kong, where he helped develop the bank’s
business in  China  and its relationship with  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398)  The firm sold its remaining stake
in ICBC this year after posting more than $3.4 billion of gains
from the investment. Evans was named a vice chairman in 2008.  The business-standards committee produced a report in
January 2011 that laid out 39 recommendations to improve
practices in areas such as conflicts of interest and
transparency. In May of this year, the firm released a report
about the actions it took in implementing the recommendations
and the impact they had.  “We spent more than 100,000 hours training our people not
only on the things that had changed, but teaching them how these
changes were going to be implemented and driven down through the
organization,” Evans said in an interview in May. The efforts
were aimed at “making sure they stick and that they’re embraced
by the totality of our population.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  