-- Grambling Football Boycott Ends as Jilted Foe Eyes Income Recoup
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-10-22T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/grambling-football-boycott-ends-as-jilted-foe-eyes-income-recoup.html
Jackson State University wants to
recoup money it lost when its homecoming football game was
canceled in a boycott by Grambling State players over what they
say are shortcomings in travel and training facilities.  Grambling players said yesterday they would return to
practice and finish their season while maintaining pressure to
fix problems that followed cuts in state education funds. They
said they had no regrets.  Their actions drew praise from critics and commentators on
college sports, who also said it was unlikely to produce a
broader protest from athletes at upper-echelon schools where
television contracts provide billions of dollars.  “It would take football and basketball players with a very
good strategy,” said Ramogi Huma, founder of the National
Collegiate Players Association, which wants improved
scholarships, graduation rates and health and safety measures
for college athletes. “I don’t know that players are there at
this point, but that’s not to say they might not get there.”  Eric Stringfellow, a spokesman for Jackson State in
Jackson,  Mississippi , said in a telephone interview yesterday
that it’s too early to say how much money was lost from the
canceled game. He said Jackson State expected as many as 40,000
fans for the contest three days ago, and instead drew 15,000 for
a scrimmage and marching-band performance.  “As a state institution, we have a fiduciary
responsibility to explore discussing any way to recoup our
losses,” he said. “We’re a public service. We work for the
taxpayers.”  Historic School  The boycott drew national attention to Grambling, a
historically black school with a profile far above the second
tier of college football where it plays. The Tigers were coached
by Eddie Robinson, the Division I victory leader with 408, and
later by Doug Williams, who was the first black quarterback to
play in the  National Football League ’s championship game.  Grambling, which has an 0-7 record this season, hosts Texas
Southern on Oct. 26 in Grambling,  Louisiana .  “To get what we feel was right, we had to take a stand,”
Naquan Smith, a player and team spokesman, said at a news
conference in front of the Eddie G. Robinson Museum on campus.
“We have no regrets.”  Players Return  The decision to return, the players said, came after
consultation with Williams, who played for the Tigers under
Robinson and was fired early this season after 12 losses in his
last 13 games as coach. He was replaced by running backs coach
George Ragsdale, who was reassigned amid the player upheaval.
Defensive coordinator Dennis Winston is the latest interim
coach.  The players at Grambling have said they are upset about
reductions to the football budget, a result of state higher-education cuts. The school received $13.8 million in state aid
this year, down from $31.6 million in 2007-08, said Samuel G.
Freedman, a Columbia University journalism professor and  author 
of “Breaking the Line: The Season in Black College Football
That Transformed the Sport and Changed the Course of Civil
Rights.”  “Whether or not they meant to, they’ve rang the alarm bell
on a devastating series of budget cuts that two to three years
ago, when the president was trying to call attention to it, no
one was listening,” Freedman said in a telephone interview.
“Ironically, in a showdown with him, what the football players
have been able to do is get attention to this issue.”  Homecoming Protest  In 1967, students at Grambling used homecoming, and the
football game, as a way to call attention to racial inequalities
in funding education in Louisiana, Freedman said.  “What they’ve done is give voice to a much larger tragedy
than what just happened to the team,” he said. “They’re part
of a tradition at Grambling, a great tradition of  civil rights 
activism at black colleges.”  That activism, Freedman said, included Robinson, who
frequently was criticized for not taking a more vocal role in
advocating for civil rights.  “What he tried to do for the movement was really through
football,” Freedman said. “He really believed in being a role
model, in being a dignified, educated black man who produced
student-athletes who all got their degrees and went on to
purposeful lives.”  Robinson Recruit  Freedman said Robinson, who died in 2007, recruited James
Harris with the intent of making him the NFL’s first black
quarterback. Harris played professionally for 10 years.  The boycott at Grambling also drew attention from players
at revenue-generating football programs such as top-ranked
 Alabama  and Ohio State, Huma, a former UCLA football player,
said in a telephone interview.  Huma said the Grambling players’ action might buoy athletes
who are seeking changes in National Collegiate Athletic
Association rules, such as those that bar them from capitalizing
on their sports achievements.  For years, he said, players wondered what effect a boycott
would have.  “It’s not theoretical anymore,” Huma said. “Some of
these activities are awakening the consciousness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  