-- India’s Rupee Drops a Second Day on Inflation, Inflow Concerns
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-21T04:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/india-s-rupee-drops-a-second-day-on-inflation-inflow-concerns.html
India ’s rupee fell for a second day
on concern resurgent inflation will compel the central bank to
boost borrowing costs, even with growth near a decade low.  Wholesale prices  unexpectedly rose 6.46 percent in
September, the fastest in seven months, official data showed
last week. Consumer prices climbed 9.84 percent. The  Reserve
Bank  of India will boost the benchmark  repurchase rate  at a
review on Oct. 29 after increasing it to 7.50 percent from 7.25
percent last month, according to HDFC Bank Ltd. The central bank
is said to consider closing a dollar-swap window for oil
refiners, while a facility offering concessional swaps for
foreign currency raised by banks is scheduled to close Nov. 30.  “Inflation concerns will be primary,” said Ashtosh Raina,
head of foreign exchange at HDFC Bank in Mumbai. “There is also
concern about dollar supplies as the swap window for banks
expires next month and oil demand could also come into the
market.”  The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 61.5350 per dollar as of
9:49 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 13.1
percent.  Swap Windows  India’s central bank is looking at ending the emergency
facility under which it has directly sold dollars to state
refiners since late August, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter.  The RBI is in talks with the companies to gauge the
potential impact of withdrawing the measure on the exchange rate,
two of the people said, asking not to be named as the
discussions are private. The facility stays operational and
“any tapering of the window, as and when it occurs, will be
done in a calibrated manner,” the RBI said in an Oct. 18
statement.  The removal of the measures “poses a risk for the currency
and highlights the need for further interest-rate adjustment,”
analysts at Morgan Stanley, including New York-based Rashique
Rahman, wrote in an Oct. 18 research report.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.5 percent to
62.94 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts declined 0.4 percent to 63.03. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  