-- Housing Development Finance’s Profit Rises 10% on Lending
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-10-21T10:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/india-s-housing-development-finance-says-profit-increases-10-.html
Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) ,
India’s largest mortgage lender, posted a 10 percent increase in
second-quarter profit as loan growth of 19 percent helped the
company weather surging borrowing costs.  Net income  climbed to 12.7 billion rupees ($207 million),
or 8.07 rupees a share, in the three months ended Sept. 30 from
11.5 billion rupees, or 7.53 rupees, a year earlier, the Mumbai-based lender said in an exchange filing today. That compared
with the 12.5 billion-rupee median of 30 analyst  estimates 
compiled by the Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Keki Mistry has been able to grow
loans at an average annual rate of more than 20 percent for the
last five years as rising wealth among India’s burgeoning middle
class boosted housing demand. Increased lending in the second
quarter helped HDFC bear a surge in interbank borrowing costs
caused by central bank measures to bolster the rupee.  “The lender is growing loans and keeping bad loans in
check in a tough operating environment,” Vishal Narnolia, a
Mumbai-based analyst at SMC Global Securities Ltd., said by
phone today. “The company was nimble enough in managing funding
costs so that spreads were protected even when the money-market
rates surged.”  The S&P BSE India  Bankex index , which tracks 13 lenders,
has slumped 8.5 percent since July 15 when the  Reserve Bank  of
India raised the cost at which it supplies cash to lenders. The
measure was taken amid steps to check the rupee’s slide to a
record low against the dollar.  The three-month interbank offered  rate  climbed 134 basis
points since then to 9.55 percent today. The rate touched a
four-year high of 11.59 percent on Sept. 4.  Funding Costs  Shares of HDFC, which isn’t a part of the Bankex, have
outperformed the stock gauge with a 2 percent drop since July
15. The lender increased retail lending rates by 25 basis points
on Aug. 23 to protect margins.  HDFC shares rose 0.2 percent to 821.15 rupees as of the
close in Mumbai. They traded at about 808 rupees before today’s
profit announcement.  “In the second quarter, we raised large amounts of money
from banks to keep funding costs in check, with an option of
prepaying it,” HDFC’s Mistry said in a televised media briefing
today.  HDFC is the second-biggest debt issuer in  India  so far in
2013 with sales of 228 billion rupees ($3.7 billion), according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It sold 190 billion rupees of
bonds in the same period last year. Indian companies sold 1.8
trillion rupees of local bonds this year, 12 percent less than a
year earlier, the data show.  Branch Network  Loans at HDFC grew to 1.84 trillion rupees in the 12 months
to Sept. 30 from 1.55 trillion rupees a year earlier, today’s
exchange filing showed. The company has a market share of more
than 15 percent of India’s home lending, according to SMC
Global’s Narnolia.  HDFC holds a 22.7 percent stake in HDFC Bank Ltd., the
nation’s most biggest by market value, exchange filings show.
The mortgage finance company uses the bank’s branch network to
source more than 25 percent of its new home loans, Mistry said
in July.  “HDFC can sustain the rate of growth in loans over several
decades as demand will keep rising in this under penetrated
mortgage market,”Narnolia said. “They have the sector-specific skills and wide distribution network. What investors
are watching out for is whether they will be able to maintain
their lending spreads and keep the asset quality in check.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  