-- Is Breathing in China as Bad as Smoking?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-10-21T17:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/is-breathing-in-china-as-bad-as-smoking-.html
Today the air pollution was  so
thick  in  Harbin , in northern  China , that visibility was reduced
to fewer than  33 feet  in some parts of the city. In response to
the conditions -- which are equivalent to levels that exceed
“hazardous” on the air-pollution measurement system used by the
U.S. State Department in major Chinese cities -- Harbin  shut
down  some schools, canceled flights and sent out relevant
officials to stop polluting behavior.  That’s hardly sufficient.  Last week, the World Health Organization’s International
Agency for Research on Cancer  announced  that “outdoor air
pollution” would henceforth be classified as “carcinogenic to
humans.” The designation is shared with -- among other inhalable
carcinogens --  tobacco smoke ; the IARC’s news release notes
“sufficient evidence that exposure to outdoor air pollution
causes lung cancer,” as well as “a positive association with an
increased risk of bladder cancer.”  None of this comes as any surprise in Beijing, another
northern Chinese city, where cancer is the  leading cause of
death . Lung cancer is  apparently  the country’s leading, fast-growing variety of the disease: In 2008, an official with
China’s Ministry of Health  claimed  that Chinese lung-cancer
rates had risen 465 percent over the previous three decades -- a
period that corresponds with both China’s economic revival and
the transformation of its cities into some of the world’s most
polluted places. (Reports from the  IARC  and  others  consistently
point to Asia -- specifically, China and  India  -- as having
among the world’s most serious air-pollution problems.)  Despite the fact that people in China’s cities
instinctively know that the air is slowly killing them, there’s
been precious little quality data showing a direct correlation
between the opaque smog and mortality rates. A 2007 report by
the World Bank was  allegedly  stripped of its more damning
conclusions at the request of Chinese government departments.
(The bank reportedly determined that up to  760,000 premature
deaths  related to air and water pollution occur in China
annually.) Meanwhile, a  spring 2013 report  on global mortality
trends estimated 1.2 million premature Chinese deaths in 2010
due to air pollution alone. Yet, for all of the benefit these
studies may have brought, neither is the comprehensive, on-the-Chinese-ground study of pollution’s impact on human health.  The IARC’s decision to classify air pollution as a
carcinogen isn’t a study, either. But its importance is less
what it reveals, than the debate it opens up. Not so long ago
Beijing’s government regularly labeled China’s choking  smog as
“fog”   (a tradition  revived  by the Ladies Professional Golf
Association during an October tournament) and thus circumvented
the ability of its own people -- much less well-intentioned
officials and researchers -- to even discuss the health effects.
To be sure, some of those consequences were already well-known,
including respiratory problems. But it’s one thing to look out
the window, see gray skies and think, “I might have a
respiratory problem,” and another entirely to think, “That’s
giving me lung cancer.”  To its modest credit, the Chinese government -- and not
just the city of Beijing -- is starting to take its air-pollution problems seriously. In September, it  announced  a
comprehensive plan to control and slowly reduce air pollution
across the country. On Oct. 16, Beijing  announced  emergency
measures to reduce air pollution on particularly polluted days.
On Saturday,  Shanghai   announced  a similar program that includes
school closings. (Harbin’s program is probably due any day.) So
far these plans have not been designed to return China’s air to
a consistently non-carcinogenic state. Thanks to the IARC, the
Chinese public might start to demand that they do.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 