-- Islamist Threat Unmasks Emirates Policy Shift as Immunity Fades
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-10-21T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/islamist-threat-unmasks-emirates-policy-shift-as-immunity-fades.html
When the military seized power in
 Egypt  in July, the cable of congratulations from the United Arab
Emirates took less than an hour.  A day earlier, judges in Abu Dhabi had sentenced 69 people
to jail for plotting to destabilize the desert nation. They were
alleged members of Islah, an Islamist group the government says
has ties with Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood. Next month, 30
Egyptians and Emiratis will go on trial accused of setting up a
branch of the Brotherhood in the U.A.E.  “It needs to crush the Brotherhood in Egypt to crush the
movement at home,” said  Ghanem Nuseibeh , the London-based
founder of Cornerstone Global Associates, which advises clients
on risk in the Middle East. “Since the Brotherhood is based in
Egypt, the fight had to happen on its home turf.”  Dubai and neighboring Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E.’s two richest
emirates, are known more for their skyscrapers, luxury hotels
and malls than Islamists. The relative immunity from regional
conflict was key to attracting investors, tourists and
expatriates. Yet away from the glitz, the fight against
Islamists represents a shift in foreign policy, said Nuseibeh.  The U.A.E. pledged $3 billion in aid to Egypt since the
military took over and encouraged the crackdown on Brotherhood
officials. Egyptian Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi will start a
three-day visit to the U.A.E. on Oct. 25, Egypt’s state-run
Middle East News Agency reported yesterday.  Brotherhood Outlawed   Egyptian Social Solidarity Minister Ahmed El-Boraie issued
a final decree on Oct. 9 disbanding the Brotherhood, which was
formed in 1928 to espouse the adoption of Islamic law.  The Brotherhood wants to “control our economic
resources,” Ali bin Tamim, a scholar in Abu Dhabi and secretary
general of the Sheikh Zayed Book Awards, said in an interview in
the city. “And now, after the Arab Spring and their brief rule
in Egypt, we have a clear idea what they can do to a country
whenever they manage to take it over.”  Egypt’s deposed former President Mohamed Mursi and his
government are accused of tailoring laws to favor their
supporters and failing to revive the economy and create jobs.
Tunisia’s ruling Ennahda party, a political Islamist group, has
faced criticism over its handling of the economy and what the
opposition sees as a lax response to rising extremism.  Mursi was Egypt’s only democratically elected civilian
president since it became a republic in the 1950s. Security
forces and his supporters have been clashing across Egypt,
killing more than 1,000 people since July. Brotherhood
supporters say the crackdown, which includes arrests and the
freezing of assets, is politically motivated.  WikiLeaks Cable  As far as the U.A.E. government is concerned, Islah wants
to lift the ban on political parties and is seeking more power
in Gulf states ruled by Sunni-Muslim royal families. The
suspicions over political Islamist groups also predate Middle
East uprisings and the Brotherhood’s rise to power in Egypt.  In a meeting with the former assistant to the U.S.
President for homeland security and counterterrorism in April
2006, Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan
expressed concern about the influence of the Brotherhood in the
U.A.E., according to classified diplomatic cables released by
the anti-secrecy group  WikiLeaks .  The meeting, whose details couldn’t be independently
confirmed, took place three months after Islamist group Hamas
won legislative elections in the Palestinian territories, and
about four months after the Brotherhood became Egypt’s largest
opposition group.  Status Quo  Six years later, the Brotherhood’s rise to power in Egypt
and Tunisia supported by Qatar revived concern that the Islamist
group may destabilize the Emirates, the largest economy in the
Arab world after Saudi Arabia.  Yet Emiratis are unlikely to back a group that jeopardizes
their lifestyle, said  Lori Plotkin Boghardt , a fellow in Gulf
politics at the Washington Institute.  “The U.A.E. doesn’t have huge domestic security threats,”
said Boghardt. Emiratis think “we’re wealthy, we’re
comfortable, we have a lot of foreign workers doing some of the
work we don’t like. They don’t want to rock the system.”  The U.A.E. was anxious that Qatar was offering financial
support for the Brotherhood across the Arab world, said
Boghardt. Qatar, home to Yusuf al-Qaradawi, the Egyptian-born
cleric widely known as the Brotherhood’s spiritual leader,
extended about $8 billion in aid during Mursi’s year in power.  Qatari Void  Since the Egyptian military took power in July, there’s
been a shift in policy involving Qatar too.  Egypt said it would return $2 billion to the country, while
Egyptian Oil Minister Sherif Ismail said his ministry is no
longer communicating with Qatar over further gas shipments. The
Al Mal newspaper reported last month Qatari Diar Real Estate
Investment Co.’s Sinai project was put on ice.  Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E. and  Kuwait  are stepping in to fill
the void, said Emad Mostaque, a London-based strategist at
 emerging markets  specialist Noah Capital Markets.  Shortly after Mursi was toppled, the three countries
together pledged $12 billion of aid. Kuwait last month sent
Egypt $2 billion of deposits, Egypt’s state-run Al-Ahram
newspaper reported, citing central bank Governor Hisham Ramez.
Egypt expects more aid from Gulf nations, Ramez said Sept. 29.  “Gulf monarchies are generally uncomfortable with the
Brotherhood” because the group believes “there’s no monarchy
in Islam,” said Mostaque. “The U.A.E. used to just take away
passports of Brotherhood members, but the recent jail terms that
you see is a dramatic change.”  The 69 people the U.A.E. sentenced to seven to 15 years in
jail on July 2 were part of a group of 94 with alleged links to
Islah accused of establishing secret cells to seize power.  “When the military took powers away from Mursi, you could
almost hear this collective sigh of relief,” said Boghardt at
the Washington Institute. “The U.A.E. was so anxious about the
rise of the Brotherhood in Egypt because the U.A.E. in
particular saw this group as the most significant threat in
terms of its own domestic security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  