-- Italy to Lead Southern Front for Migration Relief at EU Summit
-- B y   K a r l   S t a g n o   N a v a r r a
-- 2013-10-21T14:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/italy-to-lead-southern-front-for-migration-relief-at-eu-summit.html
Italy,  Greece  and Malta will form a
“common front” at a European Union summit this week, trying to
convince the bloc’s other 25 member states to step up the EU
response to migration from North Africa.  “I will not be happy with a change of word here and there
that may not mean anything,” Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat told reporters in Valletta today. “We will gauge the
actual political willingness to change the status quo.”  Illegal migration from North Africa came under the
spotlight this month when two boats sank a week apart off
Lampedusa, Italy, killing hundreds of people. In the year
through September, the EU reported  31,000 illegal border
crossings  on the central Mediterranean route, mostly directed
toward  Italy  and Malta.  Muscat said the countries will seek above all a “coherent
returns policy” for repatriating illegal migrants.  “We need European help to coordinate this operation,”
Muscat said. “There are other proposals and we are offering
solutions and a clear plan. I hope that by the end of this week
the plan will be taken up by other countries.”  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras said in Valletta that
the three countries will seek to enlist France and Spain in the
push for greater EU support of countries on Europe’s southern
flank.  “Greece itself is burdened with as many migrants as it has
unemployed,” Samaras said. “This is a humanitarian problem
that necessitates a European solution.”  Samaras, who flies to  Rome  today for talks with Prime
Minister Enrico Letta, said: “Our borders are Europe’s borders
and human trafficking is knocking on our doors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Stagno Navarra in Valletta at 
 ksnavarra@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net  