-- J.C. Penney Pares Martha Stewart Deal, Returns Shares
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-10-22T20:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/j-c-penney-narrows-martha-stewart-products-deal.html
In December 2011,  Ron Johnson  hailed
J.C. Penney Co.’s $38.5 million investment in  Martha Stewart 
Living Omnimedia Inc. as "transformational."  Almost two years later, Johnson is gone as chief executive
officer and J.C. Penney yesterday rolled back an agreement tied
to the investment in the homemaking maven’s company. Under an
amended deal, the partnership will end in June 2017 instead of
2021 and the parties will stop making products in categories at
the center of a lawsuit brought by  Macy’s Inc. (M)   J.C. Penney, based in Plano,  Texas , will also give back the
11 million shares it bought for $3.50 each and the right to
board representation at Martha Stewart Living, it said in a
statement yesterday.  Macy’s sued the companies last year, saying it had
exclusive rights to sell Stewart-designed items in categories
including bedding, bath and cookware. After the suit, J.C.
Penney rebranded the Stewart goods in those disputed categories
“JCP Everyday.” Macy’s then pushed for the sales of those
items to be stopped because they were designed by Stewart’s
company.  The new agreement between J.C. Penney and Martha Stewart
Living, which includes the continuation of the department-store
chain carrying Stewart-branded window treatments and holiday
goods, hasn’t persuaded Macy’s to drop its case.  The announcement showed the old deal was “illegal” and
Macy’s case for damages remains before the court,  Jim Sluzewski ,
a spokesman for the Cincinnati-based chain, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We are not dropping our claims,” Sluzewski said.  Century Old  J.C. Penney rose 2 percent to $6.55 at the close in New
York. The shares have sunk 67 percent this year, compared with a
23 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Martha
Stewart Living, based in New York, advanced 5.3 percent to
$2.38, and has fallen 2.9 percent this year.  The century-old retailer is trying to revive sales after
revenue collapsed during Johnson’s failed attempt to transform
the chain into a destination for younger and wealthier shoppers.
During his 17-month tenure, he alienated longtime customers by
cutting back on discounting and swapping out well-liked brands
for new merchandise. He also spent heavily on remodeling more
than half the chain’s 1,100 stores.  Those higher costs coupled with sinking sales led to losses
and an eroding cash position. Since reclaiming the CEO job in
April, Mike Ullman has raised $3.89 billion to shore up the
chain’s balance sheet.  Home Revamp  J.C. Penney reached the new agreement with Stewart’s
company as it works to revamp its home department. The “JCP
Everyday” items had been heavily discounted for months as the
retailer tried to liquidate excess merchandise.  The overhang of the lawsuit has also been considered by
analysts as an obstacle to improving the results in the home
department. The original deal, announced Dec. 7, 2011, was
designed to generate at least $200 million in revenue for Martha
Stewart Living over 10 years. Sales at Stewart’s company were
$179.3 million in the past four quarters through June 30.  “We are moving forward with the successful parts of Martha
Stewart,” Kristin Hays, a spokeswoman for J.C. Penney, said in
a telephone interview. She declined to comment on the Macy’s
statement or the financial terms of the new deal.  New York  State Supreme Justice Jeffrey Oing said during a
hearing in the case last month that a decision was
“forthcoming” and he would rule shortly. The judge gave J.C.
Penney and Martha Stewart Living until Oct. 25 to resolve their
differences or he would issue a ruling, the New York Times
reported Oct. 18.  Judge’s Hands  A clerk in Oing’s courtroom declined to comment on the case
yesterday. The two sides aren’t scheduled to return to court in
the dispute. The ruling “remains in the judge’s hands,”
Sluzewski said in an e-mail.  “Today’s announcement by MSLO and J.C. Penney confirms
Macy’s exclusivity in Martha Stewart housewares and ended an
attempt by MSLO and Penney to find a loophole,” Theodore M.
Grossman, an attorney with  Jones Day  in  Cleveland  representing
Macy’s, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It was a
total vindication of Macy’s rights going forward. The only issue
that remains is reimbursement for the substantial fees and
damages Macy’s suffered in the period until now as the result of
MSLO and Penney’s conduct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  