-- Jana Partners Has 7.5% Stake in QEP Resources and Seeks Breakup
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-10-21T22:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/jana-partners-has-7-5-stake-in-qep-resources-and-seeks-breakup.html
Jana Partners LLC, the activist
shareholder that’s agitated for changes in three energy
companies since 2012, disclosed a 7.5 percent stake in oil and
natural gas producer  QEP Resources Inc. (QEP)   The New York-based hedge fund acquired 15.5 million shares,
including options, of Denver-based QEP, the worst performer this
year among peer oil and natural-gas producers, according to a
regulatory filing today.  Jana’s  Barry Rosenstein  has held talks with company
executives and plans to urge QEP to separate its “midstream”
partnership that gathers and processes gas into a standalone
business, change its compensation practices and add directors,
according to the filing.  “We have attempted to work constructively to help refine
the company’s strategic direction and to address the company’s
consistent share price underperformance,” Rosenstein said in a
letter today to the QEP board. Company executives have failed to
realize the value of the midstream business and “have spurned
our numerous attempts to help them do so.”  Greg Bensen, a spokesman for QEP, didn’t return a call or
e-mail seeking comment for this story.  QEP earlier this year created a master-limited partnership
that allowed the company to sell some of its midstream assets to
investors while maintaining control. This has failed to realize
the full potential value of the assets and QEP should pursue a
complete separation, Rosenstein said in the letter.  Shareholders from Rosenstein to  Carl Icahn  continue to see
energy companies as prime targets as executives fail to realize
the value of reserves amid stable gas prices and $100-a-barrel
oil. Icahn announced Oct. 7 that he had taken a 6 percent stake
in Canadian oil and gas producer  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , saying on
Twitter that he may seek conversations with management regarding
“strategic alternatives, board seats, etc.”  QEP rose 5.8 percent to $32.89 at 6:04 p.m. in  New York .
The company has risen 2.7 percent this year and is the worst
performer on the Standard & Poor’s 5000  Oil & Gas (COG)  Exploration
and Production Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  