-- Jerusalem Mayor Barkat Seeks New Term in Race Arabs Sitting Out
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-10-21T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/jerusalem-mayor-barkat-seeks-new-term-in-race-arabs-sitting-out.html
Jerusalem  Mayor Nir Barkat seeks re-election today in a race whose two main candidates reject any
shared sovereignty over the holy city at the heart of the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Almost all of the city’s Arab
residents will sit it out.  Barkat, 54, a technology millionaire seeking his second
term as an independent candidate, says  Israel  should make no
territorial concessions in Jerusalem and Jews should feel free
to settle in largely Arab neighborhoods in the city’s eastern
sector. Palestinians claim that area, captured by Israel in the
1967 Mideast war, as the capital of a future independent state,
while the current Israeli government says the entire city must
remain the country’s capital.  “Always leave an open door for a deal,” Barkat said in a
conversation with journalists last week, referring to current
peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. “But a
bad deal is worse than no deal, so anything that has to do with
Jerusalem should be off the table.”  Despite such rhetoric, his main opponent Moshe Lion accuses
Barkat of a “concessionist attitude” that has allowed a
“creeping disengagement from Jerusalem.” In an Oct. 21
Jerusalem Post opinion piece, Lion, running on Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu ’s Likud-Beitenu list, charged the mayor with
insufficient zeal in demolishing unauthorized Arab construction,
meeting with radical Islamic elements, and allowing a city
council member from the dovish Meretz party, which favors
sharing Jerusalem with the Palestinians, to handle the municipal
portfolio for the eastern sector.  Delicate Relations  Jerusalem’s mayor doesn’t have a say in negotiations over
the city’s future, which are handled through the prime
minister’s office. The mayor can, however, affect the fragile
relations between Arab and Jew in the city, especially in
administering contested Old City shrines that are flashpoints
for violence.  Israel conquered east Jerusalem from Jordan and annexed it
shortly after in a move the international community rejects.
Israeli construction in east Jerusalem has created friction
between the Netanyahu government and the U.S., European Union
and  United Nations .  Most of Jerusalem’s Palestinians, who comprise about one-third of the city’s population of 780,000, hold local residency
status that allows them to vote in municipal elections, though
for political reasons no more than a few thousand have exercised
that right.  “Jerusalem’s Palestinians decided on a strategy to not
vote in local elections in order to send a clear message to the
world that we are living under occupation and don’t recognize
the annexation of the city,” said Ahmad Sub Laban, a field
researcher for Ir Amim, an organization that monitors actions it
says jeopardize negotiations on Jerusalem’s final status.  Electoral Battlefield  That leaves Jerusalem’s Jewish population, divided roughly
between the city’s ultra-Orthodox sector and a mix of secular
and modern Orthodox Jews, as the electoral battleground for
Barkat and Lion. A Jerusalem Post/Smith survey on Oct. 18 had
Barkat leading Lion by 47 percent to 41 percent, with a 3.5
percentage-point margin of error. Earlier polls gave Barkat a 30
percentage-point lead.  Barkat campaigned successfully in 2008 by arguing that
previous mayors Ehud Olmert and Uri Lupolianski had catered too
much to the ultra-Orthodox, hurting the city’s cultural life and
damaging its economic prospects. He says his administration has
pursued a more balanced approach that has boosted tourism and
employment, increased the number of cultural events and reversed
the flight of non-ultra-Orthodox Jews from the city.  Lion, a religiously observant accountant and former
government official who moved to Jerusalem from suburban  Tel
Aviv  just weeks before the election, says Barkat has ignored
economically weaker neighborhoods and done too little to halt
rising housing costs or improve schools.  Powerful Patrons  Lion has two powerful patrons: Yisrael Beitenu party chief
and former Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman, a leader of
Israel’s Soviet-immigrant community; and Aryeh Deri, chairman of
the Shas party, which draws its support from ultra-Orthodox Jews
of Middle Eastern and North African descent. Barkat says Lion’s
candidacy was manufactured only after he spurned Liberman’s
request to appoint unqualified candidates to municipal
positions, a charge the Yisrael Beitenu leader denies.  Conspicuously missing from Lion’s backers is Netanyahu, who
chose Lion to run his bureau during his first term as prime
minister in the 1990s and whose Likud party ran a joint slate
with Yisrael Beitenu in the January national election.  “Since Barkat basically shares and supports Netanyahu’s
positions on the status of Jerusalem, the motivation to make a
change isn’t there,” said Abraham Diskin, a political science
professor at The  Hebrew University of Jerusalem . “It is also
likely the prime minister is not that comfortable with Lion’s
ties to Liberman and Deri, with whom he has complicated
relations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  