-- Jets Add Quarterback Garrard to Active Roster as Backup to Smith
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/jets-add-quarterback-garrard-to-active-roster-as-backup-to-smith.html
The  New York Jets  added veteran
quarterback David Garrard to their active roster as a backup and
mentor to rookie starter Geno Smith.  The Jets waived Brady Quinn yesterday to make room for the
35-year-old Garrard, who was added to the team’s exempt list on
Oct. 10, two days after quarterback  Mark Sanchez  underwent
season-ending shoulder surgery.  New York had two weeks to evaluate Garrard’s physical
condition and decide whether to activate the former Jacksonville
Jaguars starter, who last played in a National Football League
game in 2010.  “He’s a consummate professional, a great guy on and off
the field,” Smith, who has started the Jets’ first seven games,
said of Garrard. “He’s a guy you love to be around. He brings
another dimension to our quarterback room. He’s a veteran guy
and has dealt with some of these experiences that I’m dealing
with as a rookie.”  Garrard, who spent his first nine seasons with the Jaguars,
signed with the Jets in March and then left the team two months
later because of a recurring knee injury, saying it was swelling
after practice and limiting what he could do.  From 2002 to 2010, Garrard started 76 games for the
Jaguars, completing 62 percent of his passes for 89 touchdowns
and 54 interceptions. He didn’t play the past two NFL seasons
after undergoing surgeries on his back and left knee.  Smith, 23, has completed 58 percent of his passes for 1,723
yards, eight touchdowns and 11 interceptions, while also rushing
for a pair of scores. Smith has led a game-winning drive in the
fourth quarter or overtime in all four wins for the 4-3 Jets.
He’s the only quarterback since the NFL’s 1970 merger with four
game-winning drives in the fourth quarter or overtime in his
first seven career games.  Matt Simms has been Smith’s backup all seven games, while
Brady, a first-round draft pick in 2007, was inactive for six
games as the Jets’ third-string quarterback.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  