-- Jets Profit From New NFL Rule for Winning Kick Against Patriots
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-21T04:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/jets-profit-from-new-nfl-rule-for-winning-kick-against-patriots.html
A new rule helped the  New York  Jets
get a second shot at a winning field goal that ended a six-game
regular-season losing skid against the New England Patriots.  The Jets beat the Patriots 30-27 yesterday on Nick Folk’s
42-yard field goal in overtime at MetLife Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey. The kick was set up by a penalty that
had never before been called in a National Football League game.  Four plays earlier, Folk missed a 56-yard field goal
attempt to the left, though Chris Jones of the Patriots was
called for a 15-yard unsportsmanlike conduct penalty for pushing
a teammate forward in an attempt to block the kick. The rule was
instituted this season as a safety measure for offensive linemen
blocking defenders on field goals and extra points.  “They’re trying to protect guys,” Folk told reporters.
“The offensive linemen and the snapper just have to sit there
and take it. They can’t really fire off like you would on an
offensive play or something like that, so you’ve got no chance
to protect yourself. It’s a good new rule and they just ended up
breaking the rule.”  The penalty gave the Jets a first down and Folk then
converted the winning kick, snapping the Patriots’ 12-game
winning streak against division opponents. Folk is now 16-of-16
on field goal attempts this season after the penalty nullified
his miss.  Jones, a rookie defensive tackle from Bowling Green State
University, said he took full responsibility for the penalty.  “We have probably talked about it before,” he said. “It
slipped my mind at the time. Now I know it. I just have to keep
that in mind. The mistake was mine.”  Belichick Unsure  Patriots coach Bill Belichick said he wasn’t sure the rule
was applied properly on the Jets’ missed field goal, an on-field
ruling that isn’t reviewable.  “You can’t push from the second level, but I don’t think
we did that,” Belichick told reporters.  The NFL’s rulebook states that players from the non-kicking
team “cannot push teammates on the line of scrimmage into the
offensive formation.” It doesn’t make exceptions for where a
player is lined up.  “I didn’t really know what was going on until they
announced it,” said Jets rookie quarterback Geno Smith, who
passed for one touchdown and ran for another. “It’s great to
get the help on something like that to get us the victory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  