-- JPMorgan $13 Billion Accord Would Join Largest U.S. Pacts
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r
-- 2013-10-21T05:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/jpmorgan-13-billion-accord-would-join-largest-u-s-settlements.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is preparing to
pay $13 billion to end U.S. civil probes of its mortgage-bond
sales, an amount that ranks among the largest settlements by a
single company and dwarfs fines previously imposed by the
Justice Department. Past accords include:  -- The $246 billion settlement by the biggest U.S. tobacco
companies in 1998 to resolve state government claims for the
costs of treating sick smokers. Philip Morris Cos. and R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Holdings Inc. were among firms that reached
agreement with 50 state attorneys general to pay out the money
over 25 years, scale back marketing and take steps to reduce
youth smoking.  -- Pledges by Wall Street firms including UBS AG and Citigroup
Inc. to repurchase more than  $50 billion  of auction-rate
securities to settle state and federal complaints. Firms
allegedly touted the instruments as safe, cash-like investments
before the $330 billion market froze in February 2008, stranding
investors who could no longer sell their holdings. The accords
returned more than $67 billion to investors, the Securities and
Exchange Commission has said.  -- The $25 billion in payments and relief for troubled borrowers
that five U.S. lenders -- JPMorgan, Bank of America Corp.,
Citigroup, Wells Fargo & Co. and Ally Financial Inc. -- pledged
to resolve probes into mishandled foreclosures as part of a
February 2012 deal with federal regulators and state attorneys
general.  -- BP Plc’s $4.53 billion in settlements last year with the
Justice Department and SEC, including a $1.26 billion criminal
fine, relating to the April 2010 Macondo well blowout and
explosion in the Gulf of Mexico that killed 11 workers and set
off the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  In 2010, BP promised President  Barack Obama  it would set up
a $20 billion trust fund for claims and costs. The company has
so far spent at least  $26 billion  on the cleanup, reimbursements
and other payments, and booked more than  $42 billion  in pretax
charges related to the spill, according to statements on its
website.  -- GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s $3 billion to resolve criminal and
civil allegations that it illegally promoted prescription drugs
and failed to report safety data. The July 2012 settlement, the
largest ever in a health-care fraud case in the U.S., included a
$956.8 million criminal fine.  -- Pfizer Inc.’s $2.3 billion settlement in 2009, which included
a $1.2 billion criminal fine, for illegally marketing the anti-inflammatory drug Bextra for uses that the Food and Drug
Administration specifically had declined to approve because of
safety concerns. The criminal fine was the largest ever imposed
in the U.S. for any matter, then-Associate Attorney General Tom
Perrelli said at the time.  -- HSBC Holdings Plc’s $1.9 billion deal to resolve charges it
enabled Latin American drug cartels to launder billions of
dollars. The bank, Europe’s largest by market value, agreed to
pay a $1.25 billion forfeiture and $665 million in civil
penalties.  -- UBS $1.2 billion in fines from the Justice Department and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission for trying to rig the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a benchmark for more
than $300 trillion of financial products worldwide. The bank
also agreed to pay 160 million pounds ($259 million) to the U.K.
Financial Services Authority, the largest fine imposed by the
regulator, and disgorge 59 million francs ($65.3 million) in
estimated profits to the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keri Geiger in  New York  at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  