-- Kasich Wins Approval of Medicaid Plan That Bypasses Legislature
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-10-21T20:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/kasich-wins-approval-of-medicaid-plan-that-bypasses-legislature.html
An Ohio legislative panel approved
Governor  John Kasich ’s plan to expand Medicaid under President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul over the protests of fellow
Republicans in the  House of Representatives .  The Ohio Controlling Board, a separate legislative entity
that considers agencies’ spending requests, voted 5-2 today to
take $2.56 billion in U.S. funds through fiscal 2015 to add
275,000 adults to the state-federal program for the poor.  Kasich, a first-term governor, turned to the panel to
circumvent a vote of the full legislature after he was unable to
persuade Republicans who control it. Almost two-thirds of the 60
Republican representatives, including Speaker William Batchelder, protested his Controlling Board gambit as illegal
and unconstitutional.  “This offers an opportunity to really give people a hand
up,” Tracy Plouck, director of the  Ohio  Department of Mental
Health representing the Kasich administration, told the panel.  The board consists of four Republican and two Democratic
lawmakers, plus a chairman from the state budget office named by
Kasich.  Under the Affordable Care Act, states can expand Medicaid
to cover those earning about a third more than the federal
poverty level, or $15,856 annually for an individual and $26,951
for a family of three this year, according to the  Kaiser Family
Foundation , a  Menlo Park , California-based nonprofit that
studies health issues. It said Ohio will be the 25th state, and
the eighth with a Republican governor, to take that step. The
U.S. government will pay all the added cost for the first three
years and at least 90 percent after that.  Hard Hearted?  Kasich said expansion will bring about $13 billion from the
federal government over seven years. He also said the state has
a moral duty to help people without health insurance, especially
those with mental illnesses and drug addictions.  “Why is that some people don’t get it?” Kasich asked
during an Oct. 18 event at the  Cleveland Clinic  promoting the
expansion. “Is it because they’re hard-hearted or cold-hearted?
It’s probably because they don’t understand the problem because
they have never walked in somebody’s shoes.”  The  Cleveland Clinic , one of the world’s foremost medical
and research centers, said last month it is cutting $330 million
from its $6 billion annual budget in 2014 because of rising
expenses and other changes in health care. About half of the
cuts are in response to the Affordable Care Act, spokeswoman
Eileen Sheil said by phone.  Triple Win  Even so, the clinic, which is the largest provider of
Medicaid services in northern Ohio, is supporting Kasich’s plan
because it will mean patients otherwise treated in emergency
rooms will get faster and cheaper care, said Linda Bradley, a
doctor of obstetrics and gynecology.  “It is the right decision from both the medical, economic
and moral perspective,” Bradley said during the Oct. 18 event
with Kasich.  Ohio Republicans, like their fellow party members
nationally opposed to the health-care law, objected to the
additional spending and expanding what they said is a flawed
program.  A protest letter signed by Batchelder and 38 other  House
Republicans  said Kasich’s action violates the state constitution
and law by skirting a full vote of the General Assembly and
ignoring its intent not to expand Medicaid.  Kasich told reporters in  Cleveland  that he has been assured
by his legal counsel that the Controlling Board action is
proper.  Into Court  A legal challenge is inevitable, said Jon Allison, a
Columbus attorney leading a coalition of hospitals and other
state businesses supporting expansion.  “Given the intensity of feelings on all sides of this
issue, it does not surprise me that this would end up in
court,” Allison, a chief of state to former Ohio Governor Bob Taft, said on a Oct. 17 conference call with reporters.  While Ohio Tea Party groups have said they won’t back
Kasich’s re-election next year because of his stance on
Medicaid, the governor said he can’t let politics decide the
issue.  “This is the right thing for our state, and most important
for our people who live in the shadows,” Kasich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  