-- KB Financial Among Initial Bids for Woori Brokerage, Five Units
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-10-21T15:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/kb-financial-among-initial-bids-for-woori-brokerage-five-units.html
KB (105560)  Financial Group Inc. was among
firms that made initial bids for  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000) ’s
brokerage unit and five other divisions, as South Korea attempts
to privatize the nation’s biggest financial group by assets.  KB Financial was among bidders for  Woori Investment &
Securities Co. (005940) , Woori Asset Management Co., Woori Aviva Life
Insurance Co. and Woori FG Savings Bank, KB said in a filing
yesterday. The owner of Korea’s largest bank also made separate
offers for Woori F&I Co., a distressed-asset trading firm, and
leasing unit Woori Financial Co.  The units may fetch more than 1.5 trillion won ($1.4
billion) when combined, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.
estimates in July, as the government makes its fourth effort to
divest Woori since 2010. Seoul-based NH Financial Group said it
also made an offer for the brokerage, asset management, savings
bank and insurance units, which are being sold as a package.  “Financial holding firms like KB and NH may have the best
chances to win this race as they’re eager to diversify
businesses and to beef up their securities units,” Jun Bae
Seung, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. said by phone in
 Seoul  yesterday.  KB Investment & Securities Co. and NH Investment &
Securities Co. are among 62 brokerages operating in  South Korea 
as of June, according to Financial Services Commission data.  PineStreet Group , a Seoul-based investment advisory firm,
also entered a bid for the four-unit package, Vice Chairman Kim Myung Jeon said by phone from Seoul.  ‘Strong Player’  South Korea in June said it will sell Woori’s assets in
three parts after failing to woo buyers for its 57 percent stake
-- an attempt to recoup taxpayer money spent more than a decade
ago to bail out the nation’s weakest banks.  The government is yet to announce the total number of
bidders for the six units following yesterday’s deadline.  “For anyone who wants to grow in the area of securities
and non-banking businesses, owning  Woori Investment (005490)  would make
you a strong player,” Sohn Mi Ji, an analyst at Shinhan
Investment Corp., said by phone from Seoul yesterday.  KB Financial Chairman Lim Young Rok, who took office in
July, said on Aug. 14  he will consider takeovers to improve
profit at its non-banking businesses. The firm last year also
studied possible bids for  Woori Finance ’s assets under previous
Chairman Euh Yoon Dae. NH Financial, originally a farmers’
cooperative, operates seven affiliates including Nonghyup Bank.  Separately, Daishin Securities Co. submitted bids for Woori
Financial and Woori F&I, the brokerage firm said yesterday in a
regulatory filing. Kiwoom Securities Co. handed in an offer only
to buy Woori Asset Management, it said in a separate regulatory
filing.  Top M&A Adviser  Woori Finance is seeking to sell a 38 percent stake in the
brokerage business, 52 percent of Woori Financial, 99 percent of
the insurance business it owns jointly with  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and all of
the asset management unit, Woori F&I and the savings bank.  Buying Woori Investment, the country’s  fourth-largest 
brokerage by market value, would give the winning bidder control
of South Korea’s top merger and acquisition adviser and debt
underwriter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Woori Investment closed 0.4 percent lower at
11,600 won ahead of yesterday’s bidding results, valuing Woori
Finance’s 38 percent stake at 878 billion won.  Woori Finance hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Samil
PricewaterhouseCoopers to help arrange the sale of the six
businesses.  Shares of Woori Finance closed 2.2 percent lower at 13,200
won before yesterday’s release, paring this year’s gain to 12
percent. The benchmark Kospi Index has gained 2.8 percent.  Three-Part Sale  As part of its three-pronged asset sale process, South
Korea has already received bids for two regional banks. Its
flagship  Woori Bank (005300) , credit card business and other units will
be sold next year.  Korea Deposit Insurance Corp., the state-run agency that
 owns  the government’s 57 percent stake in Woori Finance, said on
Oct. 18 that it received four bids for regional lenders Kyongnam
Bank and seven offers for Kwangju Bank. It plans to accept final
bids in December and complete the sales next year.  The banks were folded into Woori Finance in 2001 after the
government created the holding company for lenders rescued after
the Asian financial crisis in 1997-1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  