-- NanoH2O to Build Plant to Tap China Water Market Needs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-21T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/nanoh2o-to-build-plant-to-tap-china-water-market-needs.html
NanoH2O Inc., a manufacturer of
reverse-osmosis membranes that cut the cost of energy for
seawater desalination facilities, plans to build a plant on the
Yangtze River delta to tap  China ’s industrial water needs.  The Los Angeles-based company will spend $45 million on the
plant in Liyang, 250 kilometers (155 miles) west of  Shanghai .
Construction starts this quarter “and we anticipate the plant
being operational by the end of 2014,” Chief Executive Officer
 Jeff Green  said in a phone interview.  “The market opportunity for desalination technology,
specifically reverse-osmosis membranes, is quite substantial
particularly in China and more across Asia as well,” Green said
on Oct. 19. “We anticipate that China will see a 20 percent
year-over-year growth in demand for membrane technology over the
next 10 years.”  China is projected to have $6 billion of sales for reverse-osmosis membranes over the next seven years compared with $500
million this year, he said. The country plans to increase its
seawater reverse-osmosis desalination capacity three-fold by
2015.  NanoH2O develops membranes used to purify water and filter
salt from the sea. Making more advanced membranes with increased
permeability means less pressure is required to produce fresh
water through the membrane, lowering a desalination plant’s
energy costs, it said.  That in turn raises demand for its products as water
remains a challenge in China, which suffers from pollution and
contamination issues. An increasing population with urban
migration combined with economic growth means China needs more
clean waters for industrial, agriculture and drinking use.  “The bulk of Chinese market is for industrial feed
water,” Green said.  Raise Funds  The company plans to raise funds in equity financing in the
next year to fuel growth though how much hasn’t been determined,
he said. NanoH2O investors include Khosla Ventures LLC,  Oak
Investment Partners , Total Energy Ventures and Beijing-based
Keytone Ventures, according to Green.  The world’s second-biggest economy after the U.S. has a
fifth of the global population yet only 6 percent of its
freshwater supplies, he said.  The company can “compete in terms of capacity directly
with existing suppliers” led by  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  as well as
 Toray Industries Inc. (3402)  and  Nitto Denko Corp. (6988)  of Japan, he said.  NanoH2O will dedicate 20 percent to 25 percent of the
capacity in the new plant to China and the rest for exports as
the company is targeting growth in southeastern Asia and India,
Green said.  China mandates under its current five-year plan that 70
percent of the equipment used in desalination plants be produced
domestically. The same requirement was applied to wind turbines
before 2010 to attract technology when few domestic makers could
compete with international producers.  The company, whose technology stems originally from
research from the  University of California  at  Los Angeles , also
plans a new product for wastewater reuse next year, Green said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  