-- Netflix Poised to Pass HBO in Paid U.S. Subscribers
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-10-21T14:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/netflix-poised-to-pass-hbo-in-paid-u-s-subscribers.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  is poised to pass  HBO 
in paid U.S. subscribers, showing Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  is making progress toward a goal of transforming the
streaming service to a Web-based television network.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , reports third-quarter results today after markets close. Already the world’s
largest subscription-video service, the company probably reached
30 million paying U.S. customers as of Sept. 30, according to
Needham & Co. HBO,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s premium cable-TV network,
has about 28.7 million, according to researcher SNL Kagan.  Hastings has hooked viewers with the Emmy-winning original
series “House of Cards” and a library of films and TV shows.
To fuel more growth, Netflix is looking to bring its Web-based
service to cable-TV systems. Cable providers are starting to see
the $8-a-month subscription as an asset, and some are working to
integrate Netflix with traditional programming.  “Consumers are probably going to come to see Netflix as
being more valuable than other networks,” said  Tony Wible , an
analyst at Janney Capital Markets in Philadelphia. The monthly
price “makes it very difficult for others to be in the
business.”  Netflix is in talks with U.S. cable providers including Cox
Communications Inc., Suddenlink Communications, RCN Telecom
Services and Atlantic Broadband Finance LLC, people with
knowledge of the situation said last week.  Including free trials, Netflix’s U.S. subscribers probably
reached 31 million in the third quarter, the average of eight
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s an increase of
about 4 percent from 29.8 million as of June 30. Paid users were
28.6 million in the second quarter.  HBO’s Path  Analysts project  profit , excluding some items, rose to 63
cents a share from 13 cents a year earlier, on sales that grew
21 percent to $1.1 billion.  To reach Hastings’ goal of becoming a Web-based TV network,
Netflix is following HBO’s path. Thirty years ago, HBO aired its
first original movie, a 1983 biopic of Canadian amputee and
runner Terry Fox. Like HBO, Netflix has used original
programming to build customer loyalty and to stand out from
competitors such as Amazon.com Inc., the largest Web retailer,
Hulu LLC and Redbox Instant by Verizon.  Hastings has called “House of Cards,” which won the Emmy
for director  David Fincher , “Orange Is the New Black” and
other originals integral to his strategy of moving from reruns
to a mix of Hollywood movies and new shows. Sony Pictures
Television will produce a psychological thriller for Netflix,
the company said on Oct. 14.  More Use  Currently, these shows are funneled to televisions through
users’ video-game consoles or standalone devices such as Apple
TV or Roku Inc.’s Web-connected box. Viewers can also watch on
their smartphones or tablets. Adding Netflix’s application to
cable menus will make it easier for customers to watch, Wible
said.  “There’s nothing to stop somebody who has a cable plan
today from getting Netflix, but people will use it a lot more if
it’s integrated into the set-top box,” Wible said.  Netflix rose as much as 4.7 percent today from an all-time
closing high of $333.50 on Oct. 18. The shares added 3.5 percent
to $345.32 at 10:21 a.m. in  New York , after reaching an intraday
record of $349. The stock has almost  quadrupled  this year, the
largest gain in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 .  Investors are also looking for Netflix to spur
international growth. Hastings has suggested the company, which
had 37.6 million viewers worldwide as of June 30, can reach 60
million to 90 million over time. If the company can reach
domestic and international targets this quarter and next, it
could reach 43.8 million by the end of this year, and cement
views that subscriptions can reach at least 50 million, said
 Scott Devitt , an analyst at  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Pricing Policy  Devitt, who rates Netflix equal-weight, estimates the
company added 2 million total subscribers in the third quarter
and projects an additional 4.2 million in the fourth quarter.  Even should the company meet its growth targets, some
analysts caution that unless Netflix raises prices and adjusts
policies that make it easy to quit the service, it will be
harder for Netflix to generate ongoing profit.  With tiered pricing, where people who stream a lot pay
more, Netflix’s model might be more sustainable, said  Laura Martin , an analyst with Needham & Co. who rates the stock buy
and projects the shares will reach $425.  “The more hours a household watches Netflix, the faster
Netflix’s value proposition falls, and the lower the probability
of renewal the next month,” Martin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  