-- Nokia Record Cash Targets Alcatel Wireless Unit: Real M&A
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-10-21T17:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/nokia-record-cash-targets-alcatel-wireless-unit-real-m-a.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s sale of its handset
business is clearing the way for a 2 billion euro ($2.7 billion)
takeover of  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) ’s wireless network-equipment unit.  With Nokia receiving 5.44 billion euros next year for
selling its handset unit to Microsoft Corp., the company’s cash
is set to exceed 14 billion euros, its highest balance on record
and the eighth-most among non-finance companies in Europe,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At the same time,
Alcatel-Lucent Chief Executive Officer Michel Combes is
accelerating plans to scale down, including selling assets, to
help the  unprofitable  French company survive.  “This deal makes complete sense,” Sami Sarkamies, a
Helsinki-based analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said in a phone
interview. “Nokia will have the financial flexibility to do
this kind of deal and Alcatel needs to slim down. There is a
relatively high likelihood of this deal happening.”  Nokia has evaluated options including a combination with
Alcatel-Lucent’s mobile-phone networks business, a person with
knowledge of the matter said last month. An acquisition would
open the U.S. market to Nokia, helping the Finnish company
shrink the gap with market leader  Ericsson AB. (ERICB)  With analysts’
estimates for the cost of the wireless business ranging from 1
billion to 2 billion euros, Pohjola Bank said Nokia will also be
able to resume paying a  dividend  of as much as 40 cents a share.  Microsoft Deal  Doug Dawson, a spokesman for Espoo, Finland-based Nokia,
and Simon Poulter, a spokesman for Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent,
declined to comment on the prospects for consolidation.  “Alcatel-Lucent’s focus is on executing the Shift Plan as
the means of managing our own destiny,” Poulter said, citing
the company’s turnaround plan.  Nokia’s sale of the mobile-phone business to Microsoft was
announced Sept. 3 and is expected to be completed in the first
quarter, handing the company cash of 3.79 billion euros for the
phone division plus 1.65 billion euros for patents.  A month earlier, Nokia took full control from Siemens AG of
the Nokia Solutions and Networks business, which generates 13
billion euros a year and will account for more than 90 percent
of sales after Nokia exits handset making. Buying Alcatel-Lucent’s wireless segment would add another 3.4 billion euros in
 annual sales , excluding services and software.  The new entity would command 32 percent of the world’s
wireless infrastructure market, based on data from Barclays Plc,
overtaking Chinese competitor Huawei Technologies Co.’s 22
percent share and nearing market leader Ericsson’s 36 percent.  ‘Huge Opportunity’  Nokia, Ericsson and Alcatel-Lucent are vying for contracts
from wireless operators as they upgrade networks using fourth-generation technology to cope with data-hungry tablets and
smartphones. The U.S. presents an opening as Shenzhen-based
Huawei has been barred there on security concerns.  “It’s a huge opportunity,”  Janardan Menon , a London-based
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd., said in a phone interview.
“The U.S. is the largest market in the world and Nokia doesn’t
have any share there outside of T-Mobile. An acquisition of
Alcatel-Lucent’s wireless business will give Nokia a much-needed
 footprint .”  U.S. phone companies  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , AT&T Inc.
and Sprint Communications Inc. together accounted for 35 percent
of Alcatel-Lucent’s revenue last year, while making up less than
4 percent of Nokia’s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turnaround Plan  Alcatel-Lucent’s Combes, who took over as CEO in April, is
trying to staunch a drain on cash as the first step toward
renegotiating debt to get back the company’s patents that were
previously pledged as loan collateral. To do that, Combes is
speeding up a turnaround effort, including a tighter focus on
more lucrative businesses.  “We are going to focus on the areas where we can be one of
the top three players in the world,” Combes said this week
during a hearing at the French National Assembly. “Otherwise,
it’s not worth it.”  Alcatel-Lucent’s wireless assets may sell for 1 billion to
2 billion euros, according to the range of estimates from
analysts at Nordea, Credit Suisse AG, Barclays and Kepler
Cheuvreux  France .  No talks were under way between Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia as
of Sept. 26, Bloomberg News reported at the time, citing people
with knowledge of the matter.  Junk Rating  Alcatel-Lucent fell 2 percent to close at 2.66 euros in
Paris. Nokia added 0.3 percent to 5.29 euros in Helsinki.  Nokia had 9.1 billion euros of  cash  and equivalents as of
June 30. Adding the 5.44 billion euros in expected proceeds from
the sale to Microsoft would potentially push the company’s cash
pile to 14.5 billion euros. Nokia, which has a  junk  credit
rating, has 5.4 billion euros of total debt.  On a Sept. 3 conference call, Timo Ihamuotila, Nokia’s
chief financial officer and interim president, said that if the
Microsoft and Siemens transactions had closed before the end of
the second quarter, the company would have had gross cash of
14.9 billion euros.  Nokia, which skipped a  dividend  payment this year for the
first time in at least 143 years, will evaluate its three
remaining units and then return excess cash to shareholders, he
said.  “Nokia will certainly have the firepower to do both M&A
and resume its dividend,” Hannu Rauhala, an analyst at Pohjola
Bank in Helsinki, said in a phone interview. “If Nokia pays
around 2 billion euros for the Alcatel wireless assets and keeps
a healthy balance sheet to keep carriers’ confidence, they would
still have enough cash to pay a dividend of up to 40 cents. The
deal would be a smart move for Nokia and its investors.”  Deal Setbacks  A purchase of Alcatel-Lucent’s wireless assets would entail
at least 500 million euros of restructuring expenses, according
to analysts’ estimates at Nordea, Credit Suisse and Barclays.  The companies already have a track record of difficult
deals. Nokia’s networks business was formed through a 2007 joint
venture with Siemens, and led to 9,000 job cuts in the first
year alone. The 2006 combination of Alcatel SA and Lucent
Technologies resulted in more than $10 billion in cumulated
losses and a reduction of about a third of the workforce.  France, which  owns  3.6 percent of Alcatel-Lucent, has
already shown it is willing to intervene in the company’s
strategy. President Francois Hollande’s Socialist government
last week threatened to block Alcatel-Lucent’s plans for firings
and in February considered buying a bigger stake in the company
to protect its patents.  Samsung, Ericsson  Nokia may be pressed to act before Ericsson or  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  considers bidding, said Sarkamies of Nordea.
While Barclays said in an Oct. 14 note that Ericsson may face
regulatory hurdles in the U.S., Sarkamies said Samsung may view
Alcatel-Lucent’s assets as a chance to become a player in
wireless network equipment after overtaking Apple Inc. as the
world’s largest smartphone vendor.  Samsung is not considering an acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent’s assets, a representative for the South Korean company
said in an e-mailed statement. Ericsson’s focus continues to be
on organic growth, Ola Rembe, a spokesman for the Stockholm-based company, said by e-mail.  “Alcatel-Lucent’s wireless business would be a good fit
for Nokia and a deal definitely makes sense on paper, though
execution would likely be tricky,” Sebastien Sztabowicz, a
Paris-based analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux, said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  