-- Obama Seeks to Reassure France’s Hollande About Spying
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-10-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/obama-seeks-to-reassure-france-s-hollande-about-spying.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  sought
to reassure French President  Francois Hollande  about the
countries’ relations after a report that the National Security
Agency eavesdropped on millions of phone calls inside  France .  The two leaders spoke by phone yesterday to discuss U.S.
intelligence gathering, according to a White House statement.
The call took place amid outrage in France stirred by a Le Monde
report that U.S. authorities had intercepted and recorded 70.3
million bits of telecommunications data from Dec. 10, 2012, to
Jan. 8, 2013.  “The president and President Hollande discussed recent
disclosures in the press -- some of which have distorted our
activities and some of which raise legitimate questions for our
friends and allies about how these capabilities are employed,”
the White House said in its statement.  The call marked the latest instance of tensions with allies
stoked by revelations about U.S. surveillance activities. The Le
Monde report, based on information provided by former NSA
contractor Edward Snowden, led the Foreign Ministry in Paris to
summon the U.S. ambassador yesterday.  “This type of practice between partners that intrudes on
the private sphere is totally unacceptable,” French Foreign
Minister Laurent Fabius told  reporters  in Luxembourg yesterday.
“We have to see to it very quickly that this practice ceases.”  Fabius is due to meet today with U.S. Secretary of State
 John Kerry , who was in Paris for talks yesterday with Arab
foreign ministers on Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations.
Kerry said he and his French counterpart will discuss the
surveillance issue just as they work closely on other matters.  ‘Very Challenging’  While saying he couldn’t comment on U.S. intelligence
activities, Kerry said yesterday that “lots of countries are
engaged in the activity of trying to protect their citizens and
the world.”  “Protecting the security of our citizens in today’s world
is a very complicated, very challenging task and it is an every
day, 24-7-365 task, unfortunately, because it there are lots of
people out there seeking to do harm to other people,” Kerry
said. Obama told the  United Nations General Assembly  that the
U.S. is reviewing how it conducts its electronic intelligence
activities, Kerry said.  During their phone call, Obama told Hollande that the U.S.
is reviewing its intelligence-gathering practices, “so that we
properly balance the legitimate security concerns of our
citizens and allies with the privacy concerns that all people
share,” the White House said in its statement.  Espionage Charges  Allegations based on data provided by Snowden, who was
granted asylum by Russia as he faces espionage charges in the
U.S., have stirred tensions between the U.S. and countries
including Germany and  Brazil . Mexico’s government condemned the
alleged hacking of the e-mail account of then-President  Felipe Calderon  in 2010, saying such actions are unacceptable and
violate international law.  U.S. Ambassador Charles Rivkin met yesterday with Fabius’s
chief of staff.  “We demanded that a tangible response to our concerns be
forthcoming as soon as possible,” according to a ministry
statement.  Kerry’s meeting today with Fabius “will mostly be about
the situation in  Syria  and other regional matters, but this
issue will also be discussed,” the ministry said in the
statement, referring to alleged spying.  Le Monde said NSA targets included undersea cables and
Internet infrastructure operated by Alcatel-Lucent SA and
Wanadoo, now owned by  Orange SA. (ORA)   Undersea Cables  “Orange is working actively hand-in-hand with the French
government,” said Estelle Ode-Coutard, a Paris-based
spokeswoman for the company. Valerie La Gamba, a spokeswoman for
Alcatel-Lucent, declined to comment in an e-mail.  In  Mexico , the foreign ministry on Oct. 20 reiterated a
call for the Obama administration to conduct an exhaustive
investigation of NSA conduct.  “In a relationship between neighbors and partners, there’s
no room for the practices that allegedly took place,” according
to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  