-- Olafur Arnalds Demands Quiet, Hears Riff in Movie Score
-- B y   S a r a h   G r a n t
-- 2013-10-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/olafur-arnalds-demands-quiet-hears-riff-in-movie-score.html
During his Manhattan show earlier
this month, Icelandic composer  Olafur Arnalds  got the audience
laughing at one point by poking fun at his own hair.  It was an exception for the 26-year-old composer and
producer, who requires complete silence when he plays.  For the show at  Le Poisson Rouge , he mixed atmospheric
piano with digital effects to perform selections from his latest
release, “For Now I Am Winter.” It has garnered strong reviews
for the young artist, already known for the score to the  BBC ’s
hit drama “Broadchurch.”  We spoke at Bloomberg News world headquarters in  New York 
while snacking on bananas and enjoying the view from the 29th
floor.  Grant: How does a composition begin?  Arnalds: It’s like Jenga. My writing is minimal, even when
the execution is not minimal. Working with an orchestra, I use
repetition as you might in pop music. The trickiest part is
knowing what is possible for every instrument.  Grant: Like a complicated dish?  Arnalds: Yes, it’s like: This is a good spice and that is a
good spice, but do they go together?  Originally, I wanted to be a film composer. When I was 15,
I was listening to Thomas Newman, who did “The Green Mile,”
“A Beautiful Mind.” I spent a year in Halifax,  Canada , with my
parents. I didn’t have any friends, so I watched movies.  Ripped Off  Grant: Tell me about your involvement with “Looper.” Were
you thrilled when Hollywood came calling?  Arnalds: Yes, of course. But I think we were ripped off on
that, actually.  Grant: How so?  Arnalds: My song was only used in the trailer. In film,
there’s a thing called “temp love.” It’s when the director
falls in love with the temp, or filler music. When the composer
comes in to replace it, the director can’t imagine the scene
without it.  That’s why, I think, I was in “The Hunger Games.” The
producer wound up licensing my track because the director got
addicted to it.  This seems to have gone the other way in “Looper.” In the
movie I can hear my track. It’s by someone else, of course --
it’s only three notes, but it’s my track.  Grant: Many artists have trouble with that. Moby, Sigur
Ros.  Arnalds: Exactly. There are so many commercials that all
sound like Sigur Ros, but it’s not because they don’t sell their
tracks.  Metal Drummer  Grant: What qualities have stayed with you from your days
as a metal drummer?  Arnalds: My music is built on repetition and riffs,
progressions. Instead of something that continuously develops,
it loops. It’s got a verse/chorus structure even without the
vocals.  I’m a total control freak, too, even when I was in the
band. I need to be the director.  Grant: What are you listening to these days?  Arnalds: Old jazz records, like Chet Baker. What feels
inspiring is the intimacy. It’s like he’s whispering in your
ear. As a producer and engineer, that’s how I want my records to
sound. But I’m also just listening to Katy Perry. It doesn’t
have to be profound or touch you that deeply. It’s great when it
does, but I still like it when it doesn’t.  Grant: Have you ever been surprised by a musician’s
interpretation of your work?  Arnalds: I try to pick people who are timid, because that’s
what I think my music feels like.  Awkward Cellist  Grant: Do your judgments tend to be right?  Arnalds: On this tour, we have a cellist from Juilliard
named Rubin Kodheli. He’s super-awkward in life, but then he
goes onstage and opens up.  Grant: How good are you at manufacturing emotional elements
in the studio?  Arnalds: Digital technology allows you to do a lot. But you
can’t draw the soul in with a mouse.  (Sarah Grant works for  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are her own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  Muse highlights include Joseph Mysak on  books ,  Elin McCoy 
on wine.  To contact the writer of this column:
Sarah Grant in New York at 
 Sgrant43@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 