-- Old GM Bankruptcy Judge Approves Settlement in Fund Deal
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-10-21T18:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/old-gm-bankruptcy-judge-approves-settlement-in-fund-deal.html
Hedge funds that invested in an
obscure bond of  General Motors Corp. (MTLQU) ’s old businesses won
approval of a settlement that will give some of them 1.8 times
the return of other creditors and resolve disputes over how they
acted on the eve of the automaker’s collapse.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber in Manhattan today
approved a settlement that gives the holders of notes in GM’s
Nova Scotia unit a $1.55 billion claim in the bankruptcy. Some,
including  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and Elliott Management
Corp., have already received a share of a $367 million cash
payment made to holders of the notes, which have a face amount
of $1 billion.  Gerber said that while the settlement was unopposed, he
reviewed it anyway, given that “the underlying controversy is
of the magnitude that we have here,” and found that it was
reasonable and should be approved.  The settlement is the culmination of a complex investment
play that, for Fortress, dated back to 2005. It will release
past, present and future holders of the Nova Scotia notes from
liability, and free up more shares and warrants in the
reorganized  General Motors Co. (GM)  for distribution to all
creditors.  ‘Complex Litigation’  “This settlement will conclude years of complex litigation
and substantially benefit the estate by reducing the claims at
issue by more than $1.129 billion,” lawyers for creditors wrote
in court papers. New GM also said in court documents that it
supports the agreement.  Believing the U.S. auto giant was probably bound for
bankruptcy, Fortress began in 2006 to buy bonds issued by
General Motors Nova Scotia Finance Co., a unit of General Motors
of Canada Ltd. Elliott started buying in 2008. By June 2009,
those funds, along with Aurelius Capital Management LP and
Appaloosa Management LP, had acquired, for pennies on the
dollar, the majority of $1 billion in notes issued by the Nova
Scotia unit.  The funds anticipated that in a GM bankruptcy, the Nova
Scotia law governing the notes would allow them to make multiple
claims on the same debt. One Elliott portfolio manager called
the strategy a “double-dip litigation play.” A  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
analyst likened the deal to sticking “two straws in one
milkshake.”  Canada Unit  They struck a deal on the eve of GM’s June 1, 2009,
bankruptcy that said all holders of the Nova Scotia notes should
get the $367 million in cash plus $2.67 billion in claims. GM,
fearful of having its Canada unit tipped into bankruptcy by the
hedge funds, acceded to a deal that promised the noteholders
multiple recoveries.  A trust for other unsecured creditors sued in March 2012,
saying that the deal improperly benefited the noteholders at
their expense and that the hedge funds acted improperly to
secure the deal.  The settlement, achieved in mediation overseen by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan , cuts the $2.67 billion
in claims to $1.55 billion.  The GM Chapter 11 case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The adversary case is Motors Liquidation Co. GUC
Trust v. Appaloosa Investment LP I, 12-09802, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  