-- Hollande Satisfies No One Inviting 15-Year-Old to Return
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-10-21T11:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/hollande-satisfies-no-one-inviting-15-year-old-to-return.html
President  Francois Hollande ’s
decision to allow a 15-year-old Kosovar girl who was expelled
this month with her family to return to  France  by herself
sparked criticism from all sides.  The girl, Leonarda Dibrani, rejected the offer because it
didn’t include the rest of her family. Members of Hollande’s
Socialist Party said he spoke out too late and too timidly.
Opposition parties said his mixed message will encourage illegal
immigration.  Le Figaro, a newspaper that regularly opposes Hollande, and
Liberation, which generally supports him, were in agreement
today. “The Fiasco” was Le Figaro’s headline. “Immigration:
The Left Disintegrates” was the judgment of Liberation.  Hollande, in a television appearance Oct. 19, said no law
or rights had been violated in the deportation of the Dibrani
family to  Kosovo . He criticized the police for showing a “lack
of judgment” when they picked up the girl during a school
outing.  The seven-member Dibrani family was expelled Oct. 9 after
four years in eastern France when their final appeal for asylum
was rejected. Leonarda, the eldest daughter, had left that day
on a school trip before being taken by police. A teacher
arranged for her exit from a school bus and handover to the
authorities to be out of sight of her classmates.  Although France expelled 37,000 undocumented foreigners
last year, news that the police had seemingly violated the
customary “sanctuary” surrounding schools turned the affair
into front-page news. Students blocked high schools in protest.
Hollande’s companion, Valerie Trierweiler, told reporters that
“one does not cross certain boundaries and school is one of
them.” The Socialist candidate for next year’s Paris mayoral
race demanded the girl be allowed back.  Valls Returns  Manuel Valls , the Interior Minister whom polls show is the
government’s most popular minister, cut short a trip to the
French Antilles to defend the work of the police. Valls has been
criticized by members of the Socialist Party for making comments
suggesting that Roma, or Gypsies, are less willing to integrate
in France.  “I completely understand the legitimate emotions this case
has caused, particularly among young people,” Hollande said in
his televised statement.  He said he’d sent local police chiefs instructions to avoid
any arrests during school-related activities. And he said
Leonarda could come back “alone” to continue her schooling.  “La Gauche Durable,” or the “Enduring Left,” a movement
that comprises 25 Socialist members of parliament, said today
that to have prevented the matter getting out of hand, Hollande
“from the start should have accepted that the police were at
fault and re-affirmed without delay the principle that a school
is a sanctuary.”  ‘Terrible Blow’  Jean-Francois Cope, head of the opposition UMP party of
former President  Nicolas Sarkozy , said on Europe1 radio
yesterday that Hollande administered a “terrible blow to the
authority of the state by trying to find an un-findable
compromise among the various factions of the left.”  A BVA poll for Le Parisien showed that 65 percent of the
French are in favor of the Dibrani’s expulsion, and 74 percent
approve of Valls’ handling of the affair. The poll questioned
1,090 people.  Hollande “humiliated France with his lack of authority,”
Marine Le Pen, head of the anti-immigration National Front,
said on France2 television today. “It is ridiculous for the
President to lower France by dealing with an affair that isn’t
even at the level of responsability of a deputy prefect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  