-- Hollywood Pushes for Ultra-HD Video Player, Fox’s Dunn Says
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-10-21T20:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/hollywood-pushes-for-new-ultra-hd-video-player-fox-s-dunn-says.html
Hollywood film and television
studios are pressing consumer electronics companies to build an
Ultra-HD video player with a enough data storage to hold several
movies at once.  The device, a Blu-ray player with a 1-terabyte hard drive,
could be available for the 2015 holiday season,  Mike Dunn ,
president of  21st Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) ’s home entertainment
division, said today at a consumer electronics conference in Los
Angeles.  Studios are seeking to work more closely with consumer
electronics companies to stoke demand for so-called ultra high-definition video, which provides an even sharper picture than
current technology. Such a player would give viewers the ability
to move files between devices, as well as buy, download and
watch 66-gigabyte, next-generation video files, Dunn said.  “The studios and C-E industry are already in
discussions,” Dunn said. “I’m here to give a little nudge.”  Fox, owner of the Twentieth Century Fox film studio and
Twentieth Television studio, rose 0.4 percent to $34.40 at the
close in  New York . The Class A shares have gained 53 percent
this year.  The proposal was developed and presented by studios in the
Blu-ray Disc Association, which includes Fox,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
Warner Bros. and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   Studios and consumer electronics makers are counting on
ultra HD, or 4K video, to stoke demand for new equipment and
create an upgrade cycle for movies similar to the transition
from VHS to DVD. The size of an Ultra HD video file makes it
more challenging to stream over the Internet.  Dunn said 21st Century Fox is creating the “Fox Innovation
Lab” to work more closely with consumer electronics companies
on new technologies.  “If we work more collaboratively, more at the front end of
creation, we can accomplish so much more,” Dunn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  