-- Homes in German Cities Up to 20% Overvalued, Bundesbank Says
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-10-21T11:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/homes-in-big-german-cities-up-to-20-overvalued-bundesbank-says.html
Apartments in  Germany ’s largest
cities may be overvalued by as much as 20 percent as home demand
outpaces construction, the Bundesbank said.  Apartment prices in parts of Berlin, Hamburg, Munich,
Cologne, Frankfurt, Stuttgart and Dusseldorf have risen by more
than 25 percent on average since 2010, the central bank said in
its October report. Prices in areas around those cities may be
climbing due in part to speculation.  “The price pressure on residential property markets will
probably not ease up in the near term,” the Bundesbank said.
“However, it’s not very likely that the current price dynamics
on the  property market  are already leading to significant
macroeconomic risks.”  German home prices are rising as investors seek a safe
place to put their money. Low  interest rates  are encouraging
investors to seek returns outside of bond markets and making it
easier for buyers to finance their purchases.  As a whole, the German housing market is appreciating in
line with income and isn’t overvalued, the central bank said.  Prices in Germany’s cities beyond the biggest seven may be
about 5 percent to 10 percent above where they should be, based
on long-term demographic and economic indicators, the Bundesbank
said.  Downtown Hotspots  German  home prices  rose by the most in a year in the second
quarter, according to an index published by the VDP Association
of German Pfandbriefbanks on Aug. 15. Prices are rising most
sharply for newly built apartments in the centers of big cities,
according to the Bundesbank.  Construction hasn’t kept up with demand, which means that
prices will probably continue to rise, the central bank said.
Developers will build enough apartments if renting becomes more
profitable, it said.  In response to rising prices, German politicians have
introduced rules including tightened rent controls and banning
luxury renovations to keep housing affordable. The German
parliament in December agreed on steps to cap rents for existing
tenants at 15 percent over three years.  “Against this backdrop, capping rents is counter-productive,” the Bundesbank said. “Market-related incentives
for investments must remain in place.”  Germany  issued permits  for the construction of 124,900
homes in the first half, 9.6 percent more than a year earlier,
according to the Federal Statistics Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  