-- Mouse Study May Target Hair Growth Method for Baldness
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-10-21T20:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/mouse-study-may-target-hair-growth-method-for-baldness.html
Transplanting human hair onto the
backs of mice may lead to a break-through for baldness
treatments, scientists said.  The researchers cloned cells in the scalp that give rise to
hair follicles and transplanted them onto the backs of mice,
growing new human hair for at least six weeks, according to a
study released today in the  Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences . More work must be done before the method can be
tried in humans.  Previous methods to curb  balding  have focused on slowing
hair loss, stimulating dormant hair follicles, or transplanting
hair from the back of the head to the front, which doesn’t
increase the total amount of hair. Women, in particular, may
benefit from treatments derived from this finding, since many
women with hair loss don’t have enough donor hair for this kind
of transplant, the researchers said.  Further research could “make hair transplantation
available to individuals with a limited number of follicles,
including those with female-pattern hair loss, scarring
alopecia, and hair loss due to burns,”  Angela M. Christiano ,  a
professor of dermatology at the Columbia University Medical
Center in New York, and one of the lead study authors, said in a
statement.  The cells, called  dermal papilla , are what generate hair
follicles. Though it’s easy to clone and transplant mouse dermal
papilla, the human versions of the cells don’t grow as well in
culture. This may be because rodent dermal papilla form clusters
naturally in culture. Taking a hint from the rodents, the
scientists packed the human cells into clumps.  Hair Growth  After a few days, the cultured cells were transferred to
patches of human skin on the mice’s backs. In five of the seven
tests, hair grew for six weeks, the study found.  More work is needed before humans can be treated with this
protocol, the researchers said. The new hair needs to be
characterized, and things to be determined include the color,
angle, positioning and texture of the newly created hair. In
addition, the role of the host cells the hairs interact with
need to be better-characterized.  “This study is an important step toward the goal of
creating a replacement skin that contains hair follicles for use
with, for example, burn patients,” said Colin Jahoda, the
study’s other lead author and professor of stem cell sciences at
Durham University,  England , in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  