-- Mozambique’s Renamo Says Peace Deal Over After Attack
-- B y   W i l l i a m   F e l i m a o
-- 2013-10-21T19:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/mozambique-s-renamo-says-peace-deal-over-after-attack.html
Mozambique ’s opposition and former
rebel movement said a peace deal signed in  Rome  in 1992 with the
ruling party is over following an attack by government troops on
its headquarters today.  The military today attacked the base of the Mozambique
National Resistance party, known as Renamo, in Satunjira in the
central Sofala province, Fernando Mazanga, a spokesman for the
group, said at a press conference today. Renamo leader Afonso Dhlakama was forced to take refuge in the nearby Gorongosa
mountains, he said.  “Dhlakama is alive and in good health despite that
attack,” he said. “The attack definitely puts to an end the
Rome peace agreement and from now on we cannot assure what will
happen.”  Renamo, which was once backed by the white minority
governments of Rhodesia and then  South Africa , fought a 15-year
civil war against the Marxist Front for the Liberation of
Mozambique, or Frelimo, and has served in governments in
opposition for the last two decades.  The government has this year blamed a series of attacks on
public transport in central Mozambique on Renamo and has clashed
with the former guerrilla group on several occasions including
the last four days. Transport of coal to the coast from mines
owned by  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and  Vale SA (VALE5)  has been periodically
disrupted.  Today’s attack occurred after midday and the troops used
heavy artillery, Mazanga said. Cristovao Chume, a spokesman for
the country’s defense ministry, said at a separate press
conference that the Renamo base has been taken over by troops.
No one was killed in the clashes, he said.  Talks between Frelimo and Renamo on electoral reform have
repeatedly failed and elections are due next year.  Mozambique, a former colony of Portugal, is the site of the
biggest natural gas discovery in a decade and plans to open a
liquefied natural gas terminal in 2018 that will be the second-largest export site in the world after Ras Laffan in Qatar.
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  are among companies
investing in gas production in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Felimao in Maputo at 
 wfelimao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  