-- Paulson & Co. PFR Gold Fund Fell 16 Percent in September
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-10-21T18:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/paulson-co-pfr-gold-fund-fell-16-percent-in-september.html
Hedge-fund manager John Paulson’s
PFR Gold Fund fell 16 percent in September after bullion and
related stocks declined, according to a report to investors
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Last month’s loss brings the 2013 decline in the $350
million fund, which invests in gold stocks and derivatives, to
62 percent, according to the report.  Bullion producers  fell 9.4
percent and the metal dropped 5 percent in September after a
Federal Reserve policy maker said a small reduction in bond
purchases may occur in October and the threat of a U.S. attack
on  Syria  eased.  Paulson, 57, is known for making $15 billion for his
investors in 2007 by betting against subprime mortgages before
the housing collapse. He is rebounding in his main strategies
from losses tied to gold and two years of wrong-way calls on the
economy. The PFR Gold Fund, which takes its name from the
initials of Paulson and gold specialists Victor Flores and John Reade, started in 2010 with the expectation that the Fed’s asset
purchases would ultimately trigger inflation and demand for
bullion and related securities.  “While actual inflation and inflation expectations remain
subdued, we continue to believe we are at risk of high inflation
in the future,” Paulson & Co. wrote in the report. “We also
believe we are in a pause phase, which is likely to persist
until we see the leading indicators of inflation pick up.”  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans, an
advocate of monetary stimulus, said today in a CNBC interview
that fiscal strife in  Washington  will probably delay the central
bank’s tapering of its monthly bond purchases. The Fed on Sept.
18 maintained the pace of buying.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for $18 billion New York-based
Paulson & Co. at WalekPeppercomm, declined to comment on the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net  