-- Peter Levy, Goldman Ex-Partner Whose Father Led Firm, Dies at 77
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-10-21T02:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/peter-levy-goldman-ex-partner-whose-father-led-firm-dies-at-77.html
Peter A. Levy, a founder of
alternative investment funds who carried one of Wall Street’s
most famous surnames as the son of Gustave Levy, a former senior
partner of Goldman, Sachs & Co., has died. He was 77.  He died on Oct. 18 in Palm Beach,  Florida , according to his
daughter, Dany Levy. The cause was cancer.  Following his career at Goldman Sachs, starting as a floor
broker at the New York Stock Exchange and rising to partner,
Levy joined colleagues Robert Friedman, former Goldman Sachs
chief financial officer, and Ronald Tauber, former chief
operating officer of the investment bank’s J. Aron & Co.
division, in creating investment funds.  In 1994 they opened Sage Capital Management LLC, a White
Plains, New York-based fund of hedge funds that began with $20
million and had grown to $300 million by the time it was
acquired in 2002 by Netherlands-based Robeco Group NV. The  firm ,
now called Robeco-Sage Capital Management LLC, is located in New
York.  In 2008 they founded Harmony Capital Management LP, a New
York-based fund of private-equity funds. Levy was active in
managing the firm until he fell ill in recent weeks, Tauber
said.  “Peter seemed to know everyone in the investment business
and earned his reputation not only as a great investor but as
someone whom others sought out for advice and counsel,” his
colleagues Friedman, Tauber, Anne Farrell and Joanne Giordano
wrote in a death notice in the New York Times.  Legend’s Son  Tauber described Levy as an incisive evaluator of financial
risk and opportunity. He said his friend was “very proud” to
be the son of a Wall Street legend as well as determined to “be
his own person.” His father, known as Gus, led  Goldman Sachs (GS)  as
senior partner from 1969 to 1976 as it pioneered block trading
of stocks.  One investment opportunity that came Peter Levy’s way, in
2000, was his daughter’s idea for an e-mail newsletter offering
shopping, restaurant and event tips for New Yorkers. He barely
knew how to use a computer at the time and would have preferred
to “invest in oil or steel or something I understand,” he told
the Wall Street Journal for a 2012  article .  He did end up investing, and his daughter’s site -- called
 DailyCandy  -- was a success, expanding to cities around the U.S.
When Pilot Group Ventures bought the company in 2003 for $3
million, Levy collected four times his initial investment,
according to the Journal. In 2008, Philadelphia-based Comcast
Corp. bought DailyCandy from Pilot for $125 million, the Journal
reported.  ‘Serial Entrepreneur’  Dany Levy, in a tribute written with her sister, Dominique,
called their father “a deeply talented investor and serial
entrepreneur” who struck out on his own “rather than ride on
the coattails of his father.”  He loved to cook, taught himself to windsurf and took
helicopters to ski fresh deep powder.  He also “carried documents in a tattered accordion folder
and his BlackBerry in a crusty Ziploc bag,” Levy’s daughters
said. He insisted on flying coach on long-haul trips (even at
age 77) because he worried he might eat too much in business
class.”  “Herewith lies the wonderful dichotomy of Peter Levy:
although he spent his life making money, he never cared much in
using it on himself,” they said.  Peter Alexander Levy was born on May 18, 1936, in New York
City to Gus Levy and the former Janet Wolf -- whose father,
Alec, was a limited partner at Goldman Sachs from 1935 to 1945,
according to William D. Cohan’s “Money and Power: How Goldman
Sachs Came to Rule the World” (2011).  ‘No Nothing’  Peter Levy and his younger sister, Betty, recalled a
childhood in which their father’s work came first, according to
Cohan.  “My mother never believed in any kind of celebration of
anything,” Levy was quoted as saying. “No Christmas, no
Hanukkah, nothing. No Passover, nothing. No God. No bar
mitzvahs, no nothing.”  Cohan quoted Betty Levy recalling of her father, Gus, “I
can’t say I ever really got to know him. We didn’t spend that
much time together. He tried to be a good father, but he didn’t
know how.”  Peter Levy graduated from the St. Mark’s School in
Southborough,  Massachusetts , in 1955 and earned a Bachelor of
Science degree from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton
School in Philadelphia in 1959.  Joining Goldman  He went to work for Goldman Sachs on the floor of the New
York Stock Exchange and was a partner when his father became
senior partner in 1969.  “He was a lovely man and did an excellent job on the floor
of the New York Stock Exchange,” Robert Mnuchin, the former
Goldman Sachs trading head who developed the firm’s block-trading business along with Gus Levy, said yesterday in an
interview.  Upon Gus Levy’s death from a stroke in 1976, John Whitehead
and John Weinberg became co-senior partners atop Goldman Sachs.
Levy was promoted once more, to senior director, in December
1980.  The firm became Goldman Sachs Group Inc. when it went
public in 1999.  Levy had two daughters, Dany and Dominique Levy -- a former
Goldman Sachs equity trader now working in  London  at Boston-based Sonian Capital LP -- with his first wife, Catherine
Goldschmidt. That marriage ended in divorce.  They survive him, as do his second wife, Nadine; their
three children, Vanessa, Kate and Gus; his wife’s stepchildren,
Sharon and Oren; his sister, Betty Hess; and two grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  