-- Petrobras Group Wins Brazil’s Biggest Prospect; Shares Surge
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-10-21T18:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/petrobras-group-wins-brazil-s-biggest-prospect-shares-surge.html
A group led by  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4) , the state-run  oil company  known as Petrobras, won a license
to develop Brazil’s biggest oil discovery under terms that
exceeded analysts’ estimates. Petrobras shares surged.  Petrobras and partners  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Total SA (FP) ,
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and China National Petroleum Corp., pledged to the
government the minimum 41.65 percent of profit oil, or the
barrels remaining after all costs are covered, to win the 35-year project in deep waters of the Atlantic Ocean. Bank of
America Corp. said in an Oct. 14 report that profit oil of less
than 50 percent would be seen as beneficial for Petrobras. The
companies will pay a 15 billion-real ($6.9 billion) signing fee.  Libra is the first auction of subsea prospects known as
pre-salt using a production-sharing model that makes Petrobras
the operator of all new projects and requires it to own at least
a 30 percent stake. Brazil increased its control of the oil
industry under former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  after
it announced in 2007 the discovery of at least 50 billion
barrels trapped under a layer of salt two miles below the
seabed.  “Given already negative sentiment toward the stock, we
would expect a positive reaction for Petrobras’s stock as long
as profit oil levels offered are not viewed as excessive and its
stake does not go above 40 percent,” Bank of America analysts
Frank McGann and Vicente Falanga Neto said in the report.  Petrobras, which will take a 40 percent stake in the
concession, rose 4.3 percent 18.70 reais at 3:53 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo .  Offshore Platforms  Petrobras, the biggest producer in waters deeper than 1,000
feet, plans to double crude output by 2020 with most of the
gains coming from the pre-salt that contains the biggest
discoveries this century. Libra will require an investment of
400 billion reais over the 35-year concession, which will
include 12 to 15 offshore platforms that will pump more than 1
million barrels a day when fully ramped up, according to the oil
regulator.  The legislation calls for a new state company, Pre-Sal
Petroleo SA, or PPSA, to represent the government with the power
to veto decisions at pre-salt projects, including Libra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  