-- Peugeot Wins Union Nod for Cuts as Stake Sale Considered
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-10-22T04:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/peugeot-wins-union-nod-for-cuts-as-stake-sale-considered.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  can now focus on
a possible share sale to  Dongfeng Motor Corp. (489)  and the French
state after reaching a deal with unions to slash operating
costs, two people familiar with the matter said.  A plan for a capital increase of at least 3 billion euros
($4.1 billion), in which Dongfeng and France may take equal
stakes of about 20 percent, is making slow progress, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. The goal is for a deal by year’s end, they said.  Unions representing more than 60 percent of workers said
yesterday they’ll support a proposal to reduce overtime pay and
freeze salaries in exchange for investment guarantees and new
models to boost capacity utilization. Peugeot, which reported a
first-half operating loss in its automotive unit of 510 million
euros, is looking to raise money for development spending and an
expansion outside Europe, where demand is at a two-decade low.  “The shares have been pretty volatile in recent weeks due
to ongoing rumors regarding government participation,” said
Sascha Gommel, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG who
recommends selling the stock. “It would be clearly negative if
the French government is getting involved because it would
dilute the restructuring measures as the government wants to
protect jobs in  France .”  Peugeot  dropped  2.5 percent to close at 10.54 euros in
Paris trading yesterday. The stock has climbed 93 percent this
year, valuing the Paris-based automaker at 3.74 billion euros.  Union Support  Four of the six main unions, the CFE-CGC, SIA, CFTC and FO,
have told Bloomberg they will support the effort to cut labor
costs. The CFDT hasn’t made a decision, while the CGT said it
won’t back the plan.  “This agreement allows the group to open the discussion to
external investors,” Christian Lafaye, head of the FO union at
the automaker, said yesterday in a phone interview. “This was a
necessary and useful deal.”  The Peugeot board’s strategy committee met on Oct. 20 to
consider the share sale, which is complicated by concerns from
the two  largest shareholders  on the impact of a capital increase
and the need for Chinese and French state backing, the people
said. The full board will discuss its options today at a
scheduled meeting ahead of the release of third-quarter revenue
figures tomorrow.  Unexpected  “The market was not expecting a capital increase and was
hoping for PSA to de-leverage the balance sheet helped by a
recovery of the EU market and cost savings,” Jose Asumendi, an
analyst with JPMorgan in London. “It’s not clear how the
capital increase is ultimately helping the company reestablish
its cash-generation cycle.”  Peugeot spokesman Jon Goodman declined to comment on the
automaker’s strategy. Marianne Zalc-Muller, Industry Minister
Arnaud Montebourg’s spokeswoman, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Dongfeng currently has nothing that it can disclose on the
acquisition, spokesman Zhou Mi said in an e-mail today. The
Chinese automaker places great value in Peugeot as a strategic
partner, hopes for opportunities to broaden the partnership and
that Peugeot will overcome its financial difficulties, he said.  The Peugeot family, which owns 25.5 percent of the
automaker, is divided over how much to spend on any capital
increase or whether to invest at all, a person said.  General Motors Co. (GM) , which has a 7 percent stake, may pull
out of its alliance with the French carmaker should Dongfeng
purchase a holding because GM works with rival  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) 
in  China , another person said. The Detroit-based carmaker has
the option to terminate the partnership if there’s a change in
control of the French manufacturer. Ulrich Weber, a spokesman
for GM’s European division, declined to comment.  Assessing Investment  Zhu Fushou, Dongfeng’s general manager, said last week that
the automaker was still assessing whether an investment made
sense, rather than on getting regulatory approval. Chinese
state-owned companies usually obtain permission from the
National Development Reform Commission, the top planning agency,
before commencing formal talks on foreign investments.  Peugeot is also continuing to proceed with other options to
raise funding, including the possibility of selling a minority
stake in the automaker’s banking unit, a person said.  Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said
last week the carmaker is on target to cut cash consumption by
50 percent this year after burning through 3 billion euros in
2012. Peugeot has “absolutely no problem of liquidity or
financial security” and is actively looking for industrial
partnerships to strengthen the carmaker, the CFO said.  Deadline Looming  Unions have until today to decide whether to officially
accept the proposals from Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin
aimed at improving the competitiveness of factories.  The manufacturer has agreed not to shut additional French
plants in the next three years and add a new model at each of
five locations to boost capacity utilization to 100 percent in
2016 from 61 percent currently. Peugeot is already eliminating
11,200 jobs and will close a factory near Paris this month.  Under the plan, Peugeot will cut overtime pay by 20 percent
to 25 percent and freeze salaries next year in its French
automotive operations, which employed 76,136 people at end of
2012 or 65 percent of its global production workforce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in  London  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  