-- Portugal to Play Sweden in European Playoff for Brazil World Cup
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-10-21T13:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/portugal-to-play-sweden-in-european-playoff-for-brazil-world-cup.html
Portugal  will play Sweden and France
takes on Ukraine in the European playoffs to reach soccer’s
 World Cup  next year in Brazil.  In the other two pairings  Iceland  meets  Croatia  and Greece
faces Romania. The draw was made in Zurich today with the two-game playoffs taking place next month.  Portugal, at 14th the highest-ranked of the playoff teams
on  FIFA’s list  of soccer nations, has only won three of its
previous 15 games against Sweden. The matches pitch two of
soccer’s best-known players against each other -- Portugal’s
Cristiano Ronaldo and Sweden’s Zlatan Ibrahimovic.  France, ranked 21st, has qualified for every World Cup
since winning the tournament in 1998. It made the 2010
competition in controversial circumstances when striker  Thierry
Henry  used his hand to control the ball before passing it to a
teammate who scored a decisive French goal. Henry later admitted
that he’d handled the ball. It last met its playoff opponent
Ukraine at the 2012 European Championship, winning 2-0.  If Iceland wins its playoff it will become the smallest
nation ever to appear in the World Cup. With a population of
320,000, it is the only playoff participant never to appear in
the competition. It is also the lowest-ranked of the eight
teams, at no. 46, and has lost both its previous games against
Croatia.  Greece is bidding for its third appearance while Romania
hasn’t qualified for the tournament since 1998. The teams have
played each other on 30 occasions with  Romania  winning 17 and
Greece five.  The first playoff matches will take place Nov. 15 with the
second games Nov. 19. Portugal, Ukraine, Greece and Iceland are
at home in the first games.  The four teams that qualify will complete a total of 13
European nations at the tournament. Qualifiers from other
regions have yet to be determined in full.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  