-- Portugal Says It’s Closely Following Ireland in Return to Market
-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-21T17:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/portugal-says-it-s-closely-following-ireland-in-return-to-market.html
Portugal  will “wait and see” how
Ireland attempts to regain full access to debt markets before
deciding how to exit its own bailout program next year, Economy
Minister Antonio Pires de Lima said.  “Ireland, I think, might be a good example for what is the
Portuguese ambition,” Pires de Lima said in a Bloomberg
television interview today. While a precautionary program is
“something that has to be placed on the table,” Portugal isn’t
negotiating anything right now with its creditors, he said.  Portugal, which in 2011 followed Greece and Ireland in
requesting emergency aid, plans to cut spending by 3.2 billion
euros ($4.3 billion) in its 2014 budget to meet deficit targets
agreed with the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund . The government is counting on “strong signs” of an
economic recovery to attract investors and return to markets in
June as planned, Pires de Lima said.  “All the indicators are quite positive and I really think
that we already got out of recession and we are on good track to
achieve some modest growth in 2014,” Pires de Lima said. “The
biggest priority has to be attracting investment.”  Portugal’s  10-year (GSPT10YR)  bond yield has climbed since May, and
was at 6.11 percent today compared to 3.58 pecent for similar
Irish debt. Portugal pays 3.2 percent on its bailout loans, and
its debt is ranked below investment grade by  Fitch Ratings ,
Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  Growth Outlook  Portugal raised its 2014  growth  outlook on Oct. 3 to 0.8
percent from 0.6 percent. It forecasts GDP will shrink 1.8
percent this year. The  unemployment rate  will be 17.7 percent in
2014. Portugal’s economy expanded in the second quarter for the
first time since 2010 as export growth accelerated.  While the government is optimistic about its plans to sell
as much as 70 percent of state-owned postal operator CTT-Correios de Portugal this year, partly through an initial public
offering, it is cautious about a second attempt to dispose of
airline TAP SGPS SA, Pires de Lima said.  “TAP airline is something where we have to be more
prudent,” he said, citing market conditions and an EU rule
limiting outside ownership of the bloc’s airlines to 49 percent.
A sale “is planned for 2014 but I wouldn’t dare give you an
exact timing for the privatization right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Tweed in Berlin at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  