-- Powerful Hurricane Raymond Churns Off Southwestern Mexico
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-10-21T21:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/powerful-hurricane-raymond-churns-off-mexico-s-southwest-coast.html
Hurricane Raymond, a compact and
powerful major storm, strengthened slightly in the Pacific near
Acapulco as it brought heavy rain across southern  Mexico ,
according to the  U.S. National Hurricane Center .  Raymond has top winds of 125 miles (200 kilometers) per
hour, up from 120 mph earlier, making it a Category 3 storm on
the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale. It has been moving
erratically and as of 5 p.m. New York was stationary about 160
miles west-southwest of Acapulco.  “Regardless of the exact track of the hurricane and how
close it gets to the coast, heavy rainfall will continue over
south-central Mexico during the next few days, causing life-threatening flash floods and mudslides,” Michael Brennan, a
senior hurricane specialist at the center in Miami, said in a
forecast analysis.  Mexico has been hit multiple times this season by
hurricanes and tropical storms from both the Atlantic and
Pacific that have killed more than 123 people and forced
thousands from their homes.  A hurricane warning, meaning winds of at least 74 mph and
crashing surf may arrive in 36 hours, has been posted from
Tecpan de Galeana to Lazaro Cardenas, and a watch is in place
from Acapulco to Tecpan de Galeana, according to the center.  Raymond is a small hurricane, with winds of at least 74 mph
extending only 25 miles from its core. Tropical-storm-force
winds of at least 39 mph reach out 80 miles, the center said.  Westward Turn  The system is expected to take  a sharp turn west  into the
open Pacific the day after tomorrow, without going ashore. In
the meantime, it’s forecast to bring 4 to 8 inches (10 to 20
centimeters) of rain, with some areas receiving as much as 12
inches, along with “large and destructive waves” to the coast,
the center said.  The center is also monitoring Tropical Storm Lorenzo, which
formed today about 635 miles east-southeast of  Bermuda  with top
winds of 40 mph. It is the 12th named storm of the Atlantic
hurricane season that runs from June 1 to Nov. 30 and poses no
threat to land, the center said.  A system gets a name when its top winds reach 39 mph and it
becomes a tropical storm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  