-- Profit Drop at Carrier Widens Discount: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-21T20:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/profit-drop-at-carrier-widens-discount-china-overnight.html
China Mobile Ltd. (CHL) , the world’s
biggest wireless carrier by users, led declines among Chinese
companies traded in  New York  after reporting the biggest profit
drop since 1999 for the third quarter.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. fell 1.1 percent to 106 yesterday,
the first slump in four days.  China  Mobile’s American depositary
receipts traded at the biggest discount to  Hong Kong  stock in
two years and wealth management company  Noah Holdings Ltd. (NOAH) 
dropped after surging 24 percent last week.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  retreated
from a record high after the Wall Street Journal said the
company will offer financial services online.  Hong Kong-based China Mobile said third-quarter net income
fell 8.8 percent to a lower-than-estimated $4.7 billion as costs
to build its new network rose and users switched to third-party
messaging applications. While the Chinese economy is “stable
and trending for the better,” the foundations of a rebound are
“not yet firm,” the State Council said in a statement Oct. 20
after an Oct. 18 meeting led by Premier  Li Keqiang .  “China’s mobile’s earnings weren’t good overall, and
profit margin has narrowed due to increasing expenses,” Di Zhou, a  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based equity analyst at Thornburg
Investment Management, said by phone. “Concerns about rising
competition from China Mobile’s smaller rivals in third-generation services and from third-party message service
providers will remain until the second half of next year. The
market expects China to issue 4G licenses later this year.”  Volatility Climbs  The iShares China Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose less than 0.1 percent to
$38.18 in New York, after declining 0.5 percent last week. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange China ETF Volatility Index,
measuring predictions of price fluctuations in the  ETF (FXI) , slid for
a fourth day. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed
as investors watched corporate earnings to assess the strength
of the economy before jobless data.  China Mobile’s ADRs slumped 4.2 percent to $52.98 in New
York, the largest decline in two months. Their 3.4 percent
discount to Hong Kong shares was the widest since August 2011.
Trading volume of the ADRs was 3.3 times the three-month average
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s profit was 8.7 percent lower than the average
estimate of five analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The carrier
lacks a deal to sell Apple Inc.’s iPhone and said it faces
“severe difficulties” from instant messaging apps such as
 Tencent Holding Ltd. (700) ’s WeChat. The operator faces “challenges
and opportunities” as it moves toward fourth generation,
Chairman  Xi Guohua  said in a statement yesterday. Its share of
wireless users fell to 63 percent at the end of August from 68
percent a year earlier.  Noah, Baidu  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest
mobile-phone company added 0.2 percent to $16.46 in New York.
China Telecom Corp., the third largest, slid 0.8 percent to
$53.16, the first decline in a week.  Noah Holdings, based in  Shanghai , tumbled 4 percent to
$20.22 in New York. Its ADRs have lost 10 percent over the past
two days, after a seven-day rally sent it to a record high on
Oct. 17. The company declined to comment on “unusual market
activity or rumors” in an Oct. 15 statement, citing its policy.  Baidu sank 2.8 percent to $161.21, the most in two weeks.
The Beijing-based company will introduce a new product next week
on an Internet-only financial services platform, the Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday, citing the company.  YY Inc., owner of a social entertainment website, fell 2.9
percent to $53.39, the largest retreat since Oct. 8.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index gained 0.2 percent to
a four-day high of 10,668.20 yesterday, while the Shanghai
Composite Index jumped 1.6 percent to 2,229.24, rising the most
in a week.  TAL Education Group (XRS)  is set to report earnings for the three
months ended Aug. 31 before U.S. market opens today. Adjusted
net income may have risen 24 percent from a year earlier to
$22.5 million, according to the average projection of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  