-- Trader IMs Probed, Geithner-AIG, China IPOs: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-21T11:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/trader-ims-probed-geithner-aig-china-ipos-compliance.html
An instant-message group involving
senior traders at banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is being scrutinized by
regulators investigating potential manipulation of the foreign-exchange market, four people with knowledge of the probe said.  Over at least three years, the dealers exchanged messages
through Bloomberg terminals outlining details of their positions
and client orders, and made trades before key benchmarks were
set, said two of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the inquiries are continuing.  The roster of firms changed over time and included other
banks such as Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN)  as the men switched employers,
one of the people said. Two traders who weren’t involved in the
conversations and who asked not to be identified because they do
business with the people involved said that they and others in
the market referred to the message group as “The Cartel.”  Regulators are weighing whether those messages amounted to
attempts to manipulate the market, two people said. The four
banks account for more than 40 percent of trading in the $5.3
trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market, according to a survey by
 Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc . The U.K.’s Financial
Conduct Authority this week opened a formal probe into  currency
trading , joining a global investigation.  RBS, based in Edinburgh, handed over transcripts of the
group’s conversations to the British regulator after concluding
that a former senior dealer in London, Richard Usher, disclosed
too much information to competitors, one of the people said.
Usher didn’t respond to an e-mail request for comment.  Officials at London-based Barclays, RBS, New York-based
Citigroup, UBS and the FCA declined to comment on the
discussions among dealers. RBS said in an Oct. 16 statement it
was “cooperating fully” with the FCA inquiry.  One trader who participated in the group said the messages
sought only to match buyers and sellers for large orders and
there was no wrongdoing, according to a person briefed on the
exchanges between the traders.  Firms across the industry have been reviewing records of
instant messages, e-mails, phone calls and trading data,
according to people with knowledge of the probe.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SAP’s Plattner Calls for Privacy Rules as Big Data Take Off  SAP AG (SAP)  Chairman  Hasso Plattner  said governments need to
design new rules that balance privacy with the need to collect
and analyze increasing amounts of data in areas including health
care.  The integrity of consumer records has come under scrutiny
since former U.S. National Security Agency contractor Edward
Snowden revealed in June that the government secretly collected
telephone records of millions of U.S. customers of  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  under a classified court order. Prism,
another program, collects Internet data from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and other companies.  SAP’s data-crunching Hana software, developed under
Plattner’s tutelage, rapidly processes gigabytes of data ranging
from business data to genome sequences found in cancer patients’
blood. The vast quantity of information amassed by businesses,
governments and universities that requires powerful computers
for storage and analysis is often referred to as big data.  Billionaire Plattner, 69, said governments shouldn’t
elevate concerns about privacy over the benefit that big-data
technology offers when devising new rules.  In the health-care industry, rules in Germany require that
medical records be anonymous, and customers’ health details are
kept from insurance companies, he said. Hospitals have to store
patient data on their premises, improving their protection while
at great expense, he said.  SAP, based in Walldorf, Germany, has said its corporate
customers can decide in which region of the globe their files
are stored and thereby help evade requests to provide data to
governments in other countries.  Plattner, who co-founded SAP in 1972, declined to say
whether U.S. government agencies are using the Hana software to
analyze data.  SAP is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings on Oct.
21.  Banks Face Risk-Model Clampdown in Basel Trading-Book Review  Banks face an overhaul of how they calculate possible
losses on securities they hold in their trading books as global
regulators target discrepancies in how lenders measure the
riskiness of their investments.  In a bid to address weaknesses uncovered by the financial
crisis, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision may publish
draft proposals as soon as this month on capital rules for
assets that banks intend to trade, according to members of the
group.  Banks’ ability to reduce their  capital requirements  by
changing how they measure the risk of losses on their assets has
prompted regulatory reviews and calls from some supervisors for
more reliance on non-risk-sensitive capital rules. Bankers
including  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase
& Co., have said that flexible implementation of previous rounds
of Basel rules in the European Union has allowed European
lenders to hold less capital against some assets compared to
their U.S. counterparts.  A study of large banks found “substantial” differences in
how much capital lenders thought was needed to guard against
possible losses on assets, the Basel committee said earlier this
year. Differences in the risk-models used by banks was an
“important source” of the variation, the group said.  The Basel proposals will address variations in different
banks’ risk measurement and will go beyond toughening rules on
how much information banks have to disclose about their models,
Wayne Byres, the Basel committee’s secretary general, said in an
e-mail.  International standards set by the Basel committee require
banks to meet minimum capital requirements, calculated as a
percentage of their assets. The amount of capital that must be
held is linked to the riskiness of the banks’ investments.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  China CSRC Lists 180 Shanghai IPO Applications as of Oct. 17  The  China Securities Regulatory Commission  said 10
applications were approved out of 180 companies that submitted
applications for initial public offerings on the Shanghai
exchange as of Oct. 17.  Thirty applications were approved so far this year of 311
companies applying for IPOs on Shenzhen’s main and medium-small
company board’s initial public offerings. Forty-three
applications of 263 companies that submitted applications for
initial public offerings on Shenzhen’s Chinext board were
approved as of Oct. 17.  Separately, the commission approved futures trading of
japonica paddy and late indica rice at Zhengzhou Commodity
Exchange, according to a statement posted on the Commission’s
micro blog.  Courts  JPMorgan’s $13 Billion Accord Wouldn’t Deter Some Investors  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s (JPM)  tentative agreement to pay a record
$13 billion to end civil claims over its sales of mortgage
bonds, a deal that won’t absolve the bank of potential criminal
liability, hasn’t shaken some investors’ faith in Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon.  Billionaire Home Depot Inc. founder Ken Langone said he
sees the accord as a buying opportunity. The pact with the U.S.
Justice Department would resolve claims that the bank, Bear
Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual Inc. misleadingly packaged
and sold mortgage-backed securities. JPMorgan acquired both
lenders at the government’s urging in 2008.  “The brunt of this misbehavior occurred before Jamie or
JPMorgan had anything to do with these two companies,” Langone,
78, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “I’m very, very
comfortable as an investor in JPMorgan.”  Dimon, 57, personally negotiated the terms in a call with
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder after markets closed Oct. 18.
The government’s mounting demand for payments tied to Bear
Stearns and WaMu had frustrated the CEO’s push to end probes
this year, driving legal reserves to $23 billion and causing the
New York-based bank’s first quarterly loss under his watch.  “There’s no question that Jamie Dimon and JPMorgan
underestimated the legal risk related to their acquisitions,”
Mike Mayo, an analyst with CLSA Ltd. in New York, said in an
interview. “Dimon messed up with the Bear Stearns
acquisition.”  That doesn’t mean shareholders will withdraw their support,
Mayo said. JPMorgan weathered the financial crisis without a
loss and produced three straight years of record profits,
reaching $21.3 billion in 2012. Its shares have climbed 72
percent since the end of 2008, outpacing a 48 percent gain in
the KBW Bank Index of 24 U.S. lenders. The stock slipped to
$54.28 in  European trading  today, down from its $54.30 close in
New York on Oct. 18.  “Jamie Dimon will remain Iron Man on Wall Street,” Mayo
said. “He’s still seen as very strong with investors’ interests
at heart.”  The accord, which increased from an $11 billion proposal
last month, would mark the largest amount paid by a financial
firm in a settlement with the U.S. The payments amount to more
than half of JPMorgan’s profit last year. Only seven companies
in the Dow Jones Industrial Average earned more than $13 billion
in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The negotiations and terms were described by two people
with knowledge of the situation who asked not to be named
because the meetings were private.  Brian Fallon , a Justice
Department spokesman, declined to comment.  The deal would resolve civil probes by three U.S. attorneys
offices, two state attorneys general and three federal
regulators, according to one of the people. It includes $4
billion in relief for consumers hit hardest by the housing
downturn in regions where JPMorgan has branches and $9 billion
in fines and other payments, the person said. The payouts would
cover a $4 billion accord with the Federal Housing Finance
Agency over the bank’s sale of mortgage-backed securities for
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  JPMorgan disclosed in August that the U.S. Attorney’s
office in Sacramento, California, has been conducting a criminal
probe of the company’s bond sales. The settlement wouldn’t
eliminate the possibility of charges against the bank or its
employees, according to the other person.  “To not get the waiver from criminal prosecution is not
good,” said  Nancy Bush , a bank analyst who founded NAB Research
LLC in New Jersey. “What we’re looking for in a settlement of
this size is certainty from things like the criminal prosecution
of a company. The Street wants certainty.”  In anticipation of a deal, JPMorgan took a $7.2 billion
charge for expenses tied to regulatory matters and litigation in
the third quarter, leading the bank to announce a $380 million
loss on Oct. 11. Laban P. Jackson, a JPMorgan board member,
voiced support for Dimon two days later.  “He’s the best manager I’ve ever seen, and I’m old,”
Jackson, 71, said at the National Association of Corporate
Directors’ annual conference in Oxon Hill, Maryland. “He has,
as we all do, flaws.”  It helps Dimon that other banks are facing similar probes
and FHFA demands and that at least two-thirds of JPMorgan’s
mortgage-bond liability came from Bear Stearns and WaMu, said
 Glenn Schorr , an analyst with New York-based International
Strategy & Investment Group LLC.  “I don’t think investors will put that on him,” Schorr
said. “JPMorgan took it on the chin and is leading the pack
with the big settlement, but you will see other settlements once
this is set by the other banks.”  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., 11-06188, U.S. District Court Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Geithner Feuds With Greenberg Over Book in AIG Bailout Suit  Former Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner joined the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York in declining to give drafts of
a book he’s writing to Maurice “Hank” Greenberg for a lawsuit
challenging the government’s bailout of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)   Greenberg is seeking book material, interview transcripts
and other documents that are irrelevant to his $25 billion
class-action suit, Geithner said in a filing Oct. 18 in the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims in Washington. He filed suit through his
closely held Starr International Co., a shareholder in the
insurer.  Greenberg, 88, the former chairman and chief executive
officer of New York-based AIG, claims the September 2008
assumption of 80 percent of the insurer’s stock by the New York
Fed, which Geithner headed at the time, violated shareholders’
rights to due process and equal protection of the law.  Disputed items include interview transcripts and drafts
shared between Geithner, 52, and journalists Michael Grunwald
and Charlie Anderson, who are helping write the book, as well as
documents the U.S. Treasury Department gave Geithner when he was
president of the New York Fed.  The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 11-cv-00779,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  Kohn Wins Lawsuit Over Madoff Ponzi-Scheme Losses in Europe  Former Bank Medici AG chairwoman Sonja Kohn and previous
directors of Bernard L. Madoff’s European operations don’t owe
anything to the liquidators seeking to recoup losses to repay
the convicted conman’s victims.  Judge Andrew Popplewell dismissed a lawsuit Oct. 18 filed
by London-based liquidators of Madoff Securities International
Ltd. They were seeking to recover about $50 million.  Kohn and former SG Warburg executive Stephen Raven, both
longtime associates of Madoff, also gave evidence in the case
against them, which ended in July. Lawyers for Kohn and Raven
said they welcome the Oct. 18 ruling in separate e-mailed
statements.  Madoff, 75, is serving a 150-year sentence for what
prosecutors said was the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  Madoff’s European operations were owned almost exclusively
by Madoff and served as his proprietary trading unit. More than
$910 million was transferred between the London unit and Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC in New York.  “We are obviously extremely disappointed with the judgment
handed down today as claims made against the defendants were
serious and there was undoubtedly a case to answer,” Simon
Rothschild, a spokesman for Grant Thornton LLP, the liquidators
winding down Madoff’s U.K. unit, said in an e-mailed statement
Oct. 18.  The case is Madoff Securities International Ltd. v. Raven,
10-1468, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division.  Interviews/Hearings  JPMorgan Settlement Would Set Precedent, Peabody Says  Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC,
talked about JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s tentative agreement to pay a
record $13 billion to end civil claims over its sales of
mortgage bonds.  Peabody spoke with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen and Scarlet Fu on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.” Ellen Zentner, senior
U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley, also spoke.  For more, click here.  Mizuho’s Sato Urged to Appear in Parliament by DPJ Lawmaker  Mizuho Financial Group (8411)  President Yasuhiro Sato should
appear in parliament to answer questions about the bank’s loans
to crime groups, opposition Democratic Party of Japan lawmaker
Akira Nagatsuma said in a Diet session.  Financial Services Minister Taro Aso declined to comment on
the Financial Services Agency’s inspections of individual banks,
in response to question by Nagatsuma on the investigation.  Aso said he will wait until there are results of Mizuho’s
third-party committee investigation before commenting on the
specific case.  Aso also said in general the FSA operates with limited
resources and tries to find evidence based on a company’s
reports.  The ruling Liberal Democratic Party plans to ask Sato to
appear before its financial committee to explain the crime-loan
issue.  Bank Business Model Awaits Rules Clarity, Arledge Says  Curtis Arledge, chief executive officer for investment
management at  Bank of New York Mellon , talked Oct. 18 about bank
earnings and financial regulations.  Arledge talked with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop.” James Reynolds, CEO of Loop Capital Markets
LLC, also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Fed’s Dudley Says Resolution Plans Don’t Solve Too Big to Fail  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C.
Dudley said that government plans to wind down large financial
firms, while helping reduce the odds of a taxpayer bailout,
don’t eliminate the need for increased capital and oversight of
financial institutions.  “These two paths -- reducing the financial-stability costs
associated with the failure of a systemically important
financial firm versus applying tougher capital and liquidity
standards for such firms that reduce the probability of failure
-- are complements not substitutes,” Dudley said in the text of
remarks for a speech in Washington Oct. 18.  “We need to keep pushing forward with both approaches in
order to make the financial system more resilient and robust,”
he said at a conference on how to handle failing banks.  The meeting was sponsored by the Federal Reserve Board of
Governors and the Richmond Fed.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act requires large lenders to prepare
living wills that describe how they would be wound down in a
bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  