-- Coffee Tumbles to Lowest Since March 2009 on Expanding Supplies
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-10-21T18:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/raw-sugar-erases-decline-for-year-extending-gains-after-rally.html
Coffee fell to the lowest in more
than four years as dry weather helps improve growing conditions
in  Brazil , the world’s largest producer and exporter.  Most of Brazil’s growing areas will get sun this week, as
alternating periods of rain and dry weather allow farmers to
work in fields and spur crops that will be collected next season
to flower multiple times, Marcio Custodio, a forecasting
director at Sao Paulo-based Somar Meteorologia, said today in a
telephone interview. The beneficial conditions will boost
output, he said.  Global production is set to exceed demand for a fourth
straight season, pushing inventories to a five-year high,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The glut is
helping to cut costs for Starbucks Corp. and  Kraft Foods Group
Inc. (KRFT)  as coffee futures tumbled 22 percent in 2013, the third-largest drop among the 24 commodities tracked by the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index.  “Brazil’s going to have another good crop, and they have
quite a bit of carryover from last year,”  Rodrigo Costa , a
trading director at Caturra Coffee Corp. a dealer in Elmsford,
 New York , said in a telephone interview. “There are also
promising harvests in Indonesia and  Colombia . The trend is lower
for prices.”  Arabica coffee for delivery in December fell 1.7 percent to
settle at $1.127 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, after touching $1.123, the lowest since March 18, 2009.  Futures are heading for a third straight annual decline,
the longest slump since 1993. The “recent favorable weather
conditions” prompted Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to lower its
price outlook by 7.7 percent, analysts said in an Oct. 18
report. The commodity will be at $1.20 in three, six and 12
months, down from a previous forecast of $1.30, the bank said.  Global Surplus  Global coffee production, including the robusta variety
that accounts for 41 percent of supply, will exceed demand by
4.46 million bags in the 2013-2014 season, from a 10 million-bag
surplus a year earlier, according to the USDA. Inventories will
reach a five-year high of 30.53 million bags, the USDA predicts.  Arabica is used in specialty coffees sold by  Starbucks (SBUX)  and
other shops, while robusta is used in instant coffee. Cheaper
beans prompted J.M. Smucker Co. to cut prices in February for
Folgers, the top-selling U.S. brand. Kraft said May 3 it would
cut the price of 12-ounce bags of Gevalia coffee by 6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  