-- Treasury Bill Auction Shows Demand Damped by U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-10-21T17:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/treasury-bill-auction-shows-demand-damped-by-u-s-shutdown.html
Bidding at the  U.S. Treasury ’s
auction of $35 billion in three-month bills showed this month’s
partial government shutdown remains on the minds of investors
even after a last-minute agreement removed the risk of default.  Investors submitted bids totaling 4.03 times the amount of
securities offered, up from 3.13 times at the Oct. 15 offering,
yet below the average bid-to-cover ratio of 4.64 at the 40 bill
sales this year before the Oct. 1 shutdown, Treasury data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Even as people feel more confident about the front end,
we are still fielding questions from clients regarding what
maturities they should stay away from for the next debt ceiling
issue,” said Kenneth Silliman, head of U.S. short-term rates
trading at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in  New
York . “Having just avoided this bullet, they want to
preemptively avoid the next one.”  The bills were sold at a discount rate of 0.035 percent,
down from 0.13 percent at the Oct. 15 offering, which was the
highest since February 2011. The Treasury also sold $30 billion
of six-month bills at a rate of 0.07 percent compared with 0.15
percent at the Oct. 15 offering. Last week’s rate was the most
since October 2012.  The three-month bills mature Jan. 23 in a period that may
coincide with another round of political wrangling. The deal to
avert default and end the shutdown funds the government at
Republican-backed spending levels through Jan. 15, 2014, and
suspends the debt limit through Feb. 7.  Avoiding Risk  Rates on  one-month  Treasury bills surged to a six-year high
of 0.45 percent on Oct. 16 as investors dumped the shortest
maturity U.S. government debt on concern principle and interest
payments would be delayed or defaulted on if a budget agreement
wasn’t reached.  Demand for the three-months bills sold today from indirect
bidders, a group which includes foreign central banks, fell to
8.5 percent, the  lowest  since July 22, and compares with an
average of about 18 percent at the 40 pre-shutdown offerings
this year.  “That is probably indicative of the fact there’s some
reticence to being invested in the front end at that point,”
said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in New York at
Jefferies LLC, one of the 21  primary dealers  that are obligated
to bid U.S. debt sales. “People are just so averse, they don’t
want the headache of anything that matures around then.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  