-- Tribes Vetting 22,000 Antennae Halt $13 Billion Rail Plan
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-10-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/tribes-vetting-22-000-antennae-halt-13-billion-rail-plan.html
Two years probably wasn’t going to
be enough time for  railroads  to install crash-avoidance
technology on 23,000 locomotives and 60,000 miles of tracks, in
the biggest rail-safety project in U.S. history.  Then they encountered the Choctaw Nation, Muscogee and
Navajo.  In May, the railroads and their regulators learned 565
American  Indian tribes  had the right to review, one by one,
whether 22,000 antennae required for the system to work might be
built on sacred ground. That’s as many wireless tower
applications as the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission 
approves in two years.  “I’m just speechless,” said Grady Cothen, who retired in
2010 from the Federal Railroad Administration as the deputy
associate administrator for safety standards. “I didn’t expect
this issue to arise.”  The resulting backup may give railroads including  Warren Buffett ’s Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  another reason to miss
the December 2015 deadline to finish a $13.2 billion project
covering one-third of the U.S. rail network.  Railroads had asked Congress for a three-year extension to
install the wireless system known as positive train control,
 citing  the cost and time to develop, buy and manufacture
software and hardware. Now they say they’ve fallen further
behind, after spending $3 billion.  “Since May, when this issue brought all the antenna
installations to a halt, there haven’t been any antennas
installed in anyone’s network,” Steve Forsberg, a Burlington
Northern spokesman, said in an interview. “That is jeopardizing
the deadline for all the railroads, including ours.”  Railroads Stunned  Railroads started applying to the FCC this year for permits
to build towers for wireless antennae. That’s when they learned
each one has to be reviewed by tribes claiming oversight
anywhere ancestors may have lived and died, even though 97
percent of the proposed towers are in railroad rights of ways.  “I was stunned because I knew that we had been doing
construction projects, putting in new terminals, new
communications equipment, new tracks, new yards for over 150
years,” said Ed Hamberger, chief executive officer of the
industry’s Washington-based trade group, the  Association of
American Railroads .  To Alan Downer, historic preservation officer for the
Navajo Nation, the tribes’ interests don’t include making sure
the railroads meet their deadlines.  “The potential’s there for burials, for sites of cultural
and religious significance, for possible historic sites,” he
said.  ‘Who Knows?’  For instance, Downer said, the old Atchison, Topeka and
Santa Fe line was created in the 19th century.  “Who knows what’s out there, other than the rail line
itself?” Downer said. “It may be a complete void. It would be
nice to know before hand, before anything gets destroyed.”  Congress in 2008 required railroads to install positive
train control after a collision between freight and commuter
trains in  Los Angeles  left 25 dead and more than 100 injured.  Thirty-seven railroads must install the systems on routes
that carry passengers and the most-hazardous materials, such as
chlorine and anhydrous ammonia. Railroads could be fined tens of
thousands of dollars for missing the deadline.  The technology communicates a train’s location, speed and
information operators might need, such as speed restrictions and
approaching signals, and can slow or automatically stop a train
if its operators don’t.  Burlington Northern, owned by Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , plans to spend $200 million this year on the technology
and spent $300 million last year, Forsberg said.  Communications Breakdown  Until May, the FCC believed it was being asked to approve
antenna installations, it said in a document released Sept. 27.
That changed when it realized most of the wayside antennas
required new poles, meaning they involved digging.  The towers are expected to be 25 feet to 65 feet (7.6
meters to 19.8 meters) tall, with foundations as much as 15 feet
deep, the agency said in the document.  Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican, said at a
hearing in September that the FCC “is reportedly so overwhelmed
by the coming influx of PTC related applications that it’s
advised railroads not to proceed with any applications” until a
new process is devised.  “FCC staff have been hard at work streamlining the process
in order to accommodate the very large number of towers
railroads plan to build to implement positive train control,”
Neil Grace, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Digging Factor  Ground disturbance can be important when considering
whether a project risks altering sacred sites, former
settlements or burial grounds,  Ian Thompson , director of the
Historic Preservation Department with the Choctaw Nation of
Oklahoma, said in an interview.  “Most cultural deposits are in the top several feet of
soil,” Thompson said. A project’s visual impact also plays a
role, in the same may a cell tower might be considered
inappropriate in front of a former U.S. president’s home, he
said.  Cothen, now a rail policy consultant, helped write the
positive train control rule. Even though the Senate Commerce
Committee oversees both the FCC and FRA, this requirement never
came up in meetings with lawmakers on the train safety rule, he
said in an interview.  It shouldn’t have come as a surprise, said Bruce Milhans,
spokesman for the  Advisory Council on Historic Preservation , an
independent federal agency that encourages  historic
preservation . Tribes’ rights, and the need for the FCC to
consult with them, were established by the National Historic
Preservation Act of 1966, he said.  Skeptical Tribes  “You need to find out what’s there before you go putting
things into effect willy-nilly,” Milhans said in an interview.
“Native cultural or sacred sites are in the same category as
national or state parks” in terms of protection from
development or destruction.  The FCC said in its Sept. 27 statement tribes and railroads
may agree to consider poles in batches so one application would
cover multiple sites. It said tribes may agree to exempt
stretches of rail line from the review process.  Agency officials planned to meet with tribes in Tulsa,
 Oklahoma , this month before canceling because of the partial
U.S. government shutdown that began Oct. 1.  It’s not just the railroads that are befuddled at how to
fulfill the tribal consultation requirement. Officials at some
of the largest tribes say they’re no more prepared for the
deluge of reviews than the FCC was.  “This is all new to us -- to all the tribes in Oklahoma,
in fact,” said Terry Cole, assistant manager for cultural
preservation for the Muscogee (Creek) Nation, based in Okmulgee,
Oklahoma.  The Choctaw, the third-largest U.S. tribe with 210,000
members, reviewed about 400 cell towers in 2012, said Thompson.
Speeding the pace of approvals would burden the Choctaw’s nine-person historic review staff that includes people with skills in
archeology, anthropology, ground-penetrating radar and advanced
mapping, Thompson said.  Easing the way for train-control towers “will be met with
skepticism,” Downer, of the Navajo, said. He paraphrased
federal outreach this way: “Gee, golly, we have to do this and
you guys have to figure a way to do this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  