-- Ringgit Leads Asia’s Losses as U.S. Jobs May Revive Taper Talk
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-10-21T02:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/ringgit-leads-asia-s-losses-as-u-s-jobs-may-revive-taper-talk.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit declined, leading
losses in Asia, ahead of a U.S. jobs report that may revive
speculation the Federal Reserve will reduce its asset purchases
this year. Government bonds rose.  U.S. employers added 180,000 jobs in September, after a
169,000 gain in August, according to a Bloomberg survey before
data due tomorrow. The ringgit rose to a four-month high of
3.1413 per dollar on Oct. 18 on expectations the Fed will delay
cutting its stimulus until the debate on the government’s debt
ceiling finds a final solution. Malaysia may announce steps,
including a consumption tax, in its Oct. 25 budget to curb its
deficit, according to DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  “A stronger-than-expected non-farm payroll number is
likely to disrupt the recent trend of U.S. dollar weakness and
lower U.S. yields as the market again considers tapering in
December,” said Hamish Pepper, a currency strategist at
Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “We would use any resulting ringgit
weakness to initiate long ringgit positions ahead of a likely
fiscally responsible 2014 Malaysian government budget.”  The ringgit retreated 0.3 percent to 3.1665 per dollar as
of 9:49 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in exchange rates used to price options, rose seven basis
points to 8.62 percent.  Malaysia will probably announce an initial 4 percent goods
and services tax in this week’s budget that will generate 20.5
billion ringgit ($6.5 billion), or as much as 14 percent of
total tax revenue, in the first year,  Irvin Seah , Singapore-based economist at DBS, wrote in an Oct. 16 report.  Fiscal Deficit  The yield on Malaysia’s three-year government bonds due
July 2016 fell one basis point to 3.15 percent, the lowest since
June 10, on speculation policy makers will take steps this week
to rein in the fiscal deficit, according to CIMB Investment Bank
Bhd.  “There is some confidence that the Malaysian government
will probably take some of the required measures to make sure
that the budget is more responsible,” said Nik Mukharriz
Muhammad, a Kuala Lumpur-based fixed-income analyst at CIMB.
“We expect measures to boost the government coffers but at the
same still facilitate economic growth.”  Fitch Ratings has a long-term foreign-currency denominated
debt rating of A- on Malaysia, the fourth-lowest investment
grade. Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy has run annual
budget deficits every year starting in 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 