-- Fed Got in Trouble With Transparency, Ferguson Says
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-10-21T20:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/roger-ferguson-says-fed-got-in-trouble-with-transparency-push.html
Roger W. Ferguson, a former U.S.
Federal Reserve vice chairman, said the Fed’s push for
transparency amid quantitative easing tripped up the central
bank this year.  “They got themselves in trouble when they tried to be very
transparent, give us our forward guidance, promise things, and
then they don’t deliver,” Ferguson, head of insurer TIAA-CREF,
said today in  New York  at a conference held by Limra, an
industry group.  Over the U.S. summer, the Fed created the expectation that
it would begin to taper bond buying, Ferguson said. “They got
to September, and they didn’t do that,” he said.  The Fed’s surprise decision to prolong stimulus sparked a
rally in financial markets. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
climbed 1.2 percent on Sept. 18, the day of the FOMC statement,
while the yield on the 10-year Treasury note dropped 0.16
percentage point to 2.69 percent. Oil rose more than 2.5
percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in June that
the central bank was planning to reduce its pace of asset
purchases “later this year” and end them by mid-2014.
Economists came to focus on the Fed’s September 17-18 meeting as
the starting point for shrinking its $85 billion a month bond
purchase program.  On the eve of that meeting, the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted the program would be
cut to $80 billion. The Fed instead opted to press on, with
Bernanke saying in a press conference after the meeting that
“conditions in the job market today are still far from what all
of us would like to see.”  Janet Yellen  Ferguson, 61, has been chief executive officer of TIAA-CREF
since 2008, after leaving a post at reinsurer Swiss Re Ltd. He
was Fed vice chairman under  Alan Greenspan  from 1999 to 2006. He
was asked today about his advice for  Janet Yellen , U.S.
President  Barack Obama ’s choice to replace Bernanke as Fed
chairman.  The Fed should recognize that it has multiple tools and
“take some time to try to sort of optimize only one of them,”
Ferguson said. “Recognize that they’re brand-new tools and
figure out how to use just one of them really well, as opposed
to try to toggle back and forth across them.”  Obama nominated Yellen, 67, on Oct. 9. Yellen, now the
Fed’s vice chairman, would become the first woman to lead the
central bank.  At the Fed, Ferguson worked with Greenspan to help explain
interest-rate decisions. He publicly opposed numerical inflation
targets at the time, while Bernanke’s Fed has set a price
increase target. More recently, Ferguson has discussed the risks
of the Fed’s policies that keep  interest rates  low.  Ferguson left the Fed in April 2006, shortly after Bernanke
took over. He was appointed in 1997 by President  Bill Clinton .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  