-- Russian $50 Billion Games Gives Bosco Chance to Chase Armani
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-10-22T11:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/russia-s-50-billion-olympics-gives-bosco-chance-to-chase-armani.html
The 65,000-kilometer Olympic torch
relay is the longest catwalk Russian sportwear clothier Bosco
Group will ever get.  Bosco , little known outside of Russia despite having
outfitted the country’s Olympians for the past decade, is
dressing more than 18,000 torch bearers currently carrying the
flame on a four-month journey to Sochi, the southern city
hosting February’s winter games. As a main Olympic sponsor for
the first time, closely held Bosco has also designed patterns
for the games and will outfit the 45,000 staff and volunteers.  Owned by Mikhail Kusnirovich, the businessman who runs the
 GUM mall  on Moscow’s Red Square, Bosco is seeking to capitalize
on an opportunity to strengthen its market position against the
likes of Giorgio Armani SpA and  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) , both at home
and beyond. Russia has spent more than $50 billion preparing for
the competition, the most ever for a winter games.  “We are like surfers waiting to take the wave,” said
Teimuraz Guguberidze, Bosco’s general manager, who has carried
the torch, as has Kusnirovich. “Sochi will be the maximum point
of the wave, and then the surfer needs to be professional enough
to keep going,” he said in an interview in Moscow.  Rather than supplying vests and shorts, the company designs
casual sportswear that athletes wear during opening and closing
ceremonies and at medal presentations. It outsources garments
and production to countries including Italy, China and Portugal.  Olympic Sponsors  “We aren’t like Adidas and Puma, we are more like Polo
Ralph Lauren and Moncler,” Guguberidze said. Ralph Lauren is
outfitting the U.S. Olympic team, while Emporio Armani’s EA7
will dress Italians in parade uniforms during the Sochi games.  President Vladimir Putin lit the Olympic torch earlier this
month, and Bosco’s owner Kusnirovich participated in the relay,
pounding Moscow’s streets in his sportswear.  Bosco is one of eight Russian sponsors of the February
games, sitting alongside 10 international partners that include
 Coca-Cola Co., (KO)  McDonalds Corp. and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   “With Olympic sponsorship, Bosco will get access to
television and their bright and emotional sportswear will be
shown worldwide,” said Ivan Fedyakov, general director of
researcher INFOLine in St. Petersburg. “It’s a great chance for
their promotion, although it will take years to become a
meaningful competitor to the global fashion houses.”  The company, whose  patchwork patterns  include elements of
traditional Russian design, anticipates that the games will help
sales of its sports clothes reach a record of more than 100
million euros ($137 million) next year. It has total annual
sales of about 500 million euros, with the majority from selling
international fashion brands including MaxMara, Alberta Ferretti
and Kenzo from stores in Moscow and other Russian cities.  Market Growth  Bosco is benefiting from the expansion of  Russia ’s fashion-retail market, which grew 11 percent last year to $50 billion,
according to INFOLine. Russian consumers are more loyal to
global brands than domestic ones, according to Fedyakov,
explaining why Russian retailers often use foreign names.  Bosco followed that principle: the company’s full name is
Bosco di Ciliegi, meaning “cherry forest” in Italian.  The retailer now has 80 sports stores under its brand in
Russia and has opened pop-up outlets in each city that has
hosted the Olympics since 2006. The company plans to add 40 more
stores before the Sochi games, Guguberidze said.  “Russia has no fashion brands successful abroad,”
Fedyakov said. “Bosco is seeking to become one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  