-- Russia Liberalized LNG Exports Move Closer After Putin Orders
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-10-21T12:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/russia-liberalized-lng-exports-move-closer-after-putin-orders.html
Russia ’s Energy Ministry may from
December be able to grant licenses to export liquefied natural
gas, moving closer to breaking OAO Gazprom’s monopoly on
shipments of the fuel abroad.  President  Vladimir Putin  ordered the government to award
the ministry with the licensing rights by Dec. 15, according to
a  statement  on the Kremlin’s website dated Oct. 15 and posted on
Oct. 18.  Russia, holder of the world’s biggest natural gas reserves,
may allow producers other than state-run Gazprom to ship LNG to
global markets, with plans to make it a law effective from 2014.
LNG from companies including OAO Novatek and OAO Rosneft would
help the nation compete with rising supplies from  Australia  and
newcomers such as the U.S. and meet Asian gas demand as
consumption stagnates in Europe, Gazprom’s traditional market
supplied by pipeline.  “The exact deadlines imply that the law is to be adopted
soon,” analysts at VTB Capital in Moscow, led by Dmitry Loukashov, said today in a research note.  Putin also ordered the extension of tax breaks for Yamal
fields to Novatek deposits on the neighboring Gydan Peninsula,
provided the gas is transported to the planned LNG plant,
according to the orders on the Kremlin website.  “We see the potential tax breaks for the Gydan peninsula
as a sign that the government expects Novatek to expand its
Yamal LNG plant in the longer term,”  Alexei Kokin , an analyst
at Uralsib in Moscow, said today in a note.  Novatek and partner  Total SA (FP)  plan to start output at their
LNG plant on the Yamal Peninsula at the end of 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  