-- SAC Defections Accelerate as Cohen Approaches Settlement
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-10-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/sac-defections-accelerate-as-cohen-approaches-settlement.html
As Steven Cohen nears a settlement
that may put his SAC Capital Advisors LP out of business over
allegations of insider trading, some of his overseas money
managers aren’t waiting.  Lia Forcina, who managed more than $700 million at SAC
Capital out of  London , quit this month to join BlueCrest Capital
Management LLP, three people with knowledge of the matter said
last week. At least four other money managers have recently
left SAC in the U.K., according to regulatory records and people
familiar with their departures.  “No one has pointed fingers at anyone in London, so they
can almost say they are a different business,” said Gary Goldstein, the chief executive officer of executive search firm
Whitney Group LLC, as to why the London-based SAC traders may be
having an easier time getting jobs than their counterparts in
the U.S. “They aren’t being managed day-to-day by Steve.”  The departures are accelerating after a U.S. grand jury
indicted SAC in July on allegations that the $14 billion firm
engaged in unprecedented illegal trading for more than a decade,
prompting clients to pull virtually all outside cash. Cohen,
whose 21-year-old firm is negotiating a settlement with the
government, is likely to be barred from managing other peoples’
money and pay a fine of $1.8 billion, people familiar with the
matter said this month.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on settlement talks. At the time of
the July 25 indictment, SAC said it never encouraged, promoted
or tolerated illegal trading.  Government’s Price  SAC is accused of encouraging its traders to obtain
information from company insiders while ignoring indications it
was illegal. Six former SAC employees have pleaded guilty to
trading on inside information, and two more are scheduled to go
on trial.  SAC was charged with four counts of securities fraud and
one count of wire fraud. The alleged scheme, which involved more
than 20 companies and went back as far as 1999, helped reap
hundreds of millions of dollars in illicit profits, the U.S.
said. The government has told SAC that the longer it waits to
settle, the higher the price will be, people familiar with the
negotiations said this month. That’s because the closer the case
gets to going to trial, the higher the government’s costs.  SAC employees have been sending out resumes to hedge-fund
firms and recruiters since the indictment, hoping to land jobs
next year when they expect the firm will need far fewer
employees.  Sticking Around  As of Sept. 20, SAC employed 950 people globally, according
to a regulatory filing, about 50 fewer than it did in April.
About 400 of those employees are investment professionals, about
the same as in April, according to filings. Recruiters have said
they expect that most of the money managers, analysts and
traders will stick around until early next year when their
bonuses are paid.  Most of the employees are located in SAC’s  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , headquarters. The firm had 18 partners in its
London-based SAC Global Investors LLP unit at the end of 2012,
according to filings. SAC also has an office in Hong Kong.  Forcina, 39, agreed to join BlueCrest this month, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because her move hasn’t
been publicly announced. At SAC, she was a money manager
based in London who traded the stocks of financial companies,
the people said. Last month Alidod Shirinbekov left SAC’s London
office to join London-based BlueCrest.  BlueCrest’s Expansion  BlueCrest, a $35 billion hedge-fund firm that mainly trades
fixed-income, has expanded into equities this year after assets
under management more than doubled since the end of 2009.
Michael Platt, a former JPMorgan Chase & Co. proprietary trader,
founded BlueCrest in 2000.  Johan Levavasseur also recently left SAC to join the London
office of New York-based Millennium Management LLC, the $14
billion hedge-fund firm founded by Israel Englander.  SAC will start 2014 with about $9 billion, almost all of it
belonging to Cohen, 57, according to a person with knowledge of
the situation.  Cohen increased 2014 bonuses by 3.5 percentage points in an
effort to retain employees, a person with knowledge of the
matter said last month. SAC money managers are typically
paid an annual bonus of 15 percent to 25 percent of the profits
they generate from their investments.  While most of the recent departures have been in London,
some U.S.-based traders left earlier this year. David Selvers, a
technology money manager within SAC’s Sigma group, joined
Conatus Capital Management LP, a $2.6 billion hedge-fund firm in
Greenwich, Connecticut, in June.  Balyasny Asset Management LP, the $3.3 billion hedge-fund
manager run by Dmitry Balyasny, has seen a pickup in resumes
from SAC employees as the probe of Cohen’s firm intensified,
people familiar with the matter said in August. The Chicago-based company has a structure similar to SAC’s, employing
multiple teams that oversee independent portfolios. In February,
it hired Justin Dodd, a former SAC employee, as a consumer
money manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  