-- SAP Relieves Investors as New Products Help Boost Profit
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-10-21T17:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/sap-software-revenue-drops-as-license-sales-in-americas-d.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business-management software, reported higher earnings on rising
cloud and database revenue, alleviating investor concerns that
stiffer competition is hurting profitability.  Third-quarter operating profit adjusted for some items rose
5 percent to 1.3 billion euros ($1.8 billion), also helped by
lower costs, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP said today. The company
kept its full-year forecasts when excluding currency swings,
sending its  stock  up 4.8 percent, the most in more than three
years.  SAP’s report shows its expansion to areas such as cloud-based programs is helping to offset slowing demand for its older
enterprise applications. That’s a relief for investors after
reports by archrival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  missed projections as nimbler competitors’ Web-based products gained popularity.  “After what we had seen from rivals in the U.S., and after
seeing the currency moves as they stand, we should be content
with SAP reiterating their forecast,” said Mirko Maier, an
analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart. “It’s a
relief.”  SAP rose 2.55 euros to close at 56.06 euros in  Frankfurt ,
after climbing as much as 8.2 percent. That pared the shares’
decline this year to about 8 percent. Oracle added 0.5 percent
to $33.08 at 1:02 p.m. in  New York .  Cloud, Hana  Analysts including Kai Korschelt at Deutsche Bank AG had
earlier said SAP might lower its full-year revenue forecast.
 Thomas Becker  of Commerzbank in Frankfurt said SAP reiterating
its forecasts is “catching most market participants by
surprise.”  Third-quarter revenue from cloud subscriptions more than
doubled to 197 million euros, amounting to about a sixth of
software sales. Revenue from the Hana database product grew 79
percent to 149 million euros and SAP said it has more than 2,100
customers using the software. Analysts predicted Hana revenue of
131.5 million euros. Software-license sales, an indicator of
future income, fell for a second straight quarter.  SAP reiterated a July forecast for double-digit percentage
growth for software and software-related services revenue this
year when excluding currency swings. Assuming exchange rates
remain at September levels, software sales will be negatively
affected by 5 percentage points by currency swings, while
operating profit will be hurt by 7 percentage points, SAP said.  ‘Currency Headwinds’  “SAP had a very strong performance in the third quarter,
considering the mixed macroeconomic environment and the strong
currency headwinds,” Chief Financial Officer Werner Brandt said
in the statement.  On a call with journalists, he said swings by the dollar
and the yen affected the company. “It’s an effect everyone is
seeing in all industries,” he said.  The euro is the best performer among a basket of 10
developed-market currencies this year while the Japanese Yen is
the worst, meaning SAP’s revenues generated in  Japan  and other
countries are lower when translated into euros.  Third-quarter reported revenue rose about 2 percent to 4.05
billion euros. Analysts projected revenue of 4.16 billion and
adjusted operating profit of 1.32 billion euros.  Software licenses fell 5 percent to 975 million euros in
the period. Analysts had predicted 988 million euros, according
to the average of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “While a miss, we believe this is better than feared,”
Daud Khan, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London , said in a
note to clients.  Hana Target  Software sales from Asia Pacific dropped 9 percent, while
declining 13 percent in the Americas. Excluding currency
effects, software sales rose 2 percent.  To meet SAP’s goal for 650 million euros to 700 million
euros in Hana revenue for the full year, sales of the product in
the fourth quarter will have to almost match those of the first
three quarters combined, spokesman Daniel Reinhardt said.  In July, SAP reported its first software-sales decline in
more than three years as larger technology companies face
stiffer competition from more agile Internet-based rivals. To
fight back, co-CEOs Jim Hagemann Snabe and  Bill McDermott , who
will become the company’s sole chief when Snabe steps down in
May, have spent more than $12 billion on takeovers in
 California ’s Silicon Valley since 2010.  Oracle on Sept. 18 issued a weaker-than-projected outlook
for the remainder of the year, warning that it still has to
close big corporate deals to remain on course. Smaller
competitors including  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and  Workday Inc. (WDAY)  are
boosting sales with Internet-based programs.  IBM, the largest computer-services provider, this month
reported a sixth straight quarterly sales drop.  Accenture Plc (ACN) ,
the world’s second-largest technology-consulting company, last
month forecast earnings that may fall short of analysts’
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  