-- Saving Obamacare Without Congress
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B a g l e y   a n d   A u s t i n   F r a k t
-- 2013-10-21T19:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/saving-obamacare-without-congress.html
The failures of HealthCare.gov have
reignited the question of whether and how the federal government
should delay the penalty for not buying insurance. Here’s half
an answer: If the administration of President  Barack Obama  opts
for delay, a provision of the  Affordable Care Act  gives it the
legal authority to do so, without turning to Congress.  Technological problems  have crippled the Obamacare
exchanges, most severely the ones that the federal government is
running through HealthCare.gov. With the exchanges not working,
people without other coverage options can’t obtain health
insurance. And if they can’t get insurance, they can’t fulfill
their obligations under the law’s individual mandate.  In response, some are already suggesting a  need to delay 
the mandate. That’s still premature; programmers are working
feverishly to fix the website, and it’s possible the problems
will be solved within a few weeks.  But it’s also possible those fixes could take months. The
clock is ticking: If the  websites aren’t working  by early next
year, people may not be able to obtain coverage by April 1,
2014. After that date, anyone without coverage may be subject to
a tax penalty. However, to have coverage by April 1, individuals
need to sign up by mid-February to accommodate the processing
time.  Functioning Exchanges  The problem comes if the exchange websites aren’t fixed
before people have to buy insurance to comply with the
individual mandate. Under the law, the mandate applies whether
or not there’s a functional exchange. That means that the
penalty would be imposed even on those uninsured who had tried,
and failed, to buy insurance on an exchange. Extending the open-enrollment period, as some have  suggested , wouldn’t fix the
problem: If you had no coverage before April 1, you’d still have
to pay the penalty.  It would be unfair, though, to penalize people for failing
to buy insurance from a website that’s broken. In principle, of
course, one could purchase insurance  off the exchange . But
subsidies are only available for exchange-purchased coverage.
And the whole point of the subsidies is that many Americans
can’t afford insurance without them.  Fortunately, there’s a better solution. The federal
government has the legal flexibility to waive the penalty for
people subject to the mandate but unable to access a functioning
exchange website.  Nestled  in the health-care law is a “hardship exemption.”
It waives the penalty for anyone who “is determined by the
Secretary of Health and Human Services under section
1311(d)(4)(H) to have suffered a hardship with respect to the
capability to obtain coverage under a qualified health plan.”
In turn, section 1311  requires  exchanges to “grant a
certification” for particular individuals attesting that
“there is no affordable qualified health plan available through
the Exchange.”  Putting the two provisions together, it could be a
“hardship” if there’s “no affordable qualified health plan
available through the Exchange.” That statutory language fits
this case: if an exchange doesn’t work, then no plans are
available through it. Health and Human Services Secretary
 Kathleen Sebelius  has already issued hardship exemptions for
discrete groups, including people who would have qualified for
Medicaid but for their state’s decision not to expand the
program. She could do the same for those who can’t access an
exchange.  That doesn’t mean there aren’t wrinkles. Section 1311 seems
to say an exchange must grant a certification before one can get
a hardship exemption. The statute is a bit ambiguous on that
point, but, in a  rule  implementing the hardship exemption,
that’s how Sebelius appears to read it. After she decides what
counts as a hardship, the exchanges are supposed to  process
applications  from individuals claiming that hardship. Then, and
only then, can you get a “certificate of exemption.”  Exemption Applications  So how can you apply for an exemption through an exchange
that doesn’t work? You can’t, of course. And it gets worse. Even
those state exchanges that are up and running  apparently  don’t
have the systems in place to deal with exemption applications.  Fortunately, that’s not the end of the story. The secretary
is explicitly empowered in yet another  provision  of the law to
“establish a program” for determining “whether to grant a
certification” for a hardship exemption. That gives Sebelius
latitude to craft sensible certification rules for the
exchanges.  As things stand, the  rules  the secretary has put in place
provide for an individualized application process. But nothing
in the law prevents her from  tweaking  that approach. If
necessary, she could draft a new rule instructing nonfunctional
exchanges -- including the federally operated ones -- to issue
blanket certifications on behalf of all of the uninsured in
their  states . With those blanket certifications, the penalty
would be waived -- and all without congressional action.  With luck, it won’t come to that and the exchanges will all
be operational long before mid-February. But if they aren’t, the
 Obama administration  could spare the uninsured from being
punished just because government officials couldn’t build a few
websites on time.  In the meantime, Congress is always free to help by
reshaping the individual mandate or its timing. But, politics
being what it is -- and especially as it pertains to the health
care law -- it’s unrealistic to think that the legislature will
act to address the law’s problems. Thankfully, at least on this
count, it doesn’t need to.  ( Nicholas Bagley  is an assistant professor of law at the
 University of Michigan Law School . Austin Frakt is a health
economist with the U.S. Department of  Veterans Affairs .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nicholas Bagley at  nbagley@umich.edu ; Austin Frakt at
 frakt@bu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Christopher Flavelle at 
 cflavelle@bloomberg.net . 