-- Shale Overload to Spur U.S.-China Fuel Trade: Energy Markets
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-10-21T17:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/shale-overload-to-spur-u-s-china-fuel-trade-energy-markets.html
U.S. exports of natural gas liquids,
already at a record amid surging output from shale deposits, are
poised to quadruple by 2020 as the expansion of the Panama Canal
cuts shipping costs to Asia.  Deliveries of the fuels to  foreign buyers  averaged 555,000
barrels a day in July, the most in U.S. government data going
back to 1981.  China’s imports  of propane, butane and isobutane,
with uses as varied as home heating, chemical manufacturing and
refrigeration, jumped 23 percent in August from a year earlier,
customs data show.  The Panama Canal expansion, slated for completion in 2015,
will allow the transit of large tankers and put costs to ship
U.S. gas liquids to Asia on a par with deliveries from the
Middle East, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. U.S.
exports would jump to 20 million metric tons by 2020 from the
current 5 million tons, making the country the world’s largest
exporter of those fuels, ahead of  Qatar  and Saudi Arabia,
Bernstein said.  “The Panama Canal widening is definitely a positive for
propane and butane producers in the U.S. who want to get rid of
product,”  Bradley Olsen , director of midstream research at
Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. in Houston, said in an Oct. 17
phone interview. “We’re going to be in a situation where the
U.S. is effectively increasing supply on the global market by
about 30 percent in the course of three or four years.”  Mont Belvieu  Propane in Mont Belvieu,  Texas , the main U.S. NGL storage
hub, rose 0.75 cent, or 0.7 percent, to $1.1575 a gallon on Oct.
18, according to prices from DTN Energy Services LLC in Omaha,
 Nebraska . Propane has  climbed 29 percent  this year, averaging
about 95 cents compared with $1 in 2012.  Natural gas for next-month delivery on the New York
Mercantile Exchange has gained 11 percent this year. The futures
fell 3.1 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $3.733 per million British
thermal units at 1:09 p.m. today.  Hydraulic fracturing, a drilling technique in which water,
sand and chemicals are blasted underground to force out natural
gas and crude trapped in layers of rock, has led to a surge in
U.S. production of hydrocarbons including NGLs.  U.S. natural gas output totaled 65.7 billion cubic feet a
day last year, making the country the world’s largest producer
of the fuel since 2009, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review
of World Energy. Oil production rose to 7.83 million barrels a
day in the week ended Sept. 13, the highest level since May
1989, U.S. Energy Information Administration data show.  Energy Security  The U.S. met 87 percent of its own energy needs in the
first six months of 2013, on pace to be the highest annual rate
since 1986, according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm.  U.S. exports of propane, an LPG, or liquefied petroleum
gas, used for heating, cooking and the manufacture of chemicals
and plastics, totaled a record 271,000 barrels a day in July, up
62 percent from the same period last year, EIA data show.
Exports have jumped 15-fold from July 2008.  Production  of
propane and propylene climbed to a record 1.44 million barrels a
day in the week ended Sept. 27.  North American LPG production has surged amid growing oil
and gas output from shale formations and other reservoirs with
low permeability,  Neil Beveridge , a senior analyst at Bernstein
in Hong Kong, said in an Oct. 4 note to clients.  U.S. Supplies  “We expect demand for U.S. LPG to increase sharply, which
will put downward pressure to Middle East LPG export prices,”
Beveridge said.  Qatar and Saudi Arabia “currently dominate the market”
for global LPG exports, he said.  Proposed NGL terminals in the U.S. would add at least
480,000 barrels of daily export capacity through 2014, Kurt Hallead , co-head of global energy research at RBC Capital
Markets LLC in Austin, Texas, said in an Oct. 17 note to
clients. Planned projects include  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP’s (SXL) 
Mariner East pipeline, which would deliver propane and ethane
from the Marcellus shale formation to Marcus Hook,  Pennsylvania ,
where the fuels can be shipped overseas.  In the U.S., where ethane is the preferred petrochemical
feedstock, and most homes and businesses are heated with natural
gas, electricity or heating oil, domestic demand for propane is
“stagnant or falling,”  Tudor Pickering ’s Olsen said.  “You have a wedge of oversupply that continues to grow and
needs to be handled by exports,” he said.  Bigger Canal  The $5.3 billion Panama Canal expansion will enable the
transit of larger vessels, including a class of tankers called
Very Large Gas Carriers, which transport propane, butane and
liquefied natural gas. Vessels of that size going from the East
Coast to Asia currently have to go around Cape Horn or through
the Suez Canal.  Construction to double the canal’s capacity is 64 percent
complete, the Panama Canal Authority said on its website Sept.
10. The expanded waterway will be able to handle ships as long
as 1,200 feet (366 meters) and as wide as 160 feet, against the
current 965 feet and 106 feet, data on the website show. Only
seven of the VLGC fleet’s 154 vessels can use the canal now,
according to data from IHS Maritime, a Coulsdon, England-based
research company.  Once the  canal project  is completed, sailing time will be
cut to 25 days, compared with 41 via Cape Horn, Bernstein’s
Beveridge said. Freight costs will be reduced by 30 percent to
50 percent, he said.  China’s Plans  The expansion comes as Asia’s appetite for lower-cost NGLs
is increasing.  China  has approved the construction of 17 propane
dehydrogenation units, which convert propane into propylene used
to make plastics, antifreeze, deodorant and other consumer
products. The new plants will require 12 million tons per year
of propane, most of which will probably be imported from the
U.S., Bernstein said.  China’s economic  growth  accelerated for the first time in
three quarters, as Premier Li Keqiang spurred factory output and
investment to meet the government’s expansion goal for 2013.  Gross domestic product  rose 7.8 percent in the July-September period from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said Oct. 18 in Beijing, matching the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey. Industrial production advanced in
September by 10.2 percent.  “Most of the uptick in U.S. propane deliveries overseas
has been very recent,” said Hassan Ahmed, head of research at
Alembic Global Advisors in New York. “If the glut of NGLs in
the U.S. continues, you’re definitely going to see more exports
to the Asia market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  