-- Somalis Fear South African Violence More Than War at Home
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-10-22T12:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/somalis-fear-south-african-violence-more-than-war-at-home.html
Ali Omar Mohamed fled Somalia’s
civil war two years ago to seek a better life in  South Africa .
Now after being robbed at gunpoint and seeing scores of his
countrymen murdered in xenophobic violence, he’s ready to leave.  Mohammed, a 21-year-old shopkeeper, is part of a growing
tide of immigrants who say they prefer returning to a war zone
rather than face the hatred and jealousy they are subject to in
South Africa where they’re called “the enemy.”  “It’s better to die in your country where your mother and
father can see you and not worry so much,” said Mohamed, who
sleeps in a small room attached to the shop in the northern
Johannesburg shantytown of Diepsloot. “As soon as possible,
I’ll go back.”  About 2,000 Somalis, or almost 8 percent of those living in
South Africa, have returned home this year as parts of the Horn
of Africa country become more stable after  African Union  troops
drove Islamist militants out of the biggest towns, the mission
head of Somalia’s embassy in the capital,  Pretoria , Mohamed Ali
Mire, said in an Oct. 9 interview.  Over the past six months, disputes between Somali
shopkeepers and  South Africans  have deteriorated into looting
and burning sprees of dozens of stores in parts of Johannesburg
and the coastal city of  Port Elizabeth , according to police.  Mohamed says he’s wary of everyone who walks into his
grocery store, which sells everything from individual cigarettes
to 20-liter (5.2-gallon) buckets of sunflower oil.  Business Capital  “Every time someone comes through the door I’m worried,”
he said in an Oct. 11 interview at the shop as customers
searched his freezers for bags of chicken pieces or perused the
shelves lining the unpainted walls for detergent or shoe polish.  Somalis and Pakistanis, who’re able to tap their close-knit
communities for capital to start businesses, dominate
 convenience stores  known as spaza shops in townships and
shantytowns on the outskirts of South Africa’s major cities.  Conspicuous by their distinctive languages and Muslim
religion in a mainly Christian country, their business acumen
has stoked jealousy among many citizens in South Africa, where
 one-in-four are unemployed .  “There are too many foreigners here, they undercut
everyone. Every corner, there is a Somali shop,” Magdalene
Thabana, 56, said as she sat on a red plastic stool selling bags
of scones across the road from Mohamed’s store. “I don’t have
enough money to start a shop.”  Unregistered Shops  That sentiment was echoed by South Africa’s Deputy Trade
and Industry Minister Elizabeth Thabethe on Oct. 10.  “You still find many spaza shops with African names, but
when you go in to buy you find your Mohammeds and most of them
are not even registered,” she was quoted as saying by the  South
African Press Association .  Jackie Mckay, the deputy director-general in charge
immigration services at the Department of Home Affairs, declined
to comment on the increasing number of Somalis leaving the
country, saying he wasn’t authorized to speak to the media.  A wave of  xenophobic violence  led to about 60 deaths,
including some Somalis, and as many as 50,000 people being
forced to flee their homes and shops in 2008. Since then,
Somalis have been the hardest hit by outbreaks of xenophobic
violence, police spokeswoman Brigadier Marinda Mills said in a
phone interview.  While South Africa’s murder rate has dropped by more than
half to 31.1 per 100,000 people since 1995, it remains six times
higher than that of the U.S.  Foreign Presence  In Gauteng, South Africa’s most populous province that
includes the metropolitan sprawl of Johannesburg and Pretoria,
7.1 percent of the 12.3 million population are foreign
nationals, according to data from a  2011 census .  While the majority of Somali emigrants are in neighboring
countries such as  Kenya , they make up the second-largest group
of refugees and asylum-seekers in South Africa after
Zimbabweans, data from the  United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees  shows. South Africa also has a significant number of
refugees from the  Democratic Republic  of Congo and  Angola .  The conflict in Somalia since the 1991 fall of Mohamed Siad Barre’s dictatorship has spawned more than a million refugees,
about a 10th of its population and more than any other nation
except for Afghanistan and  Iraq , according to UNHCR.  In the past two years, government troops backed by about
17,000 African Union troops have pushed the al-Qaeda-linked al-Shabaab militant group out of the capital, Mogadishu, and other
major towns. President Hassan Sheikh Mohamoud’s year-old
government is the first to receive U.S. recognition in two
decades and last month received  pledges  of 1.8 billion euros
($2.5 billion) in aid from European countries.  Al-Shabaab Attacks  Mogadishu hasn’t been free of al-Shabaab attacks. The group
carried out bombings at the UN compound in June and the Turkish
embassy in July.  “Security is improving compared to what it was like 10
years ago, but it’s still a very, very dangerous place,”
Alphonse Munyaneza, the UNHCR’s senior regional community
service officer in South Africa, said in a phone interview.
“The UNHCR is not encouraging a return to Somalia anytime
soon.”  The Somali government is encouraging its citizens to
return, even though their homeland remains unsafe, Kaajal Ramjathan-Keogh, the head of Johannesburg-based Lawyers for
 Human Rights ’ Refugee and Migrants Programme, said in an
interview.  Fatality Rate  In South Africa, the situation for Somalis is
deteriorating.  “Somalis are subjected to a high rate of fatalities and
loss of livelihoods,” Munyaneza said in an interview. “This is
unprecedented. They’re being attacked with impunity. The Somalis
are the ones who are the hardest hit amongst the foreigners.”  Somali Prime Minister Abdi Farah Shirdon wrote to South
African President  Jacob Zuma  in June to urge him to contain
violence against his countrymen.  Somalis have increasingly been denied legal documents from
South Africa’s Department of Home Affairs in breach of
agreements such as the 1951 Refugee Convention, Amir Sheikh, the
chairman of the Somali Community Board, which represents Somalis
in South Africa, said in an Oct. 9 interview at his office in
Johannesburg mainly Muslim suburb of Mayfair.  For many Somalis, returning home is now a safer choice than
remaining in South Africa.  “They are tired of the on-going xenophobic attacks, and
the constant hurting and maiming of Somalis,” Sheikh said.
“It’s better to go home and die in dignity than to die far away
from home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  