-- Soros-Backed Essent Seeks $1.2 Billion Valuation in IPO
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-10-21T12:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/soros-backed-essent-seeks-1-2-billion-valuation-in-ipo.html
Essent Group Ltd. (ESNT) , the mortgage
insurer backed by  George Soros  and  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., is
seeking a valuation of $1.2 billion in an initial public
offering as the company adds capital to expand sales.  Essent and its investors are selling 19.7 million shares
for $13.50 to $15.50 apiece, according to a regulatory filing
today from the Bermuda-based firm. At the midpoint, that would
raise about $286 million for a 24 percent stake.  Investors have poured capital into mortgage insurers this
year amid rising home prices. Essent was started during the
housing bust as homeowners’ defaults drained capital from firms
that backed mortgages issued before the crash.  “The new capital would help fund Essent’s continued
growth, lower its operating leverage, increase its cash on hand
and demonstrate its ability to raise capital,” Helen Remeza, an
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a note before the
offering. “A capital raise could also further differentiate
Essent Guaranty from its more weakly capitalized peers.”  Goldman Sachs,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are
leading the offering. Essent has sold most of its coverage in
the past two years, and had a 12 percent share of the
traditional market in the first six months of 2013.  Essent’s net income was $46.4 million in the first nine
months of 2013, compared with a loss of $14.6 million in the
same period of 2012, according to today’s filing. The company
sold coverage on $16.6 billion of loans in the first three
quarters of 2013, up from $7.2 billion.  JPMorgan, Valorina  Goldman Sachs is selling 1.5 million of its shares in the
offering, reducing its stake to about 7 percent, according to
today’s filing. JPMorgan is selling 1.2 million. Essent plans to
sell 17 million shares.  Soros’s Valorina doesn’t plan to sell shares, and its stake
will be about 9 percent after the offering.  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  and  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  are the main
companies that focus on U.S. mortgage insurance. Their shares
have more than doubled this year, and both firms raised capital
in early 2013 to make up for crisis-era losses.  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  also offer
mortgage coverage.  In the twelve months through July, home prices in 20 U.S.
cities increased 12.4 percent, the biggest jump in seven years,
according to the  S&P/Case-Shiller index .  Mortgage insurance is typically required when borrowers pay
less than 20 percent of the cost of their home up front. Private
firms provided a majority of the coverage before the crisis,
while U.S. government entities led by the  Federal Housing
Administration  sold more amid the crash.  Essent was founded by Mark Casale, a 49-year-old former
Radian executive. The company said in May 2009 it had received a
commitment of $500 million from investors including JPMorgan,
Goldman Sachs and Pine Brook Road Partners LLC. The backers
agreed in 2010 to make another $100 million investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  