-- South Africa White Corn Reaches 7-Week High on Insufficient Rain
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-10-21T14:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/south-africa-white-corn-reaches-7-week-high-on-insufficient-rain.html
South African white corn futures
rose to the highest level in more than seven weeks on concern
rainfall was insufficient in the main growing regions of the
Free State and North West provinces.  White corn for delivery in December, the most active
contract, gained 0.2 percent to 2,380 rand ($242) a metric ton,
the highest since Aug. 28, by the midday close on the South
African Futures Exchange. The yellow variety for delivery in the
same period increased 0.4 percent to 2,193 rand a ton, gaining
for a sixth day.  “Only 8 millimeters (0.3 inch) of rain was received in the
North West province this past weekend and that is not enough,
Thys Grobbelaar, an analyst at Klerksdorp, South Africa-based
Senwes Ltd., said by phone. ‘‘The Free State province also had
very little rain.’’  The town of Welkom in the Free State province, the region
that produces about 41 percent of the nation’s corn, will have
no rain from today until Oct. 25, when the area will have a 60
percent chance of showers, according to the  South African
Weather Service  website. Lichtenburg will have a 20 percent
chance of rain on Oct. 24, and a 30 percent chance on Oct. 25.
The town is in the North West province, which provides about 14
percent of the nation’s corn, according to data from the
country’s Crop Estimates Committee.  ‘‘Mpumalanga received a lot of rain this weekend, but the
other parts only patches,” Grobbelaar said. The area, which
produces about 26 percent of the country’s corn, has an 80
percent chance of showers today and a 30 percent chance
tomorrow, the weather service said.  South Africa  is the continent’s biggest corn producer. A
meal made from white corn is a staple food in the nation and the
yellow variety is mostly fed to animals.  Wheat for delivery in December gained 0.6 percent to 3,496
rand a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  