-- Spanish Soccer Chief Drops Executive Expenses Complaint
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-10-21T15:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/spanish-soccer-league-chief-drops-executive-expenses-complaint.html
The president of the  Spanish soccer
league  dropped a complaint against national team executives for
charging the travel expenses of their wives or partners to the
national federation.  Auditors found that five federation officials including
 FIFA Vice President Angel Maria Villar  began to charge the
expenses of their partners to the organization at the end of
2002, according to court papers.  Javier Tebas  withdrew the complaint from a  Madrid  court to
make his work easier after becoming president of the league on
April 26, he said in an e-mail today. He had been a league vice
president.  The league, which is also known as “La Liga,” organizes
the top championship in  Spain  that includes Real Madrid and
 Barcelona . It regularly negotiates with the Spanish federation,
which oversees the national team, over issues including the
dates of matches.  The court was investigating whether Villar and the four
other executives had committed a crime. The case was formally
dropped April 29, according to court documents. Public
prosecutors had already asked for the case to be withdrawn,
according to the documents.  When the details of the case were reported by the media,
some of the executives being investigated began to pay for the
travel expenses in a “hurried and disorderly” manner, which
suggested they knew they had acted irregularly, according to a
December 2012 court ruling.  Corte Ingles  Their trips were organized by a travel agency of the Corte
Ingles department store in the federation headquarters outside
Madrid. Auditors found that the expenses of the executives was
“chaotic” and receipts for some travel expenses hadn’t been
submitted, the ruling added.  FIFA president Sepp Blatter is seeking to increase
accountability and transparency of the Zurich-based soccer
ruling body after scandals involving executives including former
Vice President Mohamed  Bin Hammam .  Bin Hammam was banned from soccer governance for life by
FIFA in December for allegedly bribing Caribbean soccer
officials in a bid to oust Blatter as president in 2011
elections. Bin Hammam denies wrongdoing, saying his ban was for
political reasons.  Last year, an audit of the Asian soccer confederation by
Price Waterhouse Coopers said Bin Hammam “routinely” used
confederation bank accounts for personal receipts and payments
including the purchase of a honeymoon trip for his son, and
dresses for his daughter. The arrangement reflected “poor
governance,” according to Price Waterhouse’s conclusions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  