-- Starbucks Draws Criticism From China State TV for High Pricing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-21T06:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/starbucks-draws-criticism-from-china-state-tv-for-high-pricing.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest
coffee chain, drew criticism from  China Central Television  for
pricing products in the country above other markets, the latest
international brand to draw scrutiny from state-run media.  The company is among foreign brands whose pricing is unfair
and discriminatory in China, CCTV reported yesterday, saying
local offerings are more expensive than in cities such as
Chicago, London and Mumbai. Starbucks’s pricing is based on
local market costs, including labor and real estate, the
Seattle-based company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Consumer companies from baby-food maker Danone to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  have been targeted by state media or regulators in China on
pricing and local practices this year. Chinese Premier  Li
Keqiang , who took office in 2013, has pledged to protect
consumers and crack down on  food safety  in the nation.  A survey conducted by CCTV found a medium-sized cup of
latte was priced at 27  yuan  ($4.40) in China, versus $3.26 in
Chicago, and almost double the price in Mumbai, according to the
20-minute report. A similar-sized beverage cost 2.5 pounds ($4)
in London, it said.  Starbucks is also earning fatter  margins  in its China/Asia-Pacific region than in other areas, CCTV  reported , citing the
company’s second-quarter financial data.  The coffee chain’s ability to charge higher prices in China
is mostly because of domestic consumers’ “blind faith” in
foreign brands, CCTV reported, citing Wang Zhendong, head of
Shanghai’s coffee association.  Unique Markets  Every market is “unique and has different operating costs,
so it would be inaccurate to draw conclusions about one market
based on the prices in a different market,” Starbucks said in
its e-mail. “Our costs are variable over time, reflecting the
changing economic environment in which we operate.”  The coffee chain also said the profit margins for the
China/Asia-Pacific region reflect 14 markets and not just China.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  apologized in April
for the company’s iPhone warranty and repair policies in the
country after criticism from government-backed news outlets.  In July, several baby-formula makers cut prices of key
products in China, with reductions of as much as 20 percent by
Danone and Nestle. The cuts followed a report by the official
People’s Daily newspaper saying regulators had evidence that
these companies tried to fix resale prices of their products.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC food chain, apologized
in January after CCTV reported a supplier provided chicken meat
with above-standard levels of antibiotics.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  