-- China TV Draws Backlash For Probing Starbucks, Not Issues
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-22T05:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/starbucks-gets-criticised-by-china-state-tv-for-pricing.html
Chinese  Internet users  lashed out at
 China Central Television  for accusing Starbucks Corp. of price
gouging, criticizing the state broadcaster for deflecting
attention from more pressing social issues.  The U.S. coffee chain charges higher prices locally than in
cities such as  Chicago  and  London , CCTV said in a 20-minute
report on Oct. 20. A CCTV posting on Starbucks on China’s
Twitter-like Weibo service drew more than 29,000 comments, most
of which lambasted the station for ignoring problems such as
high housing prices and corruption.  The CCTV report follows a trend of state media targeting
foreign companies for unfair treatment of Chinese consumers,
with  Apple Inc (AAPL)  to  Yum! Brands (YUM)  Inc. among companies that have
made public apologies. China’s citizens face rising pollution,
food safety issues and soaring house prices even as incomes have
risen.  “Initially CCTV had anticipated the villain would be
 Starbucks (SBUX) ,” Mary Bergstrom, founder of Shanghai-based
consultancy Bergstrom Group. “What people are saying now is
that the villain is the state media. It’s putting them in a
difficult position to report news.”  Home Prices  Social media sites have become platforms for Chinese
citizens to expose corruption and wrongdoing in a country where
all domestic newspapers and television stations are state owned.  China’s Gini coefficient, a measure of income differences,
was 0.474 last year, according to the government, higher than
the 0.4 level that analysts say signals a potential for social
unrest. New home prices rose year over year in September in 69
out of 70 cities, led by 20 percent increases in the southern
business hubs of Shenzhen and Guangzhou,  China ’s statistics
bureau said today.  “CCTV, can we talk about China’s housing and gas prices
and other basic living costs before we discuss expensive
coffee?” one Chinese Internet user named Anderson Ye posted on
Weibo.  Starbucks’s pricing is based on local market costs such as
labor and real estate, the world’s largest coffee chain, said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Rising Inequality  CCTV said its survey found a medium-sized cup of Starbucks
latte was priced at 27  yuan  ($4.40) in China, versus $3.26 in
Chicago and 2.5 pounds ($4) for a similar-sized beverage in
London.  Every market is “unique and has different operating costs,
so it would be inaccurate to draw conclusions about one market
based on the prices in a different market,” Starbucks said in
an e-mail. “Our costs are variable over time, reflecting the
changing economic environment in which we operate.”  Starbucks is earning fatter  margins  in its China/Asia-Pacific region than in other areas, CCTV  reported , citing the
company’s second-quarter financial data. The coffee chain said
the profit margins for the China/Asia-Pacific region reflect 14
markets and not just China.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  apologized in April
for the company’s iPhone warranty and repair policies in the
country after criticism from government-backed news outlets.  In July, several baby-formula makers reduced prices of key
products in China, with reductions of as much as 20 percent by
Danone and  Nestle SA. (NESN)  The cuts followed a report by the official
People’s Daily newspaper saying regulators had evidence that
these companies tried to fix resale prices of their products.  Yum! Brands, owner of the KFC food chain, apologized in
January after CCTV reported a supplier provided chicken meat
with above-standard levels of antibiotics.  China, home to more than 591 million Web users by the end
of June, censors the Internet by blocking access to websites
with pornography, gambling and content critical of the Communist
Party’s rule.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  