-- Stress of Childhood Poverty May Have Long Effect on Brain
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-10-21T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/stress-of-childhood-poverty-may-have-long-effect-on-brain.html
Children raised in poverty or in
orphanages experience chronic stress early in life that can have
long-lasting effects on the brain, setting them up for future
mental and physical ailments as adults, two studies found.  The stress of poverty may affect regions in a child’s brain
that control emotion, according to research published today in
the journal  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . A
second study found that children who had lived in an orphanage
were more anxious than those who hadn’t.  In childhood, the brain is still immature and developing
rapidly so it is more sensitive to high-stress situations than
an adult brain, said  Pilyoung Kim , lead study author of the
childhood poverty study. The findings from both papers suggest
that early intervention programs to address chronic stress may
benefit these children, the authors said.  “Long-term exposure to chronic stress is likely to cause
wear and tear in children’s physical and psychological systems
for coping with stress over time,” said Kim, an assistant
professor and director of the Family and Child Neuroscience Lab
at the University of Denver, in an Oct. 20 e-mail. “Living in
poverty at a young age can cause long-lasting changes in brain
development, which contribute to difficulties in regulating of
emotions and future devastating health outcomes, including
mental illness and high mortality and morbidity in adulthood.”  Poverty Effects  Researchers in the poverty study looked at 54 adults at age
24. Half of those in the study were considered low income when
they were 9 years old and half were not.  Using brain imaging, they found that adults who were poor
as children were less able than other participants to minimize
their emotional reactions to negative images by reinterpreting
scenes as less harmful or mentally distancing themselves. The
findings were the same even when the researchers controlled for
income as adults.  In the second paper, researchers from the Weill Cornell
Medical College in  New York  studied 16 children ages 11 and
younger who had been reared in an orphanage and 10 children who
hadn’t.  The researchers also created a mouse model in which the
maternal care of newborn mice was disrupted. This experiment
enabled the researchers to simulate the orphanage experience,
observe the behavior of the animals and look into their brains.  The findings suggested that the unpredictable care children
receive in orphanages may alter their behavior and, as seen in
the mouse model, is an early-life stress that can affect brain
development.  Altered Behavior  “When growing up in an unpredictable situation such as an
orphanage, you are altering the way the brain allocates
resources to interpret the world around it,” said Matthew
Cohen, who conducted the research as part of his doctoral work
at Weill Cornell. “By doing so, you end up altering the
behavior of the animal or humans later on.”  Early stressful experiences in childhood lead to higher
rates of anxiety and depression, he said. “It’s definitely more
difficult to reverse the older the individual,” Cohen said in a
telephone interview.  “The changes are more widespread if the
children are in the orphanage longer.”  The results suggest early intervention is needed for
orphanage-reared children to help reduce risk of psychological
illness, the authors wrote. About 8 million children live in
orphanages worldwide, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  