-- Summers Said to Turn Down Request to Run Bank of Israel
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-21T18:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/summers-said-to-turn-down-request-to-run-bank-of-israel.html
Former U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Lawrence Summers  rejected an approach about taking charge of
Israel’s central bank after missing out on the  Federal Reserve ’s
top job, according to a person with knowledge of the appointment
process.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  asked Summers to take the
Bank of Israel job during his visit to the U.S. starting in late
September, the person said, declining to be identified because
of the issue’s sensitivity. A spokeswoman for Summers, Kelly Friendly, said he would have no comment.  The approach to Summers came after two of Netanyahu’s
nominees withdrew their candidacies during the vetting process,
leaving a vacancy at the central bank after  Stanley Fischer ’s
departure in June. The Israeli premier announced yesterday that
Karnit Flug, Fischer’s deputy who had been serving as interim
chief, would take over on a permanent basis.  Summers, a Harvard University economics professor, was in
the running for the equivalent job in the U.S. He withdrew as a
candidate to replace  Ben S. Bernanke  as chairman of the Federal
Reserve before  Janet Yellen  was nominated for the job earlier
this month.  If approved, Flug will become the first woman to run the
Bank of Israel, and the third female central bank chief to be
named in recent months, after Yellen and Elvira Nabiullina in
Russia.  Fischer had chosen Flug as his deputy, and backed her as
his successor. Netanyahu and his finance minister, Yair Lapid,
have been criticized by Israeli lawmakers for repeatedly looking
elsewhere before eventually giving Flug the job.  Shelly Yachimovich, leader of the opposition Labor Party,
told Haaretz newspaper before the appointment that Netanyahu and
Lapid “should go to the home of Dr. Karnit Flug to apologize
and beg her to take the job.”  Summers, who had been favored by President  Barack Obama  for
the Fed job, said at the time of his withdrawal that his
nomination would lead to an “acrimonious” confirmation process
that wouldn’t be in the interests of the economy or the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  