-- Sunac China Says Sales to Exceed $8.2 Billion as Rich Buy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-21T08:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/sunac-china-says-home-sales-to-exceed-8-2-billion-as-rich-buy.html
Sunac China Holdings Ltd. (1918) , the
Chinese developer in which buyout firm  Bain Capital  LLC has a
stake, expects home sales to rise at least 11 percent this year
from last year amid strong demand from rich buyers.  The developer’s home sales will exceed 50 billion  yuan 
($8.2 billion) this year as it focuses on mid-to-high-end
properties in major cities including Beijing and Shanghai,
Chairman Sun Hongbin told reporters in Suzhou, a city west of
Shanghai, on Oct. 17. The Tianjin-based homebuilder in January
forecast sales of 45 billion yuan for 2013.  Sunac is expanding amid resilient demand for luxury housing
in big cities even as the government maintains residential
curbs, Sun said. New home prices in  China ’s four major cities
rose in August the most since January 2011, led by a 19 percent
jump from a year earlier in Guangzhou in southern China,
according to data issued Sept. 18 by the National Bureau of
Statistics.  “I’m very confident in Beijing and  Shanghai  as there’s so
much demand from everywhere,” Sun said. “They are first-tier
world-class cities. There’s no single China property market we
are talking about, because markets in big cities are hot, while
in some other cities the market is very cold.”  Sunac sold 36.4 billion yuan of homes in the first nine
months of the year, about 81 percent of its sales target for
2013, according to a statement on its website.  Average Prices  Average selling prices of Sunac projects in Shanghai are
between 60,000 yuan and 70,000 yuan per square meter (10.76 per
square feet), according to Sun. China’s new-home prices jumped
9.5 percent in September from a year earlier to 10,554 yuan for
each square meter, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the
country’s biggest real estate website owner.  Sunac shares , which trade in  Hong Kong , rose 0.8 percent to
HK$5.24 at the close of trading, the biggest gain in
almost two weeks. The stock is down 13 percent so far this year,
compared with a 2.4 percent advance in the Bloomberg Asia
Pacific Real Estate Index, of which Sunac is a constituent.  Sun  acquired  19.8 million shares of his company from Sept.
19 to Oct. 2 for about about HK$98 million ($13 million),
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sun owns 48 percent of
the Sunac, while Bain Capital owns 5.4 percent, according to the
data.  Specific property-related policies are unlikely to come out
of a Communist Party meeting in November even as President Xi
Jinping and his leadership team are preparing to discuss
deepening reforms, Sun said.  “The government may let the market play a bigger role in
the high-end  property market , while emphasizing social-housing
construction in the lower end,” said Sun, who also expects a
property tax to be introduced in more cities beyond Shanghai and
Chongqing.  Prime Land  The company holds about 10 billion yuan of cash and cash
flow remains healthy even after the developer paid record prices
for land in the past several months, Sun said.  Sunac bought a residential site in Beijing on Sept. 4 for
73,000 yuan a square meter of floor area, a record high for the
country, according to Haitong International Securities Co. Sun
said it was a “reasonable price” for a prime urban location
and the company plans to sell homes that will be built on the
site for at least 150,000 yuan per square meter. There currently
isn’t any suitable land to buy, Sun said.  The developer and  Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900)  are
building villas that model Chinese ancient gardens in Suzhou,
which are designated a World Heritage site by the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. The Peach
Blossom Spring project will start sales at the end of the month
for at least 20 million yuan per unit, according to Sunac.  Hangzhou-based Greentown will “have no problem” exceeding
its property sales target of HK$50 billion for 2013, while
China’s property market will be stable for the rest of the year
without big fluctuations, executive general manager Fu Linjiang
said in an interview in the city on Oct. 18.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  