-- Suu Kyi Says Myanmar Must End Military’s ‘Special Position’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   I a n   W i s h a r t
-- 2013-10-21T18:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/suu-kyi-says-myanmar-must-end-military-s-special-position-.html
Myanmar needs constitutional changes
that end the military’s “special position” in politics to
foster democracy, said opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi.  “This constitution is about preserving the privileged
position not just of the military but of all those who were
connected to it in the previous regime,” Suu Kyi told a joint
meeting of two European Parliament committees today in
Strasbourg, France. “We have a long way to go before we achieve
genuine democracy and we have to start with amending this
constitution, which is wholly undemocratic.”  Myanmar has progressed toward democracy since 2010 after
five decades of military rule, prompting multinational companies
to invest in the Asian country and the U.S. and the European
Union to ease sanctions against it.  Myanmar President Thein Sein has permitted more political
freedom and loosened economic controls in the country of 64
million people, attracting companies such as  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  Unilever NV. (UNA)  Chinese and Japanese businesses
are also investing in the nation, which borders  India ,  China  and
 Thailand .  Myanmar, also known as Burma, must change the constitution
before general elections due in 2015, Suu Kyi said today. In
June, Suu Kyi said that she wants to run for president, a post
for which she is ineligible under the current constitution
because it says the head of state can’t have a child who is the
citizen of a foreign country and her two sons are British
nationals.  In her appearance today, Suu Kyi said constitutional change
is Myanmar’s most pressing task and it requires the military’s
agreement. One of the main aims of the current constitution “is
to preserve the special position of the military in Burmese
politics,” she said.  “Our greatest need is amendments to the constitution so
that we have as the basic and fundamental law of our land a
framework that will truly keep us firmly on the road to
democracy,” Suu Kyi said. “The 2015 elections cannot be fair
unless the constitution is changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  