-- U.K. Prosecutor Investigating 22 More People in Libor Probe
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-10-21T18:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/u-k-prosecutor-probing-22-over-libor-as-u-s-charges-possible.html
U.K. prosecutors are investigating
22 people as potential co-conspirators in relation to the 
rigging of the London interbank offered rate.  The fact that the U.K. Serious Fraud Office sent a letter
to the individuals on Sept. 30 informing them they were being
investigated in connection with Libor, can be reported after a
judge declined to extend an injunction at a hearing today.  Eight of the 22 individuals were identified by the Wall
Street Journal last week. An injunction forcing the newspaper to
take the story down from its website was lifted by the judge at
the hearing.  “I’m not enamored at the idea of anonymity,” Judge
Jeremy Cooke said. The prospect of any of the 22 facing 
trial is “so far down the line” it “would not cause any risk 
of substantial prejudice” to lift the injunction.  Three people have been charged in the U.K. over Libor. Tom Hayes, a former  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  trader, and two former
RP Martin Holdings Ltd. brokers, Terry Farr and James Gilmour,
had been scheduled to enter pleas today. Most of today’s hearing
focused on the injunction and another hearing was scheduled for
later this year.  The SFO investigations are continuing and Cooke said all 
of the 22 may be cleared of any wrongdoing.  Official Indictment  An official copy of the indictments that will be submitted
to the court in the coming weeks probably won’t contain the
names of the 22 individuals, lawyers for the SFO said.  Hayes was charged by U.S. authorities in December, in an
indictment that was unsealed on the day UBS was fined about $1.5
billion by U.S., U.K. and Swiss regulators for trying to rig
global interest rates.  Rabobank Groep, the Netherlands’ biggest mortgage lender,
may reach a settlement with regulators as soon as this month
over claims it rigged Libor, making it the fifth firm to be
penalized over the scandal.  Hendrik Jan Eijpe, a spokesman for Utrecht, Netherlands-based Rabobank, declined to comment.  Global regulators have fined UBS, Barclays Plc,  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and, most recently, ICAP, about $2.6
billion for distorting Libor and similar benchmarks.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank AG, Europe’s biggest investment bank by
revenue, is interviewing about 50 employees as it investigates
whether traders tried to rig benchmark interest rates, said a
person with knowledge of the matter.  The interviews are part of an investigation that has
included conversations with staff and a review of their
electronic communication that started after the Frankfurt-based
bank’s management was informed in 2011 of potential attempts to
manipulate rates, said the person, who asked not to be
identified as they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Deutsche Bank declined to comment on its investigation.
 Germany ’s largest lender has said that its probe indicates no
wrongdoing by current or former management board members and
that it would fire or suspend employees who acted
inappropriately without identifying individuals.  SFO Charges  Hayes was charged by the SFO in June with conspiring with
employees of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group ,
HSBC Holdings Plc, Rabobank and Deutsche Bank, as well as
Tullett Prebon Plc,  ICAP (IAP)  and RP Martin Holdings Ltd., to
manipulate yen Libor rates over a four-year period.  Farr and Gilmour became the first brokers to be prosecuted
over the interest-rate benchmark in July when they were charged
with conspiracy to defraud.  In addition, four other people have been charged in the
U.S. Three former ICAP employees, Darrell Read, Daniel Wilkinson
and Colin Goodman, and a former UBS trader, Roger Darin, have
been charged by U.S. prosecutors.  Read, Wilkinson and Goodman were charged in September.
Darin was charged with Hayes by U.S. authorities in December.  More than $300 trillion of loans, financial products and
contracts are linked to Libor. Regulators are looking at how
derivative traders and bankers who submitted interest-rate data
colluded to ensure benchmarks benefited their own trades, and
whether lenders low-balled submissions in 2008 to hide their
true cost of borrowing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  