-- U.K. Stocks Rally to 11-Week High Amid Fed Optimism
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-10-21T16:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/u-k-stocks-little-changed-after-longest-rally-since-may.html
U.K. stocks  advanced to an 11-week
high, with the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  extending its longest
rally in five months, amid optimism the Federal Reserve won’t
cut bond buying this year and China will deepen growth policies.  G4S Plc (GFS)  gained 3.5 percent as private-equity investor
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP was said to be considering a 1
billion-pound ($1.6 billion) offer for its cash-solutions
business.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  and  Centamin Plc (CEY)  led mining
companies higher.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  dropped the
most in four months after a report that the U.K. government will
decide next month on spinning off its toxic assets.  The FTSE 100 Index added 31.62 points, or 0.5 percent, to
6,654.2 at the close in London, for its highest level since Aug.
1. The gauge advanced 2.1 percent last week as President  Barack
Obama  signed into law a measure extending the U.S. government’s
borrowing authority until early 2014. The broader FTSE All-Share
Index climbed 0.5 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.2
percent.  “The market believes the Fed won’t taper in 2013,” Louis de Fels, a Paris-based fund manager at Raymond James Financial
Inc., which oversees about $53 billion, said. “U.S. employment
figures will be released tomorrow. If it’s bad, it’ll mean
tapering will pushed to 2014. If it’s good, it’ll be a positive
sign of the economy.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the FTSE 100 was 26 percent lower than the average of the past
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Policy  Investors turned their attention to the Federal Open Market
Committee’s two-day meeting beginning Oct. 29, the first since
U.S. government ended a 16-day partial shutdown caused by a
fiscal impasse.  The Fed will delay a reduction in its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases until after Chairman Ben Bernanke’s
second term ends on Jan. 31, economists said. Policy makers will
pare the pace of asset buying to $70 billion at their March
18-19 meeting, according to the median of 40 responses in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The shutdown slowed fourth-quarter growth of the world’s
largest economy by 0.3 percentage point, economists said. The
release of data was also delayed, affecting the Fed’s ability to
decide on tapering stimulus, they said.  Data tomorrow will probably show American employers added
180,000 workers in September, the most since April, after a
169,000 gain in August, according to the median estimate of 93
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  China Policy  China ’s government said the country’s economy needed
unrelenting implementation of growth policies as the foundations
of an economy recovery have not yet stabilized. The government
will boost financial support to small businesses, stabilize
foreign trade growth, cut overcapacity and look for new engines
to drive consumption, according to a statement from the State
Council after an Oct. 18 meeting led by Premier Li Keqiang.  G4S rose 3.5 percent to 250.5 pence, its biggest increase
since Aug. 12. London-based Charterhouse approached banks and
its investors over financing a deal to buy G4S’ cash-solutions
business, according to three people familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
G4S, the world’s largest security-services provider, is aware of
the proposal and discussed the sale option internally, said one
of the people.  A gauge of  U.K. mining companies  added 0.6 percent, after
rallying for the past two weeks. Vedanta climbed 3.1 percent to
1,071 pence, while Centamin advanced 4 percent to 53.25 pence.  Luxury Goods  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  rose 1.5 percent to 1,550 pence after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted the market for global luxury
goods may double in sales by 2020.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc climbed 2.8 percent to 1,123
pence. Citigroup Inc. said the world’s second-biggest aircraft-engine manufacturer remains one of its key picks in civil
aerospace because of earnings growth and valuation.  RBS fell 5.3 percent to 353.1 pence. Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne said the U.K. government will decide by
early to mid-November whether it should break up RBS and spin
off its toxic assets into a “bad bank,” the Daily Telegraph
reported.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank by assets, lost
1.1 percent to 274.75 pence.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc retreated 1.6 percent to 487.1
pence. Gillian Ridley Whittle, development and buying director
at Britain’s largest clothing retailer, will leave the company,
according to spokeswoman Clare Wilkes. The Sunday Times reported
earlier Ridley Whittle will join the department-store chain
Target in  Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  London  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  