-- U.K. Earmarks 33 Billion Pounds for Infrastructure Guarantees
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-10-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/u-k-earmarks-33-billion-pounds-for-infrastructure-guarantees.html
The British government may guarantee
33 billion pounds ($53 billion) of infrastructure projects, over
half of them in the energy industry.  The 40 road, rail and energy projects have been selected as
eligible for the government to act as guarantor, the Treasury in
 London  said in an e-mailed statement today. Further discussions,
assessment and due diligence will now be carried out.  Prime Minister David Cameron is seeking to boost investment
in Britain’s aging infrastructure amid projection that the U.K.
is set to overtake  Germany  as the European Union’s most populous
country by 2045. Today’s announcement comes a day after
Electricite de France SA said it will build the U.K.’s first
nuclear reactors since 1995.  “Getting our infrastructure right means we can be globally
competitive , boost growth  and create jobs across the U.K,”
Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander said in the
statement. “I hope today’s announcement will encourage even
more businesses to consider how they can take advantage of a
guarantee.”  The government guarantees would cover a proportion of the
capital value of the project should companies fail to obtain
private funding. As much as 40 billion pounds of guarantees can
be issued under the program, the Treasury said.  The government already awarded a 75 million-pound guarantee
to Drax Group Plc in April for its 700 million-pound plan to
partially convert the U.K.’s biggest coal power station, in
North Yorkshire, to biomass, with the intention of producing 7
percent of the country’s electricity.  Helius Energy Plc’s Avonmouth biomass energy-generation
project in southwest  England ; the Islandmagee gas storage
project in Northern Ireland; two Intergen NV gas-fired power
generation projects in Lincolnshire in eastern England and at
the Gateway Energy Centre in Essex, near London; and the Neart
Na Gaoithe wind farm in  Scotland  are among the projects that
prequalified for a guarantee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  