-- U.S. Treasury Seeks Chief Risk Officer as Part of Strategic Plan
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-10-21T16:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/u-s-treasury-seeks-chief-risk-officer-as-part-of-strategic-plan.html
The U.S. Treasury Department wants
to hire someone to help manage risks and protect against losses
on federal programs, according to an internal memo.  The Treasury intends to create the job of chief risk
officer to oversee a small team and “provide permanent
financial risk-management expertise,” according to the memo
from Undersecretary for Domestic Finance  Mary Miller  to staff in
her division in Washington. Miller refers to the memo, dated
Sept. 16 and obtained by  Bloomberg News , as a “strategic
plan.” Treasury spokesman  Anthony Coley  declined to comment.  The department has been forced to assume responsibility for
losses at other federal agencies. Mortgage-finance companies
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  are under a Treasury conservatorship
that started in 2008. The  Federal Housing Administration  last
month drew about $1.7 billion from the Treasury to shore up
FHA’s insurance fund after losses on defaulted mortgages
depleted reserves.  “It’s a credit risk to Treasury when there are losses on
these insurance and guarantee programs, and then Treasury has to
foot the bill,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner at
Federal Financial Analytics Inc., a  Washington  regulatory
research firm whose clients include the world’s largest banks.
“Getting a handle on all those guarantee and credit risks is a
good idea.”  Miller’s memo also proposed strengthening the Office of
Financial Research’s “ability to provide analytical support”
to the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The research
office gives data to the FSOC, a group of regulators led by
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew that was created by the Dodd-Frank law to help prevent another financial crisis.  Mortgage Programs  Miller’s memo reiterated the Treasury’s plans to wind down
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac “while assuring the continued flow
of mortgage credit” and said the department will work with the
White House and Congress “to develop and implement a plan for
long-term reform of the mortgage finance system.”  The two government-sponsored enterprises have paid the
Treasury a combined $146 billion in the form of dividends on the
government’s stake, which does not count as a repayment of the
aid they received after the financial crisis.  President  Barack Obama  said in August that private capital
should take the lead role in the mortgage market, with the
government providing a backstop only against catastrophic risk.  Timothy F. Geithner , Lew’s predecessor at the Treasury,
released a white paper in February 2011 outlining three options
for winding down and replacing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The
options ranged from near-complete privatization to a system in
which the government would serve as a catastrophic reinsurer of
mortgage securities, with private capital taking most of the up-front risk.  Miller’s plan includes a “complete build-out” of the
Treasury’s Office of Critical Infrastructure Protection to
“keep pace with growing cyber threats.” The Treasury also
wants to establish a central role for the Federal Insurance
Office, according to the memo. The office, created by Dodd-Frank, advises the FSOC and the  Treasury secretary  on insurance
issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  