-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Oct. 11 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-10-21T14:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-oct-11-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 14.9 million
barrels per day during the week ending October 11, 2013, 37
thousand barrels per day lower than the previous week’s average.
Refineries operated at 86.2 percent of their operable capacity
last week. Gasoline production rose from the previous week,
averaging 9.3 million barrels per day. Distillate fuel
production increased last week to about 4.8 million barrels per
day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 8.0 million barrels per
day last week, down by 39 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports
averaged 8.1 million barrels per day, 0.2 percent above the same
four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline imports
(including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 584 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 67 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 4.0 million barrels
from the previous week. At 374.5 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper range for this time of year.
Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by 2.6 million
barrels last week, but are near the top of the average range.
Finished gasoline inventories and gasoline blending component
inventories both decreased. Distillate fuel inventories
decreased by 1.8 million barrels last week and remain near the
lower limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories were unchanged last week and are
in the middle of the average range. Total commercial petroleum
inventories decreased by 0.1 million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period averaged
19.0 million barrels per day, up by 0.9 percent from the same
period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor gasoline
product supplied averaged about 8.8 million barrels per day, up
by 1.7 percent from the same period last year. Distillate fuel
product supplied averaged 3.7 million barrels per day over the
last four weeks, down by 3.4 percent from the same period last
year. Jet fuel product supplied is down 6.3 percent compared to
the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  