-- Huishang Bank Starts Marketing $1.5 Billion Hong Kong IPO
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   F o x   H u   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-10-21T03:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/huishang-bank-starts-marketing-1-5-billion-ipo-in-hong-kong.html
Huishang Bank Corp., a lender in the
eastern Chinese province of Anhui, is seeking as much as $1.5
billion from what could be Hong Kong’s biggest banking initial
public offering in almost three years.  The bank, based in Hefei city, plans to offer 2.5 billion
shares, or about 23 percent of the company, according to a term
sheet obtained by Bloomberg News. State-owned shareholders may
also sell shares on behalf of China’s  National Social Security
Fund . Proceeds from the sale, which may raise at least $1
billion, will be used to strengthen Huishang’s core capital
base, the terms show.  “Huishang is a city commercial bank facing less capital
pressure because its scale is smaller than the other larger
national players,” Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Phillip Securities Group, said by phone today. “This could be a
selling point to investors.”  A $1.5 billion deal would be the largest banking IPO in
Hong Kong since  Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank (3618)  Co. raised $1.7
billion in December 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China Everbright Bank Co. (601818) , which is listed in
 Shanghai , said Oct. 16 it won regulatory approval to sell as
many as 12 billion shares overseas, paving the way for a first-time stock sale in Hong Kong.  Huishang started gauging investor demand today and will
take orders from Oct. 28, according to the terms. It plans to
set a final price for the offering on Nov. 2.  Share Performance  Companies have raised $8.5 billion in Hong Kong IPOs this
year, more than double the amount for the same period of 2012,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Founded in December 2005, Huishang had about 5,500
employees and 190 outlets at the end of last year, according to
the lender’s  website .  The Hang Seng  China  H-Financial Index, which tracks shares
of Chinese banks and insurers traded in Hong Kong, has fallen 5
percent this year, compared with the benchmark Hang Seng Index’s
3.6 percent gain. The financials  gauge  trades for 6.8 times 12-month projected profit, a 35 percent discount to the Hang Seng
Index’s valuation, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Chinese banks’ valuations are relatively low in Hong Kong
right now,” Wang Er Hong, director general manager at Guoyuan
Securities (HK) Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to questions
today. “This will not be good for Huishang’s pricing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  