-- Munich Re Demands Higher Rates on Desasters in Germany
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-10-21T09:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/munich-re-demands-higher-rates-on-desasters-in-germany.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, said rates in  Germany  need to rise following this
year’s floods and hailstorms.  “It just took another 10 years to see another centennial
flood in Germany,” management board member Ludger Arnoldussen
said at a press conference in Baden-Baden, Germany, today. “The
first rate increases in homeowner insurance are visible as
premium rates need to be adjusted to reflect the natural
catastrophe exposure covered.”  Motor insurance prices in Germany still don’t reflect
risks, Arnoldussen said. Homeowners and motor insurance were the
most affected by this year’s floods and hailstorms, he said.
Floods and hailstorms added to insured market losses of $8
billion in  Europe  in the first nine months of the year, above
the $6 billion 10-year average, Munich Re said. Reinsurers help
primary carriers such as  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Talanx AG (TLX)  cover risks in
return for a share of the premiums.  Munich Re reported on Aug. 6 that second-quarter profit
fell 35 percent to 529 million euros ($723 million), missing
analysts’ estimates, as claims from natural disasters rose.  The company’s claims from the June floods in central Europe
were about 230 million euros, it has said. Hailstorms that hit
parts of Germany at the end of July are expected to cost Munich
Re 180 million euros, Munich Re said on Sept. 8.  Both claims estimates are still accurate, Arnoldussen said
today, adding that claims from hailstorms in June and August are
expected to be significantly lower than those the reinsurer
faced in July. Detailed figures will be given when Munich Re
reports third-quarter earnings on Nov. 7, he said.  With the use of an increasing number of solar panels and
energy efficient building materials, the damage from this year’s
hailstorms was higher than in the past, Arnoldussen said.  Reinsurers including Munich Re and  Hannover Re  are meeting
brokers and primary insurers this week in Baden-Baden to
renegotiate terms and conditions of contracts due for renewal in
January. That follows talks in  Monte Carlo  in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich  at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  