-- Luxury Stocks Lose Favor as Confidence Holds: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-10-21T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/luxury-stocks-lose-favor-as-confidence-holds-ecopulse.html
U.S. upscale retail stocks have
fallen out of favor with investors even though high-income
Americans are generally positive about the economic outlook.  Shares of  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  have lagged behind the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index by about 12 percentage points since July 1,
while  Ralph Lauren  Corp. has trailed the benchmark index by
almost 14 percentage points. As these stocks have weakened, the
S&P 500 has rallied 8 percent, closing at a record high Oct. 18.  This shows that some analysts and investors have become
“too pessimistic” about these retailers’ earnings and customer
base, said David Yucius, who oversees $250 million in assets as
president of Aurora Investment Counsel Inc. in Atlanta. Their
concern may be misplaced because people who shop at these stores
seem to be doing “just fine,” and there isn’t evidence to
suggest a “decline or even stress” among these consumers.  Sentiment among Americans earning more than $100,000
averaged 16.7 in the four weeks ended Oct. 13, up from 15.2 in
the four-week period ended June 30, as measured by the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index. While it  fell  to 14 from 19 in the most
recent survey, released Oct. 17, this remains the only income
group with a positive reading.  These consumers -- the primary customer base of
“affordable luxury” companies such as  Coach Inc. (COH) ,  Tiffany &
Co. (TIF)  and  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  -- aren’t necessarily
“immune to everything,” said  Paul Lejuez , a New York-based
analyst at Wells Fargo & Co. There has been a “wallet-share
shift” as many have chosen to spend their money on cars,
electronics or home furnishings instead of these retailers’
products, he said.  Weaker Sales  While this has contributed to weaker sales and earnings
forecasts, Lejuez said he maintains “market perform”
recommendations on Seattle-based Nordstrom and Tiffany and
Coach, both in  New York .  Slower sales earlier this year for these companies were
attributed in part to higher taxes for wealthy Americans. On top
of an increase for all employees in the tax that funds  Social
Security  benefits, there’s also a new 0.9 percent surtax on
wages and 3.8 percent added tax on investment income for
individuals making more than $200,000 a year and for couples
making more than $250,000.  Additionally, Congress set the top income-tax rate at 39.6
percent on taxable income above $400,000 for individuals and
$450,000 for couples, compared with 35 percent last year.  Spending Headwind  The changes -- along with budget battles in  Washington  and
rebounding  automobile  and  home sales  -- serve as a “headwind”
to discretionary spending at luxury retailers, said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham,  Alabama . The lag in their stocks since
the summer is a “very good barometer” of the pessimism
investors have for their customers’ spending ability, he said.  Americans aren’t as enthusiastic as Asian consumers about
luxury shopping, while the European market remains sluggish,
Yucius said, adding that “cooling” growth in  China  presented
another threat to these companies’ sales.  As a result, analysts have reduced their expectations for
several of these retailers. Earnings for Nordstrom will be  $3.68
a share  in its current fiscal year, down about 7 percent from
estimates in January, according to the consensus of analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The consensus for New York-based Ralph Lauren also is lower:  $8.74 a share  now, down about
5 percent from January.  Less Severe  Ralph Lauren has been underperforming the market since
early 2012, reversing a four-year uptrend, as investors are
“pulling money out of it faster than the  S&P 500 Index (SPX) ,” said
Jim Stellakis, founder and director of research at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based research company Technical Alpha Inc.
Similarly, the relative performance of Nordstrom also has been
weak this year, though the sell-off hasn’t been “as severe.”  Weakness in these stocks and the lower analyst earnings
estimates reflect a  U.S. economy  that’s still “so anemic,”
said  Tim Ghriskey , chief investment officer of Solaris Asset
Management LLC and co-founder of the New York-based Solaris
Group LLC, which oversees more than $1.5 billion.  The world’s largest economy will grow at a 1.9 percent
annual pace in the third quarter, compared with 2.8 percent a
year earlier, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from Oct. 4 to Oct 9, during the 16-day
partial government shutdown.  Monitor Earnings  That’s why investors should monitor earnings from these
retailers to see if there’s further deterioration in consumption
or if market-share losses are to blame for weaker management
forecasts, Ghriskey said.  Coach is scheduled to release fiscal first-quarter results
tomorrow. Ralph Lauren,  Michael Kors , Nordstrom,  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and
Tiffany are slated to announce earnings in November.  If these companies report another quarter of weakness, that
could signal their core customers are struggling, Ghriskey said,
adding this is one reason his firm doesn’t currently hold any of
these stocks. As more competitors try to sell to a base of
consumers he doesn’t see growing, it’s creating an unfavorable
environment for both margins and earnings.  The impact varies, however, as competitive dynamics mean
there are the “haves and the have nots” in this industry,
Yucius said. “The whole ship isn’t sinking, it’s a matter of
which brand is winning the fashion trend of the moment.”  Nothing Positive  Coach, for example, has lost market share to Hong Kong-based Michael Kors. Relative to the  S&P 500 , investors have been
pulling money out of its stock since 2012 and they haven’t
stopped, Stellakis said. Meanwhile,  short interest  has
“exploded,” from 10 million shares in January to about 20.7
million as of Sept. 30, he said, citing data compiled by
Bloomberg -- underscoring that investors don’t see “anything
positive” with the stock.  In a short sale, traders sell borrowed stock on the
assumption the price will decline, allowing them to make money
by buying it back at a lower price.  Even so, what’s unattractive to some makes Coach attractive
to others. It is trading at about 14 times earnings, below the
20-year historical price-to-earnings ratio of 20, with a
dividend yield of about 2.5 percent, and has a strategy to “get
back to where it was,” Yucius said. The handbag maker will
change its organizational structure, focusing on its North
American business, it said in a July 30 statement.  These are among the reasons why his firm holds Coach
shares. “I’m getting paid to wait for management to curb
market-share losses and re-assert the brand,” Yucius said.  ‘Very Accommodative’  While Michael Kors generally has been an exception in this
group -- it has led the S&P 500 by 13 percentage points since
July 1 -- if the other companies were to stop underperforming,
this would signal a shift in investor sentiment. The backdrop
has been set, Hellwig said, now that a deal has been struck on
the debt limit, there’s a positive wealth effect from the stock
market’s  recent rally  and  Janet Yellen  -- perceived to be “very
accommodative” on monetary policy -- has been nominated as
chairman of the  Federal Reserve .  Consumers could surprise investors in the all-important
holiday season with better-than-forecast sales, Ghriskey said,
and as the economy continues to mend, these stocks should
recover.  “If everything looks rosy and the high-end segment doesn’t
pick up, that’s a red flag that the group is tapped out in terms
of its growth potential,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  