-- VMware’s Third-Quarter Profit Exceeds Estimates on Renewals
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-10-21T22:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/vmware-third-quarter-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-on-renewals.html
VMware Inc. (VMW) , the biggest maker of
software that lets computers run different operating systems,
reported third-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’
projections as corporate customers renewed licensing deals.  Profit before certain items was 84 cents a share,  Palo
Alto , California-based VMware said today in a statement. That
topped the 82-cent average  estimate  of analysts, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 14 percent to $1.29
billion, in line with analysts’ average prediction. The shares
jumped as much as 11 percent in extended trading.  VMware, which is majority-owned by EMC Corp., makes
virtualization software that lets customers combine multiple
applications on a single machine. Sales are rising as more
companies re-sign multiyear contracts,  Brian Marshall , an
analyst at ISI Group who rates VMware a strong buy, wrote in a
note to clients last week. VMware also has been expanding into
newer areas, such as Web-based cloud software that merges
applications stored at a customer’s site with ones hosted in
VMware’s own data centers.  “Customers are getting more strategic and they are buying
more from us,” Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Chadwick said
in an interview.  Army Contract  During the quarter, the company signed its biggest-ever
deal, a multiyear contract with the U.S. Army, Chadwick said.
Amid concerns that too many customers already own VMware’s basic
virtualization software, the company is shifting focus toward
selling more of its newer products, with 40 percent of business
now coming from these areas, he said.  Third-quarter net income, which included stock-based
compensation and acquisition-related costs, rose 66 percent to
$261 million, or 60 cents a share, from $157 million, or 36
cents, a year earlier, VMware said.  For the fourth quarter, revenue will be $1.45 billion to
$1.48 billion, the company said on a conference call. On
average, analysts had projected $1.48 billion. Sales for the
year will be $5.18 billion to $5.21 billion, a narrowing of the
company’s previous forecast range and in line with analysts’
estimates.  VMware  shares  rose as high as $91.74 following the report,
after gaining 1.5 percent to $82.65 at the close in  New York .
The stock has dropped 12 percent so far this year amid concern
about slowing sales growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ; 