-- Wheat Falls as Dry Spell Aids Black Sea Crop; Corn Rises
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-21T19:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/wheat-climbs-to-four-month-high-on-argentine-crop-damage.html
Wheat fell from a four-month high on
speculation that drier weather will boost crop prospects in the
 Black Sea region , reducing demand for exports from the U.S., the
world’s top shipper. Corn and soybeans rose.  Warm conditions in the next two weeks in parts of the
former  Soviet Union  will help farmers finish sowing in the
southern region and boost crops in the north before winter,
 Commodity Weather Group LLC  in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a
report. Rain in the past three days boosted some plants in
Argentina, the company said.  “The improved weather for final planting progress in parts
of the Black Sea region reduced the fears of a 20 percent drop
in output,” Darrell Holaday, the president of Advanced Market
Concepts in Wamego,  Kansas , said in a telephone interview.
“Rains should be beneficial for  Argentina  yields.”  Wheat futures for December delivery dropped 0.9 percent to
settle at $6.9975 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, after touching $7.1125, the highest for a most-active
contract since June 21.  Argentina’s production may be higher than the government
forecast last week, Holaday said.  Dry weather will aid in final planting in the U.S. Great
Plains during the next 10 days, Commodity Weather Group said.
The Department of Agriculture will probably say in a report
later today that the nation’s planting progress probably was at
least 85 percent completed as of yesterday, compared with 39
percent as of Sept. 29, before the 16-day government shutdown
halted agency data, Holaday said.  “Most farmers in the southern Plains will be done with
planting by the end of this week,” Holaday said. “Farmers are
going to plant more, and this year’s crop is in the best
condition in at least five or six years.”  Corn futures for December delivery rose 0.6 percent to
$4.44 a bushel on the CBOT.  Soybean futures for November delivery advanced 0.9 percent
to $13.0325 a bushel. Prices touched $13.04, the highest for the
most-active contract since Oct. 8. Last week, the oilseed
climbed 1.9 percent on increased Chinese demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  