-- Winslet Hosts Killer, Lance Armstrong Tells Lies: Movies
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-10-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/winslet-hosts-killer-lance-armstrong-tells-lies-movies.html
A single mom shelters a convicted
killer.  That’s the plot of “Labor Day,” screened in the  London 
Film Festival, with Kate Winslet playing Adele, the glum
divorcee living in rural New Hampshire. Driving home one day
with teenager Henry (Gattlin Griffith), she gives a ride to a
dark, wounded stranger named Frank (Josh Brolin).  Frank quickly confesses to being a runaway prisoner; he’s
jumped out of a hospital window after surgery and begs to stay
the night. He proves so gallant, caring and useful around the
house that Adele keeps him longer, even as TV news bulletins
make clear he’s doing 18 years for murder.  Adapted from the Joyce Maynard novel, “Labor Day” is
conventional storytelling -- and a change for Jason Reitman, 
who previously portrayed a cynical downsizer in “Up in the 
Air” (2009) and a quirky teenage mom-to-be in “Juno” (2007).  “Labor Day” gets sappy on occasion, such as when the trio
set out to make peach pie and collectively plunge their hands
into the same gooey bowl.  Winslet never stops moping, and you never forget that
you’re watching the Oscar-winning actress. Brolin and young
Griffith come to the rescue, though, making “Labor Day” a
watchable movie. Rating: ***.  Lying Lance  Alex Gibney -- who plotted the adventures of Julian Assange
in “We Steal Secrets: The Story of WikiLeaks” -- delivers an
even more stinging portrait of cyclist Lance Armstrong in “The
Armstrong Lie” (also screened at the London Film Festival).  Giving it extra bite is Gibney’s unusual access to his
subject. The documentary was originally supposed to be about
Armstrong’s comeback at the 2009 Tour de  France ; it ends up a
close-up look at an athlete who dopes his way to seven Tour de
France wins, then loses every title when the truth gets out.  Gibney splices footage of Armstrong before the revelations
-- visiting cancer patients, denying doping charges, lambasting
critics -- with confessions made on camera to Gibney after his
January interview with Oprah Winfrey.  Armstrong admits, in great detail, that he took
performance-enhancing drugs administered via blood transfusions
to escape detection. On one leg of the Tour de France race, we
find out, a bus breakdown was even faked to give him his fix.  The documentary makes chilling viewing, because it’s rare
to see someone lie on camera as often as Armstrong did. It also
shows the private side of the cyclist, an emotionally immature
alpha male who never knew his dad and to whom defeat was worse
than death. In the end, you’re left with conflicted feelings,
reflecting Gibney’s own. Rating: ****.  “Labor Day” opens Jan. 31, 2014 in the U.S. and Feb. 7,
2014 in the U.K. “The Armstrong Lie” opens in the U.S. Nov. 8.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Frederik Balfour  on Asian art,  Ryan
Sutton  on food and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 