-- Twitter, Pfizer, Prada, Kim Dotcom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/twitter-pfizer-prada-kim-dotcom-intellectual-property.html
Profits aren’t the only thing
lacking at  Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  ahead of its planned initial public
offering. It’s got a dearth of patents, too.  The microblogging service said in its prospectus last week
that it has nine issued U.S. patents. That compares with 774
cited by Facebook Inc. before its initial public offering in May
2012 and International Business Machines Corp.’s 6,478 patents
accrued last year alone. Twitter’s smaller patent trove reflects
its philosophy of letting engineers and designers own their
inventions.  While that policy is meant to limit patent litigation, some
investors and analysts are concerned it could backfire. Evidence
shows that  intellectual property  can help companies raise more
funds in their offerings, as patents enable investors to
quantify the value of technological breakthroughs.  “The lack of a large number of issued patents is a little
concerning,” Maulin Shah, managing director at Envision IP LLC,
an advisory and research firm in  New York , said by phone. “If
Twitter does deal with patent-infringement lawsuits, they don’t
have too many patents to lean on to countersue. That does put
Twitter at a disadvantage.”  Twitter said in its prospectus that many competitors have
“substantially larger patent” portfolios, which could make it
a target for litigation.  At the same time, Twitter has said that too many patents
may hinder innovation. In May, the San Francisco-based company
implemented the Innovator’s Patent Agreement, or IPA, to keep
ownership of inventions in the hands of the people who created
them. As part of the policy, Twitter can’t pursue offensive
litigation without the inventor’s permission. The IPA ensures
that the patents “will be used only as a shield rather than as
a weapon,” according to Twitter’s website.  The IPA will help the company lure and retain more talented
engineers, said Robert Clarkson, a partner in the  capital
markets  practice at law firm  Jones Day . More than 5,000 patent
actions were filed last year, the most ever recorded, according
to a 2013 study by  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .  The policy’s biggest risk is that employees will take their
inventions with them, posing a competitive threat if they leave,
according to Jeff Sica, president and chief investment officer
of Sica Wealth Management LLC.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Swiss Seize 1 Million Bogus Pfizer Xanax Pills in Zurich  Swiss authorities seized more than 1 million fake  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  Xanax anti-anxiety pills at Zurich airport, part of a wider
crackdown on counterfeit medicines posing a public-health
threat.  Four crates weighing more than 400 kilograms (880 pounds)
were intercepted while in transit from  China  to  Egypt  and
ordered to be destroyed after tests determined the pills
contained no active ingredients, Bern-based Swissmedic, the
country’s drug regulator, said in a statement Oct. 18.  Governments are fighting to safeguard the distribution of
legitimate drugs and crack down on counterfeit products.
Systematic checks of medical shipments are carried out every
year, and imports of bogus medicines have been declining in
Switzerland, Swissmedic said in June. Counterfeit drugs
generated an estimated $75 billion in revenue in 2010, according
to the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy.  “I’m angry,”  Erik Gordon , a professor of law and business
at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , wrote in an e-mail.
“When criminals counterfeit Hermes scarves, money is stolen.
When they counterfeit pills, they kill people.”  Gordon specializes in technology commercialization,
including the pharmaceutical industry and intellectual property
licensing.  Each year more than 100,000 people around the world may die
from substandard and counterfeit medications, according to an
estimate by Amir Attaran, an associate professor at the
University of Ottawa, and Roger Bate, an economist at the
 American Enterprise Institute .  The fake Xanax couldn’t be recognized as counterfeit at
first glance, said Swissmedic, whose official name is the Swiss
Agency for Therapeutic Products. The regulator said it informed
authorities abroad of the discovery, in particular in China and
Egypt. No patients in Switzerland will be affected, it said.  The Swiss regulator said in June that it had already seized
about 90 shipments this year representing a high-potential
health risk. It also has ordered the shutdown of websites
trading drugs illegally.  Prada Sues Maker of ‘Designer-Inspired’ Perfumes Over Trademark  Prada SpA (PRDSY) , the luxury fashion house, sued a New York
perfume company for trademark infringement over a line of
“designer inspired” fragrances.  Preferred Fragrance Inc.’s “Party Candy” has similar
packaging and a name and is intended to convey a connection with
the “Prada Candy” line, according to a complaint filed Oct. 18
in  Manhattan  federal court.  Preferred Fragrance  describes itself on its website as
“the leading distributor of designer-inspired perfumes.” The
company said it creates scents that “combine the same premium
quality of a designer fragrance with affordable pricing and mass
availability.”  The company has also been sued for trademark infringement
by Elizabeth Arden Inc., Estee Lauder Inc. and Summit
Entertainment Inc.  The “Prada Candy” line, which was introduced in August
2011, is “an elegant mix of white musks combined with a sensual
balsamic vanilliac accord of benzoin and sweet caramel,”
according to Prada.  According to the complaint, Prada has sold “tens of
millions of dollars” worth of the product in the two years it
has been on the market.  Prada is seeking court orders barring the use of “Party
Candy” as a trade name, the registration of the name as a U.S.
trademark and sales of “Party Candy” products.  Prada also asked for money damages, Preferred Fragrance’s
profits attributable to the alleged infringement, attorney fees
and litigation costs.  Preferred Fragrance didn’t respond to an e-mailed request
for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Prada v. Preferred Fragrance Inc., 13-cv-07371,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  University of Illinois Settles Mascot Dispute, AP Says  The  University of Illinois  and a group that honors the
school’s former mascot settled a dispute over the use of the
mascot’s name and official logo, the  Associated Press   reported .  The school dropped the mascot -- Chief Illiniwek -- in 2007
under pressure from the  National Collegiate Athletic Association 
to quit using a symbol some considered a demeaning portrayal of
American Indian culture, according to the AP.  The settlement bars the Honor the Chief Society from using
Chief Illiniwek and his image, and the group must post a
disclaimer on its website and promotional materials disavowing a
connection to the university, the AP said.  The group can hold events with a performance in the nature
of “a choreographed tribe to the dance” that was  performed by
the mascot  at school athletic events, the AP reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Kim Dotcom’s Mega Site Not Used by Pirates, CEO Tells Conference  The  Mega  cloud storage system started in January by Kim
Dotcom, who is accused of criminal copyright infringement, is
mainly being used by professionals rather than pirates, Chief
Executive Officer Vikram Kumar told  London ’s conference on
copyright and technology, the  Guardian newspaper   reported  last
week.  Kumar said that accountants, lawyers, financial advisers
and architects are willing to pay to use Mega because of the
company’s end-to-end encryption technology, according to the
newspaper.  He said that very few -- around 100 per day -- of the
service’s 5 million customers are receiving takedown notices
under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Guardian
reported.  Kumar said that the number is very small for any online
service provider and that the company is working against
external  search engines  that claim to be able to index files
stored on the service, the newspaper reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  