-- Two Girls Among Dead After Attack at Egyptian Church
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-10-21T11:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/two-girls-among-dead-after-attack-at-egyptian-church.html
  Egypt  boosted security at churches
after gunmen killed four people during an attack on a wedding
ceremony, the latest attack on the country’s minority Christians
following the ousting of Islamist President Mohamed Mursi.  The shooting outside St. Mary’s Church in the Warraq
district of Giza left eight-year-old and 12-year-old girls dead
and drew condemnation from both the military-backed government
and the Muslim Brotherhood organization that has been the target
of a crackdown since Mursi was removed from power on July 3.
Four people were subsequently arrested, the state-run Ahram Gate
website reported.  Yesterday’s attack also left 17 others injured, Health
Ministry spokesman Mohamed Fathallah said in a phone interview
today. Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi condemned the incident
and described it as a “criminal cowardly act,” according to an
e-mailed statement.  Dozens of Christian buildings were attacked in August as
Egypt erupted in violence after police broke up sit-ins by
Islamist supporters of Mursi. About 10 percent of the country’s
approximately 85-million population is Coptic Christian, a
community which analysts say is blamed by some Egyptians for
supporting Mursi’s ouster.  “Such despicable acts won’t succeed in dividing the
nation’s Muslims and Christians” El Beblawi said, pledging
police would do everything possible to bring the perpetrators to
justice.  ‘Sectarian Violence  The shooting is emblematic of the rifts in Egypt society.
Christians who had already complained of discrimination under
ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  say that the ouster of Mursi and
the targeting of the Brotherhood will further stoke sectarian
tensions and leave them more vulnerable.  “The attack is part of the recent escalating sectarian
violence against Copts in the country” says Ishak Ibrahim, a
researcher at the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, a
group in Cairo that monitors civil liberties. The shooting “is
the first of its kind recently in Cairo, and also the fact that
it’s doesn’t involve only looting churches or Christians houses,
but also” seeks to kill Christians. Ibrahim says the attack was
revenge for Christians supporting Mursi’s ouster.  At least 15 cases of kidnapping of Christians for ransom
were reported in the last two weeks in the southern province of
Minya, according to Ibrahim.  The Muslim Brotherhood, from which Mursi hails, also
condemned the violence, blaming the incident on the lack of
police protection, according to an e-mailed statement.  The nature of the recent assaults sets them apart from the
more common religious tension that occasionally boils over into
violence between Muslims and Christians, over such things as
land disputes and love affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  