-- Won Snaps Four-Day Gain on Intervention Concern; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-21T07:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/won-trades-near-nine-month-high-on-fed-delay-bets-bonds-steady.html
The won snapped a four-day rally on
concern South Korean authorities will step in to slow the
currency’s gains to protect exports. Government bonds declined.  South Korea is monitoring fund inflows and currency moves
to identify speculative activities and will prevent “herd
behavior,” Finance Ministry Director Kim Seong Wook said Oct.
18. The won touched a nine-month high earlier today amid bets
the U.S. Federal Reserve will delay trimming its record stimulus
that has spurred emerging-market inflows. A stronger currency
erodes the competitiveness of the nation’s exports, which
account for around half of its gross domestic product.  “Since the government’s warning last Friday, traders are
not betting aggressively on the won,” said Son Eun Jeong, a
currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in  Seoul .  The won fell 0.1 percent to 1,062.31 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,059.75
earlier, the strongest level since Jan. 21. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate
used to price options, rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 6.11 percent.  The first reduction in the Fed’s $85 billion of monthly
debt purchases will be pushed back until March after a 16-day
government shutdown arising from a budget impasse cut U.S.
growth this quarter and interrupted the flow of data, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Fed Factor  “It is unlikely that the Fed will change its monetary
policy stance at least by this year, which may decrease the risk
of outflows from  emerging markets ,” said Hong Seok Chan, a
currency analyst at Daishin Economy Research Institute in Seoul.
“The pace of the won’s rally may slow as traders are wary of
the possible intervention by the authorities.”  The Bank of Korea will take steps to ensure market
stability, including injecting liquidity and changing rules on
capital flows, if needed, it said in an Oct. 18 report to
parliament. Foreign funds have pumped $11.7 billion into local
equities since Aug. 22, the last day of net sales, exchange data
show.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2016 climbed one basis point to 2.84 percent, according to
Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  South  Korea  sold 1.8 trillion won ($1.7 billion) of 10-year
government bonds at a yield of 3.46 percent, the Finance
Ministry said on its website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  