-- Woori Finance Gets Preliminary Bids for Brokerage, Five Units
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-10-21T09:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/woori-finance-gets-preliminary-bids-for-brokerage-five-units.html
Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000)  closed
preliminary bidding for its brokerage and five other units as
part of  South Korea ’s latest attempt to privatize the nation’s
largest financial group by assets.  KB (105560)  Financial Group Inc. was among bidders for  Woori
Investment & Securities Co. (005940) , Woori Asset Management Co., Woori
Aviva Life Insurance Co. and Woori FG Savings Bank, the company
said in a regulatory filing. The owner of  Korea ’s largest bank
also made initial offers for Woori F&I Co., a distressed-asset
trading firm, and leasing unit Woori Financial Co., KB said.  The units may fetch more than 1.5 trillion won ($1.4
billion) when combined, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.
estimates in July, as the government makes its fourth attempt to
divest Woori since 2010. South Korea in June said it will sell
Woori’s assets in three parts after failing to woo buyers for
its 57 percent stake -- an effort to recoup taxpayer money spent
more than a decade ago to bail out the nation’s weakest banks.  “For anyone who wants to grow in the area of securities
and non-banking businesses, owning  Woori Investment (005490)  would make
you a strong player,” Sohn Mi Ji, an analyst at Shinhan
Investment Corp., said by phone in  Seoul  today before the
bidding deadline.  NH Financial Group said in an e-mailed statement it also
placed an offer for the brokerage, asset management, insurance
and savings bank units, which are being sold as a package.
 PineStreet Group , a Seoul-based investment advisory firm,
entered a bid as well, Vice Chairman Kim Myung Jeon said by
phone in Seoul.  Daishin Securities Co. separately submitted bids for Woori
Financial and Woori F&I, the brokerage firm said in a regulatory
filing. Kiwoom Securities Co. handed in an offer only to buy
Woori Asset Management, it said in a separate regulatory filing.  Top M&A Adviser  Woori Finance  is seeking to sell a 38 percent stake in the
brokerage business, 52 percent of Woori Financial, 99 percent of
the insurance business it owns jointly with  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and all of
the asset management unit, Woori F&I and the savings bank.  Buying Woori Investment, the country’s  fourth-largest 
brokerage by market value, would give the winning bidder control
of South Korea’s top merger and acquisition adviser and debt
underwriter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Woori Investment closed 0.4 percent lower at
11,600 won ahead of today’s bidding results, valuing Woori
Finance’s 38 percent stake at 878 billion won.  Woori Finance hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Samil
PricewaterhouseCoopers to help arrange the sale of the six
businesses.  Shares of Woori Finance closed 2.2 percent lower at 13,200
won before today’s release, paring this year’s gain to 12
percent. The benchmark Kospi Index has gained 2.8 percent.  Three-Part Sale  As part of its three-pronged asset sale process, Woori
Finance has already received bids for two regional banks. Its
flagship  Woori Bank (005300) , credit card business and other units will
be sold next year.  Korea Deposit Insurance Corp., the state-run agency that
 owns  the government’s 57 percent stake in Woori Finance, said on
Oct. 18 that it received four bids for regional lenders Kyongnam
Bank and seven offers for Kwangju Bank. It plans to accept final
bids in December and complete the sales next year.  The banks were folded into Woori Finance in 2001 after the
government created the holding company for lenders rescued after
the Asian financial crisis in 1997-1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  