-- World Economy a ‘Major Worry’ for OPEC Oil Producers, Badri Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-10-21T13:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/world-economy-a-major-worry-for-opec-oil-producers-badri-says.html
OPEC sees a possible drop in energy
demand caused by a weaker world economy as its “main area of
concern” for the next several months, the group’s secretary-general said.  “As we approach the end of 2013 and into next year, we
need to remain vigilant,” Abdalla El-Badri said at a conference
today in Muscat, Oman. “The economy remains the major worry,
particularly in the short and medium term.”  While the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
expects global economic growth to accelerate to 3.5 percent in
2014 from 2.9 percent this year,  Europe  faces a “major
challenge” in its labor market, and growth in China and India
has slowed, he said. A possible easing of U.S. monetary stimulus
threatens investment in  developing countries , El-Badri said.  OPEC, supplier of about 40 percent of world oil, plans to
meet on Dec. 4 to review output levels and policy. The
 International Energy Agency , an adviser to rich energy-importing
nations, trimmed its forecast earlier this month for growth in
global demand in 2014 to 1.1 million barrels a day, or 1.2
percent. That’s about 100,000 barrels a day less than the IEA
predicted in September.  Brent crude future in London have averaged $108.60 a barrel
this year amid supply disruptions in  Libya , Syria and the North
Sea and a European Union embargo on purchases of Iranian crude.
The halts and interruptions have had “limited impact,” and
prices in the range of $100 to $110 are “acceptable to
producers and consumers alike,” El-Badri said.  Brent Contracts  North Sea Brent, a benchmark for more than half of the
world’s crude, was at $109.94 a barrel at 2:30 p.m. today in
London on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The IEA said this month that non-OPEC oil producers led by
the U.S.,  Canada  and  Kazakhstan  will augment supplies next year
by the most since the 1970s.  “There has been and there remains more than enough supply
to meet demand,” El-Badri said. “This is the case for the rest
of 2013 and 2014.”  OPEC’s spare production capacity will stay at “comfortable
levels” for the “foreseeable future,” he said.  The group’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran,
Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  