-- WTI Crude Falls to $100; First Time Since July on Supply
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-21T12:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/wti-falls-on-forecast-gain-in-u-s-supplies-to-three-month-high.html
West Texas Intermediate fell below
$100 a barrel for the first time since July amid forecasts that
crude stockpiles increased to a three-month high in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest oil consumer.  Futures declined as much as 1.2 percent, after losing 1.2
percent last week. U.S.  crude inventories  probably climbed by 3
million barrels to 373.5 million in the week ended Oct. 11, a
Bloomberg News survey before a government report today showed.
That would be the highest level since July. A Nigerian rebel
group said it plans to escalate a violent campaign of disrupting
oil production by targeting offshore fields.  “One hundred is something of a psychological mark,” said
Gerrit Zambo, an oil trader at Bayerische Landesbank in Munich.
“We still have a bearish outlook due to the increasing
production in the U.S. Demand is not expected to rise
dramatically.”  WTI for November delivery, which expires tomorrow, dropped
as much as $1.17 to $99.64 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange, and traded for $99.78 at 1 p.m.
London time. The more-actively traded December contract slid 98
cents to $100.13. The volume of all futures traded was about 3
percent less than the 100-day average.  Brent for December settlement was down 47 cents at $109.47
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
front-month European benchmark was at a premium of $9.36 to WTI.
The spread was $8.83 on Oct. 18, the widest in a week.  Fuel Supplies  Global oil markets are adequately supplied, and prices in a
range of $100 to $110 a barrel are suitable for consumers and
producers, Abdalla El-Badri, secretary-general of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, said at a
conference today in Muscat, Oman.  “There’s a lot working against the bulls,” said John
Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that focuses on energy. “We are looking at rising
inventories in the U.S., and there were positive indications
coming out of the Iranian talks in Geneva.”  U.S. and European diplomats described negotiations held on
Oct. 15-16 in Geneva to resolve differences over  Iran ’s nuclear
program as detailed and substantive. International sanctions on
Iran have hobbled the nation’s oil exports and the financial
system supporting them.  Crude Inventories  The Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm, postponed the release of its
Weekly Petroleum Status Report last week after the partial U.S.
government shutdown on Oct. 1 led to the agency closing. The
report is scheduled for release today in  Washington  at 10:30
a.m. local time.  Gasoline stockpiles  probably fell by 1 million barrels,
according to the median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Distillate inventories, including heating oil and
diesel, are projected to have declined by 2 million.  “We’ll move back toward more oil-specific drivers of the
market and so the inventory numbers will be more important,”
said Michael McCarthy, a chief market strategist at CMC Markets
in Sydney. “In the short term, the market may move down to see
if the real support will hold” at $98 to $99, he said.  Safe Haven  Offshore oil operations in Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest
producer, “are not a safe haven,” the Movement for the
Emancipation of The Niger Delta said by e-mail yesterday. The
rebel group has attacked oil facilities since April.  Kidnappings and sabotage bombings cut crude output in
Nigeria, an OPEC member nation, by more than 28 percent from
2006 to 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OPEC’s biggest member, Saudi Arabia, pumped more crude in
August than Russia, the world’s largest producer, and boosted
exports to the highest level in 14 months, according to the
Joint Organizations Data Initiative.  Saudi Arabia produced 10.2 million barrels a day in the
month, up 160,000 from July, and shipped 7.8 million, the most
since June 2012, data on JODI’s website showed yesterday.  Russia 
pumped 10.1 million barrels a day in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  