-- Xi Sets Up Special Unit to Probe Zhou Yongkang, SCMP Reports
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2013-10-21T01:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/xi-sets-up-special-unit-to-probe-zhou-yongkang-scmp-reports.html
Chinese President Xi Jinping set up
a special unit for a probe into former head of internal security
Zhou Yongkang, the South  China  Morning Post reported, citing
three people it didn’t identify.  Beijing police chief Fu Zhenghua will head the unit and
report directly to Xi, rather than through the Communist Party’s
discipline commission, the newspaper reported. The move reflects
Xi’s personal interest in the case and concerns that the party’s
Central Commission for Discipline Inspection doesn’t have the
proper experience handling criminal investigations, according to
the report.  Party leaders have warned that corruption threatens their
grip on power and have announced anti-graft investigations of a
number of officials in recent months. A formal criminal probe of
Zhou would be the first targeting a current or retired member of
the party’s elite Politburo Standing Committee since the 1966-76
Cultural Revolution.  Zhou retired last year from the panel, which then had nine
members. He oversaw the nation’s police forces, whose budget
under his tenure surpassed that of the military.  One source cited by the paper said that the discipline
commission, headed by Politburo Standing Committee member  Wang Qishan , is focusing on a larger crackdown on corruption by party
officials while Fu focuses on Zhou.  The Beijing police department declined to comment on the
report, while no one was immediately available to comment at
China’s Foreign Ministry.  In the past two months several officials at state-owned
China National Petroleum Corp. have been removed amid a
corruption probe. On Sept. 1 the government and party announced
that  Jiang Jiemin , then head of the state-owned assets overseer,
was under investigation for “serious disciplinary violations.”
Jiang, like Zhou, was a former CNPC head and the two both served
in top party posts at the Shengli oilfield in eastern China from
1989-1990, according to their official biographies.  The South China Morning Post first reported on Aug. 30 that
party leaders had agreed to launch a probe into Zhou.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Hong Kong at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  