-- Yellen Countdown Eases Carney Burden as Rates Drop: U.K. Credit
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-10-21T06:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-21/yellen-countdown-eases-carney-burden-as-rates-drop-u-k-credit.html
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
is experiencing again that when it comes to the gilt market the
 Federal Reserve  is king.  The  10-year U.K. government bond yield  fell 12 basis points
to 2.72 percent in two days through Oct. 18 amid speculation
that the economic disruption resulting from the U.S. fiscal
standoff will prompt the Fed to postpone tapering its stimulus
program as  Janet Yellen  prepares to take over from Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in January. The rate on similar-maturity U.S. notes
slid eight basis points to 2.58 percent.  “It’s all about the U.S. at the moment,” said Jason Simpson, a U.K. rates strategist at Banco Santander SA in
 London . “There is the question about how the shutdown has hurt
the  U.S. economy , and then there’s Yellen taking over in the new
year, so people now think it’s more likely that the Fed will
taper later.”  The moves underscore the influence of the Fed on U.K.
markets at a time when Carney is struggling to persuade
investors he can keep the benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low  0.5 percent  until 2016 as the U.K. economy gains traction.
Gilts yielded  less  than Treasuries as recently as Sept. 4.  The implied yield on short-sterling futures contracts
expiring at the end of next year, a measure of investor bets on
interbank borrowing costs, slid last week to 0.83 percent, the
lowest level since Oct. 9.  Economic Recovery  For Carney,  Washington  proved less helpful over the summer
as global yields surged after Bernanke said the central bank may
taper its $85 billion in monthly bond buying. U.S. policy makers
unexpectedly refrained from reducing the purchases last month,
saying they wanted more evidence of an economic recovery.  U.S. lawmakers agreed last week on a plan to end the 16-day
government shutdown that cost the economy an estimated $24
billion.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co. said
the Federal Reserve will postpone tapering as a result of the
impasse. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said the central
bank should hold back as the data used to gauge the economy’s
health stopped during the shutdown.  Yellen, who needs to be confirmed by the Senate, said on
Oct. 9 that more needs to be done to strengthen the recovery and
that the Fed can promote employment growth while holding down
inflation.  ‘Strongly Dovish’  As deputy to Bernanke, she supported the Fed’s
unprecedented bond-buying programs and was a force behind a new
strategy adopted in 2012 to commit the central bank to goals on
inflation and unemployment.  “The fact that there’s someone of such strongly dovish
views on monetary policy leading the world’s most important
central bank will probably enhance discussion as to how other
policy makers should communicate with markets,” said Isobel Lee, head of global fixed-income bonds at Insight Investment
Management Ltd. in London, which oversees $408 billion in
assets. “ Europe ’s central bankers could study some of the
things Yellen’s been saying.”  Gilts are underperforming Treasuries amid signs that
Britain’s economy is gathering momentum. Growth accelerated to
0.8 percent in the third quarter from 0.7 percent in the second,
according to the median of 40 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.
That would be the strongest pace since 2010. The  Office for
National Statistics  is due to announce the figures on Oct. 25.  U.K. government bonds lost 3 percent this year through Oct.
18, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Treasuries fell
2.1 percent and German debt slid 1.8 percent.  “As much as you can say the data in the U.K. is very
strong, the U.S. is at the center-point of the outlook,” said
Simon Peck, rates strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in London. “Expectations of Fed tapering have moved back well
into next year. The medium and long-term picture very much
depends on what goes on in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  