-- Bernanke Says Pessimists Wrong as Innovation Spurs Growth
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-05-18T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/bernanke-says-pessimists-wrong-as-innovation-spurs-growth.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said technological change will remake fields like
health care and belie predictions that innovation will fade and
economic growth will wane.  “Pessimists may be paying too little attention to the
strength of the underlying economic and social forces that
generate innovation in the modern world,” Bernanke said today
in a speech at Great Barrington,  Massachusetts . “Both
humanity’s capacity to innovate and the incentives to innovate
are greater today than at any other time in history.”  The Fed chairman, who didn’t comment on policy or the U.S.
economic outlook, rebutted the view of academics such as
Northwestern University professor  Robert Gordon , who predicted
U.S. growth may stall over the next century in a paper published
by the  National Bureau of Economic Research  last August.
Innovation’s contribution to higher standards of living will
slow, and headwinds such as an aging population and increased
inequality will reduce growth, he said.  The pessimists’ view is “sort of depressing,” Bernanke
said in a commencement address at Bard College at Simon’s Rock.  “As trade and globalization increase the size of the
potential market for new products, the possible economic rewards
for being first with an innovative product or process are
growing rapidly,” he said.  Commercial applications of personal computers and
biotechnology have “arguably thus far only scratched the
surface,” and they could contribute to a surge in productivity
in health care, Bernanke said.  “A strong case can be made that the modernization of
health-care IT systems would lead to better-coordinated, more
effective, and less costly patient care than we have today,” he
said. “Such advances could lead to another jump in  life
expectancy  and improved health at older ages.”  Bernanke is the father of a Simon’s Rock alumnus, father-in-law of an alumna, and his wife, Anna, is a member of the
school’s board of overseers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  