-- Billionaire Pinchuk Sues Two Ukrainian Magnates in London
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-05-18T14:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/billionaire-pinchuk-sues-two-ukrainian-magnates-in-london.html
Ukrainian billionaire Victor Pinchuk
filed a suit with  London ’s High Court against two other magnates
from his country, accusing them of selling him a shell company
eight years ago.  Pinchuk in March 2005 paid $143 million to Gennady Bogoliubov and Igor Kolomoisky to purchase Alcross Commercial
Ltd., which they told him owned Ukrainian ore-mining company
Krivorozhskiy Zhelezorudnyy Kombinat, according to a summary of
Pinchuk’s  claim  provided by his press office.  Alcross was really “a worthless shell company,” according
to Pinchuk’s claim. “The defendants have repeatedly promised to
transfer the ore-mining company to Mr. Pinchuk but at every
juncture they have failed to deliver,” the claim reads. Pinchuk
filed the case in London because Bogoliubov is based there,
according to the claim.  Bogoliubov and Kolomoisky, who are business partners and
have assets ranging from banks to iron ore and oil, may have
sold around 50 percent of the mining company to a third party in
2007, according to the claim.  Pinchuk is claiming breach of contract and breach of trust
in the suit, which was issued March 12, according to the
summary.  Forbes magazine estimates Pinchuk’s net worth at $3.8
billion, Bogoliubov at $1.7 billion and Kolomoisky at $2.4
billion.  Oleg Serga, spokesman for Privatbank, one of Kolomoisky and
Bogoliubov’s main businesses in Ukraine, declined to comment
when called today by Bloomberg News. Bogoliubov and Kolomoisky
do not have other spokesmen.  “The claims are misconceived and will be vigorously
defended,” Ian Terry, a lawyer representing Bogoliubov, said in
an e-mail.  -- With assistance from Kateryna Choursina in Kiev. Editors:
Jerrold Colten, Heather Langan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  