-- King Says Debate on U.K.’s Fiscal Policy Has Become ‘Overblown’
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-05-20T08:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/boe-s-king-says-more-must-be-done-to-spur-britain-s-recovery.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said the debate on fiscal policy has “really got overblown”
and the government’s plan to aid home buyers shouldn’t become
permanent.  “Everyone agrees on the following propositions: first that
we do need a credible medium-term plan to get the public
finances back into order and, secondly, that we should allow the
automatic stabilizers” to take effect, King said in an
interview broadcast yesterday on Sky News television.  “If tax revenues fall, you don’t cut spending elsewhere to
make up for it, you allow the deficit to adjust for the state of
the economy, you allow these automatic stabilizers to work,” he
said. “Those two principles, a credible medium-term plan and
flexibility, is the right way to go.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  wrote in the
Mail on Sunday newspaper that he’ll “keep pushing forward”
with his budget cuts after the  International Monetary Fund  said
the U.K. should consider easing the pace of austerity. Giving
Osborne ammunition against critics, the economy grew faster than
forecast in the first quarter and the BOE raised its growth
projections last week.  ‘Modest Recovery’  King, who will be replaced by Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  on July 1, said a “modest recovery” is under way,
though “more needs to be done” to encourage growth. Britain
has avoided some of the turmoil in  Europe  because the drop in
the pound is stimulating exports and the fiscal plan has
flexibility, he said.  The pound rose 0.2 percent to $1.5203 as of 8:46 a.m  London 
time. It’s fallen about 6.5 percent against the U.S. currency
this year.  King said the government’s Help to Buy plan to aid
homeowners “is a little too close for comfort to a general
scheme to guarantee mortgages” as in the U.S. While the bank’s
Financial Policy Committee will assess economic conditions to
judge the right time to end the program, “it shouldn’t become a
permanent feature of our financial landscape,” he said.  Rightmove Plc said today that U.K. home sellers  raised
asking prices  for a fifth consecutive month, pushing values to a
record. Prices sought rose 2.1 percent in May to an average
249,841 pounds ($380,000), taking the increase in the first five
months of the year to 9.1 percent. London asking prices
increased 3.3 percent to 509,870 pounds, also a record.  Housing Risks  Asked whether the government’s plan would fuel a bubble in
 house prices , King said values were 14 percent below their peak.  “Interest rates are low right across the world and that
inevitably pushes up asset prices,” he said. In the U.K., house
prices have been “remarkably stable for the last few years.
That’s not a bad position to be in,” King said.  “The comments I think are certainly common sense; that
shouldn’t detract from the view that the scheme is helpful to
get the housing market moving,”  Philip Shaw , an economist at
Investec Securities in London, said in an interview. “The
governor is bowing out without making excessive criticisms of
government policy, and while his remarks are a warning, they’re
a constructive warning.”  The U.K.’s budget shortfall in March was 7.8 percent of
gross domestic product, in line with the  Office for Budget
Responsibility ’s forecast.  Fitch Ratings  last month became the
second ratings company to strip Britain of its top grade.  “You can only keep rates low if you control  government
spending , so we set out a credible deficit-reduction plan and
stuck to it,” Osborne wrote in the Mail on Sunday. The Help to
Buy plan “is possible only because of the credibility that our
deficit-reduction plan has earned.”  IMF Forecasts  The Washington-based IMF lowered its U.K. growth forecast
last month to 0.7 percent in 2013 and 1.5 percent in 2014, a 0.3
percentage-point reduction in both years. While the BOE has
since raised its own outlook, threats to the recovery remain.  King said the “single biggest risk is that the euro area
continues to grow very slowly,” and that U.K. banks’ “exposure
to the euro is undoubtedly the single biggest factor dragging
down on our economy.”  Banking reforms in Britain, including the BOE’s new
oversight role and higher  capital requirements , mean the
industry is “moving a long way” from its “very fragile”
state before the fiscal crisis, when taxpayer bailouts were
required, he said.  “We have a bit further to go but we are not far from it
and in the next one to two years we’ll get there,” King said.  ‘Failure of System’  Bankers’ behavior “is not the only explanation of the
crisis that we had,” he said. “Don’t demonize individuals
here. This wasn’t a problem of individuals, this was a problem
of failure of a system.”  Still, “we are not seeing the lending that we’d like to
see,” he said. There also aren’t signs of an “extraordinary
expansion” of lending that would stoke a rapid pickup in
inflation, though the bank would act to contain price gains.  “I think we would get enough time to be able to raise
 interest rates  or take other measures to prevent that turning
into a rapid upward push on bank lending and inflation,” he
said. “We have to get to a point where we can see more sign of
a recovery but the bank will need to be prepared to move quickly
when necessary.”  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee held its  bond-purchase plan  at 375 billion pounds this month and its key
interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  “We are seeing a recovery, it is only a modest recovery
and we certainly can’t be satisfied with it, we will need to do
more to use up the spare capacity,” he said. “In the end we
will set the level of interest rates at the level that will
ensure both adequate economic growth and, most importantly of
all, to bring inflation back to the target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  