-- Canada Dollar Falls Most in Year as Inflation Slows to 2009 Low
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/canada-dollar-falls-most-in-year-as-inflation-slows-to-2009-low.html
The Canadian dollar posted its
biggest loss in a year against its U.S. peer as the nation’s
annual inflation rate fell in April to its slowest in more than
three years, bolstering the case for relaxing monetary policy.  Canada ’s currency reached its lowest point in two months
against the greenback as three U.S. policy makers called for the
 Federal Reserve  to taper asset purchases that have devalued the
currency. Canada’s dollar fell against the majority of its 16
most-traded peers before data May 22 forecast to show retail
sales slowed. The slowest pace of inflation since October 2009
is sparking bets incoming Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz
may remove  Mark Carney ’s bias toward raising  interest rates .  “It’s a strong argument for the Bank of Canada dropping
any residual hawkish tilt and perhaps leading to a dovish
bias,” Shahab Jalinoos, a senior currency strategist for UBS AG
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said yesterday in a phone interview.
“That’s an important development in a world that is obsessed
with currency wars and relative monetary policy.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell 1.8 percent to C$1.0281
per  U.S. dollar  in the past week in Toronto, the biggest drop
since the week ending May 18, 2012. One loonie buys 97.27 U.S.
cents.  Bonds Drop  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  government bonds  declined, with
yields rising four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
1.92 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
dropped 30 cents to C$96.19.  Futures on crude oil, the country’s largest export, were
little changed at $96.02 per barrel, after three weeks of gains.
The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  of U.S. stocks hit record highs,
gaining 1 percent.  The loonie tumbled yesterday after Canada’s  consumer price
index  rose 0.4 percent in April from a year ago, compared with a
1 percent annual gain the prior month, according to  Statistics
Canada . That’s the slowest since the country experienced a
period of deflation at the end of the last  recession .  All 24 economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast the
central bank will keep the benchmark rate at  1 percent  into next
year. The Bank of Canada targets an inflation rate between 1 and
3 percent.  BOC’s Move  “If the inflation rate is not really an issue, who knows
what the next move of the  Bank of Canada  will be?” Clement Gignac, chief economist at Industrial Alliance Insurance and
Financial Services Inc., said yesterday by phone from  Quebec
City . “There will be a change in the leadership at the Bank of
Canada, so we will see what will be the next move of the Bank of
Canada. Is it upward or is it down? The question is open.”  Growth in Canadian retail sales slowed in March to 0.1
percent from 0.8 percent the previous month a report next week
will show, according to the median estimate of a Bloomberg
survey of 22 economists.  The cost to insure against declines in the loonie versus
its U.S. counterpart reached its highest point in eight months.
The three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate reached 1.7 percent,
up from the low this year of 0.77 percent on Jan. 18 and the
highest since Sept 3.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart reached 7.9 percent, the
highest level since July 25. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  Fed ‘Uncertainty’  Three Fed regional bank presidents called for phasing out
the Fed’s monthly purchases of $40 billion in mortgage-backed
securities as the housing recovery shows signs of gaining
momentum.  “The  currency market  is reflecting that there’s
uncertainty over how much longer the Fed will maintain its
asset-purchase program,” said  David Watt , chief economist at
the Canadian unit of HSBC Holding Plc., by phone from Toronto.
“There’s no story here that should suggest the Canadian dollar
should outperform.”  The Canadian dollar declined 0.3 percent this week among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes. The dollars of fellow commodities exporters
Australian and New Zealand lead decliners, down 1.6 percent and
1.5 percent. The U.S. dollar rose 1.7 to lead gainers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  