-- Club-Drug Ketamine Relieves Depression in Largest Patient Study
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-05-18T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/club-drug-ketamine-relieves-depression-in-largest-patient-study.html
The hallucinogen  ketamine  relieved
symptoms of hard-to-treat depression within a day of treatment,
in the largest study yet of the popular club drug’s use in
psychiatry.  In the trial of 72 people whose depression hadn’t responded
to at least two antidepressants, patients taking ketamine were
twice as likely to report improvement than those on a placebo.
The study, by researchers at the  Baylor College of Medicine  in
Houston and  Mount Sinai School of Medicine  in  New York , assessed
patients after one day and again a week later.  The results support continued research into the use of
ketamine, also known as  Special K  and used to anesthetize
horses, for relieving low mood and feelings of hopelessness that
plague as many as  350 million  people globally. Researchers will
present the findings at the meeting of the American Psychiatric
Association starting today in  San Francisco .  “Ketamine continues to show significant promise as a new
treatment option,” said James W. Murrough, an assistant
professor of psychiatry at  Mount Sinai  and one of the
researchers involved in the study. Even so, “we have a long way
to go before I think we can recommend it as treatment.”  Murrough’s research suggests ketamine may help depressed
patients requiring  urgent relief . The antidepressant benefits of
ketamine were seen within 24 hours in the study, whereas
traditional antidepressants can take days or weeks to alleviate
symptoms.  Data Needed  More data are needed from depressed patients to establish
the long-term effectiveness and safety of ketamine -- a drug of
abuse that’s toxic at high doses and known to cause psychotic-like symptoms, he said.  “The enthusiasm is a little bit ahead of the science,”
Murrough said.  The medicine, whose street name is a play on  Kellogg Co. (K) ’s
 Special K breakfast cereal , initially disinhibits brain
circuitry, causing over-excitement in response to a stimulus.  Major depression is caused by a breakdown in communication
between nerve cells in the brain, a process that is controlled
by chemicals called neurotransmitters.  Ketamine influences  brain receptors  activated by a
transmitter called glutamate to help restore the dysfunctional
communication between nerve cells in the depressed brain, and
much more quickly than traditional antidepressants.  Participants enrolled in Murrough’s study, which was
sponsored by the  National Institutes of Health , had suffered
bouts of major depression over decades and a third had made
suicide attempts, he said.  40 Minutes  They were randomly selected to receive a single,
intravenous dose of either ketamine or an active placebo of
midazolam, another type of anesthetic without antidepressant
properties. The treatments, given over 40 minutes, were
sufficient to cause mild sedation and intoxication, he said.  After 24 hours, 63.8 percent of patients in the ketamine
group reported a response, compared with 28 percent in the
placebo group. After seven days, 45.7 percent still reported a
response to ketamine, versus 18.2 percent in the placebo group.  “Using midazolam as an active placebo allowed us to
independently assess the antidepressant benefit of ketamine,
excluding any anesthetic effects,” Murrough said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  