-- Colorado Sheriffs Sue Over State’s New Gun Control Laws
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2013-05-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/colorado-sheriffs-sue-over-state-s-new-gun-control-laws.html
Sheriffs of 54  Colorado  counties sued
Governor John Hickenlooper, seeking to block state laws that ban
ammunition magazines holding more than 15 rounds and require
background checks for gun sales and loans.  The sheriffs, in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Denver, said the ammunition law bans most magazines of
any size in an attempt to prohibit those that can be converted
to hold more than 15 rounds. They also alleged that compliance
with the background checks will be practically impossible.  The effect of the ammunition law’s “various provisions is
the widespread ban on functional firearms,” according to the
complaint. “The prohibition of so many box and tube magazines
of any size, and the prohibition of magazines greater than 15
rounds, directly and gravely harm the ability of law-abiding
citizens to use firearms for lawful purposes, especially self-defense.”  The lawsuit is based on claims under the U.S. Constitution
guaranteeing the right to keep and bear arms and due process.
The sheriffs seek a court order that provisions of the laws are
unconstitutional and can’t be enforced.  Lawmakers in Colorado,  New York ,  Connecticut  and  Maryland 
passed laws limiting firearms ownership after 20 children and
six educators were shot to death Dec. 14 at Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut.  Bill Signing  At a news briefing following a private bill-signing
ceremony March 20, Hickenlooper called on county sheriffs to
carry out the new measures.  “I fully expect all of our sheriffs and chiefs of police
to enforce the law to the best of their ability,” said the
governor, a first-term Democrat.  Hickenlooper’s office referred a call seeking comment on
the lawsuit to the state attorney general.  Colorado Attorney General John Suthers, a Republican, said
in a statement yesterday that he will defend against the suit to
get “court rulings on the legality of various aspects of the
legislation as expeditiously as possible.” He added that the
state’s citizens and “law-abiding gun owners in particular,
deserve such clarification.”  Colorado has 64 counties. One of the sheriffs suing
Hickenlooper is Grayson Robinson of Arapahoe County, where a
gunman killed 12 people and injured 70 in a July 20 shooting
spree at a midnight screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” at a
theater in the city of Aurora.  Glock Handguns  The man charged in that case, James Eagan Holmes, went to
local stores and Internet sites before the shooting to buy two
Glock handguns, a shotgun, a rifle and 6,295 rounds of
ammunition, according to county prosecutors. Lawyers for Holmes,
who faces the death penalty if convicted, have told a judge he
intends to plead not guilty by reason of insanity.  The Colorado Association of Chiefs of Police endorsed the
new firearms laws, which were introduced on Feb. 5 and approved
by the Democrat-controlled legislature six weeks later, over
protests from Republicans that they criminalized law-abiding
citizens and did nothing to improve safety.  The case is Cooke v. Hickenlooper, 13-cv-01300, U.S.
District Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Jared Kassan in  Los Angeles  at 
 jkassan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  