-- Commuter Train Wreck Injures Dozens, Curbs Amtrak Service
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-05-18T13:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/commuter-train-derailment-halts-amtrak-s-new-york-boston.html
Two Metro-North Railroad commuter
trains collided in Bridgeport,  Connecticut , injuring dozens of
people and limiting  Amtrak  service between  New York  and  Boston 
in one of the worst U.S. passenger rail accidents since 2008.  U.S. transportation safety investigators and regulators are
on the scene to probe the causes of yesterday’s crash, which sent
about 60 people to local hospitals, Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy said, according to the  Associated Press . He said most of 
the injuries were minor.  “We’ve got people who are looking at operations, looking
at track, looking at maintenance, looking at survival factors,”
National Transportation Safety Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman 
said today in a telephone interview. “Trying to determine what
was the initiating moment is important and then we are able to
determine whether it was a human, the equipment, the tracks.”  Hersman said the crash was causing a “bottleneck” along
part of the Northeast corridor. It is keeping Amtrak from
operating between New York and  New Haven , Connecticut, while
there is only “limited” service between New Haven and Boston,
the passenger rail operator said in a e-mailed statement today.  Malloy will meet with NTSB officials and Senators  Richard Blumenthal  and Chris Murphy as they conduct a brief survey of
the Metro-North train crash site today, the state said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Most Concerned’  “We’re most concerned about the injured and ultimately
reopening the system,” Malloy said at the scene about three
hours after the accident, according to the AP.  NTSB investigators should be able to complete their work at
the scene today, a first step toward re-opening the tracks,
Hersman said.  “We know this is a very important track in the
Northeast,” she said. “It really is up to the railroad to
determine when the track is safe.”  The  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which runs the
Metro-North service, said a train bound from  New York City  to
New Haven derailed about 6:10 p.m. local time near an I-95
highway overpass in Bridgeport. A train coming in the opposite
direction on an adjacent track then struck the derailed train,
the MTA said last night in an e-mailed statement.  About 700  About 700 people were aboard the two trains when they
collided, the MTA said. The accident prompted an indefinite
suspension of Metro-North service in Connecticut between the
South Norwalk and Bridgeport stations.  The NTSB, based in  Washington , investigates all major
transportation accidents in the U.S. and determines their
causes. Investigations usually take at least several months.  The MTA said that of four tracks in the area, two were
already out of service for long-term repairs. The remaining two
tracks that were affected by the accident received extensive
infrastructure damage because of the collision, the MTA said.  “Normal service through this area is not expected to
resume until a full investigation is complete, the
infrastructure is fully assessed, and repairs are made,” the
MTA said in its statement.  Cranes will be needed to remove the damaged rail cars,
which can’t be moved, the MTA said, until investigators have
completed their on-scene work.  Along with the NTSB, the MTA police, local authorities, the
Connecticut Office of Emergency Management and the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation are participating in the inquiry. The
Federal Railroad Administration, which regulates Metro-North,
also is involved in the probe.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  has spoken with Malloy to
discuss their two states’ efforts in coordinating a response to
the wreck, the MTA said.  Amtrak Halted  The MTA is the busiest transit administration in the U.S.,
according to the American Public Transportation Association.
Metro-North provides commuter-rail service between New York City
and surrounding suburbs in New York and Connecticut.  MTA’s website says “Metro-North Railroad is the second
largest commuter railroad in the nation,” with a 2012 ridership
of almost 83 million and 281,331 average weekday passengers.  Amtrak’s Acela Express and Northeast Regional trains
between New York Penn Station and Boston were suspended
indefinitely because of the accident, the railroad said in a
statement yesterday.  “Information about the restoration of service will be made
when available,” Amtrak said.  The crash may be the worst heavy-rail accident involving a
passenger train in the U.S. since a 2008 head-on crash between a
 Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  freight train and a Los Angeles Metrolink
 commuter train  that killed 25 people. A collision between two
subway trains in Washington, D.C., in 2009 killed nine people
and injured dozens.  Railroads have sought an extension to a 2015 deadline for
installing accident-avoidance technology on passenger lines and
tracks where hazardous materials are moved.  Congress imposed the adoption of so-called positive train
control, which can automatically stop a train before it hits
another, after the Los Angeles crash in which the operator of
the commuter train was texting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  