-- Metro-North Crash Tangles Commute as U.S. Probes Crash
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-05-19T15:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/connecticut-commuter-crash-mangles-lines-hampers-train-traffic.html
Connecticut  and federal authorities
told commuters to make alternate plans while asking for patience
as investigators examine the site of a  Metro-North  rush-hour
train derailment that left three people critically injured.  “The damage is absolutely staggering,” U.S. Senator
 Richard Blumenthal , a Democrat from Connecticut, said after
touring the area yesterday. “The sides of cars are torn away
like ribbons of cloth. Tons of metal tossed around like toy
things. The insides of the cars are shattered.”  Dozens of people were treated for injuries, and three of
them are in critical condition, officials said. No deaths were
reported in the accident, which involved about 700 riders and is
one of the worst U.S. passenger train wrecks since 2008.  “When will service be restored to this area?” Governor
 Dan Malloy  said at a news conference. “Right now, we really
cannot give you good information on that.”  Those who depend on the train for their daily commutes need
to “start making alternative plans” for Monday, he said.  Amtrak  reported no service between  New York  and  New Haven ,
Connecticut, and limited service between New Haven and Boston
yesterday. Metro-North said trains between South Norwalk and New
Haven were suspended indefinitely.  Metro-North Railroad is the second-largest commuter
railroad in the U.S., taking passengers from Grand Central
Station to Connecticut and the northern suburbs of  New York
City . The rail line carries about 282,000 passengers on
weekdays, according to its website.  10 Days  The  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which runs the
Metro-North service, said the accident occurred when an
eastbound  New York City-to-New Haven train  derailed about 6:10
p.m. local time on May 17 near an I-95 highway overpass in
Bridgeport. A train traveling in the opposite direction on an
adjacent track then struck the derailed train.  Blumenthal and others credited newly purchased rail cars
with preventing more injuries and deaths. The cars were made by
Kawasaki Rail Car Inc., the MTA said.  The investigation may take seven to 10 days,  Earl Weener,
a National Transportation Safety Board member, said in a
televised briefing yesterday. Investigators can finish their
examination of the tracks in less than two days, he said. Once
that’s done, additional time will be needed for track repairs,
he said.  Weener declined to talk about potential causes of the
accident, but in a subsequent briefing said that the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation had decided there was no foul play
involved and removed itself from the probe.  Damaged Cars  Late yesterday afternoon, the NTSB said in postings on
Twitter that it started an inspection of the cars involved in
the derailment and requested maintenance records from Metro-North. It also said it found a section of eastbound track that
was fractured at a rail joint, which is of interest to the
agency because of the marks on it.  Based in  Washington , the NTSB investigates all major
transportation accidents in the U.S. and determines their
causes. Investigations usually take at least several months.  The MTA said that of four tracks in the area near the
accident, two were already out of service for long-term,
overhead repairs. The remaining two tracks that were affected by
the accident received extensive infrastructure damage because of
the collision.  2015 Deadline  The MTA removed 13 of the damaged train cars by 8 a.m.
today, after the NTSB approved the cleanup, and said the
remaining three would be cleared from the site this afternoon.
Metro-North will then have to rebuild 2,000 feet (609 meters) of
track, overhead wires and signal systems, President Howard
Permut said in a statement.  Governor Malloy said that the state will provide
transportation from Bridgeport to South Norwalk for commuters
while the track is being investigated and repaired.  Along with the NTSB, the MTA police, local authorities and
Connecticut Office of Emergency Management are participating in
the inquiry. The Federal Railroad Administration, which
regulates Metro-North, also is involved in the probe.  The crash may be the worst heavy-rail accident involving a
passenger train in the U.S. since a 2008 head-on crash between a
 Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  freight train and a Los Angeles Metrolink
 commuter train  that killed 25 people.  A collision between two subway trains in Washington, D.C.,
in 2009 killed nine people and injured dozens.  Railroads have sought an extension to a 2015 deadline for
installing accident-avoidance technology on passenger lines and
tracks where hazardous materials are moved.  Congress imposed the adoption of so-called positive train
control, which can automatically stop a train before it hits
another, after the Los Angeles crash in which the operator of
the commuter train was texting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  