-- Connecticut Commuter Crash Hampers Amtrak Boston-New York Trains
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-05-18T14:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/connecticut-commuter-crash-hampers-amtrak-boston-new-york-trains.html
Investigators are working in
 Connecticut  to gather evidence from yesterday’s collision
between two Metro-North Railroad commuter trains so they can
restore  Amtrak  and other rail service between  New York  and
 Boston .  The crash involving about 700 passengers in Bridgeport,
Connecticut, injured dozens of people, including at least one
critically, and is limiting Amtrak service between New York and
Boston in one of the worst U.S. passenger rail accidents since
2008.  “We know this is a very important track in the
Northeast,” National Transportation Safety Board Chairman
 Deborah Hersman  said today in a telephone interview. “It really
is up to the railroad to determine when the track is safe.”  Hersman said the crash was causing a “bottleneck” along
part of the Northeast corridor. It’s keeping Amtrak from
operating between New York and  New Haven , Connecticut, while
there is only “limited” service between New Haven and Boston,
the passenger rail operator said in an e-mailed statement today.  Both Amtrak’s Acela Express and Northeast Regional service
between New York Penn Station and Boston are affected. The
tracks adjacent to those where the crash occurred are out of
service because of construction.  Extensive Damage  The  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which runs the
Metro-North service, said today there was “extensive
infrastructure damage” from the crash. “Normal service through
this area is not expected to resume until a full investigation
is complete, the infrastructure is fully assessed, and repairs
are made,” the MTA said on its  website .  NTSB investigators should be able to complete their work at
the scene today, a first step toward re-opening the tracks,
Hersman said.  “We’ve got people who are looking at operations, looking
at track, looking at maintenance, looking at survival factors,”
she said. “Trying to determine what was the initiating moment
is important and then we are able to determine whether it was a
human, the equipment, the tracks.”  Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy will meet with NTSB
officials and Senators  Richard Blumenthal  and Chris Murphy as
they conduct a brief survey of the Metro-North train crash site
today, the state said in an e-mailed statement.  Crash Scene  The MTA said a train bound from New York City to New Haven
derailed about 6:10 p.m. local time near an I-95 highway
overpass in Bridgeport. A train traveling in the opposite
direction on an adjacent track then struck the derailed train,
the MTA said last night in an e-mailed statement.  The accident prompted an indefinite suspension of Metro-North service in Connecticut between the South Norwalk and
Bridgeport stations.  Metro-North runs northward from Grand Central station in
 Manhattan  to serve suburban areas north of  New York City  and
into Connecticut.  The NTSB, based in  Washington , investigates all major
transportation accidents in the U.S. and determines their
causes. Investigations usually take at least several months.  The MTA said that of four tracks in the area, two were
already out of service for long-term repairs. The remaining two
tracks that were affected by the accident received extensive
infrastructure damage because of the collision, the MTA said.  Cranes Needed  Cranes will be needed to remove the damaged rail cars,
which can’t be moved, the MTA said, until investigators have
completed their on-scene work.  Along with the NTSB, the MTA police, local authorities, the
Connecticut Office of Emergency Management and the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation are participating in the inquiry. The
Federal Railroad Administration, which regulates Metro-North,
also is involved in the probe.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  has spoken with Malloy to
discuss their two states’ efforts in coordinating a response to
the wreck, the MTA said.  The MTA is the busiest transit administration in the U.S.,
according to the American Public Transportation Association.
Metro-North provides commuter-rail service between New York City
and surrounding suburbs in New York and Connecticut.  MTA’s website says Metro-North Railroad is the second
largest commuter railroad in the nation, with a 2012 ridership
of almost 83 million and 281,331 passengers weekdays.  Passenger Train  The crash may be the worst heavy-rail accident involving a
passenger train in the U.S. since a 2008 head-on crash between a
Union Pacific Corp. freight train and a Los Angeles Metrolink
 commuter train  that killed 25 people. A collision between two
subway trains in Washington, D.C., in 2009 killed nine people
and injured dozens.  Railroads have sought an extension to a 2015 deadline for
installing accident-avoidance technology on passenger lines and
tracks where hazardous materials are moved.  Congress imposed the adoption of so-called positive train
control, which can automatically stop a train before it hits
another, after the Los Angeles crash in which the operator of
the commuter train was texting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  