-- Dollar Climbs Most in Two Months on Bets Fed Will Slow Purchases
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-05-18T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/dollar-climbs-most-in-two-months-on-bets-fed-will-slow-purchases.html
The dollar gained the most in almost
two months against the euro amid bets the  Federal Reserve  will
slow its asset purchases under the quantitative-easing stimulus
strategy on signs the world’s biggest economy is accelerating.  The greenback rose versus all of its 16 most-traded peers
this week as U.S. retail sales unexpectedly increased, a
consumer-confidence gauge climbed and leading indicators beat
forecasts. The euro fell to a six-week low versus the dollar as
the currency bloc’s economy shrank for a sixth straight quarter.
The yen slid for a third week. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
testifies to Congress next week on the economic outlook.  “There’s been a lot of excitement about the U.S. economic
data,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a telephone interview May
16. “So far, the interpretation of any tapering has been quite
hawkish. The dollar is riding on optimism rather than a
significant shift in fundamentals.”  The U.S. currency strengthened 1.2 percent to $1.2839 per
euro this week in New York in the biggest drop since the five
days ended March 29. It touched $1.2797 yesterday, the strongest
since April 4. The dollar appreciated 1.6 percent to 103.21 yen
and touched 103.31, the strongest level since October 2008.
 Japan ’s currency fell 0.4 percent to 132.51 per euro.  The greenback has rallied 5.4 percent this year, the most
among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has advanced 2.3 percent,
while the yen has dropped 13 percent in the largest loss.  Winners, Losers  The Brazilian real was the best performer this week among
the dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts tracked by Bloomberg,
declining just 0.7 percent versus the U.S. currency.  South
Africa ’s rand was the biggest loser, tumbling 3 percent, while
the Australian dollar was the second-worst performer, with a 2.9
percent loss.  Futures traders increased their wagers that the yen and
euro will fall against the greenback, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the  yen  compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 88,407 on May 14,
compared with net shorts of 78,560 a week earlier. Net-short
bets that the  euro  will fall against the dollar rose to 46,921,
from 33,533 a week earlier.  Futures traders reversed bets the Australian dollar will
gain against the its U.S. peer.  Net shorts  the Aussie versus the
greenback totaled 13,450, the most since June 2012, versus net
longs of 6,630 a week earlier.  Fed Tapering  The dollar extended gains after Fed Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  said May 16 that quickening economic
growth and gains in the job market may prompt the central bank
to begin tapering its bond buying as soon as this summer.
Williams was one of the first Fed officials to advocate open-ended bond purchases. Philadelphia Fed Bank President  Charles
Plosser  said a week earlier he’d favor a June reduction.  The Fed is buying $85 billion a month of Treasury and
mortgage bonds to push down borrowing costs and spur growth.
Bernanke is scheduled to speak to the Joint Economic Committee
of Congress on May 22. Minutes of the Fed’s last policy meeting
will be released the same day.  U.S.  retail sales  rose 0.1 percent in April, after a 0.5
percent drop in March, the Commerce Department said May 13. The
Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators increased
0.6 percent in April, and the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of U.S.  consumer sentiment  climbed to
83.7 in May, the highest since July 2007, data showed yesterday.  ECB, BOJ  “It’s the  U.S. economy  that’s in the vanguard, and that
explains why the dollar continues to advance,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co., said
yesterday in New York. “You also have very much in the
forefront that the Federal Reserve might exit its quantitative
easing sooner than later, while the Bank of Japan is going to do
more QE and the  European Central Bank  is favored to do more.”  The euro fell for a second week against the greenback as
data showed  gross domestic product  in the 17-nation area shrank
0.2 percent last quarter, the European Union said. ECB President
 Mario Draghi  pledged on May 2 to lower rates again if needed
following a cut in the benchmark to 0.5 percent.  “Weak growth data from the  euro zone  is certainly adding
to the euro’s downside potential,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a senior
market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business
Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co., said in a May 15
telephone interview. “It raises pressure on the ECB to continue
to maintain an accommodative stance towards monetary policy.”  The yen has dropped 10 percent against the dollar since
April 3, the day before the  Bank of Japan  announced
unprecedented stimulus measures to stem 15 years of deflation.  Aussie, Rand  The Australian dollar fell to an almost one-year low versus
the greenback after the government’s forecast of slower growth
fanned bets the central bank will cut borrowing costs further.
Policy makers lowered the cash rate target a quarter-percentage
point to 2.75 percent on May 7.  The Aussie ended the week down 2.9 percent to 97.30 U.S.
cents and touched 97.11 yesterday, the lowest since June 5.  South Africa’s rand slumped to a four-year low against the
dollar on concern that falling metal prices and labor unrest
threaten the nation’s credit rating and economic growth.  The rand sank 3 percent to 9.4038 per dollar, tumbling
yesterday to 9.4413, its weakest level since April 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  