-- Mellanox Jumps on CEO-Chair Split Vote: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-05-18T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/mellanox-jumps-on-ceo-chair-split-vote-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the
Israeli  software developer  down 52 percent from last year’s
peak, is gaining on speculation shareholders will endorse
splitting the chairman and chief executive roles to bolster
confidence in the company’s earnings forecasts.  Shares of Mellanox, which makes data transferral and
storage software, rallied 6 percent last week to $57.02 in  New
York , capping the biggest advance in a month. The Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index of the largest Israeli companies traded
in the U.S. added 1.6 percent, while the shekel had its biggest
weekly retreat in 20 months after policy makers cut rates.  Investors will learn the results of a vote on whether to
appoint Eyal Waldman as both chairman and CEO for another three-year term at an annual meeting tomorrow, according to a proxy
statement filed with U.S. regulators last week. GAM U.K. Ltd.
and Oberweis Asset Management Inc. are calling for the jobs to
be separated after Mellanox cut its fourth-quarter sales outlook
three weeks before reporting in January and then forecast two
quarters of sales trailing analysts’ estimates.  “I want to own more in the company, and I can’t own more
of it until they show me they can have a better track record of
results versus guidance,” Mark Hawtin, director of investments
at GAM U.K. in  London , said in a phone interview May 16. “If
there’s somebody else with a position of authority participating
in that guidance discussion, it’s something that would help.”  GAM manages $100 billion in assets and recently pared back
Yokneam Elit, Israel-based Mellanox, which used to be in the top
25 percent of its holdings.  ‘Don’t Need’  “We don’t need a chairman for that,” Mellanox’s Waldman
said of improving the company’s forecasting. He spoke in a May
17 phone interview from New York after the U.S. markets closed.
“We have a smart board of directors and we are consulting with
the board every quarter about the guidance.”  Mellanox postponed its annual meeting from May 13 as votes
in some of the brokerage accounts were delayed, said Waldman,
who co-founded the company and has served as its president, CEO
and chairman since 1999. The vote tomorrow should favor his
reappointment as chairman and CEO, Waldman said.  He said that it’s “less expensive” and “more efficient”
for the company to keep the roles combined  Mellanox has issued sales forecasts below analyst estimates
for three reporting periods. Second-quarter sales will be as
much as $97.5 million, Mellanox said April 24, trailing a $108
million average of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
That follows the company’s first-quarter revenue forecast
announced on Jan. 23, which was below estimates by as much as 48
percent. Earlier in January, Mellanox cut its fourth-quarter
revenue outlook on weaker demand and a product glitch.  ‘Circling Back’  “Mellanox has been circling back with a lot of their top
shareholders to persuade them why it’s logical to have the same
CEO and Chairman,” Andrew Nowinski, analyst at Piper Jaffray
Cos., who rates the shares a buy, said in a May 15 phone
interview from  Minneapolis . “They didn’t believe the count was
accurate and now they’re circling back to pitch their agenda.”  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. recommended last
month that Mellanox investors push for the separation of the CEO
and chairman roles. The Rockville, Maryland-based proxy advisory
firm made similar proposals in 2007 and 2010, when 11 percent
and 26 percent of voting investors respectively opposed re-appointing Waldman as chairman,  Patrick McGurn , special counsel
to ISS, said in a May 16 e-mail.  Israeli Investors  Fidelity Management & Research Co. is the  largest
shareholder  in Mellanox, holding a 14 percent stake as of a May
13 filing, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Nicole Goodnow, a
director of communications in  Boston , said by phone May 17 that
Fidelity does not comment on specific holdings. Oracle Corp.
holds an 8.8 percent stake as of May 13 and also declined to
comment, according to an e-mail May 17 from  Deborah Hellinger , a
 Redwood City , California-based spokeswoman.  The larger Israeli investors are more in favor of a split,
while U.S. shareholders don’t mind the dual role, Waldman said.  “We decided to sell our long position and go short because
we felt like we couldn’t really trust the guidance they were
providing,” said Kenneth Farsalas, director of U.S. equities
and fund manager at Oberweis Asset Management, which oversees
$750 million in assets, said in a phone interview from Lisle,
Illinois May 14. “Anytime you have two different individuals as
chairman and CEO, it gives a little more comfort in terms of
corporate governance.”  Widest Split  Wall Street  doesn’t have tremendous confidence in the
company’s outlook, Farsalas also said, pointing to the range of
analyst estimates on the company’s results. Analysts’
projections for Mellanox’s 2013 adjusted earnings per share has
the widest range compared to a basket of 15 semiconductor peers
compiled by Bloomberg. The highest estimate is $1.70, while the
lowest is 93 cents, a spread of 77 cents, compared to the
group’s average of 43 cents.  Mellanox in the U.S. closed at a $2.21 premium relative to
its Israeli counterpart, the most among all dually traded
companies. Its advance to $57.02 in New York compares to a
weekly gain of 7.3 percent in  Tel Aviv  to 201 shekels, or
$54.80.  The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge advanced 1.6 percent to 93.64
in the week, the highest since Aug. 3, 2011. The TA-25 Index
rose 1 percent to 1,215.76.  Caesarstone Sdot Yam Ltd. was the biggest gainer on the
Israel-US gauge last week, jumping 11 percent to $27.97, a
record high. The maker of quartz-based countertops signed an
agreement with Ikea Group to serve as its sole non-laminate
countertop vendor in the U.S., according to a statement released
May 16.  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  posted the largest declines, falling 10
percent to $8.55.  Israel ’s largest mobile company, based in
Netanya, slipped for eight straight days, the longest stretch of
retreats in a year. Shares in Israel slid 8 percent to 31.54
shekels, or $8.60, last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  