-- EU Leaders to Pledge Tax-Evasion Fight With Savings Pact
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-05-18T10:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/eu-leaders-to-pledge-tax-evasion-fight-with-savings-pact.html
European Union leaders in the coming
week will pledge to step up efforts to fight tax evasion and
conclude work by year end on an updated savings-tax pact that
covers how countries share data, according to draft conclusions
for their May 22 summit.  The EU leaders’ commitment comes after finance ministers
failed to reach a deal on the savings pact last week because of
reservations voiced by Luxembourg and Austria. The leaders also
will endorse efforts to expand tax information-sharing
worldwide, as sought by the U.K.,  France  and other nations,
according to the draft, dated May 17.  “Priority will be given to efforts to extend the automatic
exchange of information at the EU and global levels,” according
to the draft conclusions. The draft also notes “consensus on
the scope” of the updated savings tax accord and calls for its
adoption “before the end of the year.”  The EU savings-tax accord sets standards for how countries
can collect information on income from savings that their
residents earn in other nations. The updated accord aims to
close loopholes in the previous pact by including savings income
from trusts, foundations, funds and other financial products.  The update also requires all EU members to take part in
information exchanges after a transition period. The original
accord, passed in 2005, offered  Austria  and Luxembourg an
exemption from automatic information exchange requirements, and
those nations now have agreed to revise their policies.  Sticking Points  Current sticking points involve the timing of when the
updated accord would take effect. EU finance ministers on May 14
approved the start of anti-tax-evasion talks with Switzerland
and four other countries, and Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said this week that those talks must conclude
before the EU approves the new savings pact.  In addition to the anti-evasion commitments, EU nations
also will call for renewed attention to “the supply of
affordable and sustainable energy” and its effect on EU
economies. Leaders will pledge to study energy prices, revisit
state aid rules for energy investments and investigate ways to
boost financing for energy-efficient projects, according to the
draft.  “In the current economic context we must mobilize all our
policies in support of competitiveness, jobs and growth,” the
draft conclusions say.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  