-- Mexico’s Grupo Hevi Said to Hire Barclays to Explore Sale
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-05-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/mexico-s-grupo-hevi-said-to-hire-barclays-to-explore-sale.html
Grupo Hevi , the closely held owner of
 Mexico ’s Telecable TV service, has hired  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to explore
a sale, according to people familiar with the matter.  Among the potential buyers are  Megacable Holdings SAB (MEGACPO) , the
nation’s largest cable-TV company, said two of the people, who
asked not to be named because the plans are private. Hevi could
fetch more than $500 million in a sale, one of the people said.  A sale would put one of the biggest remaining independent
cable companies in Mexico up for grabs. Guadalajara, Mexico-based Hevi, named for founder and Chief Executive Officer Hector Vielma, has more than 350,000 subscribers across 10 Mexican
states.  Megacable, also based in Guadalajara, said in February that
it would be interested in acquiring Hevi if it was put up for
sale.  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the Mexico City-based broadcaster,
controls three cable carriers -- Cablemas, Cablevision and TVI -
- and has said it aims to collect more.  “There are very attractive opportunities in the cable
sector and also other assets on the telecommunications front in
Mexico,” said Alfonso de Angoitia, Televisa’s executive vice
president, on a conference call last month. “We will, as we
have mentioned in the past, continue to seek opportunities to
consolidate in that sector.”  Representatives for Grupo Hevi, Megacable and Televisa who
can’t be named under their companies’ policies declined to
comment, as did Brandon Ashcraft, a Barclays spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  