-- Ken Venturi, U.S. Open Golf Champion and Broadcaster, Dies at 82
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-18T15:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/ken-venturi-u-s-open-golf-champion-and-broadcaster-dies-at-82.html
Ken Venturi, who won the 1964  U.S.
Open  and later spent 35 years as a television golf analyst, died
yesterday. He was 82.  Venturi’s son, Matt, told the  Associated Press  his father
died in a hospital in Rancho Mirage, California. Venturi had
been hospitalized the past two months for a spinal infection,
pneumonia and then an intestinal infection, AP reported.  His death comes less than two weeks after he was inducted
into the World Golf Hall of Fame.  “The  PGA Tour  joins the world of golf in mourning the loss
of one of its most treasured champions and ambassadors, Ken
Venturi,” PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem said on the tour’s
 website . “His tremendous accomplishments on the golf course
were certainly Hall of Fame worthy on their own, but in Ken one
finds a rare example of a golfer whose second career, in
television, rivaled the legendary status of his competitive
achievements.”  In 1956, Venturi almost became the only amateur to win the
Masters, leading for the first three rounds before shooting a
final-round 80 to blow a four-shot lead and finish second, one
shot behind Jack Burke Jr. Venturi also was the runner-up to
 Arnold Palmer  at the 1960 Masters.  Venturi won his only major championship at the U.S. Open
championship at Congressional Golf Club in Bethesda,  Maryland .  He trailed by six strokes entering the final day, where the
third and fourth rounds would be played. With temperatures
approaching 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius), Venturi
shot 66 to move within two shots of Tommy Jacobs.  Ice Packs  Battling the heat and dehydration after the third round,
Venturi was advised by Dr. John Everett to withdraw, according
to the U.S. Open’s website. Venturi declined and Everett
followed him around with ice packs throughout the final 18
holes, where he shot 70 to win by four strokes.  Venturi went into broadcasting after his playing career was
cut short by wrist injuries that affected the use of his hands.
He spent 35 years as the lead golf analyst for  CBS Sports  before
retiring in 2002.  He was enshrined into the Hall of Fame in the lifetime
achievement category May 6 in  St. Augustine , Florida, along with
1992 Masters champion  Fred Couples .  Venturi is survived by his wife of 10 years, Kathleen, and
his two sons, according to AP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  