-- Hong Kong Lawmakers Quiz Former Anti-Corruption Agency Chief
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-05-18T06:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/hong-kong-lawmakers-quiz-former-anti-corruption-agency-chief.html
Hong Kong  lawmakers adjourned a
public hearing today attended by Timothy Tong, the former head
of the city’s anti-graft body being investigated for corruption,
expressing dissatisfaction with his answers to questions on the
agency’s spending during his five-year term.  The public accounts committee of Hong Kong’s Legislative
Council is reviewing a government audit  report  that said the
 Independent Commission Against Corruption  should tighten control
of official entertainment expenses. The ICAC said this week that
it was investigating Tong after allegations that he improperly
spent more than $100,000 on gifts and travel, including a
HK$4,140 ($533) ornament given to the  China ’s Supreme People’s
Procuratorate. It’s the first publicly disclosed probe against a
current or former head since the ICAC was founded in 1974.  Tong’s responses to the panel today were “very cautious,
to the extent that there’s no answers given in over an hour of
questioning,” said Abraham Shek, lawmaker and chairman of the
public accounts committee. The Legislative Council will send a
summons to Tong later requesting him to appear before the panel
again, he said.  Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying earlier appointed
a committee to review the ICAC’s spending while Tong headed the
agency from 2007 to 2012. Lawmakers also said they will conduct
their own review of the matter.  “There have been many media reports, many allegations
involving details of many issues,” Tong told reporters after
appearing before the panel. “It’s not appropriate for me to
answer in detail.”  The ICAC pursued high-profile investigations under Tong,
including arresting former Chief Secretary Rafael Hui and the
co-chairmen of  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  Thomas and  Raymond Kwok . The three have pleaded not guilty in that case.  Transparency International  ranked Hong Kong number 14 on
its Corruption Perceptions Index in 2012, meaning it is
considered less corrupt than the U.S., U.K. and France. China
was placed 80th.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  