-- Outing of Alleged Spies Further Strains U.S.-Russia Ties
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-05-18T04:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/outing-of-alleged-spies-further-strains-u-s-russia-ties.html
Russia breached the arcane etiquette
of international espionage when it publicly identified a U.S.
diplomat in Moscow as a CIA station chief.  The move is the latest sign that U.S.-Russian relations
remain rocky and that Russian President  Vladimir Putin  -- a
former officer in the KGB, the  Soviet Union ’s intelligence
service -- remains cool to President  Barack Obama ’s attempts to
thaw them. The U.S. bid for a “reset” in 2009 unraveled amid
disputes over issues such as Syria and  Iran  that linger today.  Obama sent his national security adviser, Tom Donilon, to
Moscow a month ago for talks with Putin in an effort to ease a
dispute over U.S. missile defense plans and advance joint
economic and security measures before the two leaders meet next
month at the Group of Eight summit in  Northern Ireland .  The spy spat and unresolved tension over Syria -- Russia
continues to send arms to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
embattled regime despite U.S. requests that it stop -- have
undercut diplomats’ talk of a second “reset.”  “I do not believe there is a ‘Reset Two,’” William Pomeranz, acting director of the Kennan Institute for Advanced
Russian Studies at  Washington ’s Wilson Center, a policy research
institute, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Russia  has “every intention of asserting its own
advantages in any sort of dealings with the  United States ,”
Pomeranz said. “That has been the stated objective of Putin
since his return to the presidency a year ago, and I see nothing
so far that suggests that they are going to pursue anything
other than a policy that, as they see it, brings advantage to
Russia.”  Intersecting Interests  The U.S. and Russia have cooperated when their interests
intersect, such as their joint counterterrorism efforts
following last month’s Boston Marathon bombing, allegedly
committed by two men with family ties to Russia’s volatile
Chechnya and Dagestan regions. Obama wants to pursue an effort
to reduce both nations’ nuclear arsenals below levels set by the
New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty negotiated in his first
term.  “We still feel that we have a very positive relationship,
and one that we can continue to work together on areas where we
agree,” State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters
yesterday. “There are still areas, of course, where we
disagree.”  State-run Russian  media  cited an official from the domestic
Federal Security Service, known as the FSB, naming the alleged
Central Intelligence Agency station chief as of 2011 during a
briefing about another alleged CIA officer, Christopher Fogle,
who was detained by in Moscow on May 13.  American Expelled  Fogle was expelled from Russia after he was caught trying
to recruit a Russian agent in what the FSB described as a sting
operation. Fogle worked under a diplomatic cover in the U.S.
Embassy’s political section, according to the FSB, as the main
successor to the KGB is known in Russian.  The FSB official said that Russian authorities in 2011 had
told the CIA station chief, whom he named, that the U.S. should
stop trying to recruit Russian security and intelligence
officers, according to Russia’s state-run RIA Novosti news
service. That report said it’s not clear whether Fogle is still
in Moscow.  U.S. Ambassador  Michael McFaul  was summoned on May 15 to
the Russian Foreign Ministry, which said it presented him with a
formal protest about Fogle’s activities. The U.S. has not
publicly disputed the Russian allegations, and Psaki said she
wouldn’t have any comment on the matter of the alleged station
chief.  Russian Missiles  Separately, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff
said yesterday that Russian deliveries of advanced anti-ship
missiles and air-defense systems to Syria risk leading Assad’s
regime to miscalculate its military power.  Army General Martin Dempsey, at a Pentagon news conference,
called the shipments “at the very least an unfortunate decision
that will embolden the regime and prolong the suffering.”  Any Russian weapons being sent to  Syria  are fulfilling
commitments in previous contracts, Russian Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  said yesterday after talks in Sochi, Russia, with
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon. Russia is
completing contracts to supply S-300 air-defense missile
batteries to Syria, according to a Kremlin official who asked
not to be identified discussing the arms sales.  ‘Major Threat’  U.S. Army Lieutenant General Michael Flynn, director of the
 Defense Intelligence Agency , told Congress last month that
Russia also is supplying Syria with a supersonic anti-ship
cruise missile called the Yakhont, a weapon with a range of 300
kilometers (186 miles) that he said poses “a major threat to
naval operations, particularly in the eastern Mediterranean.”  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  brought up Russian
weapons deliveries to Syria with Putin and Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov during a visit to Moscow last week, Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel told a news conference yesterday.  Kerry’s goal was to underscore the common ground between
the U.S. and Russia in avoiding an escalation that could lead to
a broader Mideast conflagration, Hagel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  