-- Oxbow Wins Preakness, Spoils Derby Winner Orb’s Triple Crown Run
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/oxbow-leads-from-start-to-win-preakness-deny-triple-crown-champ.html
Oxbow led all the way at the 138th
Preakness Stakes to spoil Kentucky Derby winner Orb’s chances of
becoming the 12th horse to claim thoroughbred racing’s Triple
Crown.  Oxbow, a 15-1 shot, yesterday covered the 1 3/16 mile (1.9
kilometer) race at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore in one
minute, 57.54 seconds. Itsmyluckyday was second, followed by
Mylute and Orb.  “We came in here with a lot of confidence,” said jockey
Gary Stevens, 50, who came out of a seven-year retirement to
ride Oxbow to sixth place in the May 4 Kentucky Derby. “I hit
the half-mile pole and said, ‘Is this really happening?’ It was
over at the half-mile.”  Orb was seeking to become the 34th horse to win the Derby
and Preakness. Eleven of those went on to win the Belmont Stakes
and complete the three-race Triple Crown, with the last being
Affirmed in 1978. The Belmont Stakes is scheduled for June 8 in
Elmont,  New York .  Oxbow and Orb share the bloodline of Seattle Slew, winner
of the Triple Crown in 1977, while Orb also carries genes from
Secretariat, who set the record times for all three races in
capturing the 1973 Triple Crown. Secretariat ranks second to Man
o’ War, and Seattle Slew is ninth, in  The Blood-Horse  magazine’s
ranking of the 100 greatest U.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.  Oxbow gave Stevens, who left his job as a television
analyst to return to racing, his third Preakness victory, the
last in 1997 aboard Silver Charm, and his ninth Triple Crown
race win.  ‘Spoil Dreams’  D. Wayne Lukas, who had three entries in the nine-horse
field, earned his record-setting 14th victory in Triple Crown
races and trained his sixth horse to win the Preakness.  “I get paid to spoil dreams,” Lukas said in a televised
interview. “You got to line them up and win them.” He also
said he expects to enter Oxbow in the Belmont Stakes provided
the colt is fit.  Oxbow returned $32.80 on a $2 bet to win, $12 to place and
$6.80 to show. Itsmyluckyday paid $7.80 and $5 and Mylute
returned $5.20.  Shug McGaughey, Orb’s trainer, who was looking for his
first Preakness victory, said he thought the horse was in a good
position when he left the gate from the first post position.  “He took him inside and never really seemed comfortable
down there,” McGaughey said. “It is highs and lows, but
probably more lows than highs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  