-- Pound Declines to Six-Week Low Versus Dollar on Fed Speculation
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-18T06:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/pound-declines-to-six-week-low-versus-dollar-on-fed-speculation.html
The pound fell for a second week
versus the dollar as speculation the Federal Reserve is moving
closer to ending its program of asset purchases boosted the U.S.
currency against its major peers.  Sterling dropped to a six-week low after Fed Bank of San
Francisco President John Williams said on May 16 the U.S.
central bank may begin to taper off its monthly asset purchases
as early as this summer. The U.K. currency was little changed
versus the euro after Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said
the Monetary Policy Committee raised its forecast for U.K.
growth in the last Inflation Report before he’s replaced by Mark Carney. U.K. government bonds were also little changed.  “The dollar has been dominating the pound and that will
continue to be the case,” said  Geoff Kendrick , head of European
currency strategy at Nomura International Plc in London. “The
relative growth outlook is better in the U.S. Sterling could
also weaken on its own as the market pre-empts whether Carney
will be more aggressive before the next Inflation Report.”  The pound fell 1.2 percent in the week to $1.5170 at 5:15
p.m. London time yesterday after dropping to $1.5158, the lowest
level since April 4. Sterling was at 84.49 pence per euro, from
84.57 pence on May 10.  The U.S. central bank may reduce its $85 billion in monthly
bond-buying amid signs the economy is gaining strength, the
Fed’s Williams said. The Dollar Index, which
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track the greenback
against currencies of six U.S. trading partners, rose yesterday
to the highest since July 2010.  Slowing Inflation  An economic recovery is in sight in the U.K., King said on
May 15, as the Bank of England raised growth projections and
lowered its forecasts for inflation. Reports next week will show
the pace of consumer-price increases slowed in April while
retail sales rose, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Minutes from this month’s Bank of England monetary-policy
decision, when officials left the main rate at 0.5 percent and
kept the size of their asset-purchase program at 375 billion
pounds, are scheduled for release on May 22.  Sterling has depreciated 2.3 percent this year, the second-worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar rose 5.5 percent and the euro gained 2.1 percent.  U.K. 10-year  gilt yields  ended the week at 1.88 percent,
from 1.89 percent on May 10. The price of the 1.75 percent bond
maturing in September 2022 was at 98.86.  Gilts handed investors a 1.5 percent loss this month
through May 16, trimming gains this year to 0.2 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in  London  at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  