-- U.K. Treasury Says Independent Scotland Couldn’t Aid Banks
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-20T11:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/u-k-treasury-says-banks-too-big-to-save-in-independent-scotland.html
An independent  Scotland  would have a
banking system too big to save in a crisis and may lack the
resources to compensate depositors, the Treasury said in a study
into the economic implications of a U.K. breakup.  Scotland would have banks with assets worth 1,254 percent
of gross domestic product, higher than Cyprus and Iceland before
their financial crises, the Treasury said. Taxpayers would each
have 65,000 pounds ($98,670) of potential liabilities in a
bailout, versus 30,000 pounds while the country remains in the
U.K. An independent state would also be less able to guarantee
deposits and stand behind private pensions, it said.  “Faced with a serious banking crisis, the possibility of
bank failures would pose a very serious risk to taxpayers in an
independent Scotland,” the Treasury said.  The governing  Conservative Party , its Liberal Democrat
coalition partner and the main opposition  Labour Party  are
united in favor of preserving the U.K., which was formed by the
Act of Union in 1707. The study is the second from the Treasury
in  London  to make an economic case against independence.  The  Scottish National Party , which runs the semi-autonomous
 government  in Edinburgh, is campaigning for a breakaway from the
U.K. and has set a referendum for Sept. 18, 2014. Scottish First
Minister  Alex Salmond  says Scotland would have more scope to
spend on projects to revive economic growth.  Less Risky  The Treasury said today that Scotland benefits from having
lenders such as  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  based in
Edinburgh, together with U.K. regulation and a financial
stability framework. Scottish banks also enjoy cheaper funding
costs because they are perceived to be less risky as part of a
bigger economy, the ministry said.  “Because we all share the same tax and regulatory system,
we get the best of both worlds,” Scottish Secretary Michael Moore said at a press conference in Edinburgh today.
“Mortgages, car insurance, pensions,  life insurance  are all
made more affordable. It’s about choice, value and protection.”  The Treasury also dismissed proposals from the Edinburgh
government which would allow Scotland to maintain its large
financial industry while leaving British taxpayers on the hook
in the event of a bailout. Scottish banks would be “crucially
dependent on one state’s taxpayers being willing to support
another’s,” the report said.  Taxpayer Burden  Current proposals “would weaken the U.K. authorities’
control over macro prudential supervision and dilute the U.K.
government’s responsibility for fiscal decisions about  bank
failures  and resolution,” the Treasury said. “These proposals
would also not give the government of an independent Scotland
the levers it needed, particularly as the smaller partner.”  The U.K.’s Financial Services Compensation Scheme, which
stands behind 85,000 pounds of deposits for every saver, would
saddle taxpayers with liabilities equivalent to a year’s annual
economic output if replicated for Scotland, the paper said.  Similarly, the U.K.’s Pension Protection Fund for defined-benefit pension plans is easier to fund than an equivalent in
Scotland because risk can spread more easily, the Treasury said.  “As was clear from the 2008 financial crisis, where there
are doubts about the ability of the sector to meet claims
through the compensation scheme, it can be necessary for
governments to step in to guarantee deposits in order to prevent
deposit fight,” the Treasury said.  Financial Jobs  The Scottish financial industry supports about 185,000 jobs
directly and indirectly, about 7 percent of the Scottish
workforce, and accounts of almost 10 percent of onshore Scottish
economic activity, Sajid Javid, economic secretary to the
Treasury and a former investment banker, said.  Having a different regulator and a different tax system
would add to the cost of financial products, he said.  “We have got a very strong proposition on the economy,
which is key for people working in financial services,” he said
at the press conference in Edinburgh.  The U.K. deliberately hadn’t included figures of how much
more products might cost in the event of independence, said
Nicholas Macpherson, the Treasury’s top civil servant.  “There is a high degree of uncertainty and we don’t want
to go down the route of scaremongering,” he said.  The British government last month closed the door to a
formal agreement with Scotland for its continued use of the
pound in the event of a vote for independence next year, citing
the tumult in the 17-nation euro region during the debt crisis.  Three commercial banks -- RBS,  Lloyds Banking Group (LLOY) ’s  Bank
of Scotland (RBS)  and Clydesdale Bank -- print their own Scottish
pound notes under an agreement dating back to 1845.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net 
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  