-- Lundbeck-Takeda Drug Fights Depression Better at Higher Dose
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-05-18T22:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/lundbeck-s-brintellix-is-more-effective-in-higher-dose-in-study.html
H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) , Denmark’s second-largest drugmaker, said its experimental antidepressant
Brintellix improved symptoms better in a higher dose in a late-stage U.S. study, as the medicine awaits regulatory approval.  Brintellix, also known as vortioxetine, significantly
improved symptoms in the 20-milligram dose, with patients’
scores on the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale falling
by 15.57 after 8 weeks of treatment, compared with 16.90 for
patients taking 60 milligrams of  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Cymbalta,
Lundbeck and trial partner  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  said in a
statement yesterday. The 15-milligram dose of Brintellix didn’t
meet statistical significance, the companies said.  “As a clinician, I’m encouraged by these data,” Madhukar Trivedi, professor of psychiatry at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center and scientific adviser to Lundbeck,
said in the statement. “They represent an important addition to
the broader clinical profile for vortioxetine.”  Brintellix will probably be prescribed as a second-line
treatment for patients who don’t respond to, or can’t tolerate,
cheaper generic options, Chief Executive Officer Ulf Wiinberg
has said. It will help offset lower revenue from Lexapro, which
lost patent protection in the U.S. in March 2012.  Sales of the
antidepressant , called Cipralex outside the U.S., dropped to 6.4
billion kroner ($1.1 billion) last year from about 8.5 billion
kroner in 2011.  Peak sales of Brintellix may reach as much as $3 billion,
according to Deutsche Bank AG analyst Tim Race in  London . The
drug was filed in  Europe  in September and in the U.S. in
December. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  will make a
decision by Oct. 2, according to Copenhagen-based Lundbeck.  Lundbeck has been developing Brintellix with Osaka, Japan-based Takeda. If the drug is approved, the companies plan to co-promote it in the U.S. and in Japan.  Shares of Lundbeck rose 0.2 percent to close at 115.80
kroner in the Danish capital yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  