-- UnitedHealth Slow to Fix Military Care Backlog: Pentagon
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-05-18T00:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/unitedhealth-slow-to-fix-military-care-backlog-pentagon.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest
U.S. health insurer, is failing to meet terms of a $20.5 billion
military contract, causing lingering delays to medical care, a
Pentagon official said.  The backlogs occurred after Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth took over the contract last month from TriWest
Healthcare Alliance Corp., according to the Defense Department.
The agreement is for coordinating care in the western region of
the military’s Tricare health system.  UnitedHealth “continues to be unable to comply with the
requirements of their contract,” Jonathan Woodson, assistant
secretary of defense for health affairs, said in a memo dated
May 16. The result is that beneficiaries are prevented “from
obtaining timely access to specialty care and potentially
causing them to suffer harm,” he said.  Pentagon officials on May 2 temporarily waived a
requirement that beneficiaries in one military plan in the
western region get UnitedHealth’s authorization for specialty
care. The Defense Department is now extending the waiver through
June 18, according to Woodson’s memo to military officials. The
original waiver had been set to expire tomorrow.  UnitedHealth is “deploying the full resources of the
company to ensure that beneficiaries receive the care and
service they deserve,” Lori McDougal, chief executive officer
of the firm’s military and veterans unit, said in a statement.  “We are making progress in clearing pending referrals and
authorizations and we continue to work in close collaboration
with our government partners to meet care and access
standards,” McDougal said.  Exceeded Norms  The delays in the region were due to requests for referrals
and care authorizations that “far exceeded the norms” since
UnitedHealth took over the contract, Bruce Jasurda, a
UnitedHealth spokesman, said earlier this month.  The delays affected beneficiaries in the Tricare Prime
program, a plan in which participants are assigned a primary-care manager responsible for referring patients to specialists.  Those referrals require the contractor’s authorization.
Participants who don’t obtain that approval are normally subject
to a fee. The Pentagon is temporarily waiving that charge and
the contractor authorization requirement.  There are 1.6 million Tricare Prime beneficiaries in the
region served by UnitedHealth. The contractor is responsible for
coordinating care for active-duty military, retirees and their
families in 21 states, including California, Hawaii and
 Colorado .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  