-- Yahoo Said to Discuss Acquiring Tumblr to Add Popular Blog Tools
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-05-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-18/yahoo-said-to-discuss-acquiring-tumblr-to-add-popular-blog-tools.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  is in talks to buy Tumblr
Inc., a service that hosts 108 million blogs, a person with
knowledge of the matter said, a deal that could help the biggest
U.S. Web portal lure users and advertisers.  Tumblr, founded in 2007 by entrepreneur David Karp, has
contacted bigger technology companies seeking to be bought, or
form a partnership, according to people with knowledge of the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the overtures
were private.  Under Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer , Yahoo has been
adding features designed to win back users who have fled the Web
portal in favor of competing sites such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  Tumblr got more than 13 billion global  page views  in
the past month, and it recently began letting advertisers pay
for prominent placement, putting the company on a path to
achieve profitability this year, executives said in March.  Katherine Barna, a spokeswoman for New York-based Tumblr,
didn’t respond to multiple requests for comment. DJ Anderson, a
spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo, declined to
comment.  Yahoo’s board will meet tomorrow to consider a $1.1 billion
all-cash deal to acquire Tumblr, the technology blog AllThingsD
 reported  yesterday. Adweek had reported that the price could be
as much as  $1 billion .  CEO since July, Mayer had little to show for her efforts to
turn around the company as of last month, when Yahoo reported a
drop in its main display-advertising business and issued a sales
forecast for this quarter that may fall short of analysts’
estimates. Mayer’s push to revamp products such as Yahoo’s home
page and e-mail have made little headway to reverse a decline in
display, an area where Google and Facebook are gaining ground.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  