-- Ader as CRT’s Survivor-Strategist Seeks Fed Primary Dealership
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-08-31T01:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/ader-as-crt-s-survivor-strategist-seeks-fed-primary-dealership.html
David Ader survived a heart attack
in a jet over the Atlantic, missed a chance to work at the CIA
thanks to his friend the international spy, changed jobs during
the worst financial crisis in a lifetime and helped upstart CRT
Capital Group LLC almost double revenue in two years.  The next goal for the top-ranked bond analyst in
Institutional Investor magazine polls for the past six years:
Lead CRT into the select group of 21 primary dealers that trade
with the  Federal Reserve , are obligated to bid at Treasury
auctions and earn the central bank’s “stamp of approval.”  “There’s no question we are interested in becoming primary
dealers,” Ader, 54, head of U.S. government-bond strategy at
CRT, said from his  Stamford , Connecticut, office with a view of
the Long Island Sound. “As a firm, I think that we’re doing
everything we in the Treasury business can to be involved and to
be market makers, and our market share is certainly comparable
to primary dealers, and we cover hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of accounts.”  Since Ader joined CRT in 2009 with a ownership stake,
revenue rose to $175.4 million  in 2011  from $90.4 million  in
2010 , according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CRT reported $212.9 million in partner capital in its 2011
filing, more than the $150 million required of a primary dealer
by the Fed. The institutional broker-dealer, which employs more
than 270 people, was founded in 1989 with a controlling interest
purchased in 2009 by current Chief Executive Office Ron Kripalani, Chairman Ben Carpenter and  Jay Levine .  Ader earned his ranking as top government-debt strategist
with calls such as his forecast for a  bull market  in November
2010.  Pain, Gain  It was a contrarian position at the time, with benchmark
10-year yields rising to 2.9 percent amid optimism the economy
would expand at the end of the Fed’s first round of asset
purchases. Rather than a period of expansion, Ader saw a
situation similar to  Japan ’s in the 1990s, when the  Bank of
Japan  failed to create growth amid deflation and recession.  Investors who acted on Ader’s call experienced three months
of suffering, watching Treasuries fall and the  10-year yield 
rise as high as 3.8 percent in February 2011. Then came the
payoff, as yields started a 17-month slide to an all-time low of
1.38 percent in July. Treasury 5-, 7- and 30-year debt yields
also fell to record lows as  volatility  plummeted, the  European
debt crisis  spread and unemployment in the U.S. remained above 8
percent.  The 10-year note yield has since risen as high 1.86 percent
before trading at 1.62 percent yesterday.  ‘Still Bullish’  “Nothing has changed in my outlook because nothing has
changed in the market,” Ader said. “We are in the same place
we’ve been in. We are not falling off the cliff immediately, but
we will be on the edge for some time given the entrenched nature
of the problems we have in the economy. I’m still bullish on
bonds and bearish on risk assets.”  Ader forecasts 10-year yields falling to 1.15 percent by
year-end. The weighted average forecast of 81 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey is for it to rise to 1.79 percent.  Not all his calls have proved as prescient. He told members
of the  European Central Bank  in a speech in 2003 that the Fed
would cut its overnight lending rate between banks to 0.75
percent from 1 percent to help boost growth. The Fed didn’t, and
a year later began raising its target rate to 5.25 percent by
June 2006.  Dealing with changing environments is nothing new to Ader,
an outdoorsman adept at foraging for food and building shelters
in the wild. He can start a campfire with a bow and a couple of
pieces of wood, he said.  He became a true survivor in 2009 when he suffered a heart
attack aboard a British Airways flight over the Atlantic. The
jet made an emergency landing in Reykjavik.  Mighty Fall  At the time, Ader was head of interest-rate strategy with
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s primary-dealer unit as the
financial crisis was changing the shape of  Wall Street .  Merrill Lynch & Co. and Countrywide Securities Corp. had
been bought by Bank of America Corp.,  Lehman Brothers  Holdings
Inc. filed for bankruptcy and Bear Stearns Cos. was acquired by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley
converted to bank-holding companies and the U.S. Treasury
Department took a stake in Citigroup Inc. In the U.K., the
government nationalized banks, and now holds 64 percent of RBS.  “The biggest and the mightiest were falling,” Ader said.
“The heart attack spurred on a degree of courage and
willingness to take a risk. It freed me up from being
inhibited.”  Within six months he left for CRT. He modified his diet,
worked out with a personal trainer, and hikes and fly-fishes.  I Spy  Finance wasn’t Ader’s first ambition. After earning his
undergraduate degree at  Tufts University  in Medford,
 Massachusetts , and his master’s in international economics at
 Columbia University  in  New York , he applied in 1985 to the
Central Intelligence Agency.  He was supported by a recommendation from a graduate
student in international affairs at Tuft’s Fletcher School.  “I’d stayed at his apartment,” Ader said of his former
schoolmate, who was working as a U.S. Navy intelligence officer
at the time. “He was a nerdy, nebbish guy, but fun.”  That friend was Jonathan Pollard, who was arrested that
same year and charged with spying for  Israel . He was convicted
in 1987, receiving a life sentence he continues to serve.  Ader’s application was rejected.  “So much for the CIA,” he said.  After working at Bond Week and Technical Data magazines,
Ader joined RBS in 2002, becoming head of government-debt
strategy in 2005.  ‘My Call’  Early on, he was willing to make his own predictions even
if they went against consensus within the firm. “I don’t care
if  David Ader ’s call represents the firm or not,” he said.
“It’s my call.”  During the booming  housing  market in 2006 and 2007, Ader
argued that most of the growth in disposable income in the U.S.
was attributable to a bubble in home-equity loans. Though RBS
didn’t foresee a sudden price drop that would threaten the
economy, Ader was “extremely skeptical,” said Dave Chappell,
who manages $2.5 billion in London at Threadneedle Asset
Management Ltd.  Those doubts shored up Threadneedle’s view that the housing
market was in danger, Chappell said in a telephone interview.
“It definitely helped us to get into a position where we were
very successful through the period that followed.”  Primary Battle  RBS didn’t follow Ader’s view and after the financial
crisis hit, the U.K. announced in October 2008 that it would
take controlling stakes in RBS, HBOS Plc and Lloyds TBS Group
Plc. Regulators threatened to cut bonus structures that had
drawn public ire.  When CRT called, Ader was ready to take on the challenge
for a primary dealership, bringing with him from RBS his
colleague  Ian Lyngen , now a partner at the new firm.  The ranks of dealers had been culled in 2007 and 2008 by
the financial crisis, and the central bank over the next two
years selected seven new firms to fill the gap. It bypassed CRT.  Then came the October 2011 collapse of MF Global Ltd., one
of the Fed’s newly anointed firms, run by Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Jon Corzine , the former Goldman Sachs co-
chairman and New Jersey governor. The eighth-largest bankruptcy
in U.S. history raised the bar for prospective new primary
dealers.  ‘Caution Abounds’  “You better believe introspection and caution abounds at
the Fed regarding new dealers,” said  Jim Bianco , president of
Bianco Research in  Chicago . “What happened to MF Global had
nothing to do with their dealership, but it had to make the Fed
more cautious about who becomes a dealer.”  Fed spokesman Eric Pajonk in New York declined to comment
on CRT or its process of selecting primary dealers.  Even as the Treasury has sold $7.8 trillion of securities
since 2009 at its auctions, trading volumes haven’t returned to
levels seen before the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September
2008, according to trading data reported by the primary dealers
to the Fed, and separately by ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer
broker of the debt.  In the past year, an average of $533.1 billion Treasuries
have been traded by the 21 primary dealers each week, or 5
percent of the $10.6 trillion of publicly traded U.S. government
debt outstanding. During the 12 months before Lehman collapsed,
an average $582.5 billion, or 12 percent of the total, changed
hands each week.  In January 2010 the Fed tightened requirements for aspiring
dealers, tripling the minimum capital to $150 million.  Fed ‘Approval’  For firms looking to become dealers now, there “is a
higher level of scrutiny, which is understandable,” said Don Galante, chief operating officer for ED&F Man Capital Markets
Ltd. in New York, who oversaw MF Global’s efforts to become a
dealer until 2010. “The Fed is really like a customer to you.”  Not having the Fed’s blessing hinders trading relationships
with foreign investors, who owned 50 percent of the Treasury’s
$10.6 trillion debt as of July, Ader said.  “They like to see the stamp of approval implied by being a
primary dealer,” said Ader, who in recent months has focused on
European markets, sometimes setting his alarm clock for 3:30
a.m. to see results of Spanish debt auctions.  The lack of a dealership “is a delicate area,” Ader said,
but he doesn’t regret the move to CRT.  “I don’t like to move around,” Ader said. “If I found a
good situation and am happy, a little extra money is not a
motivation. I want to stay and build something.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  