-- Agrinos CEO Sees Accelerated Growth With Syngenta Sales Boost
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-08-31T08:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/agrinos-ceo-sees-accelerated-growth-with-syngenta-sales-boost.html
Agrinos AS, the biological crop-
additives company part-owned by  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , said sales growth
may accelerate next year and predicted revenue in 2012 will
double to more than $60 million.  Agrinos’s pace of growth next year “could be higher than
2012,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Einar Rysst-Jensen said in
an interview today. The partnership with Syngenta “will
accelerate the rapid development of our products,” as the
Lyasker, Norway-based company targets an initial public offering
in the second half of next year.  Agrinos may boost its equity by offering as many as 6
million new shares worth $45 million before the IPO, Rysst-
Jensen said. The company has a market value of 1.8 billion
kroner ($309 million) on  Norway ’s over-the-counter market, and
this figure would be “just the starting point” in an IPO, the
chief said in an August 6 interview.  Syngenta announced this month that it would invest $10
million in Agrinos and put an observer on the company’s board.
From the first quarter of 2013 the world’s largest maker of crop
chemicals will distribute Agrinos’s high yield technology
product which improves a plant’s uptake of nutrients from the
soil.  Agrinos’s bio-stimulants are made from naturally occurring
amino acids and micronized chitin, a polymer extracted from
leftover tropical shrimp heads. Syngenta and Agrinos are in the
second year of testing the same technology for crop protection
on potatoes and cereals, and may further roll out testing into
corn and rice, Rysst-Jensen said.  Syngenta is the largest industrial investor in Agrinos. The
Norwegian firm’s stock has gained 16.3 percent this year in
gray-market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  