-- Thai Baht Has Weekly Loss on Europe, Growth Risk; Bonds Rise
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-31T08:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/thai-baht-set-for-weekly-loss-on-europe-growth-risk-bonds-rise.html
Thailand’s baht had its biggest
weekly loss in more than two months and  government bonds  rose
amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen, hurting global
economic growth and curbing demand for Asian exports.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares fell for a second day
as a report today showed July factory output unexpectedly
declined in Japan, Thailand’s No. 2 export market.  Spain  delayed
seeking a bailout as its regions such as  Valencia  sought more
funds. The Bank of Thailand reported today overseas sales, which
account for about two-thirds of its economy, shrank for a second
month in July. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks
at a meeting of central bankers today.  “Concern about Europe is lingering in the market and is
continuing to weigh on stocks and emerging-market currencies,”
said  Tsutomu Soma , manager of investment trust & fixed income
business unit at Rakuten Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “The export
environment is quite weak and that doesn’t help either. For
today, investors and traders are waiting for Bernanke’s
speech,” limiting market fluctuations, he said.  The baht slumped 0.3 percent this week, the most since the
five-day period ended June 22, to 31.34 per dollar as of 3:27
p.m. in Bangkok, trimming this month’s gain to 0.5 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency advanced
0.1 percent today.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, dropped 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 4.27 percent from a week ago and the end of
last month. The rate was unchanged today.  Thailand’s  exports  dropped 3.9 percent in July from a year
earlier after declining 2.3 percent the previous month, the
central bank reported today.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 declined
two basis points today and this week to 3.2 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It rose one basis point in
August, after declining in each of the last four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 