-- Airbus Said to Revise A400M Schedule Following Engine Defects
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-08-31T14:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/airbus-said-to-revise-a400m-schedule-following-engine-defects.html
Airbus Military  is set to push back
development milestones on the A400M military transport after
falling behind with certification because of defects on the
turbo-propeller engines, people familiar with the plan said.  Airbus may announce an updated schedule as early as today,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t yet public. Airbus is able to set a new
timetable after resolving the issue that grounded the aircraft
for two months, two of the people said.  Airbus Military halted the 300-hour certification trial
involving one of five development aircraft after finding metal
chips in an engine gearbox. Pushing back milestones further
reduces the chance of meeting a contractually fixed deadline to
deliver the first aircraft by the end of March.  The new schedule will reflect the prolonged delay in
certification testing, the people said.  France  may still get its
first airlifter before the contractual deadline passes at the
end of March, they said.  The aircraft had completed about half of the hours of tests
required. An official for Airbus Military, a subsidiary of
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , had no immediate
comment.  Airbus has yet to meet with the European Aviation
Safety Agency to resume certification test flights.  The aircraft maker pushed back plans last month for
military certification of the airlifter, blaming engine
reliability. Military certification trails civil approval by
several weeks. France and Turkey are due to receive their first
A400Ms next year.  Propeller Engines  The aircraft’s turbo-propeller engine, the world’s biggest
of its kind, is built by Europrop, a group of companies
including  MTU Aero Engines (MTX) ,  Rolls-Royce PLC (RR/)  and  Safran SA (SAF) ’s
Snecma division. The gearbox itself is made by Avio, in  Italy .  The A400M is  Europe ’s largest defense program and about 5
billion euros ($6.2 billion) over budget at 25 billion euros.
The requirement to hand over the aircraft before April was set
at the time of the last major program review in 2010. Airbus
Military is a subsidiary of Airbus and builds military transport
as well as mid-air refueling aircraft.  Engine issues forced Airbus Military to pull the A400M from
the flying display at this year’s Farnborough air show in July
and last year’s Le Bourget air show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  