-- Taiwan Dollar Completes Monthly Gain on Inflows; Bonds Steady
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-08-31T08:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/taiwan-dollar-poised-for-monthly-gain-on-inflows-bonds-steady.html
Taiwan ’s dollar completed its first
monthly gain since April as global investors poured funds into
the island’s stocks on optimism  China  will unveil stimulus
measures to counter an economic slowdown.  Global funds bought $3 billion more Taiwanese stocks than
they sold so far in August, the biggest monthly net purchases
since April 2011, according to exchange data. Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  urged extra measures to help meet economic targets as
he toured Guangdong, the nation’s biggest exporting province,
the official Xinhua News Agency said Aug. 25. China, the world’s
second-biggest economy, is the island’s biggest trade partner.  The currency advanced 0.2 percent this month to NT$29.966
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It
gained 0.1 percent this week and from yesterday.  “We’re still seeing foreign money coming in,” said
Tarsicio Tong, a currency trader at  Union Bank of Taiwan (2838)  in
Taipei. “But it doesn’t change the fact that Taiwan’s economy
is in a very bad shape. There aren’t any fundamentals supporting
an appreciation.”  Taiwan and China signed a memorandum of understanding to
start  yuan  trading in Taipei, the island’s central bank Governor
Perng Fai-nan said today. The two monetary authorities will each
appoint a clearing bank, he said. Taiwan will create a new yuan
spot rate denoted by CNT, similar to CNH that refers to yuan
trade in  Hong Kong , Perng said in a press briefing today.  Growth Outlook  Taiwan cut its 2012 economic growth forecast this month to
1.66 percent from 2.08 percent, after gross domestic product
shrank more than initially estimated in the second quarter.
Export orders fell 4.39 percent in July from a year earlier, a
fifth straight monthly decline, data showed Aug. 20.  Taiwan’s government bonds were little changed for the day,
week and month. The yield on the island’s 1.25 percent notes due
March 2022 was at 1.183 percent, according to Gretai Securities
Market. The rate was 1.176 percent at the end of July.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, rose 20 basis points, or 0.2
percentage point, today to 3.6 percent. The  overnight money-
market rate  was steady at 0.387 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Centre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  