-- Taiwan Signs Yuan Clearing Deal With China, Creates New Rate
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   A r g i n   C h a n g
-- 2012-08-31T08:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/taiwan-signs-yuan-clearing-deal-with-china-creates-new-rate.html
The central banks of  Taiwan  and
 China  signed a  yuan  clearing agreement as Asia’s biggest economy
pushes the use of its currency in international trade.  Taiwan will allow interbank trading of the yuan, creating a
new  exchange rate  for the currency, Governor Perng Fai-nan said
today. The two monetary authorities are also negotiating a
currency swap deal that would allow Taiwan to hold yuan assets
in its foreign-exchange reserves.  “The deal will help Taiwanese companies move their yuan
assets back to the mainland and lessen their exchange risks,”
Perng said in Taipei. “Taiwan will have its own yuan spot rate
called `CNT,’ as opposed to `CNH’ in Hong Kong.”  China has been expanding its currency relations with trade
partners to promote greater use of the yuan in global trade and
investment. Nations including  Singapore , Japan, and Thailand
have signed similar deals with the world’s second-biggest
economy as part of their efforts to reduce reliance on the
dollar. Exports account for more than two-thirds of Taiwan’s
economy and some 30 percent of shipments are bound for China.  “It’s a good development as there’s huge demand for yuan
in Taiwan,” said Penny Chen, who helps oversee $160 million in
yuan assets as a  fund manager  at Manulife Asset Management Co.
in Taipei. “Taiwan’s exporters and small-to-medium enterprises
will be able to reduce transaction costs.”  Taiwan has the world’s biggest  trade surplus  with China and
foreign direct investment by the island’s companies rose 11
percent to $13 billion in 2011, according to official data. The
island has maintained self-rule since Chiang Kai-shek’s
Kuomintang party fled the mainland in 1949 after losing to Mao
Zedong’s Communists in a civil war.  Relations across the Taiwan Straits have thawed since
President Ma Ying-jeou came to power in 2008 and the two sides
signed trade accords. He won his second term in an election in
January.  Expanding in China  Companies including  Uni-President Enterprises Corp. (1216)  have
raised funds in yuan in the past two years to meet trade-related
payments, build factories and tap surging  consumer spending 
powered by a 90-fold increase in  China’s economy  over the past
three decades.  A unit of the instant-noodle maker borrowed 1 billion yuan
($158 million) for three years in July, while Chailease Finance
BVI Co., a unit of the island’s biggest commercial finance
company, raised 750 million yuan through a sale of three-year
bonds in Hong Kong in March.  “We see high demand for the yuan from corporates as they
need it for trade settlement with Chinese companies,” Liu Teng-
cheng, chairman of  Bank of Taiwan , said in an interview on July
31 in Taipei. “Individuals and companies also expect the
currency to appreciate.”  New Yuan Spot  The agreement may lead to the transfer of yuan liquidity to
Taiwan from  Hong Kong , which was designated by China as an
offshore center for trading in 2010, Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior
economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong
wrote in a note today.  “The deal will likely allow development of the offshore
deliverable market in Taiwan across asset classes, and create
more arbitrage opportunities for the onshore and offshore yuan
curves,” Kowalczyk wrote. “We believe there may be some
withdrawal of yuan liquidity from Hong Kong to Taiwan as a
result.”  The yuan traded in  Shanghai  has weakened 0.9 percent this
year, after strengthening 31 percent from when it was revalued
in July 2005 through last year. The Chinese currency in Hong
Kong traded at a premium of as much as 2.6 percent in October
2010, and today traded at a discount of 0.1 percent.  Yuan Center  Taiwan accounted for 2.6 percent of trade settled in yuan
as of January, after Hong Kong and Singapore, Alicia Garcia-
Herrer, a Hong Kong-based economist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  wrote in a report in April.  Apart from Taiwan, Singapore and London are also seeking to
become locations where companies can raise yuan to fund their
investments and operations in China.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  discussed
the development of a yuan market in London with Chinese
officials when he visited Beijing in January. Singapore
announced in July that China was allowing a Chinese bank to
offer yuan clearing services in the southeast Asian nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net 
Argin Chang in Taipei at 
 achang153@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  