-- Angola Polls Open as Dos Santos Expected to Return
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 2012-08-31T18:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/angola-polls-open-as-dos-santos-expected-to-return.html
Angolans cast their ballots in the
first election to choose a president in two decades with a
booming oil economy and a divided opposition expected to help
Jose Eduardo  dos Santos  extend his 32-year rule.  Polls were closed by 7:30 p.m. in Luanda, the capital,
after hours were extended at some stations to ensure all who
wanted to vote were able to, Angolan National Radio reported.
Preliminary results are scheduled to be released tomorrow
afternoon, Bornito de Sousa, a spokesman for the Ministry of
Territorial Administration, told reporters.  Dos Santos’s Popular Movement for the Liberation of  Angola 
is expected to easily win the most seats in the 220-member
legislature and earn the right to name the president of  Africa ’s
second-biggest oil producer, according to analysts at Chatham
House and Global Insight. The MPLA won 82 percent four years ago
in the first election since a 27-year civil war ended in 2002.
The last vote for president was a direct ballot in 1992.  The MPLA, under the slogan “Angola, growing more and
distributing better,” pledged to maintain the stability it
credits for spurring an economy that may expand 6.8 percent this
year, according to the  International Monetary Fund , and promised
to ease some of the world’s most severe poverty.  “We’re confident,” Dos Santos, 70, said after voting at a
private college outside his palace in the Cidade Alta section of
Luanda, the capital. He emerged from the polling station
flashing a V-sign with his wife and was joined by Antonio Jose
Maria, the chief of military intelligence, and Manuel Helder
Vieira Dias, a top military adviser known as Kopelipa.  Oil Producer  Angola pumps about 1.8 million barrels of crude a day,
supplying 2.9 percent of U.S. imported oil in May and 16 percent
of  China ’s as of July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Oil producers operating in the country include  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA. (FP)   Isaias Samakuva, leader of the main opposition party, the
former rebel National Union for the Total Independence of
Angola, criticized the conduct of the election and said he may
seek court action after voting at a university in Luanda’s
south.  “We would like to have a better organized process,” he
told reporters. “The experiences of 1992 and 2008 convinced us
that we can do an alternative to this confused process.”  In Luanda province, the most populous of 18 in the
southwest African country, 2,700 Unita vote monitors weren’t
accredited, including at the polling station where Samakuva cast
his ballot, he said. Yesterday he asked for Dos Santos to
postpone the election because of “irregularities.” The
president and the MPLA didn’t reply.  Vice President  Dos Santos’s running mate is Manuel Domingos Vicente,
former chairman of the national  oil company , Sonangol EP, who
was chosen over more senior MPLA members.  “The real challenge is within the party and not with the
opposition parties,” Markus Weimer, coordinator of the Angola
Forum at  Chatham House , a London-based research group, said on
Aug. 27 by phone. “It’s more about the internal party
dynamics.”  Voting was well organized and people were orderly, Teresa
Amado, an observer with the national election commission, said
on Angolan television.  “I see with amazement that the state has run a critical
project well and Angolans are happy,” Joao Pedro dos Santos, 34
and no relation to the president, said after voting in the
Luanda neighborhood of Hoje-Ya-Henda. “Things are running
peacefully.”  The  African Union , the  Southern African Development
Community  and the Community of Portuguese Language Countries
were the only international groups with election monitors, Elias
Isaac, country director for the Open Society Initiative of
Southern Africa, a pro-democracy group funded by  George Soros ,
said by phone in Luanda.  Vote Monitors  Groups such as  Human Rights Watch  and Open Society weren’t
allowed to send monitors, Isaac said, while accreditation for
several embassies was delayed and not granted in some cases.  Julia Ferreira, a spokeswoman for the commission,
attributed the delays to late submission of documents.  The commission approved almost 98,000 polling station
monitors from political parties across the country, Ferreira
told the Angola Press news agency yesterday.  Human Rights Watch described the atmosphere around the vote
as “one of increasing restrictions on the rights to freedom of
expression, association, and assembly and media freedom.”  Public discontent with the president and the government
spilled onto the streets of Luanda this year as mainly young
protesters pushed for democracy and an end to corruption.  Poverty  Casa-Ce, an offshoot of Unita led by Abel Chivukuvuku, said
yesterday police detained more than 10 of the party’s youth
wing, including its leader, Rafael Aguiar. The group had planned
to hold a vigil to protest a lack of accreditation for party
delegates to monitor polling, according to its website.  Unita campaigned about the failure of Angola’s oil wealth,
which increased foreign reserves to a record $30.2 billion in
June, to cut poverty and unemployment.  More than half the population of about 19 million is under
18, while 54 percent of the country lived on less than $1.25 in
2009, according to  United Nations Children’s Fund .  Transparency
International  ranked Angola at 168 of 182 countries in its 2011
corruption index.  “Angola is very much a two-tiered system where you have,
on the one hand, the offshore economy with oil revenue coming in
and financial services in a sort of boom town, and on the other
side there’s poverty,” Weimer said. “It’s obvious there’s a
massive difference between rich and poor.”  Luanda has about five million residents, many living in
slums of concrete blocks, with dirt floors and open sewage
drains. It’s also the world’s second-most expensive city for
expatriates, according to the  Mercer LCC Cost of Living Index .  Angola’s life expectancy is 47 years, according to the
 World Bank . The under-five  mortality rate  is the world’s eighth
highest at 161 deaths per 1,000 children, according to Unicef.  Angola’s oil wealth ensures that the government isn’t too
concerned about international criticism of its rights record,
said Sebastian Boe, an analyst at IHS  Global Insight  in  London .  “The government is comfortable in the calculation that
Angolan oil production precludes significant reprisals or
sanctions,” Boe said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  