-- Apollo’s Affinion Risks Default as Cash Ebbs: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-08-31T15:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/apollo-s-affinion-risks-default-as-cash-ebbs-corporate-finance.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) ’s
Affinion Group Holdings Inc. has less than a year to pare back
$2.3 billion of debt before it breaches loan terms that would
cause a default and accelerate payment to its lenders.  Chief Financial Officer Todd Siegel warned in a July 26
call that earnings at the company, which manages perks that
banks and travel firms use to retain customers, would decline
for the year. That’s likely to cause the company to exceed a
requirement limiting how much debt it can have relative to  cash
flow , according to Moody’s Investors Service. After the call,
Affinion’s bonds dropped to a record low, pushing yields above
those of its speculative-grade peers.  Financial customers facing regulatory scrutiny over their
marketing practices are shunning the junk-rated firm’s services,
causing Affinion’s quarterly sales to  drop  for the first time
since at least 2010. The  Stamford , Connecticut-based company,
which hasn’t  turned a profit  since being taken private in 2005,
paid owners including  Leon Black ’s Apollo dividends of at least
$248 million last year even as debt surged 43 percent.  “They’ve continued to put debt on this company,” Suzanne
Wingo, a senior analyst at Moody’s in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “It would be nearly impossible for them to
meet their June 30 covenant” without an amendment or
alternative debt-reduction options such as an asset sale.  Earnings Decline  Affinion’s $475 million of 7.875 percent senior unsecured
notes due in December 2018, which traded as high as 92 cents on
the dollar in March, have dropped to 72 cents to yield 14.9
percent on Aug. 29, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That
level indicates that the bonds are distressed.  While the company said in a July 26 earnings statement that
its ratio of debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization was 5.22 for the 12 months ended
June 30, a percentage decline in Ebitda of “mid-to-high single
digits” may boost leverage above the 5.25 limit that comes into
effect next year.  “We have successfully managed our covenants and
obligations since we became an independent company, and we
remain highly confident in our ability to continue doing so,”
Siegel said in an e-mail. “There are a number of different
paths and options that provide us with the flexibility to meet
our obligations while continuing to invest in the business.”  Banking Partners  Apollo took control of the company from Cendant Corp. in
2005 for $1.8 billion. Affinion’s leading marketing partners by
revenue as of year-end included  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to the company’s
annual report. Revenue generated from Wells Fargo and the
lender’s customers accounted for 14 percent of sales last year.  A 5 percent drop in adjusted Ebitda from $367.9 million in
2011 would produce a leverage ratio of 5.4, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg based on a debt level of $1.89 billion on
June 30 provided by the company. A decrease of 9 percent would
bear a ratio of 5.65.  “They’re probably going to trip the covenant at some
point,”  Todd Morgan , a high-yield debt analyst at Oppenheimer &
Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “But I don’t
think there’s going to be a huge, contentious discussion with
lenders over amending the covenant.”  Bonds Plunge  Average yields on the company’s bonds surged to 22 percent
yesterday, the highest among diversified media companies
including  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN)  and  Lamar Advertising Co. (LAMR) ,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
Affinion’s borrowing costs were about 16 percent July 25, before
the company announced second-quarter earnings, the fourth-
highest among peers, index data show.  Affinion’s $356 million of 11.5 percent, senior
subordinated bonds due in October 2015, which reached a high of
106.5 cents two years ago, have dropped about 15 cents since
July 25 to 71.8 on Aug. 28, Trace data show. The securities
yield 25 percent. The company’s $1.1 billion of term loans due
Oct. 2016 have fallen to 87 cents today from a year high of 95.4
cents on April 11, Bloomberg prices show.  Moody’s downgraded Affinion one level to B3, six levels
below investment grade, and said a negative credit outlook
partially reflected the company’s dependence on partnering with
large financial institutions. Sales may decline as much as 6
percent over the next 12 months, Wingo wrote in an Aug. 16
report.  Standard & Poor’s  analysts led by Hal Diamond said that
Affinion’s B rating was at risk of a downgrade with performance
“under pressure stemming from financial institution
reregulation,” according to an Aug. 20 report.  Intense Regulation  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , a former Affinion customer,
agreed last month to pay $210 million to settle charges of
deceptive marketing of credit card “add-on” products such as
payment protection and credit monitoring.  Capital One didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in the first
public enforcement case brought by the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau that was established by the Dodd-Frank Act to
increase oversight of consumer financial products.  “It should be fairly obvious even to a casual observer
that the intensity of regulation in the domestic banking
system” has increased considerably over the past year,
Affinion’s Chief Executive Officer Nathaniel Lipman said on the
conference call with analysts to discuss second quarter
earnings. “This has resulted in significant delays in launching
new programs” with financial firms, he said.  Affinion’s total debt surged to $2.3 billion last year from
$1.6 billion in 2005, Bloomberg data show, as Ebitda more than
tripled over the same period. Apollo owns about 68 percent of
Affinion’s common stock, according to the annual filing.  Cash Dividend  Affinion paid a $115.4 million cash dividend to its
shareholders in January 2011, and a month later used some of the
proceeds of Affinion’s incremental term loans to pay stock and
options owners $133.4 million, according to a July 26 regulatory
filing.  Apollo “has basically taken their money out,”
Oppenheimer’s Morgan said. “They are essentially playing with
house money.”  Melissa Mandel Kvitko, an Apollo spokeswoman who works for
Rubenstein Associates Inc., declined to comment on the dividend
payments. Apollo shares  have returned  14.7 percent this year.  While second quarter  revenue  dropped 2.45 percent to $378
million from a year earlier, annual sales jumped 12 percent to
$1.5 billion in 2011, the biggest jump on record, Bloomberg data
show.  Equity Cure  The company’s loans include a so-called equity cure
provision that would permit Apollo to make cash contributions to
Affinion to remedy a financial covenant breach, Justin Forlenza,
an analyst with Covenant Review in  New York , said in a telephone
interview.  “If they didn’t address the financial covenant default
before it happened, then the required lenders would be able to
accelerate the loans,” Forlenza said. “Apollo may be able to
postpone or eliminate a financial covenant default by making use
of the equity cure provision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  