-- Apple Accuses Samsung in Complaint of Flooding Market
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-09-01T07:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/apple-accuses-samsung-in-complaint-of-flooding-market.html
Apple Inc., accusing  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  of flooding the market with “copycat
products,” added the Galaxy S III smartphone to a list of
products that it says infringe Apple patents.  Apple’s revised a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in San Jose,  California , follows a $1.05 billion jury
verdict against Samsung on Aug. 24. The jury, in a separate case
in the same court, found that Samsung infringed six of seven
Apple patents at stake in the trial. In that case, Apple seeks a
U.S. sales ban on eight Samsung smartphone models and a tablet
computer.  Apple, in yesterday’s filing, alleges Samsung continues to
“flood the market with copycat products.” The maker of the
iPhone has made similar allegations in the follow-on case before.
In yesterday’s filing, Apple said Samsung has sold infringing
products through August, including its “current flagship device,
the Galaxy S III” smartphone.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose  ruled Aug. 28 that
based on the Aug. 24 verdict, Apple’s request for a permanent
ban on U.S. sales of eight Samsung mobile devices will be
considered at a Dec. 6 hearing. The judge scheduled a hearing on
Samsung’s request to lift a preliminary sales ban on the Galaxy
Tab 10.1 Tab computer for Sept. 20, if she deems it necessary.
Apple this week has contested the dates in court filings.  Samsung, which denied Apple’s infringement claims in a
court filing in April, said in a statement today that it will
take the “necessary legal measures” to keep its products
available in the U.S., accusing Apple of seeking to “limit
consumer choice.”  Smartphones, Players  These  Samsung smartphones  are named in the complaint: the
Galaxy S III - Verizon, Galaxy Note, Galaxy S II Skyrocket,
Galaxy S II Epic 4G Touch, Galaxy S II, Galaxy S II - T-Mobile,
Galaxy S II - AT&T, Galaxy Nexus, Illusion, Captivate Glide,
Exhibit II 4G, Stratosphere, Transform Ultra, Admire, Conquer 4G,
and Dart smartphones. Other devices covered by the filing are
the Galaxy Player 4.0 and Galaxy Player 5.0 media players, and
the Galaxy Note 10.1, Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus and Galaxy Tab 8.9
tablets.  In its revised complaint, Cupertino, California-based Apple
seeks a finding that the products infringe its patents and an
order barring Samsung from further infringement, plus monetary
damages.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-
cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose). The previous case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  