-- Apple Claims Court Schedule for Samsung Ban Is Unfair
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-31T20:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/apple-claims-court-schedule-for-samsung-ban-is-unfair.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , after winning a
$1.05 billion jury verdict against  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , told
a judge that Samsung’s request to lift a ban on U.S. sales of
its Galaxy 10.1 Tab computer shouldn’t be considered before
Apple’s request to bar some products permanently.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , California, ruled
Aug. 29 that Apple’s request for a permanent ban on U.S. sales
of eight Samsung mobile devices will be considered at a Dec. 6
hearing. The judge scheduled a hearing on Samsung’s request to
lift a preliminary sales ban on the Galaxy Tab 10.1 Tab computer
for Sept. 20 if she deems it necessary.  Apple said yesterday in a filing yesterday the schedule
creates a “severe imbalance” because Samsung’s request will be
addressed before Apple’s. It asked Koh to reconsider the
schedule by setting the two companies’ requests on parallel,
simultaneous tracks.  “Apple’s request for injunctive relief is, if anything,
more urgent than Samsung’s attempt to dissolve the injunction,
and should not be resolved on a slower schedule than Samsung’s
motion,” Apple said.  Apple is seeking a U.S. sales ban on the eight smartphone
models and a tablet computer after a jury found Aug. 24 that
Samsung infringed six of seven patents at stake in the trial.
Seven of the eight smartphones that Apple seeks to ban are part
of Samsung’s Galaxy line.  Galaxy Tab  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , won a ban on U.S.
sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in June that the Suwon, South
Korea-based company said wouldn’t significantly affect its
business. Apple, seeking to make that prohibition permanent,
said in an Aug. 27 court filing that Koh should also bar U.S.
sales of a version of the tablet that runs on mobile networks,
even though that product wasn’t covered by the Aug. 24 verdict.  Samsung sought to have the ban on the Tab 10.1 lifted on
Aug. 26 after the jury found the device didn’t infringe the
Apple design patent on which the June 26 court-ordered sales ban
was based. The jury instead found that the Galaxy Tab 10.1
infringed three of Apple’s software patents.  Samsung said in a court filing today that Apple offers “no
legitimate grounds” to delay consideration of Samsung’s motion.
The change Apple seeks requires “new material facts or a change
of law” since Koh’s order, which has not occurred, Samsung said
in the filing.  Schedule Change  “Apple seeks to disrupt the court’s carefully crafted
orders for post-trial motions by delaying consideration of
Samsung’s motion to dissolve the Galaxy Tab 10.1 preliminary
injunction and placing it on the same schedule as Apple’s motion
for a permanent injunction,” Samsung argued in the filing.  Samsung asked Koh on Aug. 27 to delay enforcement of the
verdict until the issues of the sales bans are resolved and the
company appeals. Samsung isn’t required to file a notice of
appeal until 14 days after the post-trial issues, including the
sales bans, are resolved.  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Samsung, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Apple’s request
yesterday.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 