-- ArcelorMittal Backs Off on Pensions in Talks, Union Says
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-08-31T17:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/arcelormittal-backs-off-on-pensions-in-talks-union-says.html
The United Steelworkers union said
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker, backed down on a
proposed change to pensions in talks to replace a labor accord
for thousands of U.S. workers that’s due to expire tomorrow.  ArcelorMittal previously had said it would stop giving
pensions to workers hired after Sept. 1, the union said today in
an e-mailed update to its members. Bill Steers, a spokesman, for
Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, declined to comment on the
company’s proposals for the new accord covering 12,554 workers
at 12 plants, citing the confidentiality of the talks.  “Yesterday the company took some steps forward, including
backing off of their demand for no pensions for new hires,” the
union said. “But we remain far apart.”  ArcelorMittal and U.S. Steel Corp., the country’s largest
steelmaker, are negotiating new contracts with the union amid
sluggish U.S. demand for the metal. ArcelorMittal Chief
Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  is trying to cut U.S. wages,
sell assets and relocate some production as demand drops in
 Europe , its biggest source of revenue. The company, which had
net debt of $22 billion as of June 30, had its  credit rating  cut
to junk by  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 2.  “The risk of a reduction in output appears to be
increasing,” Thomas O’Hara, a London-based analyst with
Citigroup Inc. who has a buy rating on ArcelorMittal, said in a
note yesterday. O’Hara estimated the talks cover about 90
percent of the company’s U.S. capacity.  Coke Ovens  The existing ArcelorMittal contract will expire at 11:59
p.m. New York time tomorrow, according to the steelmaker. Union
negotiators told members to continue working while the talks
continue, according to the latest e-mailed union update today.  “It is in our best interest to not call a strike at this
time,” the union said.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  has begun to take “asset preservation
steps” that include taking blast furnaces and coke ovens
offline to ensure they are properly maintained in the event of a
strike, Steers said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
actions are consistent with those ArcelorMittal took during
previous labor negotiations, he said.  “The company remains optimistic that a fair and equitable
settlement will be reached without a work stoppage before the
contract expires,’ Steers said today in an e-mail.  Wage Cuts  The union said it’s concerned that ArcelorMittal is
preparing to ‘‘hot-idle” its U.S. coke plants, a procedure that
temporarily halts output. Such a move may damage the plants, the
union said.  “We will take all necessary actions to ensure that in the
event of a work stoppage our coke operations will remain viable
and able to resume production,” the union said.  ArcelorMittal proposed reducing wages and benefits by more
than $28 an hour for union employees and eliminating retiree
health care and pensions for new workers, the union said June 1.  The union is negotiating with U.S. Steel Corp. on a
contract covering about 13,000 workers to replace an accord
expiring at midnight tonight, said R.J. Hufnagel, a union
spokesman.  Erin DiPietro, a spokeswoman for Pittsburgh-based U.S.
Steel, declined to comment on the negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  