-- Argentina Complains at WTO Over U.S. Curbs on Meat Imports
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-08-31T17:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/argentina-complains-at-wto-over-u-s-curbs-on-meat-imports-2-.html
Argentina complained at the  World
Trade Organization  about U.S. curbs on imports of Argentine meat
and other products of animal origin.  Argentina says the restrictions, which were applied on
hygiene grounds, lack scientific justification and violate
global trade rules, the WTO said in an e-mailed statement today.
The move comes just 10 days after a U.S. complaint at the
Geneva-based trade arbiter over Argentina’s treatment of
imports.  The U.S. is “disappointed” in Argentina’s complaint
today, Nkenge Harmon, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office, said in an e-mail.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration on Aug. 21 lodged a
complaint at the Geneva-based WTO over measures Argentina
applies to imports, including licensing requirements that it
says unfairly limit U.S. exports.  In a tit-for-tat move, Argentina’s Foreign Ministry said
the same day that it would take steps at the WTO against the
U.S. for allegedly blocking access of Argentine beef and citrus
fruits in violation of global rules. The ministry accused the
U.S. of resorting to “illegal protectionist practices” by
using sanitary concerns as an excuse for not accepting the food
items from Argentina.  ‘Disturbing Trend’  “We are concerned with a disturbing trend in which
countries engaged in actions that are inconsistent with their
WTO obligations, retaliate with counter complaints rather than
fix the underlying problem,” Harmon said.  The U.S. in 2011 imported more than $1.64 billion in
agricultural goods from Argentina, while exporting farm products
worth $153 million, according to Harmon.  Japan , the European Union and  Mexico  have also complained
separately about Argentina’s import policies, saying they hinder
foreign goods and discriminate between imported and domestic
products.  The EU’s May 25 challenge against Argentine curbs on
foreign goods ranging from glassware and irons to food
processors and kitty litter reflected EU concerns about
protectionist policies enacted by President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner . Those worries came to a head in April, when
Argentina seized  YPF SA (YPFD) , then a unit of  Spain ’s  Repsol SA (REP)  -- an
act that can’t be challenged under WTO rules.  ‘Worrying Policy’  “While the EU’s WTO action on import measures is separate
from and independent to Argentina’s Repsol case, the EU is
responding to Argentina’s broader and systematic economic
restrictions,” the EU said at the time. “The Repsol case, like
the trade-restrictive import measures the EU challenges today,
is rather to be seen as an expression of the same worrying
policy pursued by Argentina.”  Argentina, whose $448 billion economy is South America’s
second largest, after  Brazil , responded to the EU complaint on
Aug. 20 by filing its own WTO challenge against the 27-nation
bloc over Spanish curbs on imports of Argentinian biodiesel.  Argentina ’s request today for consultations with the U.S.
is the first step in WTO dispute proceedings and means the
governments must now hold talks for at least two months in a bid
to resolve the matter. If the discussions fail, Argentina can
ask WTO judges to rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  