-- Harvard Government Class Students Probed for Cheating
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-08-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/harvard-government-class-students-probed-for-cheating.html
About 125 students who took a
popular Harvard University government class are under
investigation in the largest academic misconduct scandal known
at the school.  The focus of the probe is a take-home final exam on which
some students may have collaborated or copied answers, officials
at Harvard, in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said yesterday.
Students familiar with the investigation said the course being
probed was Government 1310: Introduction to Congress, the
 Harvard Crimson  student newspaper reported.  Harvard teachers spent months combing through the exams to
identify the students who are now under investigation by the
college’s Administrative Board, said Jay Harris, dean of
undergraduate education. Students who violated university rules
face a variety of sanctions, including being required to
withdraw from school for a year, Harvard said in a statement.  “These allegations, if proven, represent totally
unacceptable behavior that betrays the trust upon which
intellectual inquiry at Harvard depends,” Harvard President
Drew Faust said in a statement on the college’s website.  The Administrative Board’s actions are confidential, and
Harvard won’t reveal the identity of the students or the name of
the course, Harris said. He declined to predict how long the
probe might take. Harvard is using the incident, which he called
“unprecedented in living memory,” to increase student
awareness of the importance of academic integrity, he said.  “This is a national problem -- an international problem --
a technologically enabled problem,” he said.  Government Class  There were 279 students in Introduction to Congress last
semester, according to Harvard’s website. Matthew Platt, an
assistant professor who teaches the course, declined to comment
when reached by telephone.  The course is considered relatively easy by Harvard
undergraduates, said Robert Wineski, a senior studying stem-cell
biology who said he hasn’t taken the class himself.  “These are things I’ve never heard of going on,
honestly,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview. “This
institution stresses academic integrity, so it’s very
surprising.”  The incident came to light when a teaching fellow noticed
similarities among a number of exams in mid-May and brought it
to the attention of the professor in charge of the course,
Harris said. That led the Administrative Board to begin a review
of every exam, he said. The board was established in 1980 to
handle administrative and disciplinary matters.  Electronic Communication  While he wouldn’t discuss specifics, Harris said school
officials believe that electronic communication was part of the
apparent rule violations. Students who have been raised in the
Internet age may view all kinds of media differently than past
generations, he said.  “Technology has shifted the way people think about
intellectual property, the way people think about communicating
with each other,” Harris said.  All the students suspected of being involved in the
cheating have been informed that they will be asked to come
before the Administrative Board, Harris said. Penalties may
include a warning or probation, and some students may be
exonerated, he said. No specific cases have been heard yet, he
said.  The College Committee on Academic Integrity, which Harris
leads, is preparing recommendations for reminding students of
the importance of “academic honesty,” the school said. Harvard
has orientation programs that focus on research and writing
practices, such as integrity and appropriate citation, he said.  ‘Academic Integrity’  “We always stress academic integrity with our students,”
he said. “It’s very hard to explain to someone that this raises
ethical concerns and that it’s not OK.”  The large number of cases being investigated by the
Administrative Board from a single class is “deeply
disturbing,” said  Michael Smith , dean of Harvard’s Faculty of
Arts and Sciences, which includes most of its undergraduate
teachers.  “At the same time, we must not forget that the vast
majority of our students complete all their assignments
honestly, diligently, and in accordance with our regulations and
practices,” he said in a letter to Harvard faculty, students
and staff.  The committee will look at practices of other institutions
that have faced cheating scandals, Harvard said. Security at
sites administering the SAT and ACT tests in Nassau County,  New
York , was stepped up this year after students were found to have
hired stand-ins to take the college entrance exams for them.  In 2010, Harvard senior Adam Wheeler was found to have
faked his way into a spot at the college using forged
recommendations, and then applied for scholarships with
plagiarized essays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  