-- Stocks Rise With Commodities, Treasuries on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-08-31T21:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/asian-stocks-fall-yen-gains-on-growth-concern-gasoline-slides.html
U.S. stocks rallied with commodities
and Treasuries as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
he wouldn’t rule out more stimulus to lower a jobless rate he
described as a “grave concern.” The dollar weakened.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.5 percent to close
at 1,406.58 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed 90.13
points to 13,090.84 as both finished a third straight monthly
gain. Oil extended its biggest monthly advance since October and
gold capped its best since January. Ten-year Treasury yields
slid seven basis points to 1.55 percent, an three-week low, and
the  Dollar Index  lost 0.5 percent to 81.25, its lowest on a
closing basis since May.  Bernanke’s 24-page speech at the Kansas City Fed’s
symposium made the case for further monetary easing and
concluded that the central bank’s non-traditional policy tools
such as bond purchases have been effective in boosting growth
and improving financial conditions. He said that declines in the
 unemployment rate  would continue only if growth picks up above
its longer term trend.  “It’s the strongest language on unemployment I remember
Bernanke using,” said Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than
$20 billion as chief investment strategist at the private-
banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland . “That makes the next jobs
report even more critical. If it deviates significantly from
muddling along, they may well be forced to act.”  The Labor Department’s employment report for August is
scheduled to be released on Sept. 7. Payrolls probably climbed
by 125,000 in the month and the unemployment rate remained at
8.3 percent, according to the median economist prediction in a
Bloomberg survey.  Market Leaders  Commodity, technology, financial and industrial companies
helped lead gains in the 10  main industry groups  in the S&P 500
today.  Intel Corp ., American Express Co. and Microsoft Corp.
rose more than 1.6 percent to lead the Dow’s gain.  The dollar weakened against 15 of 16 major peers, losing
about 1 percent against the Swedish krona,  Mexican peso  and
South African rand. The euro strengthened 0.6 percent to $1.2575
and rose to as much as $1.2638, the strongest level in almost
two months.  Two-year Treasury yields decreased three basis points to
0.22 percent and 30-year rates tumbled seven basis points to
2.67 percent.  ‘Wide Open’  Bernanke left the door for a third round of quantitative
easing “wide open” and the chairman’s remarks about
unemployment signal the Fed is likely to act if the jobless rate
increases even slightly,  Alan Ruskin , Deutsche Bank AG’s global
head of Group-of-10 currency strategy, said in a note to
clients.  “We have seen no net improvement in the unemployment rate
since January,” Bernanke told central bankers and economists in
the audience, according to a text of his remarks released in
 Washington . “Unless the economy begins to grow more quickly
than it has recently, the unemployment rate is likely to remain
far above levels consistent with maximum employment for some
time.”  Speaking two weeks before the next meeting of the  Federal
Open Market Committee , Bernanke said long periods of high
unemployment produce “enormous suffering and waste of human
talent” and also risk causing structural damage to the economy
that could last for many years.  ‘Grave Concern’  “He set the backdrop for them acting, saying things like
‘the labor market is a grave concern,’” said John Canally, an
economist and investment strategist at LPL Financial Corp. in
 Boston . The firm oversees about $350 billion. “He didn’t say
that the economy is seeing any sustainable or substantial
improvement, so when you mix it all together, it’s still a
matter of how and when they’re going to do it rather than if.”  Benchmark U.S. equity indexes marked a third straight
monthly advance in August. The  S&P 500  has advanced 12 percent
this year as European leaders worked to tame the region’s debt
crisis and the Fed pledged to act to safeguard the economic
recovery if needed.  The S&P 500 last week climbed to its highest level on an
intraday basis in more than four years, then failed to close at
that milestone. The index has fluctuated near the 1,400 level
for three weeks.  Trading has slowed toward the end of the U.S. summer as
investors awaited the Fed’s gathering in Wyoming. Bernanke’s
address in  Jackson Hole  in 2010 preceded a second round of
quantitative easing, nicknamed QE2 on  Wall Street .  Volume Slump  Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was below 4.5
billion shares for three days this week, the lowest levels
excluding days surrounding holidays in Bloomberg data going back
to 2008. About 5.4 billion shares changed hands today, 12
percent below the three-month average.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index added 0.5 percent today. It
declined 0.7 percent this week, trimming its third straight
monthly advance to less than 1.9 percent. Hermes International
SCA gained 2.3 percent today after the maker of Birkin and Kelly
bags raised this year’s sales-growth target as first-half
earnings beat estimates. Bankia SA climbed 6.3 percent. After
markets closed in Europe, Spain’s rescue fund said it would
inject capital into the lender immediately.  Spanish bonds tumbled, sending 10-year yields up 26 basis
points to a two-week high of 6.86 percent, as the government
bolstered the powers of the bank rescue fund to restructure
troubled lenders and S&P lowered the Catalonia region’s credit
rating to junk. Spain yesterday delayed making a decision on
seeking European bailout funds until conditions of the aid are
clear.  Oil advanced 2 percent to $96.47 a barrel in  New York  to
cap a 9.6 percent rally for the month. Gold increased 1.8
percent to $1,687.60 an ounce as Bernanke’s remarks spurred
demand for an inflation hedge. The precious metal increased 4.5
percent in August. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities jumped 1.2
percent as 18 of its 24 materials increased.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.4 percent, snapping
a five-day slump and trimming this month’s drop to 0.4 percent.
Benchmark gauges in Turkey,  Poland , the  Czech Republic  and
Thailand gained more than 1 percent. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong 
slipped 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  