-- Asia Bond Risk Surges as Output Slumps; China Oilfield Note Sold
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-08-31T06:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/asia-bond-risk-surges-as-output-slumps-china-oilfield-note-sold.html
Asian bond risk jumped to the
highest in four weeks after  Japan ’s industrial production
dropped, adding to signs the region’s economy is slowing.  China
Oilfield Services Ltd. (2883)  sold its debut dollar-denominated bond.  The cost of insuring debt from non-payment in Asia
increased 3 basis points to 156 as of 2:06 p.m. in Hong Kong,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show. The  Markit iTraxx
Asia  index is poised for its highest close since Aug. 3,
according to data provider CMA. China Oilfield Services’s $1
billion of 10-year notes priced yesterday took dollar bond
issuance from the Asia-Pacific region to $6.5 billion in August,
an eight-month low, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “In Asia there is heightened  risk aversion ,” said  Michael Bush , head of credit research at National Australia Bank Ltd.
Investors are now awaiting any clues on monetary policy from
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at a symposium of
global central bank leaders in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , Bush said.  Japan’s industrial production slid 1.2 percent in July from
June, the Trade Ministry said today. Consumer prices in Asia’s
second-biggest economy dropped 0.3 percent from a year earlier,
underscoring concern that the country remains mired in
deflation. Industrial output in South Korea also fell last
month, Statistics Korea said today. That marks the second
monthly decline as a global slowdown undermines growth.  China Oilfield  China Oilfield priced its 10-year dollar notes, sold
through unit COSL Finance (BVI) Ltd., to yield 170 basis points
more than Treasuries, Bloomberg-compiled data show. The company
received $9 billion of orders from 340 accounts, according to a
person familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private.  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index jumped 9 basis points to
172 basis points as of 10:25 a.m. in Sydney, National  Australia 
Bank Ltd. prices show. The benchmark is poised for its biggest
daily gain since July 23, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index advanced 5 basis points to
213 basis points as of 9:26 a.m. in Tokyo, Deutsche Bank AG
prices show. The index is set for a 28 basis-point advance this
month, the biggest monthly rise since April, CMA prices show.  The gauge of bond risk in Asia had fallen 51.6 basis points
this year as of yesterday’s close. In Australia, the index has
dropped 12.8 basis points, while Japan has climbed 20.7 basis
points, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  