-- Asia Stocks Cap First Monthly Slide Since May on Growth
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-08-31T23:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/asia-stocks-cap-first-monthly-slide-since-may-on-growth.html
Asian  stocks  fell this week,
dragging the regional benchmark index to its first monthly drop
since May, as reports from Japan,  China  and South Korea signaled
an economic slowdown is deepening.  Samsung Electronics Co. dropped 3.3 percent this week in
Seoul after a U.S. jury ruled that the world’s No. 1 maker of
smartphones infringed Apple Inc. patents.  Shikoku Electric Power
Co. (9507) , a Japanese regional utility, sank 18 percent, leading other
power producers lower after forecasting a first-half loss and
after Credit Suisse Group AG rated the company underperform.
China Southern Airlines Co. fell 7.8 percent in Hong Kong as
Asia’s biggest carrier by passenger numbers reported first-half
profit tumbled.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 2.1 percent to 117.75 this
week, its second-straight loss and its biggest drop since the
five days ended July 13. Through yesterday, the Asia-Pacific
benchmark retreated 8.7 percent from a Feb. 29 high amid concern
Europe’s debt crisis is deepening and  China’s economy  is
slowing.  “A tug of war is being seen in the markets,” said
Seiichiro Iwamoto, who helps oversee about $34 billion at Mizuho
Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo . “Investors are groping for
reasons to trade shares with few catalysts available. The
economy is deteriorating globally, including in China, boosting
expectations countries will take stimulus measures to support
the markets.”  Stocks on the index, which includes companies from emerging
countries, were valued at 12.3 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with about 13.6 times for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 11.6 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regional Measures  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  sank 2.5 percent this
week, after the government downgraded its assessment of the
economy on Aug. 28. The government lowered its economic
evaluation of the U.S., Europe, China, the rest of Asia except
India, and said Japan’s overseas shipments are “growing weaker.  Retail sales in the nation fell more than estimated in
July, while industrial production unexpectedly dropped. Consumer
prices fell 0.3 percent from a year earlier last month, pointing
to little progress in the fight against deflation.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.1 percent, while
Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slid 2 percent after a government
report showed Aug. 27 profit at Chinese industrial companies
dropped in July by the most this year.  Business Confidence  South Korea’s Kospi Index declined 0.8 percent after
industrial production fell for a second month in July, and after
a report showed on Aug. 30 confidence among the country’s
manufacturers stood near the lowest level since the global
financial crisis.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index  slipped 1.1 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index and Singapore’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  both fell
0.8 percent.  Shares also declined as investors waited for hints of
further easing in speech by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  yesterday to a meeting of central bankers in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming. Bernanke said he wouldn’t rule out more stimulus
to lower a jobless rate he described as a ‘‘grave concern.”  “There’s no fundamental basis in doing another
quantitative easing,” Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of multi-
asset strategy at Baring Asset Management (Asia) Ltd., said
before Bernanke’s speech. Baring Asset oversees about $8
billion. “The  U.S. economy  has pretty good momentum.”  Samsung Electronics fell 3.3 percent to 1.233 million won
in  Seoul  after a U.S. court ordered the South Korean company to
pay more than $1 billion for infringing Apple Inc.’s patents for
mobile devices.  Japan Utilities  Shikoku Electric plunged 18 percent to 951 yen in Tokyo
after forecasting a net loss of 18 billion yen ($229.4 million)
for the six months ending September. Credit Suisse rated the
company underperform, and also cut its rating on Chubu Electric
Power Co. and  Kansai Electric  Power Co., to neutral from
outperform, citing high dependence on nuclear power and concerns
about dividend payouts.  Chubu Electric dropped 10 percent to 930 yen, while Kansai
Electric tumbled 16 percent to 584 yen. Four of the  top 10
declines  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index were Japanese utilities
this week.  China Southern Airlines slumped 7.8 percent to HK$3.29 in
 Hong Kong  after its first-half profit slumped 85 percent from a
year earlier to 424 million  yuan  ($67 million). The result
missed analysts estimates as a deepening economic slowdown
sapped  travel demand  and fuel costs increased.  PT Bumi Resources, a coal exporter, sank 26 percent to 700
rupiah in Jakarta after posting a first-half loss and an
 investment company  failed to repay $231 million due Aug. 27.  Aozora Payment  Among stocks that rose,  Aozora Bank Ltd. (8304) , controlled by New
York-based private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management LP,
surged 15 percent to 233 yen in Tokyo. The lender unveiled a
plan to spend 227.6 billion yen to repay a taxpayer bailout over
a decade and buy back common stock.  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , a Japanese chipmaker, climbed
8.7 percent to 263 yen as a person with knowledge of the matter
said New York-based KKR & Co. is in talks to spend about 100
billion yen buying shares of the company. Steve Okun, a Hong
Kong-based spokesman for KKR, declined to comment.  KKR will take a controlling stake by the end of the year,
the Nikkei newspaper reported earlier, without saying where it
got the information. Renesas isn’t the source of the Nikkei
report, the company said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock
Exchange.  “There’s been doubts about the U.S. recovery momentum and
heightened uncertainties in Europe and Asia,” said Ng Soo Nam,
Singapore-based chief investment officer at Nikko Asset
Management, which oversees about $165 billion. “If the bad
numbers persist, we should see some policy support from
governments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  