-- Asia-Pacific Bond Risk Jumps, Credit-Default Swap Prices Show
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-08-31T01:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/asia-pacific-bond-risk-jumps-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
The cost of insuring corporate and
sovereign bonds in the Asia-Pacific region from non-payment
surged, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan increased 5 basis points to 158 basis
points as of 8:43 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge is poised for its highest close
since Aug. 2 and biggest daily rise since July 23, set to pare
its decline for the month to 1, according to data provider CMA.  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index jumped 9 basis points to
172 basis points as of 10:25 a.m. in Sydney, National Australia
Bank Ltd. prices show. The benchmark is poised for the biggest
daily gain since July 23 and the highest close since July 27,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. It is set to rise 5.3 basis point this month, the first
monthly increase since May, the data show.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index advanced 5 basis points to
213 basis points as of 9:26 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG
prices show. The measure is set to close at its highest level
since May 21 and for a 28 basis-point advance this month, the
biggest monthly rise since April, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  