-- Asian Stocks Drop as Reports Stoke Global Growth Concerns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-08-31T11:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/asian-stocks-drop-on-europe-debt-global-growth-concerns.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index heading for its first monthly decline since May,
as investors await a speech by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and as reports showed lower industrial output in
 South Korea  and Japan amid slowing economic growth.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  sank 13 percent as Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology
Group founder Terry Gou ended a visit to Japan without
announcing the conclusion of a deal to invest in the Japanese
electronics maker.  China Shipping Container (2866)  Lines Co. slid 5.7
percent after brokerages including Jefferies Group Inc.
downgraded ratings and price targets for the nation’s second-
largest shipping company.  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co. climbed 1.5
percent, reversing losses, as a  Tokyo  court ruled the mobile-
phone maker didn’t infringe Apple Inc.’s patents.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 0.6 percent to 117.63
as of 7:57 p.m. in Tokyo, heading for its lowest close since
Aug. 3. The gauge is poised for a 2.2 percent decline this week,
the most since the period ended July 13, extending this month’s
losses to 1 percent. Investors speculated Bernanke won’t
announce further stimulus in his speech today at a meeting of
central bankers in  Wyoming .  “There’s been doubts about the U.S. recovery momentum and
heightened uncertainties in  Europe  and Asia,” said Ng Soo Nam,
Singapore-based chief investment officer at Nikko Asset
Management, which oversees about $165 billion. “If the bad
numbers persist, we should see some policy support from
governments.”  Factory Output  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  dropped 1.6 percent. The
nation’s industrial output unexpectedly fell last month, adding
to signs that weak global demand is undermining the economy’s
recovery. Falling consumer prices pointed to little progress in
the fight against deflation.  South Korea’s Kospi Index slid 0.1 percent. The country’s
industrial production fell for a second month in July as
Europe’s debt crisis crimped demand for exports.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.4 percent. The city’s
retail sales grew in July at the slowest pace since September
2009.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.3 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.6
percent today. The gauge lost 0.8 percent yesterday after a
report showed more Americans than forecast filed applications
for  unemployment benefits  last week, a sign the labor market is
faltering amid a slowing economy.  Consumer spending  in the U.S. rose 0.4 percent after being
little changed in June, Commerce Department figures showed
yesterday in  Washington . That was less than the median estimate
of economists for a 0.5 percent gain.  Weak Rebound  “The  U.S. economy  has stopped deteriorating, but it’s far
away from having a strong rebound,” said Juichi Wako, a senior
strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. “Uncertainty is
increasing in Europe, dragging down markets.”  Consumer stocks, industrial companies and raw material
producers posted the biggest decline among the  10 industry
groups  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Exporters to the U.S. and Europe fell. Toyota Motor Corp.,
the world’s biggest carmaker by market value, dropped 2.4
percent to 3,095 yen in Tokyo. Honda Motor Co., which gets about
half of sales from  North America  and Europe, decreased 2.4
percent to 2,472 yen. Li & Fung Ltd., the world’s largest
supplier of toys and clothes to retailers including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., slipped 2 percent to HK$12.60 in Hong Kong.  Sharp, the maker of Aquos televisions, slumped 13 percent
to 198 yen as Foxconn founder Gou ended a visit to Japan without
finalizing a deal to buy 9.9 percent of the loss-making company.
Foxconn Technology Co. dropped 1.3 percent to NT$114 in Taipei.  Wider Loss  China Shipping Container dropped 5.7 percent to HK$1.48,
extending losses for a sixth day, the longest streak since
November. The company’s stock rating was cut to hold from buy
and its share-price estimate halved by Jefferies after the
shipper reported a wider first-half loss. BOCOM International
Holdings Co. cuts its target price by 19 percent to HK$1.72 and
kept its neutral rating.  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , which is merging with  Sumitomo Metal 
Industries Ltd. to create the world’s second-largest steelmaker,
dropped 5.6 percent to 151 yen. The companies widened their
first-year loss forecasts on a combined 240 billion yen ($3.1
billion) in impairment charges. Sumitomo Metal slid 5.1 percent
to 111 yen.  China Eastern Airlines Corp., the nation’s second-largest
carrier by passengers, fell 1.3 percent to HK$2.36 after saying
first-half profit tumbled 65 percent from a year earlier to
806.9 million  yuan  ($127 million) because of higher fuel costs
and currency losses.  Indecent Assault  Of the 597 companies in the Asia-Pacific index that have
reported quarterly earnings since July 1, and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, more than half failed to meet
projections, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd., a Chinese developer in which
JPMorgan Chase & Co. owns a stake, dropped 4.6 percent to
HK$8.90 after its Chairman Chen Zhuo Lin was arrested by police
in Hong Kong in connection with an allegation of indecent
assault.  “The arrest put a bad name on the company,” said Sylvia Wong, a Hong Kong-based property analyst for UOB Kay Hian Ltd.
“We don’t think will affect the business operation.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 8.3 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday. Stocks on Asia’s
benchmark index were valued at 12.4 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.6 for the S&P 500 and 11.5 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Among stocks that rose, Samsung Electronics, the world’s
biggest mobile-phone maker by sales, gained 1.5 percent to 1.233
million won, erasing earlier losses of 0.7 percent. A Tokyo
court ruled the South Korean company’s smartphones and a tablet
computer didn’t infringe on an Apple invention for synchronizing
music and video with servers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  