-- Athabasca Oil Signs Letter of Intent for Oil-Sands Venture
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-08-31T21:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/athabasca-oil-signs-letter-of-intent-for-oil-sands-joint-venture.html
Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH) , a Canadian
crude producer, has signed a letter of intent to pursue a joint
venture for its Hangingstone and Birch properties as the company
seeks to develop its oil-sands assets and boost output.  Athabasca didn’t comment on the size of the potential
transaction or its partner in a statement today. Athabasca’s
shares were halted in Toronto earlier today following a report
in The Globe and Mail that Kuwait Petroleum Corp. may invest as
much as C$4 billion ($4.05 billion) for a joint venture to
develop Athabasca Oil’s assets in Alberta.  The Calgary-based oil producer, which already cooperates
with  PetroChina Co. (857) , has been looking for partners to accelerate
its plans to boost output to 220,000 barrels a day by 2020.
Chief Executive Officer Sveinung Svarte said on a July 26
conference call that he expected a joint-venture deal to be
announced in the third quarter.  “Athabasca does not intend to make any further
announcements or communications regarding this potential
transaction until either a definitive agreement has been reached
or it determines that disclosure of developments is
appropriate,” the Calgary-based company said in the statement.  Kuwait Petroleum denied reports that one of its units
signed a contract to invest in  Canada , state-run Kuwait News
Agency reported today, citing a statement sent to the agency by
the company. Such an investment would require various company
and government approvals, “and this has not taken place so far,”
the agency quoted Kuwait Petroleum as saying in the statement.  Houston Representative  Abdulaziz Al-Attar, Kuwait Petroleum’s Houston-based
representative, declined to comment on the reported agreement
between his company and Athabasca Oil when reached by phone
today.  The shares rose 8.6 percent to C$13.58 at the close in
Toronto after gaining as much as 12 percent following the
trading halt. That’s the biggest intraday gain since Oct. 27,
2011.  “If the joint venture is finalized, then Athabasca’s
future capital commitments on these properties will be greatly
reduced,” said Geoff Ready, an analyst at Haywood Securities in
Calgary, in a note to investors.  In March, Athabasca Oil completed the sale of its remaining
40 percent interest in the Mackay River oil-sands project to
partner PetroChina for C$680 million. It has more than 1.5
million net acres of leases for oil-sands projects in northern
 Alberta  and 359 million barrels of proved and probable reserves,
according to a July 26 statement.  Daily Production  Athabasca Oil said last month it expects year-end
production will be as much as 11,000 barrels of oil-equivalent a
day. The Canadian oil producer has lost money in five of the
last six quarters and said last month it “does not expect to
start receiving significant revenues until late 2012.”  “We highly caution any investor against believing” that
Athabasca would be paid C$4 billion in cash, as that would
represent about 80 percent of its market value, Phil Skolnick, a
New York-based analyst for Canaccord Genuity, said in a note to
clients before the statement was published. He rates the shares
a buy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  