-- Atletico Beats Chelsea in Super Cup 4-1 as Falcao Scores Three
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-31T20:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/atletico-beats-chelsea-in-super-cup-4-1-as-falcao-scores-three.html
Radamel Falcao scored three goals in
the first half to lead  Spain ’s Atletico Madrid to a 4-1 victory
over Champions League winner Chelsea in the Super Cup, European
soccer’s traditional curtain raiser.  Falcao, a 26-year-old Colombian, stunned the English team
with a clinical display of finishing at the Stade Louis II in
Monte Carlo, beating goalkeeper  Petr Cech  in the 6th, 19th and
45th minutes for his second straight hat trick. The former Porto
striker also found the net three times in Atletico’s 4-0 victory
over Athletic Bilbao in the Spanish league four days ago. Marca
Miranda also scored.  It was the final Super Cup played in Monaco, the event’s
home since it was established as a one-game meeting between the
winners of Europe’s top two club competitions in 1998. Next
year’s match will be played in Prague before moving to Cardiff.  Falcao had already struck the crossbar before lifting the
ball over Cech and beyond  David Luiz  to open the scoring. He
followed that with a curling effort into the top corner and then
got his 38th goal in 40 European club competition matches by
finishing off a counter attack just before halftime.  Miranda reaffirmed the Spanish team’s superiority in the
second half with a chipped finish over Cech that  Gary Cahill 
could only deflect into his own net. Cahill added a consolation
goal with 15 minutes left.  While Falcao celebrated his efforts at end of the game it
was a difficult evening for former Atletico captain  Fernando Torres . The U.K.’s most expensive player said before the game he
wouldn’t celebrate if he scored against the team he still
supported, but never really threatened. Atletico fans honored
him by chanting his name for about a minute after the game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Monte Carlo via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 