-- August Business Activity in U.S. Expanded at Slower Pace
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-31T14:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/august-business-activity-in-u-s-expanded-at-slower-pace.html
Business activity in the U.S.
expanded at a slower pace in August, indicating companies may
hold the line on production until sales pick up.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its  business barometer  fell to 53 this month from 53.7 in July.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. Economists forecast
the gauge would drop to 53.2, according to the  median  estimate
in a Bloomberg survey.  Companies may lack the confidence to invest in new
equipment and hire as they face a global economic slowdown and
the so-called fiscal cliff threat of more than $600 billion in
government spending cuts and higher taxes. Manufacturing, which
helped spur the recovery, is providing less of a boost for the
three-year-old expansion.  “Manufacturing looks like it’s not playing a major role in
the expansion any longer but neither is it contracting,” Drew
Matus, senior U.S. economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said before the report. “Manufacturing is just
treading water.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today he
would not rule out further bond purchases to boost growth and
reduce unemployment, which he called a “grave concern.”  “The costs of nontraditional policies, when considered
carefully, appear manageable, implying that we should not rule
out the further use of such policies if economic conditions
warrant,” Bernanke said today in a speech to central bankers and
economists at an annual forum in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Shares Climb  Stocks pared earlier gains as investors weighed Bernanke’s
comments. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,403.57 at 10:18 a.m. in New York. The gauge had been up as
much as 0.8 percent before the Fed chairman spoke.  Estimates for the Chicago purchasers’ index from the 58
economists surveyed ranged from 51 to 55.  The Chicago group’s production gauge rose to 57.4 from
July’s reading of 54.5, today’s report showed. The gauge of new
orders climbed to 54.8 from 52.9. The employment measure
advanced to 57.1 from 53.3 the prior month.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of overall growth.  Regional Reports  Factory activity in the  New York  region contracted in
August for the first time in 10 months, and production in the
Philadelphia-area shrank for a fourth month, those Federal
Reserve reports showed this month.  “Many districts reported some softening in manufacturing,
either a slowdown in the rate of growth or a decline in the
level of sales,” the Fed said this week in its Beige Book
business survey, which reflected information collected on or
before Aug. 20.  The ISM’s monthly national  factory index  probably wavered
near the 50 threshold of expansion and contraction in August,
according to the median projection in a Bloomberg survey ahead
of the Sept. 4 report. Like the Chicago survey, a reading above
50 signals expansion.  Cooling factory output comes as 8.3 percent unemployment
restrains consumer demand and slowing global growth reduces new
businesses orders.  Household spending  increased at a 1.7 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, the smallest advance in a
year, Commerce Department data show. Corporate spending on
equipment and software rose at a 4.7 percent pace in that
period, the weakest since the third quarter of 2009.  “Given our results, the prolonged weakness in the economy,
the continued weakness in  consumer confidence  and the
performance of other branded consumer businesses in developed
markets, we are now moderating our expectations,” James Hagedorn, chief executive officer of  Scotts Miracle-Gro Co. (SMG) ,
said during an Aug. 10 earnings call. “For 2013, we’re not
expecting organic growth beyond what’s driven by pricing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  