-- Maurel CEO Says Oil Explorer Is Too Small to Go It Alone
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-08-31T11:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/maurel-ceo-says-oil-explorer-is-too-small-to-go-it-alone-1-.html
Etablissements Maurel & Prom (MAU) , a
French oil explorer, isn’t big enough to remain independent,
according to Chief Executive Officer Jean-Francois Henin.  “We are open to an operation that could give a better
future to the company and our shareholders,” he said on a
conference call today. “We would have to increase the growth
rate in coming years or marry with someone because our size
doesn’t give us the capacity to remain independent for long.”  Partnering with another company or being acquired would
allow development of oil and natural-gas projects, he said,
denying any offer was received from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Henin, who owns 24 percent of the company, has long said he
would consider a good offer for Maurel, which last year decided
to spin off its Nigerian operation to concentrate on projects in
Gabon, Tanzania and  Colombia . Asked how soon the company needs
to find a solution, he replied from “yesterday.”  Maurel had been in talks with India Oil Corp. “on and
off” for years and had failed to attract a reasonable offer for
the entire company, Henin said. Maurel also considered a listing
in  London , he said.  “Our size is not sufficient” to generate  cash flow  for
development, Henin said today. “We have looked at many things
but haven’t found so far what could work.”  Maurel has been “working seriously on this subject for 18
months” and wouldn’t“just do anything,” he said. One option
could also be a “modest” investment that could give “a
significant upside.”  Profit Decline  The company, which in 2007 sold Congolese fields to  Eni
SpA (ENI) , has drawn interest from potential bidders including Chinese
companies, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said
last year.  Maurel today reported a 64 percent drop in first-half
profit after year-ago asset sales weren’t repeated. Net income
retreated to 32 million euros ($40 million), from 90 million
euros last year, the Paris-based company said in a statement.
Its share of output was 14,500 barrels of oil equivalent a day.  Maurel kept a production target of 24,500 barrels of oil
equivalent a day by end 2012 and said an incident at the Omoc-
Nord field in Gabon being ramped up would hurt output through
the end of next month.  Maurel said it has provisioned 12.5 million euros against
the sale of a unit in  Venezuela  because of uncertainty about
payment from acquirer Integra. This follows a provision of 25
million euros earlier this year.  The French explorer failed to find commercial reserves
after drilling in the Mnazi Bay concession in Tanzania although
it said today “significant potential” exists on the permit.  Maurel fell 1.4 percent to 12.37 euros as of 1:20 p.m. in
Paris. The shares are up 2 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  