-- Aussie Dollar Near Five-Week Low on China Growth Concern
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-08-31T06:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/aussie-dollar-near-5-week-low-before-china-data-bernanke-speech.html
Australia ’s dollar traded near a
five-week low amid concern a slowdown in  China , the country’s
biggest trading partner, will hamper growth.  Demand for the Australian and New Zealand dollars was
limited before a purchasing managers’ index to be released next
week that may show China’s manufacturing industry is stagnating.
A  Reserve Bank  of Australia report showed slower-than-predicted
credit growth in July. The so-called Aussie headed for its first
monthly decline since May before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, today.  “If the PMI numbers confirm a slowdown in the Chinese
economy, it could put further downward pressure on the Aussie,”
said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher at Gaitame.com Research
Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo , a unit of  Japan ’s largest currency-
margin company. He expects the Australian dollar to decline to
$1.0098 in the next month after the currency fell below its 200-
day moving average yesterday.  The Australian dollar bought $1.0311 as of 4:49 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0289 yesterday, when it slid as low as $1.0277,
the weakest since July 25. It’s headed for a 1.8 percent drop
this month versus the greenback.  The New Zealand dollar fetched 80.01 U.S. cents from 79.81
yesterday, when it touched 79.70, the lowest since July 26.  Australian 10-year bond  yields  fell for an 11th straight
day, extending the longest stretch of declines since at least
1990, when Bloomberg began compiling daily data. The yield
dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.09
percent. It earlier touched 3.07 percent, the lowest since Aug.
1.  China Manufacturing  The purchasing managers’ index compiled by the Chinese
government probably  fell  to 50 in August, the dividing line
between expansion and contraction, according to economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before a report due Sept. 1. The
index reading was 50.1 in July.  The Australian currency dropped 3.1 percent in the past
month according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
That’s the worst performance among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by the indexes. The New Zealand dollar, known
as the kiwi, lost 2.2 percent, the second-worst performer.  Demand for the Aussie was tempered as Asian stocks fell and
the RBA said private sector credit rose less than expected.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks fell 0.6 percent,
after China’s Shanghai Composite Index yesterday slipped to its
lowest level since February 2009.  RBA Decision  The RBA said today private sector credit rose 0.2 percent
in July after gaining 0.3 percent in June. The median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was a 0.4 percent increase.  “Credit growth was disappointing,”  Spiros Papadopoulos , a
senior economist at National Australia Bank Ltd., wrote in a
note to clients today. “Today’s data alone is not a view
changer, but it is a reminder that the risk remains for a
further rate cut if data continues to surprise on the
downside.”  Interest-rate swaps  indicate a 17 percent chance the
Reserve Bank will lower its main  interest rate  by 25 basis
points to 3.25 percent at its next meeting on Sept. 4, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., Bernanke is scheduled to speak today at the
Kansas City Fed’s annual symposium amid speculation policy
makers will consider further monetary easing at their next
meeting.  Fed Policy  Improving economic data may reduce pressure on the Fed to
embark on a third round of quantitative easing, or QE3, with the
central bank’s  Beige Book  report this week saying the economy
has continued to expand “gradually.”  U.S. factory orders probably  increased  2 percent in July
from the previous month, when it declined 0.5 percent, according
to median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a
report due today.  “There are more people saying that the Fed will not do
QE3, given some signs of improvement we’ve seen in U.S. economic
data,” said Gaitame.com’s Kawabata. “Should that be the case,
that could weigh on the Aussie and kiwi.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  