-- Austria’s Fekter Doesn’t See Spain Asking for Full Bailout
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   L i n d a   Y u e h
-- 2012-08-31T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/austria-s-fekter-doesn-t-see-spain-asking-for-full-bailout.html
Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said she doesn’t expect  Spain  to request a second bailout
from its European partners.  “I don’t expect that they will ask for help,” Fekter said
yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview in Alpbach,
Austria, noting that Spain managed to refinance itself on the
 capital markets  this week. “It’s clear that we have a program
for the bank situation in Spain, but not for the  bond market .”  Spain, which sold 3.6 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of bills
on Aug. 28, is considering a request for a full-fledged rescue a
month after locking in as much as 100 billion euros in loans for
its banks as it waits for the  European Central Bank  to detail
its bond-buying plan. That may not happen before  Germany ’s
Constitutional Court rules Sept. 12 on the legality of Europe’s
permanent bailout fund, two central bank officials, who declined
to be identified, said last week.  On Greece, Fekter said that giving the country more time to
meet the conditions of a second international bailout would end
up costing more, and it would be “very, very difficult” to
explain such a move to taxpayers who are footing the bill.  “More money is in the whole euro area not explainable
anymore to the taxpayers,” she said. At the same time Fekter
said a Greek exit from the euro area would be the most expensive
option.  “We have calculated scenarios and this would be too
expensive and it would not help the Greeks as some think,”
Fekter said. “The debts will remain in euros and if the Greeks
are shifting back to perhaps the drachma, they’d have to pay
with a weak currency,” she said. “This would be very, very
expensive for the Greek authorities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Alpbach, Austria at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Yueh  in Alpbach, Austria at 
 lyueh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  