-- Banker Bonuses Would Be Curbed by Shareholders Under EU Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-08-31T15:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/bankers-would-face-shareholder-fixed-bonus-caps-in-draft-eu-plan.html
Banker (BARC)  bonuses would be limited by
shareholders under compromise plans criticized by European Union
lawmakers who are calling for stricter limits on financial-
industry pay.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has
proposed that bank investors should set maximum ratios on the
size of bonuses compared with fixed pay, according to a document
obtained by  Bloomberg News . The European Banking Authority would
publish aggregate data on the limits.  Bonuses that are a “large” multiple of fixed pay “are
likely to encourage excessive risk taking and undermine
confidence in the financial sector generally,” according to the
plans.  Bankers (SX7P)  are facing a backlash from European Parliament
lawmakers determined to cut variable pay as part of a quest to
reshape lenders as utilities rather than money-making machines.
The regulatory push comes as public outrage and shareholder
rebellions this year forced some banks, including  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and Barclays Plc, to retreat from their initial pay plans.  Barnier’s move is an attempt to broker a compromise between
parliament members, who are calling for a ban on bonuses that
exceed fixed pay, and national governments that are concerned
about the impact the measure may have on competitiveness.  The ban has become a sticking point in negotiations on a
draft law to overhaul bank rules that the EU is seeking to
settle by Jan. 1, 2013.  Bank Legislation  Lawmakers including  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the
parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee, and
Philippe Lamberts, who is leading work on the bank legislation
for the assembly’s Green group, have said that the Barnier plan
isn’t tough enough.  The proposals will be discussed by officials from Cyprus,
which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, and lawmakers at
a meeting on Sept. 5.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has called for a
narrower ban that would outlaw immediate cash bonuses that are
greater than bankers’ fixed pay. Such a cap would exclude
deferred parts of a bonus award.  Writing in today’s Financial Times, Schaeuble also
suggested that shareholders vote on overall bonus awards that
exceed pre-set financial thresholds.  Barnier’s proposed compromise also includes curbs on when
lenders can offer guaranteed bonuses to their employees.  Such a step should only be taken “when hiring new staff
and where the institution has a sound and strong capital base,”
according to the four-page document. Guaranteed bonuses must be
“limited to the first year of employment.”  The commission also calls on banks not to offer
“disproportionate” compensation in an attempt to poach
executives from other firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  