-- BBC’s ‘Dr. Who’ Returns, Along With ‘Coma’ Redux: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-09-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/bbc-s-dr-who-returns-along-with-coma-redux-review.html
Until a few days ago, I wouldn’t
have known a Dalek if it served me lunch.  A novice in all things “ Doctor Who ,” the loopy British
sci-fi series that debuted the day after President Kennedy was
assassinated, I’ve just screened it for the first time.  I think I get it.  “Asylum of the Daleks” opens the show’s Series 7,
debuting tomorrow on BBC America. Four more episodes will air
throughout the fall, with additional installments to follow next
year.  So, Daleks. They’re chest-high, thimble-shaped cyborgs with
flashing lights, arms that resemble toilet plungers and voices
that sound like Jabba the Hutt filtered through a voice
synthesizer.  These sinister robots have been bedeviling the good Doctor
since 1963 -- that’s in real time -- and the new episode
reportedly gathers every Dalek model built over the years, a
series first.  That means infinitely less to me than it does to “Who”
fans, but I enjoyed “Asylum” all the same.  Prison Planet  Without spoiling certain plot points (the screener was made
available to critics on that condition), “Asylum” finds the
Doctor ( Matt Smith ), and sidekicks Rory Williams (Arthur
Darvill) and Amy Pond (Karen Gillan) doing battle on a wintry
prison planet housing the baddest of the bad Daleks.  There will be skeletons, a talking squid-like creature,
humanoids with flashlights protruding from their foreheads, and
any number of special effects that aren’t quite as cheesy as
you’d imagine. Almost, but not quite.  Mostly, “Doctor Who” is fast-moving and fun-silly but not
stupid, and without a hint of the pomposity that’s burdened just
about every American sci-fi series since “Lost.”  Next week, the Doctor confronts a spaceship loaded with
dinosaurs, and my “Who” experience will double.  “Doctor Who” airs Sept. 1 on BBC America at 9 p.m.  New
York  time. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Coma’ Redux  In the secret, high-tech medical facility of A&E’s two-part
thriller “ Coma ,” patients trapped between life and death hang
gracefully from the ceiling, horizontal marionettes.  When visitors arrive, the unconscious are swiftly
transported to a sort of modernized Murphy bed, robotic arms
tucking in the comatose all nice and snuggy.  More impressive than terrifying, really.  “Coma,” starring Lauren Ambrose, Steven Pasquale and
 Ellen Burstyn , is based on the zeitgeisty Robin Cook novel and
 Michael Crichton ’s film adaptation of the late 1970s.  A post-Watergate nation convinced of rampant conspiracies
and moved by the tragic, right-to-die legal case of the
vegetative Karen Ann Quinlan found its bete noire (and a sexy
feminist hero played by Genevieve Bujold) in “ Coma .”  Today, the dark story of an evil-doing hospital that
induces comas for profit prompts mundane musings. The
malpractice premiums alone must be more frightening than
anything in this slow moving production.  Ambrose (“ Six Feet Under ”) plays Susan Wheeler, a medical
student at the Atlanta hospital made famous by her pioneering
heart surgeon grandfather.  When patients being treated for minor ailments fall into
comas, Wheeler begins snooping around.  She finds an ally in a hunky surgical resident (Pasquale),
a rival in an ambitious psychiatrist (Geena Davis) and a foe in
the iron lady (Burstyn) running the secretive facility where the
hospital’s comatose are shipped for storage.  James Woods and Richard Dreyfuss also make appearances, as
colleagues of Wheeler’s late, beloved grandfather.  What Wheeler uncovers (those suspended patients are only
the beginning) is hardly unexpected. A greater mystery remains
unanswered: Are those cool beds available online?  “Coma” airs Sept. 3 and 4 on A&E at 9 p.m. New York time.
Rating: **  Rating:  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  New York Weekend  and  Craig Seligman 
on books.  To contact the writer of this column: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 