-- Bernanke Leads Jackson Hold Push for Fix to Europe Crisis
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-08-31T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/bernanke-leads-jackson-hold-push-for-fix-to-europe-crisis.html
Global policy makers led by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled support for European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-buying plan as they
pressed for actions to tame the euro area’s debt turmoil.  “Some recent policy proposals in  Europe  have been quite
constructive in my view, and I urge our European colleagues to
press ahead with policy initiatives to resolve the crisis,”
Bernanke said in a speech yesterday to fellow central bankers
and economists in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  European officials are stepping up efforts to beat the
three-year crisis by mulling bond purchases and pursuing more
regional oversight of banks. With International Monetary Fund
First Deputy Managing Director  David Lipton  calling the world
economy “very rocky,” delegates identified Europe’s fate as
pivotal for growth.  “They are at a very critical stage at the moment,” Bank
of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  told Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . Chaos in European markets is a
“big fear,” he said.  ECB policy makers meet next week as investors push Draghi
to detail his Aug. 2 proposal to reduce sovereign bond yields by
buying debt in markets alongside Europe’s rescue fund. Draghi
withdrew from the Kansas City Fed’s annual monetary policy
symposium with his spokesman citing a “heavy workload.”  The euro area’s 17 national central bank governors will
have about 24 hours to digest Draghi’s proposals before they
begin debating them at a Sept. 5-6 meeting, three officials said
yesterday. No single policy option has emerged as preeminent,
the officials said.  Increase Risk  The lack of a clear preference, the complexity of the issue
and the shortage of time increase the risk that Draghi won’t
present a detailed plan next week, according to economists at
Commerzbank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. The ECB may choose to
hold back some details of the plan until the German
Constitutional Court rules on the legality of Europe’s permanent
bailout fund on Sept. 12, two of the officials said.  The ECB should “absolutely” purchase the bonds of
nations such as Italy and Spain whose yields are “out of
whack” with economic fundamentals, outgoing  Bank of England 
policy maker  Adam Posen  told reporters in Jackson Hole.  “It is difficult if not impossible to justify their long
bond rates being as high as they are,” Posen said as he
prepared to leave the U.K. central bank yesterday. “It is
entirely within a central bank’s mandate and capabilities to
deal with that. They should be intervening.”  Spanish 10-year yields yesterday ended trading in Europe
having climbed 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, to
6.86 percent, after rising as much as 30 basis points, the most
since Aug. 2. Italy’s 10-year security yielded 5.85 percent.  Draghi Absent  Draghi’s absence from the Fed conference “indicates they
really are working on operational plans to do something,” Posen
said. “That is, in my view, untrammeled good news.”  Bernanke said global trade and financial linkages mean
Europe’s situation has a “significant” impact on the  U.S.
economy . Data yesterday showed euro-area unemployment rose to a
record 11.3 percent in June.  Draghi still faces domestic opposition, with Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann quoted in the Aug. 26 issue of  Der
Spiegel  as saying a new wave of ECB bond buying may increase
governments’ reliance on such funding and won’t help solve the
debt crisis.  Weidmann, who is in  Jackson Hole , declined to comment on a
report in Bild newspaper that he considered quitting over the
ECB’s plan and discussed stepping down with the Bundesbank’s
board. ‘I won’t comment on speculations,” he said in an
interview.  Sharing Liabilities  In a paper presented to the symposium,  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  professor Kristin Forbes said Europe’s
focus on sharing liabilities through the ECB and Europe’s rescue
funds may increase the risk of contagion as investors question
the solvency of countries sponsoring the bailouts.  The “best alternative” to minimize contagion today in the
euro area “appears to be well-designed  deposit insurance 
combined with appropriate banking regulations and supervision,”
said Forbes, a former U.S. Treasury official.  In response, Harvard University professor  Martin Feldstein 
said a “significant decline in the euro” perhaps to parity
with the dollar would help cash-strained European economies
unable to devalue alone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Jackson Hole, Wyoming at 
 Skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  