-- Bertelsmann CEO Looks for Left-Overs From EMI Acquisition
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-08-31T10:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/bertelsmann-earnings-decline-1-1-on-advertising-revenue.html
Bertelsmann SE,  Europe ’s biggest
media company, is looking to snap up assets from EMI’s music
business that may be offered for sale to placate regulators.  “Acquistions will play a role, next to organic growth, in
the implementation of our growth strategy,” Thomas Rabe, who
took over as Bertelsmann’s chief executive officer in January,
told reporters on a conference call today. “We are also looking
at the opportunities resulting from the takeover of EMI’s
publishing business by Sony and the recorded media business by
 Universal Music .”  Universal Music offered to sell rights to some EMI labels
to eliminate regulators’ concerns as the 1.2 billion-pound ($1.9
billion) acquisition of EMI’s recorded music business is pending
approval by national and European Union watchdogs, people
familiar with the matter said this week.  Rabe, Bertelsmann’s former chief financial officer, aims to
boost growth by expanding the BMG music-rights unit,
establishing the Guetersloh, Germany-based company in the
education-services market and pushing its presence in  China  and
 India . Bertelsmann changed its legal form from a stock
corporation to a partnership with limited shares this month,
allowing the company to tap financial markets to boost growth.  Raising Capital  The Mohn family, which resisted taking Bertelsmann public
in the past decade, initiated the change, Rabe said earlier this
year.  Bertelsmann will use equity and borrowed capital to finance
growth, though no talks on raising equity capital have taken
place with investors, Rabe said today. The company issued 10-
year bonds worth 750 million euros on July 26.  Bertelsmann today said first-half operating profit fell 1.1
percent on declining advertising revenue at the RTL broadcasting
division and Gruner & Jahr magazine unit. Sales from continuing
operations rose 5 percent to 7.57 billion euros.  “Subdued economic prospects and the euro crisis, whose
repercussions are challenging to gauge, make it difficult to
predict future developments,” Rabe said.  Since Rabe was promoted, Bertelsmann has set up a wider
management committee to advise the board on strategy, hired an
executive to supervise expansion in new areas, and appointed two
new CEOs for the RTL division.  Citigroup agreed in November to sell EMI’s recorded music
and publishing business in separate transactions for a combined
$4.1 billion. Universal Music agreed to buy EMI’s recorded
division while a Sony Corp.-led group agreed $2.2 billion for
publishing. Citigroup seized EMI from  Guy Hands ’s private equity
firm, Terra Firma Partners Limited, in February 2011 after it
failed to meet loan terms. Hands bought EMI for 4 billion pounds
in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  