-- Boart Unable to Forecast Earnings as Miners Halt Investments
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-08-31T05:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/boart-unable-to-forecast-earnings-as-miners-halt-investments.html
Boart Longyear Ltd. (BLY) , the world’s
biggest provider of mineral-drilling services, said it’s unable
to say if earnings will decline next year as mining companies
halt investments amid slowing economic growth.  “I’m not sure mining companies know what the demand is
going to be next year, so it’s very hard for me to put those
numbers for the investors,” Chief Executive Officer Craig Kipp
said in a Bloomberg Television interview with Rishaad Salamat.
“There’s just a little bit too much uncertainty.”  Boart shares had a  record  decline in Sydney trading
yesterday after the  Salt Lake City , Utah-company lowered its
2012 earnings forecast by as much as 22 percent, citing the lack
of clarity about the  European debt crisis , slowing growth in
 China , restrictive financing conditions and the U.S. elections.  “It’s probably an understatement to say that our market
here in  Australia  is a little jumpy right now about mining
stocks in general, so we got hit pretty hard,” Kipp said.  The stock fell as much as 7.3 percent to A$1.39 and traded
at A$1.42 as of 2:51 p.m. local time. The shares have fallen 49
percent this year, compared with a 6.5 percent gain in the
benchmark index.  Mining companies are scaling back investments to focus on
quality projects, prioritizing spending on low-cost mines that
produce higher ore grades and in regions where governments are
supportive of their projects, he said.  “They’re deciding to just pause for a minute and go back
and just try to get as much ore out of the ground at the best
cash cost,” Kipp said. “That to me is kind of the overriding
theme that we’re seeing.”  Boart yesterday reduced its forecast for 2012 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to a range
of $360 million to $390 million from $460 million. It also cut
its revenue forecast by 13 percent to $2 billion, in line with
last year’s result.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  