-- Bradesco Is Top Pick as BlackRock Buys Banks: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-08-31T17:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/bradesco-is-top-pick-as-blackrock-buys-banks-corporate-brazil.html
The one stock Brazil analysts say
investors should buy is  Banco Bradesco SA. (BBDC4)   Of the 24  analysts  that rate Bradesco, the second-largest
bank in Latin America by market value, 18 recommend buying, the
most of any company on the benchmark Bovespa index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  and Itau Unibanco
Holding SA, the biggest lender by market value, rank fourth and
sixth among the index’s 67  members .  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  say bank stocks will post
the biggest gains in the second half of the year after Brazil
cut the benchmark lending rate to record low, which should help
lower default rates from a 30-month high. Policy makers led by
central bank President Alexandre Tombini have cut the overnight
rate by 5 percentage points to 7.5 percent in the past 12
months, more than any other Group of 20 nation.  “My biggest overweight is banks and  consumer
discretionary , because  valuations  are still attractive for those
sectors,” said Jason Press, a Citigroup strategist for Latin
America in New York, in a telephone interview. “We expect a
consumer-led reacceleration of the Brazilian economy in the
second half of this year.”  Relative Value  Bradesco trades at 12 times earnings, compared with 11 for
 Itau (ITUB4)  and 5.9 for Banco do Brasil, according to Bloomberg data.
The MSCI World/Banks Index is at a ratio of 15.  Bradesco, based in Osasco, gained 9.6 percent this year
before today, putting its market value at 117 billion reais ($57
billion). Itau fell 4.4 percent and Banco do Brasil lost 1.3
percent. The Bovespa index rose 0.9 percent.  Bradesco fell 1.3 percent to 33.25 reais at 2:37 p.m. in
the Sao Paulo trading, while Itau fell 1.8 percent to 31.92
reais and Banco do Brasil fell 1.4 percent to 22.14 reais.  After Bradesco, the Brazilian stocks that have the most buy
recommendations are shopping-mall operator  BR Malls
Participacoes SA (BRML3)  and retailer  Cia Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar (PCAR4)  SA.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  is cutting taxes,
reducing  interest rates  and licensing infrastructure projects to
lure $66 billion of investments as part of stimulus efforts.  Growth in Brazil, the world’s largest developing economy
after  China , accelerated to 0.4 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months, the fastest pace in a year, the
national statistics agency said today.  Bradesco declined to comment, according to an e-mail sent
by its press office.  Economic Stimulus  The monetary and fiscal stimulus should start to produce an
effect in the second half the year, said Landers, who is also
overweight in Brazilian consumer stocks. Interest-rate cuts have
helped to fuel an 18 percent expansion in July outstanding
credit to 2.18 trillion reais, according to a central bank
report yesterday.  “The second half has to be better than the first one with
all this government stimuli,” Landers said in a telephone
interview from Princeton,  New Jersey . “As the economy continues
with full employment and salaries rising, consumers will get the
urge to go back to consuming at higher levels than in the past
year.”  Itau and Bradesco SA both boosted provisions for soured
loans this year as rising inflation and slower economic growth
eroded customers’ ability to make payments on time. In February,
Itau Chief Executive Officer Roberto Setubal also told reporters
that delinquencies may rise to 5 percent by the middle of this
year. Rogerio Calderon, Itau’s head of  investor relations , said
on an April 24 earnings conference call the rate may rise for
the next two quarters before falling at year-end.  Weak Growth Outlook  While banking shares may recover, they won’t outperform the
market because economic growth isn’t strong, said Flavio Barros,
a  fund manager  with Grau Gestao de Ativos, which oversees about
380 million reais in  Sao Paulo .  “On average I expect banking stocks to move in tandem with
the broader market,” Barros said in a telephone interview.  The consumer default rate rose to 7.9 percent in July from
7.8 percent in June, according to the central bank. The company
loan default rate was unchanged last month at 4 percent. Tulio
Maciel, the central bank’s chief economist, said yesterday
default rates will decline as wages rise.  Lower interest rates and a more cautious approach from the
banks to  consumer lending  may reduce pressure on default rates
in the second quarter, BlackRock’s Landers said.  “The worst is over,” said Landers, adding that BlackRock
has “important” positions in Bradesco, Itau and Banco do
Brasil. “Growth rates will be slower, but nothing indicates
that  Brazil ’s middle-class expansion story is at risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  