-- Brazil Economy Emerges From Slowdown as Stimulus Takes Hold
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-08-31T16:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/brazil-s-economy-emerging-from-slowdown-as-stimulus-takes-hold.html
Brazil ’s economy in the second
quarter showed signs that it’s turning the corner after a year
of stagnation as government stimulus measures help offset the
impact of the global crisis.  Gross domestic product  expanded  0.4 percent from the
previous three months, the fastest pace in a year, the national
statistics agency said today. That compares with a median
forecast of 0.5 percent growth in a Bloomberg  survey  of 51
analysts.  While that pace is four times the revised 0.1 percent
first-quarter growth, economists say there’s little evidence of
a strong recovery. With industrial output  falling  amid  Europe ’s
debt crisis and weaker demand from  China  for Brazil’s exports,
tax breaks to spur consumption won’t be enough to ensure that
growth this year exceeds that of the U.S. and  Japan , according
to Bloomberg surveys of economists. Brazil’s economy grew at an
annualized pace of 1.64 percent in the April-June period.  “We’re a ways away from saying the whole economy is off to
the races,” Bret Rosen, a Latin America strategist at Standard
Chartered Bank, said in a phone interview from  New York . “There
are some figures that would lead us to be a little more
optimistic, but you don’t want to declare a peak or a trough
from just a few data points.”  Industry, Investments  Industrial output fell 2.5 percent in the second quarter
due to declines in manufacturing, mining and civil construction,
while investment declined 0.7 percent, according to the report.  “Investment fell due to the weak international scenario
and domestic demand that’s also weak,”  Newton Rosa , chief
economist at SulAmerica Investimentos, said by telephone from
 Sao Paulo . “Betting on expanding production capacity is very
difficult.”  Agriculture grew 4.9 percent in the second quarter, and was
the leading contributor to GDP expansion. The services sector
also expanded 0.7 percent and family consumption rose 0.6
percent.  “Domestic demand remains the primary support of the
economy, with families’ consumption stimulated by moderated
expansion in credit, by the generation of jobs and revenue,”
central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in a statement
today.  Lower Levies  To kick start growth that is trailing  Russia ,  India  and
China, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has cut payroll
taxes, lowered levies on cars and appliances and implemented
policies that have weakened the real more than any major
currency this year. The central bank has done its part by
lowering borrowing costs by 500 basis points since last August,
more than any Group of 20 nation, taking the benchmark Selic
rate this week to a record low 7.5 percent.  “We are of the view that we have now reached the end of
the current 13-month long easing cycle,”  Alberto Ramos , senior
economist at Goldman Sachs & Co., said in a research note today,
citing a deteriorating inflation outlook. If the bank further
reduces rates, it will be with a final cut of 25 basis points in
October, he said.  The government’s stimulus measures have helped boost
 vehicle sales  from 257,887 in April to 364,196 in July, while a
1.5 percent jump in  retail sales  in June surprised economists by
the most since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2008.  Debt Troubles  Still, lower rates haven’t kept consumers out of debt
trouble, suggesting there may be a limit to a recovery led by
shoppers. The central bank reported yesterday that the consumer
loan default rate rose in July to 7.9 percent, matching a 30-
month high.  “That exuberant phase of the credit cycle when there was a
lot of catching up to do, that is over,” Paulo Vieira da Cunha,
head of  emerging markets  research at Tandem Global Partners,
said in a phone interview from New York. “What you have now is
a normal expansion of credit.”  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast Latin America’s
biggest economy will grow 1.9 percent this year, less than the
2.15 percent in the U.S. and 2.5 percent in Japan. Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said today he sees growth accelerating to
4 percent in the fourth quarter and possibly surpassing 4
percent in 2013.  Extra Stimulus  Vieira de Cunha is more cautious. The former Brazilian
central bank board member says the economy would require
additional stimulus for growth to remain at or above 4 percent
through 2013, and instead expects the pace of expansion to slow
to near 3 percent by the end of next year. This week the
government extended the tax cuts for vehicles through October,
and for furniture and appliances through the end of the year.  The other BRIC nations are also hurting. Russia’s GDP
expanded at the slowest annual pace in the second quarter, while
China grew the least since 2009. Gross domestic product in India
rose 5.5 percent in the second quarter from a year ago, up from
the three-year low of 5.3 percent in the previous quarter.
Brazil’s economy in the second quarter expanded 0.5 percent from
a year ago, lower than the median estimate of 0.7 percent from
47 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s second-quarter GDP figures do not reflect the
turnaround under way in the third quarter, said  Tony Volpon ,
head of emerging-markets research for the Americas at Nomura
Securities.  ‘Demand-Priming’  “A lot of the demand-priming actions that the government
was taking do need some time to hit the economy, including lower
 interest rates , and that’s what we’re seeing now,” Volpon said
by telephone from New York. “The argument the market is having
now is how big that bounce will be.”  The severity of this year’s slowdown prompted Rousseff to
look beyond the consumer-led growth model favored by her
predecessor and mentor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , and confront
bottlenecks that have long prevented faster growth. Earlier this
month, she ignored opposition to privatization by members of her
Workers’ Party and announced plans to auction licenses to build
and operate 17,500 kilometers (10,850 miles) of roads and
railways, a move the government says will attract as much as $66
billion investment over 30 years.  Low growth in early 2012 was “a wake-up call” that is
focusing the government on ways to boost productivity,  Gray Newman , chief Latin America economist at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , said by
phone from New York. “Brazil’s challenge isn’t just dealing
with the cycle.”  High Cost  More policy action to reduce the high cost of business and
boost investment is in the pipeline, including a plan to reduce
energy costs for manufacturers that will be announced in mid-
September, Rousseff said yesterday.  “We won’t be a just nation until we’re capable of being a
competitive nation,” Rousseff told a group of business leaders
in Brasilia.  This year’s slowdown hasn’t deterred investors. Drawn by
the build-up for the 2014 World Cup and Summer Olympics two
years later, the country received $38.1 billion in  foreign
direct investment  this year through July, compared with $38.5
billion in the same period last year. Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa
stock index has climbed 9.1 percent since this year’s low on
June 5.  One reason for the interest in Brazil is pent-up demand
from 40 million people who’ve risen out of poverty since 2003
and still are benefitting from near-full employment conditions.  The profits of Brazil’s biggest retailer, Cia. Brasileira
de Distribuicao Grupo  Pao de Acucar , rose 180 percent in the
second quarter from a year ago, while those at Natura
Cosmeticos, Latin America’s largest cosmetics firm, rose 14
percent.  Resilient Demand  Still, resilient consumer demand hasn’t proved sufficient
to sustain an industrial sector battered by the global slowdown.
Industrial output fell 5.5 percent in June from the year before.
With prices for Brazil’s iron-ore and other raw materials under
pressure from slow growth in China, exports so far this year are
down 1.7 percent from 2011 levels.  “The core scenario as it now stands is for the Brazilian
economy to reaccelerate,” said George Hoguet, managing director
of State Street Global Advisors in  Boston , which has $62 billion
invested in emerging market stocks. “But if there’s a further
hiccup in one of the larger economies in the world, that is
going to negatively affect Brazil.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.84 percent at 1:01 p.m. local time. The
real fell 0.84 percent to 2.0312 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  