-- Brazilian Real Advances on Economic Expansion; Swap Rates Rise
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-08-31T21:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/brazilian-real-advances-on-economic-expansion-swap-rates-rise.html
Brazil ’s real rallied the most in
almost a month after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said he wouldn’t rule out more stimulus and a report showed
Brazil’s economy grew at the fastest pace in a year.  The real appreciated 0.9 percent to 2.0308 per dollar, the
biggest one-day gain since Aug. 3. The currency advanced 1.3
percent this month. Swap rates on contracts due in January rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.27 percent.  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 0.4 percent in the
second quarter, four times the revised 0.1 percent first-quarter
increase, the national statistics agency reported. The median
forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for 0.5
percent growth.  “The second-quarter numbers show a faint recovery,”
 Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brazil
SA, said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “Third-quarter
numbers should be even better.”  The real briefly pared its advance and then extended gains
after Bernanke said he wouldn’t rule out further bond purchases
to boost growth and reduce unemployment, which he called a
“grave concern.” Two rounds of large-scale asset purchases
totaling $2.3 trillion have so far failed to reduce the jobless
rate to less than 8 percent.  The currency rallied with most of its emerging-market peers
as Bernanke’s comment on further stimulus boosted risk appetite
and stronger growth figures fueled speculation the central bank
will soon stop cutting borrowing costs, said Deives Ribeiro, the
head of foreign-exchange trading at Fair Corretora de Cambio e
Valores.  ‘Dollars to Brazil’  “The market believes the economic environment is going to
get better,” Ribeiro said by phone from Sao Paulo. “With the
rate cuts ending, investors may begin calculating how much they
gain by bringing dollars to Brazil.”  Brazil’s government will keep taking action to weaken the
real to help local manufacturers, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said this week in Brasilia.  The real is “consolidating” at a level weaker than 2
reais per dollar thanks to the government’s policy to stem its
advance as other countries try to gain an advantage through
devaluation, Mantega said.  The currency has declined 8.1 percent against the greenback
in 2012, the biggest drop among the dollar’s 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  Target Lending Rate  The central bank reduced the target lending rate at this
week’s Copom meeting by a half-percentage point to a record low
7.50 percent. If there is room for an additional adjustment, it
“should be carried out with maximum parsimony,” the central
bank said in a statement.  The government has cut payroll taxes and lowered levies on
cars and appliances to kickstart growth, which is trailing that
of Russia, India and  China .  Swap rate contracts maturing before January 2015 climbed
while longer-term rates fell on speculation higher borrowing
costs in 2013 will cool inflation in succeeding years, said
 Newton Rosa , the chief economist at SulAmerica Investimentos in
Sao Paulo.  “The market is still responding to the Copom meeting,”
Rosa said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  