-- Buffett Railroad Sees Economy Sapping Pre-Holiday Peak
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-08-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/buffett-railroad-sees-economy-sapping-pre-holiday-peak.html
North American railroads from  Warren
Buffett ’s Burlington Northern Santa Fe to  CSX Corp. (CSX)  are bracing
for limited increases in pre-holiday shipments as weak consumer
sentiment exacerbates shrinking corn and coal loads.  BNSF, which moves imported Asian consumer goods from West
Coast ports, hasn’t seen a measurable gain in holiday-related
volumes, Chief Marketing Officer John Lanigan said this week.
CSX, the biggest carrier in the eastern U.S., and  Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  both forecast a “modest” advance.  The peak rail-shipping season, which usually boosts second-
half profits, is under threat after the Midwest drought scorched
crops and U.S. consumer  confidence  fell the most in 10 months in
August. Retailers and manufacturers may be deferring orders like
they did last year pending evidence that spending will pick up.  “There’s too much caution in the supply chain across the
retail and tech industries, where there is reluctance to stock
anything resembling excess inventory,” said Matt Troy, a
Susquehanna Financial Group analyst in New York. “Lack of
confidence in the economy and market is fueling a lot of fear.
Fear breeds inertia. People sit on their hands.”  Rail volumes traditionally start to peak in the last two
weeks of August as shipments of consumer products bound for
store shelves converge with the U.S. harvest and coal for
utilities’ winter stockpiles.  ‘Muted’ Peak  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the largest U.S. railroad, forecast a
“muted” 2012 peak, with volumes rising 5 percent to 8 percent
over previous months’ levels. That contrasts with a 10 percent
to 12 percent jump in previous peaks,  Eric Butler , marketing and
sales executive vice president, said on a July 19 earnings call.  Executives weren’t available this week to discuss Omaha,
Nebraska-based Union Pacific’s outlook ahead of Dahlman Rose &
Co.’s Global Transportation Conference in New York starting
Sept. 5, said Tom Lange, a spokesman. That event will give
investors a chance to evaluate industry leaders’ outlook.  “The real question is whether they’re optimistic or just
hopeful,” said Donald Broughton, an Avondale Partners LLC
analyst in  St. Louis  who has a market outperform rating on Union
Pacific, CSX and  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , the largest publicly
traded U.S. carriers.  Any projection now for a seasonal peak “is more hope than
it is optimism,” Broughton said in a telephone interview.  Inventory Management  “We do not anticipate a strong peak season this year,”
BNSF’s Lanigan said in an e-mailed response to questions,
without quantifying the size of any gains. Customers are
“managing inventories carefully as they enter the traditional
holiday selling season.”  CSX cited the drought’s role in damping volumes as part of
its prediction for a “modest” peak. Second-half growth in
intermodal shipments, which can move by train, truck or ship,
will be similar to the first half at Jacksonville, Florida-based
CSX, according to an e-mailed response to questions. The first-
half increase was 8 percent.  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , whose network includes U.S.
lines running from the Canadian border to  New Orleans , said it
foresees “somewhat higher” seasonal shipments, without giving
details. That forecast came on a July 25 earnings call, the same
day as  Canadian Pacific ’s projection of a “modest” peak.  The lack of a traditional peak may not be significant,
according to Norfolk, Virginia-based Norfolk Southern. Pre-
holiday shipping now starts in the summer, when costs are lower,
Chief Marketing Officer Donald Seale said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Not Traditional  “We expect volume growth with both share shifts and
seasonal retail demand, but not in the sense of what we used to
see in traditional peak season,” he said. A 52-week high in
intermodal volumes earlier this month still isn’t enough to
produce a “significant fall peak,” Seale said.  Shippers have been shying from overstocking in the years
since the 2008 financial crisis as they improve their ability to
balance freight flows over time, said David Vernon, an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  “The traditional wait, wait, wait and ship-it-all late
model -- they’ve been burned too many times,” Vernon said in a
telephone interview.  Railroads have long been viewed as a gauge for the  U.S.
economy , a connection that Buffett cited in 2009 when his
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  announced that it was buying the rest of
 Fort Worth , Texas-based BNSF.  Benchmark Index  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Railroads Index (S5RAIL)  is trailing the
 S&P 500 Index  in 2012, reversing the year-earlier results. The
rail-carrier index’s 9 percent gain in 2012 through yesterday
compared with an 11 percent advance for the broader  S&P 500 .  In 2011, the shipping peak didn’t take shape until late
September, as the U.S. summer months ended with concern that the
nation was headed for a so-called double-dip recession. Shippers
that began the pre-holiday season with leaner inventory then
stocked up for holiday sales.  Intermodal shipments, which are often  consumer goods , rose
4.6 percent in 2012 through Aug. 25, the  Association of American
Railroads  said yesterday. The increase a year earlier was 5.8
percent.  Total carloads are down 1.3 percent, the Washington-based
trade group said, with declines of more than 8 percent for coal
and grain. Utilities have pared coal shipments as they
substitute cheaper natural gas as a fuel, and the worst U.S.
drought since 1956 curbs agricultural cargoes.  Broughton, the Avondale analyst, said he remains on watch
for signs that a peak shipping season will materialize.  “Every day that passes that it doesn’t arrive casts
further doubt that it ever will arrive,” he said. “If your
date is supposed to pick you up at 7 p.m. and it’s 7:30 p.m.,
they may be late. Somewhere around 9 p.m. you realize you’ve
been stood up. If by mid-September we haven’t seen a surge, then
the economy is being stood up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  