-- Bulgaria’s Stability Will Attract Investment, Barroso Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-08-31T13:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/bulgaria-s-stability-will-attract-investment-barroso-says-1-.html
Bulgaria ’s tight financial policy
will help attract investment as the European Union’s poorest
state works to modernize its cities, fight poverty and boost the
economy, European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said.  It is in the interest of Bulgaria “to pursue fiscal
consolidation,” and “keep the confidence of the financial
markets,” which will “help it borrow at acceptable  interest
rates  and finance its future,” Barroso told reporters in Sofia
today.  Bulgaria has the second-lowest public debt in the 27-nation
bloc after  Estonia , at 15.3 percent of gross domestic product at
the end of April. The government plans to narrow this year’s
budget deficit to 1.3 percent of GDP from 2.1 percent in 2011.
Peripheral nations are struggling to control finances as
Greece’s debt burden threatens to destabilize the Balkan region
and governments seek new revenue sources.  “A real push is needed on pension reform, fight against
poverty, youth unemployment, administrative capacity, to improve
 living standards  and keep the Bulgarian economy growing,”
Barroso said.  Barroso visited Bulgaria to open new subway stations in the
capital Sofia and archaeological excavations, dating as far back
as 2 century A.D., which will be part of a subterranean museum.
The project, co-funded by the EU, cost 16 million lev ($10.2
million).  Barroso urged the government to improve the efficiency of
the judicial system, to help fight crime and corruption and
ensure the fair distribution of EU aid.  Bulgarian Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  said he is seeking
14 billion euros ($17.6 billion) in EU subsidies from 2014 to
2019, to build new roads, rail links, expand the subway and link
the country’s natural gas grid with neighboring Romania and
Greece to diversify fuel supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  