-- Fed’s Bullard Wants to See More Data Before Taking Action
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-08-31T12:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/bullard-wants-to-see-more-data-before-taking-big-action.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said policy makers should wait for more
data before deciding on “big action” to boost the economy.  “I would like to see some more data before taking really
big action,” Bullard said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television from  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . He said policy makers
should consider changing their statement that interest rates are
likely to stay low at least through late 2014 or reducing the
interest the Fed pays banks’ on excess reserves.  Many Fed policy makers said additional stimulus would
probably be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a
durable pickup, according to minutes of their July 31-Aug. 1
meeting released last week. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has an
opportunity to update his policy outlook in a speech at the
Kansas City Fed’s Jackson Hole symposium today at 10 a.m. New
York time.  “The committee has talked about lowering  interest rate  on
excess reserves,” Bullard said. “We have gone round and round
on this issue. I kind of think this might be a time to try that
out.”  Fed officials, who next meet Sept. 12-13, have offered
differing policy views since their last gathering, with Federal
Reserve Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  endorsing more
easing and Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  saying there are risks to
moving “too aggressively.”  Low Rates  At its last meeting, the Fed repeated that interest rates
are likely to stay “exceptionally low” at least through late
2014. It also said the Fed will “provide additional
accommodation as needed to promote a stronger economic
recovery.” In June, the Fed prolonged a program to extend the
maturities of assets on its balance sheet.  “I do worry a little bit that we are facilitating debt
buildup” by  keeping interest rates  low, Bullard said. “I don’t
think anybody is intentionally doing that. It does take the
pressure off” Congress and the president “to some extent.”  The central bank lowered interest rates almost to zero in
December 2008 and since then has engage in two rounds of large-
scale asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion.  “We have been super aggressive in providing monetary
stimulus,” Bullard said. “We have got plenty on the table.”  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on policy this year, was the
first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of asset
purchases. In speeches this year, he has said he sees no need
for additional easing and has urged the FOMC to “pause” to
assess developments.  Bullard, 51, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of Arkansas and parts of Illinois,
Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  