-- Weidmann Declines to Comment on Bank Tenure as Tension Mounts
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-08-31T15:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/bundesbank-declines-comment-as-weidmann-report-fuels-tension-1-.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
declined to be drawn on whether he considered resigning over the
 European Central Bank ’s plan to resume bond purchases, as
tension between the two institutions mounts.  “I won’t comment on speculations,” Weidmann said in
response to a report today in  Germany ’s tabloid Bild newspaper,
when asked at a conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Weidmann
said he made his position clear in an interview with  Der Spiegel 
magazine published Aug. 26.  Weidmann has considered quitting over the ECB’s plan to
start a new round of sovereign bond purchases and discussed
stepping down with the Bundesbank board, Bild said, citing
unidentified people with knowledge of the situation. Weidmann,
the only ECB council member opposed to the plan, has decided to
remain in his post to defend his position at next week’s policy
meeting, the newspaper said.  The euro declined to as low as $1.2493 today from $1.2520
overnight. The currency rose 0.7 percent to $1.2588 at 4:55 p.m.
in  Frankfurt .  The Bundesbank has become increasingly isolated as the ECB
steps further into uncharted policy territory to combat the debt
crisis. Axel Weber quit as Bundesbank president last year,
partly over his opposition to the initial ECB bond-purchase
program. ECB Chief Economist  Juergen Stark , who was previously a
Bundesbank vice president, resigned at the end of 2011 to
protest the purchases, which he said blurred the line between
monetary and fiscal policy.  Lauding Weidmann  Germany’s government urged Weidmann to remain in his post,
Bild reported today. Chancellor Angela Merkel told ARD
television on Aug. 26 she welcomes Weidmann’s input, lauding him
for continuing “to make demands on policy makers.”  Weidmann has Merkel’s support, including for his efforts to
secure the “widest possible” influence of the Bundesbank at
the ECB, deputy government spokesman Georg Streiter said in
Berlin today. Merkel is in regular phone contact with Weidmann,
he added.  Today’s Bild report followed a defense of the plans by ECB
President  Mario Draghi  in another German newspaper this week.
Writing in Die Zeit on Aug. 29, Draghi hit back at Bundesbank
opposition, saying: “it should be understood that fulfilling
our mandate sometimes requires us to go beyond standard monetary
policy tools.”  Draghi’s plan, announced on Aug. 2, is for the ECB to
intervene in the secondary market to lower yields in countries
that ask  Europe ’s bailout fund to buy their bonds in the primary
market. The central bank shelved its previous purchase program
earlier this year.  ‘Like a Drug’  “Some recent policy proposals in Europe have been quite
constructive,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
today in Jackson Hole. “I urge our European colleagues to press
ahead with policy initiatives to resolve the crisis.”  Weidmann told Der Spiegel that a new wave of ECB bond
buying may increase governments’ reliance on such funding and
won’t help solve the debt crisis.  “We shouldn’t underestimate the danger that central bank
financing can become addictive like a drug,” Weidmann said in
the interview. “Such policy is too close to state financing via
the money press for me.”  Asked if he would resign, Weidmann replied: “I can best
live up to my task when I remain in office. I want to work to
ensure that the euro remains as strong as the mark was.”  Klaus-Peter Willsch, a member of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democrats who sits on the parliamentary budget
committee, warned party members of the risk of Weidmann’s
resignation in an e-mail, Handelsblatt newspaper reported
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  