-- Cameco Hunts for Uranium Mines While BHP Sells: Corporate Canada
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-08-31T21:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/cameco-hunts-for-uranium-mines-while-bhp-sells-corporate-canada.html
Cameco Corp. (CCO) , which has made $1.45
billion of uranium-industry bids since last year’s Fukushima
nuclear accident in Japan, is on the lookout for more
acquisitions while  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Areva SA (AREVA)  sell assets.  Cameco, the world’s third-largest uranium producer, is
seeking to almost double output to 40 million pounds a year by
2018 from current mines and those under development. The company
said Aug. 26 it agreed to buy BHP’s Yeelirrie project in
 Australia  for $430 million.  Cameco is “keeping an eye out for other opportunities,”
Chief Executive Officer Tim Gitzel said in an Aug. 27 interview.
“We scour the world for projects.”  Gitzel is betting on a revival in  uranium prices , which
have fallen as much as 28 percent since the crisis in  Japan , as
China and  India  build nuclear reactors. BHP, the world’s largest
mining company, last week put on hold an expansion that would
make its Olympic Dam project in Australia the biggest uranium
mine. France’s Areva, the largest supplier of nuclear fuel and
services, is selling assets after writing down the value of
uranium mines it bought in  Africa .  Cameco “is likely the first call for anyone looking to
sell any property, good or bad,” Rob Chang, a Toronto-based
analyst at Versant Partners Inc., said in an interview.
“Everyone calls Cameco.”  The Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company has been the
buyer in two of the seven “significant” uranium-mining deals
since the disaster at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant, according to data compiled by David Sadowski, a Vancouver-based analyst at Raymond James Ltd.  Potential Targets  Cameco fell 1.1 percent to C$21.48 in Toronto.  The shares 
have increased 17 percent this year.  More deals may be coming, Chang said. North America-based
uranium-mining companies  Denison Mines Corp. (DML) ,  Fission Energy
Corp. (FIS) ,  Kivalliq Energy Corp. (KIV) ,  UEX Corp. (UEX) , U3O8 Corp. and  Uranerz
Energy Corp. (URZ)  are potential takeover targets, he said. Cameco has
about C$3.5 billion ($3.6 billion) of capital available for
acquisitions, according to Sadowski.  Cameco agreed in May to acquire uranium trader Nukem Energy
GmbH for 105 million euros ($132 million). In June, Cameco
bought a 30 percent stake in the Millennium uranium project held
by Paris-based Areva for C$150 million, giving it majority
ownership of the asset in Canada’s Athabasca Basin.  Opportunities for further purchases include projects that
companies such as BHP and Areva may look to divest, Gitzel said.  “We’re a bit opportunistic in that regard,” said Gitzel,
who worked at Areva before joining Cameco in 2007.  ‘A Mistake’  Not every deal has gone Cameco’s way. Gitzel, 50, who was
appointed CEO in July last year, terminated a C$625 million
takeover offer for Hathor Exploration Ltd. in November after Rio
Tinto Group made a higher bid for the owner of the Roughrider
uranium deposit in Saskatchewan.  “They didn’t increase the bid enough,” Sadowski at
 Raymond James  said in an Aug. 27 interview. “I thought it was a
mistake they didn’t try harder.”  Triuranium octoxide, the tradeable form of uranium also
known by its chemical formula U308, has dropped 27 percent to
$49 a pound since a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami struck
Japan on March 11, 2011.  The crisis at Fukushima led to the temporary shutdown of
Japan’s nuclear power plants and sparked  Germany ’s declaration
that it would close its reactors by 2022.  Cigar Lake  Gitzel joined Cameco as chief operating officer after an
underground flood in 2006 delayed construction of the company’s
Cigar Lake project in Saskatchewan. The mine, which sits atop
the world’s largest untapped, high-grade uranium deposit, is now
forecast to begin production in mid-2013, six years behind
schedule.  At full output, Cameco’s share of Cigar Lake will be about
9 million pounds of uranium a year, or about half of the
company’s planned increase to 40 million pounds by 2018. Cameco
forecast production of 21.7 million pounds of uranium this year,
mostly from deposits in Saskatchewan.  Kazatomprom,  Kazakhstan ’s state-owned producer, and Areva
were the two largest uranium producers last year, according to
the  World Nuclear Association .  Yeelirrie will eventually produce about 7 million pounds a
year, Raymond James’s Sadowski said. The project, located about
650 kilometers (404 miles) northeast of Perth and about 750
kilometers south of Cameco’s Kintyre project, will probably come
into production after 2018, according to Gitzel.  Yeelirrie is “further corroboration of Cameco’s faith in
higher uranium prices,” Sadowski said. “The significance of
the deal is that Cameco is a buyer, not that BHP is a seller.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  