-- Canada Second-Quarter Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-08-31T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/canada-second-quarter-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of
 Canada ’s National Economic and Financial Accounts for
the second quarter as released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product (GDP) rose 0.5% in the second
quarter, matching the pace of the two previous quarters.
Business investment contributed the most to second-quarter GDP
growth. Final domestic demand grew 0.4%. On a monthly basis,
real GDP by industry advanced 0.2% in June.  Business investment in plant and equipment advanced 2.3%,
the fastest pace since the second quarter of 2011. Non-farm
business inventories also increased substantially.  Investment in housing rose 0.4%, following growth of 2.7%
in the first quarter.  Exports slowed to 0.2% in the second quarter, after a gain
of 1.0% in the previous quarter. In contrast, imports rose 1.6%,
up from the first quarter increase of 1.3%.  Consumer spending on goods and services advanced 0.3% in
the second quarter, following a similar increase in the previous
quarter (+0.2%). However, this was down from the pace of 0.7% in
the fourth quarter of 2011.  Final domestic demand advanced 0.4%, similar to the pace of
the previous five quarters.  Goods production grew 0.9% and the output of  service
industries  increased 0.3% in the second quarter. Mining and oil
and gas extraction, and construction were the main contributors
to overall growth. Gains were also recorded in manufacturing,
agriculture, wholesale trade, the finance and insurance sector
and professional services. In contrast, retail trade and
utilities declined.  Oil and gas extraction increased 1.0% in the second quarter,
as an increase in crude petroleum production was partly offset
by a decrease in natural gas extraction. Mining excluding oil
and gas extraction grew 2.7%, as increased output at potash as
well as copper, nickel, lead and zinc mines outweighed declines
at coal mines. Potash production rebounded from first quarter
shutdowns, which were partly attributable to lower foreign
demand. Construction grew on the strength of engineering
construction and residential building construction.
Manufacturing rose 0.5%, as a 1.1% increase in durable goods
production, particularly machinery and transportation equipment,
more than offset a 0.3% decline in non-durable goods
manufacturing.  Expressed at an annualized rate, real GDP expanded 1.8% in
the second quarter, matching the rate of the previous quarter.
By comparison, real GDP in the  United States  grew 1.7% in the
second quarter.  Business investment in plant and equipment continues upward
trend  Business investment in plant and equipment rose 2.3%,
continuing the string of consecutive increases that began in
2010.  Business investment in machinery and equipment grew 1.8%,
following a 1.0% increase in the first quarter. This follows two
consecutive quarterly declines in the last half of 2011.
Machinery and equipment investment was led by purchases of other
transportation equipment (+4.4%) and industrial machinery
(+3.7%).  Investment in engineering projects advanced 2.8%, while
investment in buildings expanded 2.5%.  Housing demand advances  Investment in housing advanced 0.4% in the second quarter,
the sixth consecutive quarterly gain. However, this gain was
below the 2.7% increase in the previous quarter.  New housing construction increased 4.0% following a 3.9%
rise in the previous quarter. This second quarter increase was
dampened by a 1.5% decline in renovation activity, as well as a
4.0% decline in ownership transfer costs as housing resale
activity slowed.  Business inventories accumulate  Businesses increased inventories by $15.2 billion in the
second quarter, $7 billion more than in the previous quarter.
This increase was widespread across industry groups.  Farm inventories also accumulated in the second quarter as
deliveries were down, especially canola.  Consumer spending rises  Consumer spending  on goods and services rose 0.3% in the
second quarter, similar to the previous quarter’s pace (+0.2%),
but slower than the 0.7% increase in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Non-durable goods (+0.9%) and services (+0.7%) increased,
whereas purchases of durable and semi-durable goods each
declined 1.7%.  Purchases of new and used motor vehicles declined 3.2% in
the quarter, following two consecutive quarters of growth.
Spending on clothing, footwear and accessories decreased 1.1%
after seven quarterly increases in a row.  These declines were partially offset by a 2.4% increase in
spending on furniture, carpets and other floor coverings.  Consumer spending on purchased transportation rose 0.5%,
the 13th consecutive quarterly increase.  Imports increase for the third quarter in a row  Imports of goods and services rose 1.6% in the second
quarter, the third consecutive quarterly increase.  All major categories of goods imports increased in the
second quarter, except for agriculture and fish products (-0.9%).
Imports of industrial goods and materials and of machinery and
equipment increased for the third quarter in a row.  Imports of automotive products rose 4.5%, following an
increase of 10.2% in the first quarter. Automotive products
contributed the most to quarterly growth in goods imports in the
first and second quarters of 2012. In addition, the dollar value
of imports of automotive products (in nominal terms) surpassed
the $80 billion level reached in 2007.  On the other hand, imports of services fell 1.2% with
declines in all major service categories.  Demand for exports slows  Exports of goods and services slowed to 0.2% in the second
quarter. This was the slowest pace of growth since the rebound
in exports in the third quarter of 2011.  Exports of goods fell 0.1%, led by declines in agriculture
and fish products (-4.6%) and industrial goods and materials (-
1.8%). Increased exports of other consumer goods (+5.3%),
machinery and equipment (+3.0%), and automotive products (+2.2%)
partially offset these declines.  On the other hand, export of services (+2.0%) rebounded in
the second quarter, reversing the trend of the previous two
quarters. This rebound was led by a 4.5% gain in commercial
services.  Economy-wide income slows  Nominal GDP increased 0.1% in the second quarter, after a
0.5% gain in the first quarter. The growth in incomes slowed
considerably in the first half of 2012 to 0.3% on average,
compared with 1.5% on average in the second half of 2011.  Corporate profits fell 4.7% in the second quarter,
following a decline of 3.7% in the previous quarter.  Labour income rose 1.2%, up from the pace in the previous
quarter of 0.7%. Wages in goods-producing industries advanced
1.8%, twice the pace of 0.9% in the first quarter.  Personal saving increased 18% in the second quarter, as
growth in personal income far outpaced that of personal outlays.
The personal saving rate moved up to 3.6% in the quarter. It has
remained below 4.0% since the second quarter of 2011.  The national saving rate was 7.5%, similar to the 7.3% rate
of the previous quarter. This was the highest national saving
rate since 2008.  Canada’s real gross domestic income, a measure of
purchasing power, declined 0.4% in the second quarter. Canada’s
terms of trade, which measures export prices relative to import
prices, declined 2.7%.  The price of goods and services produced in Canada edged
down 0.3%, mostly reflecting a decline in energy prices. Export
prices were down 2.5%, while import prices edged up 0.2%.  The price of final domestic demand rose 0.4%, following a
0.3% increase in the first quarter.  Financial flow accounts: Demand for funds up strongly  The demand for funds increased to $304 billion (seasonally
adjusted at annual rates) in the second quarter, marking the
largest increase since the fourth quarter of 2008. Higher
borrowing activity in the government sector led the demand for
funds, accounting for close to half of total funds raised.  Bonds and short-term paper were the principal financing
instruments used by governments, with notable net issues of
federal and other levels of  government bonds , in particular
provincial bonds. Total government bond net issuance was $76
billion in the second quarter, an increase of over 40% from the
previous quarter. Total government short-term paper net issuance
was $73 billion in the second quarter, reversing the previous
quarter’s decline.  Growth in household borrowing (in the form of mortgages,
 consumer credit  and loans) accelerated in the second quarter,
after declining for three consecutive quarters. Total household
borrowing increased to $93 billion, buoyed by increased consumer
credit demand, following particularly weak demand in the first
quarter. Mortgage borrowing slowed in the second quarter, as
housing market resale activity waned.  The financing activity of non-financial private
corporations expanded for the second consecutive quarter,
reaching $60 billion. Bond issuance was the major source of
financing, followed by bank loan borrowing.  On the supply side, the non-resident sector accounted for
the bulk of Canadian debt securities acquisitions, with most
purchases focused on government debt securities. In contrast,
Canadian financial institutions decreased their bond and short-
term paper holdings.  Gross domestic product by industry, June 2012  Real gross domestic product grew 0.2% in June after edging
up 0.1% in May. Goods production rose 0.3%, while the output of
service industries increased 0.1%. The largest contributing
sector to growth was mining and oil and gas extraction.
Increases were also recorded in the public sector,
transportation, utilities, the finance and insurance sector, and
construction. There were declines in wholesale and retail trade,
manufacturing as well as accommodation and food services.  Oil and gas extraction grew 1.1% in June, with increases in
both crude petroleum and natural gas. Mining excluding oil and
gas extraction rose 0.4%, as a gain in output at coal mines was
partly offset by a decline at copper, nickel, lead and zinc
mines. In contrast, support activities for mining and oil
extraction declined 2.0% as a decrease in rigging services
outweighed an increase in drilling services.  The public sector (education, health and public
administration combined) increased 0.2% as a result of an
increase in education services and, to a lesser extent,  health
services . Education services returned to more normal levels in
June, following reduced volume of output from March to May due
mainly to walkouts by some CEGEP and university students in
 Quebec .  Transportation and warehousing services rose 0.7%, mainly a
result of an increase in rail services, which rebounded from a
strike at the end of May.  Wholesale trade fell 0.8% in June as a result of declines
in the wholesaling of petroleum products and in the activities
of miscellaneous wholesalers (which include agricultural
supplies). Retail trade also decreased in June (-0.2%), after
increasing 0.7% in May. Retailing activity was notably down at
general merchandise stores (which include department stores) and
at building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers.  Manufacturing was down 0.2% in June after declining 0.5% in
May. A 0.7% decline in non-durable-goods manufacturing in June,
mainly due to petroleum and coal products, outweighed a 0.2%
gain in durable goods manufacturing.  Utilities grew 0.8% as both electricity generation and
natural gas distribution increased. The finance and insurance
sector rose 0.3% on the increased output of banks, insurance
carriers as well as security brokerages.  Construction edged up 0.1% in June as a result of increased
engineering construction, which was mostly offset by declines in
residential and non-residential building construction. The
output of real estate agents and brokers fell for a second
consecutive month, down 1.6% in June, as a result of a decrease
in activity in the home resale market.  Note to readers  The historical revision to the Canadian National Accounts
is scheduled for release beginning in October. A schedule of
releases ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/hr2012 -
rh2012/csna_schedule-scnc_horaire-eng.htm) has been posted on
the National economic accounts ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea -
cen/index-eng.htm) website. Additional information will be
posted as it becomes available.  For more information, contact the Media Hotline (613-951-
4636;  mediahotline@statcan.gc.ca ).  For more information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal
adjustment and identifying economic trends
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part-partie3 -
eng.htm) .  Percentage changes for expenditure-based and industry-based
statistics (such as personal expenditures, investment, exports,
imports and output) are calculated from volume measures that are
adjusted for price variations. Percentage changes for income-
based and flow-of-funds statistics (such as labour income,
corporate profits, mortgage borrowing and total funds raised)
are calculated from nominal values; that is, they are not
adjusted for price variations.  There are four ways of expressing growth rates for gross
domestic product (GDP) and other time series found in this
release.  1. Unless otherwise stated, the growth rates of all
quarterly data in this release represent the percentage change
in the series from one quarter to the next, such as from the
first quarter to the second quarter of 2012.  2. Quarterly growth can be expressed at an annual rate by
using a compound growth formula, similar to the way in which a
monthly  interest rate  can be expressed at an annual rate.
Expressing growth at an annual rate facilitates comparisons with
official GDP statistics from the United States. Both the
quarterly growth rate and the annualized quarterly growth rate
should be interpreted as an indication of the latest trend in
GDP.  3. The year-over-year growth rate is the percentage change
in GDP from a given quarter in one year to the same quarter one
year later, such as from the second quarter of 2011 to the
second quarter of 2012.  4. The growth rates of all monthly data in this article
represent the percentage change in the series from one month to
the next, such as from May to June 2012.  Products, services and contact information  Detailed analysis and tables  The National economic accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm ) module,
accessible from the Key resource module of our website, features
an up-to-date portrait of national and provincial economies and
their structure.  Additional tables and links to other releases from the
national accounts can be found in the second quarter 2012 issue
of Canadian Economic Accounts Quarterly Review, Vol. 11, no. 2
(13-010-X, free). This publication is now available from the Key
resource module of our website under Publications. This
publication will be updated on September 7, at the time of the
release of the Labour productivity, hourly compensation and unit
labour cost. Revised estimates of the Income and Expenditure
Accounts for the first quarter of 2012 have been released, along
with those for the second quarter of 2012. These estimates
incorporate new and revised source data and updated estimates of
seasonal patterns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  