-- Catalonia Cut to Junk as Spain Bails Out Bankia, Deficit Swells
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-31T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/catalonia-cut-to-junk-as-spain-bails-out-bankia-deficit-swells.html
Catalonia’s credit rating was cut to
junk by  Standard & Poor’s  after  Spain ’s most indebted region
said it needs to tap a national rescue fund, even as the central
government said its budget deficit swelled to 48.5 billion euros
($61 billion) in the year through July.  The cash-strapped national government in  Madrid  also moved
late yesterday to inject capital into the  Bankia group 
“immediately” after the nationalized lender posted a 4.45
billion-euro first-half loss.  Investors are shunning Spanish securities on concern that
the euro area’s fourth-biggest economy may lose access to
funding as it struggles to tame the euro region’s  third-largest 
budget deficit amid a deepening recession. Moody’s Investors
Service said Aug. 30 it may downgrade Spain’s rating to junk
should the government seek further international aid.  “The problem is that time goes by, but there is no
improvement; the government keeps talking in half-truths,” said
Jose Antonio Herce, a public administration consultant in Madrid
with Analistas Financieros Internacionales. “The deficit data
is the most serious, because we are more than half way through
the year, dangerously close to the limit for the full year, and
there’s no saying how it can get better.”  The central government’s  budget deficit  surged to 4.6
percent of gross domestic product in the first seven months
compared with 3.6 percent a year earlier, according to the
Budget Ministry. Spending rose 21 percent on transfers of funds
to the regions and higher interest payments to refinance debt.
Meanwhile, tax receipts fell 1 percent.  Fourth Bailout  Even so, Deputy Budget Minister Marta Fernandez Curras
denied the country may miss its overall 2012 deficit target of
6.3 percent of GDP for the regions, more than 8,000
municipalities and the welfare system as well as the central
government. Adjustments haven’t yet produced their full impact
and the regions are taking further austerity steps, she said.  S&P lowered Catalonia by two levels to BB from BBB- with a
negative outlook after it requested its fourth bailout from the
central government this year on Aug. 28. The region already had
a non-investment grade with Moody’s Investors Service and is one
level above junk with  Fitch Ratings .  The rating company cited “nascent tensions between the
region and the central government, and the potential negative
impact we believe these tensions may have on Catalonia’s ability
to secure external funding.”  Deficit Target  Valencia, Murcia and Catalonia have claimed more than half
of 18 billion euros of emergency loans announced in July by the
government to help the regions face bond redemptions in the
second half. The government had also organized 23 billion euros
of loans for the regions in the first half.  The country’s regions may cause Spain to miss its budget
deficit target again this year. They were responsible last year
for most of Spain’s overspending, which remained nearly
unchanged from 2010 at 8.9 percent of gross domestic product.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  insists Spain won’t seek a
second sovereign bailout until European leaders make aid
conditions clear. Spain locked in as much as 100 billion euros
in international aid for banks last month. The yield on Spain’s
10-year benchmark bond rose 26 basis points at 7:32 p.m. in
Madrid yesterday, widening the gap with similar German
maturities to 5.52 percentage points.  Spain’s bank  rescue fund , known as FROB, will provide
capital to Bankia while the lender completes a restructuring
plan, FROB said yesterday in a statement. The capital is an
“advance” on money Bankia is due to receive once its
reorganization plan is completed in October and approved by
European authorities in November, FROB said.  Asset Base  The FROB will pump from 4 billion euros to 5 billion euros
into Spain’s third-biggest lender in the next two weeks, said a
person familiar with the situation who asked not to be
identified because those details aren’t public.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond has held above
6 percent since Bankia, with an asset base almost a third the
size of the country’s economy, was taken over by the state,
focusing investors on the costs of fixing Spanish lenders.
Bankia’s plea for a bailout pushed Spain toward requesting a
rescue for its banking system. It reported a first-half loss
today after booking asset  impairment charges  of 6.63 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  