-- Central Bankers Should Weigh GDP Targeting, Woodford Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-08-31T17:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/central-bankers-should-weigh-gdp-targeting-woodford-says.html
Central bankers should adopt a clear
policy goal, such as the path for nominal gross domestic
product, to make remaining easing options more effective under
the limits of near-zero  interest rates , according to  Michael Woodford , a professor of political economy at  Columbia
University .  Such criteria would increase the impact of efforts to reset
public expectations for interest rate policy, such as asset-
purchases, Woodford said. Federal Reserve policy makers have
kept the benchmark rate near zero since December 2008 and this
month reiterated a plan to keep borrowing costs at record lows
through at least late 2014.  “A more useful form of forward guidance, I believe, would
be one that emphasizes the target criterion that will be used to
determine when it is appropriate to raise the  federal funds rate 
target above its current level, rather than estimates of the
‘lift-off’ date,” Woodford said in a paper presented today at
the Fed’s annual symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  A pledge to restore nominal GDP “to the trend path it had
been on up until the fall of 2008” would “make it clear that
policy will have to remain looser in the near term” than
indicated by the Taylor rule, he said. It would also “provide
assurance that the unusually stimulative current policy stance
does not imply any intention to tolerate continuing inflation
above the Fed’s declared long-run inflation target.”  John Taylor , an economist at  Stanford University , published
in 1993 an interest-rate formula known as the Taylor rule, which
measures where a central bank should set its policy rate based
on inflation and growth. The Fed has an inflation target of 2
percent.  Damaging Confidence  Forecasts to keep interest rates low without criteria like
the nominal GDP target risk damaging confidence because they may
be interpreted as a prediction of declining economic growth,
Woodford said.  Such information, “if believed, should have a
contractionary rather than an expansionary effect,” he said.  Policy makers should combine the announcement of a target
with “measures that would create immediate movement” toward
accomplishing the goal, Woodford said.  So-called quantitative easing, or asset purchases, is often
viewed as “the obvious way” for central bankers to show
determination to boost the economy, though buying  Treasury
securities  hasn’t been shown to be that effective at increasing
total spending, Woodford said. Such purchases may provide easing
by changing policy expectations, he said.  Send Signal  “But if a central bank’s intention in announcing such
purchases is to send such a signal, the signal would seem more
likely to have the desired effect if accompanied by explicit
forward guidance, rather than regarded as a substitute for it,”
Woodford said.  “A more logical policy would rely on a combination of
commitment to a clear target criterion to guide future decisions
about interest-rate policy with immediate policy actions that
should stimulate spending immediately without relying too much
on expectational channels,” Woodford said.  The Fed has carried out two rounds of bond purchases known
as quantitative easing to reduce borrowing costs. In the first
round starting in 2008, the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of
mortgage-backed securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt
and $300 billion of Treasuries. In the second round, announced
in November 2010, the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  Policies that target specific credit areas, such as buying
mortgage-backed securities, or the Bank of England’s Funding for
Lending Scheme, may be more effective at boosting spending,
though they are “more properly” viewed as fiscal as opposed to
monetary stimulus, he said.  Combining central bankers’ nominal GDP target would also
“increase the bang for the buck from fiscal stimulus” while
limiting inflation concerns, Woodford said. “The most obvious
recipe for success is one that requires coordination between the
monetary and the fiscal authorities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  