-- Charlotte’s Foxx Says Obama Will Carry North Carolina
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-09-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/charlotte-s-foxx-says-obama-will-carry-north-carolina.html
Charlotte Mayor Anthony Foxx
predicted that President  Barack Obama , who is set to accept the
Democratic nomination for a second term in the city on Sept. 6,
will carry North Carolina after narrowly winning the state in
2008.  “We understand this is a transitional period for our
country, and we also want leadership that’s looking not just for
the next year or the sound bite, but the leadership that’s
looking over the next 20 years,” Foxx, a co-chairman of the
convention’s host committee, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend.  Obama carried North Carolina by about 14,000 votes in 2008.
The state’s unemployment rate was 9.6 percent in July, higher
than the  national rate  of 8.3 percent and the fourth worst among
the states, according to federal data.  Foxx, 41, who was elected mayor in 2009, said Obama has
brought high-speed rail into  North Carolina , is helping with
investment in Charlotte transit and has worked to support
veterans.  “We have a high group -- high number of veterans across
the state of North Carolina,” Foxx said. “He’s done some great
work, and I think that’ll get reflected.”  Specifics Wanted  Foxx said he doesn’t think Republicans “were very good
about specifics” during their convention in Tampa, and that he
wants to hear “more about what they would actually do” between
now and the November election.  “Charlotte’s going to be about casting the vision of the
president,” Foxx said. “Although thematically last week you
heard a lot of the Republicans talking about confronting the big
challenges facing the country and -- and moving the country
forward, next week you’re going to hear about what it takes to
really get that done.”  Foxx said the Republicans tried to project diversity during
their convention, with speakers who included U.S. Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida , New Mexico Governor  Susana Martinez  and former
Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice .  “I do think the Republicans recognize that there is a need
to reflect diversity in what they’re projecting to the
country,” Foxx said. “But I do think the Democratic convention
is going to show you what diversity really is.”  Convention Resources  While the Charlotte host committee has struggled to raise
money, Foxx said the convention will be fine.  “We can’t have it if we don’t have the resources,” Foxx
said when asked whether he will raise the needed funds. “So the
fact that we’re having it, we’ll have a great convention.”  Jim Rogers , chairman and chief executive of  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK) , is the committee co-chairman with Foxx. Rogers “has
worked tirelessly to help us bring the convention to the city
and to make it successful,” Foxx said.  Even so, Rogers has had to focus on his Charlotte-based
company, which faces a divided board, alienated regulators and
demoralized employees as state officials investigate management
upheaval following its $17.8 billion takeover of Progress Energy
Inc.  The recession was “an enormous challenge for all of us,”
Foxx said. Unemployment in the  Charlotte  area was 10 percent in
July, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.  The mayor said the city lost 27,000 jobs two years before
he took office and now has positive net job growth. There are
more financial-services firms coming into the area, and the city
is trying to diversify its economy into health care, technology
and other areas, Foxx said.  “So I feel like Charlotte’s on the -- on the uptick,” he
said.  “For those who are visiting the city, I think they’re
going to be surprised by how modern the city is, how
enthusiastic people are,” Foxx said. “We haven’t hosted a
convention in the Carolinas since 1860. That was in Charleston,
 South Carolina . So we’re pretty excited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  