-- Charlotte’s Foxx Says Obama to Win North Carolina (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-08-31T21:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/charlotte-s-foxx-says-obama-to-win-north-carolina-transcript-.html
Charlotte  Mayor Anthony Foxx, a co-
chairman of the Democratic convention’s host committee, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that he expects President Barack
Obama to carry  North Carolina  in November. Obama is set to
accept the Democratic nomination for a second term in Charlotte
on Sept. 6.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with the man of the hour, the
mayor of Charlotte, North Carolina, the host of the Democratic
National Convention next week, Anthony Foxx. Mr. Mayor, thank
you so much for being with us.  ANTHONY FOXX: Thank you, Al. Glad to be with you.  HUNT: We’ll come to Charlotte in just a moment. First, your
impressions of the just-completed Republican convention.  FOXX: It was an interesting convention. All of them are
about narratives, and this convention was about the narrative
finally of the Republicans saying yes to something affirmative,
which is good to hear from them. But I don’t think they were
very good about specifics, and I’m looking to hearing more about
what they would actually do over the next couple of months.  HUNT: How about the faces and voices they offered? More
diversity. Latinos like  Marco Rubio ,  Susana Martinez , African-
Americans like Condi Rice and Artur Davis. Is this party
diversifying more, no longer just a white guy’s party?  FOXX: Well, I did notice a very distinct difference between
what was happening on the platform and the audience itself. I do
think the Republicans recognize that there is a need to reflect
diversity in what they’re projecting to the country, but I do
think the Democratic convention is going to show you what
diversity really is.  HUNT: I was going to say, contrast Charlotte to Tampa.  FOXX: Well, Charlotte’s going to be about casting the
vision of the president. And although thematically last week you
heard a lot of the Republicans talking about confronting the big
challenges facing the country and - and moving the country
forward, next week you’re going to hear about what it takes to
really get that done. And the president’s been working on that
for the last four years.  HUNT: What do you want to hear from the president in Bank
of America Stadium next week? What does he need to do besides
saying  Mitt Romney ’s not a day at the beach?  FOXX: Well, I want him to talk about what he’s done because
I think there’s still some misinformation that’s being put out
there about his record. I also want to hear a little more about
what he is going to do with another four years. And again, I
believe it’s going to be a very, very effective message because
I’ve heard pieces of it along the way. I’ve heard about a
balanced approach to  deficit reduction . I’ve heard about working
to bring green-collar jobs into places just like Charlotte where
we’re an emerging energy capital.  HUNT: You criticized the Republicans for lack of
specificity. Do you expect to hear specificity from  Barack
Obama ?  FOXX: His plans are pretty specific, from -  HUNT: Are we going to get new ones? Are we going to get new
(inaudible) -  FOXX: I think he’s going to talk on a high level about the
plans that are already out there that are very high level. He
doesn’t purport to have a 56-point plan like Romney does. But if
you look at the president’s record and you look at the plans
he’s put forward like the American JOBS Act and others, he has
very detailed plans -  HUNT: But nothing new? Nothing new next -  FOXX: Who knows? The White House can come up with something
new, but I think what he’s been working on is the right
prescription for the country, and I think the country needs to
hear him talking about it in an unedited form.  HUNT: Can you assure us with all your power there won’t be
rain in that open football stadium next Thursday night?  FOXX: I’ve done everything. I’ve done sun dances,
everything I can imagine to make sure we don’t have rain.  HUNT: North Carolina is of course the purplest of the
purple states. Obama carried it by 14,000 votes last time. But
you look at it today, unemployment 9.6 percent. I think it’s the
fourth highest in the country. There are reports of people -
people who were enthusiastic souring on Barack Obama. The Tar
Heel State looks like it’s headed red this time.  FOXX: I disagree.  HUNT: You do?  FOXX: I look at the state. People in this state have had to
make many transitions over the - over the history. We’ve had to
move from textiles into technology, health care, finance, and
some of the areas like energy that we’re emerging into right
now. We understand this is a transitional period for our
country, and we also want leadership that’s looking not just for
the next year or the sound bite, but the leadership that’s
looking over the next 20 years.  And that’s what President Obama has done. He has brought
high-speed rail into North Carolina. He’s helping us with our
infrastructure investments right here in Charlotte in transit.
He’s worked to support veterans. And we have a high group - high
number of veterans across the state of North Carolina. He’s done
some great work, and I think that’ll get reflected.  HUNT: And you flatly predict he’s going to carry North
Carolina?  FOXX: I do.  HUNT: You do?  FOXX: Yeah.  HUNT: Let me ask you about one Republican ad. There have
been of course back and forths on both sides’ ads, but one has
charged that Barack Obama is trying to change the work
requirements of the welfare bill. And the top Republicans have
even said that he’s trying to do this to appeal to his
“political base.” The charge most analysts say is false about
- about work, but do you think the intent is to pander to racial
animosities?  FOXX: No. As a matter of act, President Clinton has spoken
very, very concretely about this issue. In some states they’ve
requested these types of waivers in the past, and even under the
 Bush administration  -  HUNT: I guess I was asking do you think the Republicans are
trying to appeal to racial animosities by - by - by raising this
issue and saying it’s about the president’s political base?  FOXX: I’m going to give them the benefit of the doubt,
although some wouldn’t. I think that we’ve got to keep this
campaign on the high road. And the president’s going to do a
good job of giving the country an affirmative message. I think
the problem we have in the country right now is that so much of
the political rhetoric is about what people are against. And the
president is for things, and that’s what we need to keep the
focus on.  HUNT: Let’s talk a little bit about Charlotte. It was known
as a financial hub. There was the meltdown of the financial
community. Where has that left Charlotte?  FOXX: Well, let me tell you. It has not been easy. We lost
27,000 jobs just in the city of Charlotte two years prior to my
taking office. And we’ve gone back into net positive job growth.
We have more financial services firms coming into this area,
smaller ones that are snapping up some of the talent in that
particular industry. But we’ve also worked to diversify our
economy.  We are working to build a world energy capital here. Duke
Energy and Progress Energy have just merged, and that’s creating
the largest energy utility in the country, the second largest in
the world. And the supply chain around that will find its way
here, and that’s going to create jobs. We are expanding in
medicine and many other areas. So I feel like Charlotte’s on the
- on the uptick.  HUNT: And the financial jobs are coming back?  FOXX: Well, they’re coming back in different forms.  HUNT: Not as high paying?  FOXX: Well, not as high paying, but you also start to see
smaller firms come in that wouldn’t have come in when we had the
two big banks.  HUNT: But Mr. Mayor, for all the vibrancy that one senses
in Charlotte, you have also an  unemployment rate  here I think of
over 9 percent. One in six citizens are living below poverty.
That’s pretty tough.  FOXX: Well, of course the great recession was an enormous
challenge for all of us, and that’s why this election is so
important. That’s why I’m working to help the president get re-
elected because he’s the president that’s taken us from losing
750,000 jobs a month into positive job growth over the last 29
months. That’s the kind of leadership we need.  HUNT: You are the chairman of the host committee, and you
have always - I really mean this - you’ve skillfully avoided
acknowledging any of the financial shortfalls that this
convention may face. We’re only days away now. How short are
you?  FOXX: We are going to have a great convention in this city.
And I’m excited about -  HUNT: Are you going to raise - are you going to raise what
you want to raise?  FOXX: We are going to have a great convention in this city.
We can’t have it if we don’t have the resources. So the fact
that we’re having it, we’ll have a great convention.  HUNT: Well your co-chair,  Jim Rogers , the head of Duke
Energy, has had his own internal issues, his focusing on the
company. He’s your co-chair, so does that mean he’s been able to
pay less attention to it over the last month or so?  FOXX: Jim has been enormous for this convention. He has
worked tirelessly to help us bring the convention to the city
and to make it successful. And he’s been a great partner, and
still is.  HUNT: So you are confident there’s not going to have to be
- there won’t be any cutbacks or anything else next week that -  FOXX: I feel like you’re going to have a great - great
week.  HUNT: Tell me this, Mr. Mayor. What is it that we - give me
one surprise that we might see. Just one. Just give us a little
bit of a hint of something that we might not ordinarily think
about that may happen in Charlotte over the next seven days.  FOXX: Well, gosh. I think for those who are - for those who
are visiting the city, I think they’re going to be surprised by
how modern the city is, how enthusiastic people are. We haven’t
hosted a convention in the Carolinas since 1860. That was in
Charleston,  South Carolina . So we’re pretty excited.  HUNT: That was a somewhat different convention.  FOXX: Somewhat different convention. I don’t think I was
invited. But I - I think there’s a lot of pent-up energy for
this kind of activity in our state, and I think you’re going to
be overwhelmed by the - by the friendly hospitality you’ll get
when you’re here.  HUNT: And what are you looking for  Bill Clinton  on
Wednesday night?  FOXX: Well, he’s a great narrator. And I think he will give
us a narrative of painting the contrast in this election and
will provide a framework for the public to understand the big
choices we face and why President Obama should be re-elected.  HUNT: And what did you think, by the way, of the choice of
 Paul Ryan ?  FOXX: Well, I think it was an interesting choice. It
certainly wasn’t a choice designed to move towards the middle.
It really puts the campaigns really at odds and provides quite a
contrast. So it was an interesting choice in that regard.  HUNT: Well listen, we are delighted to be in Charlotte, Mr.
Mayor. Thank you so much for being the host. We’ll look forward
to seeing you all week.  FOXX: I look forward to it.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<212719.1204164.3.2.1.0.25>#
 