-- Chile Minutes Stress ‘Opposite’ Global and Domestic Forces
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-08-31T13:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/chile-minutes-stress-opposite-global-and-domestic-forces-2-.html
Chilean policy makers didn’t
consider changing their key  interest rate  this month as
inflation slowed down and economic growth exceeded expectations,
according to the minutes of the meeting.  Central bankers were unanimous in their decision to keep
the  benchmark rate  unchanged at 5 percent. The bank hasn’t moved
rates since a surprise quarter-point cut in January as buoyant
domestic demand offset the global economic slowdown.  “On one side, the external scenario is pushing in the
direction of a slowdown, while the domestic side is pushing in
exactly the opposite direction,” policy makers said in the
minutes published on the central bank website today.  In its statement accompanying its Aug. 16 decision, the
bank said the domestic economy was being buoyed by inventory
growth and surging  consumer spending . Retail sales grew 7.9
percent in July from a year earlier, the National Statistics
Agency said yesterday, while unemployment has held near a record
low since December.  “Risks from the external scenario seemed to be quite well
offset by those arising from the internal scenario, reinforcing
the idea of pausing,” policy makers said in the minutes.  The bank ruled out a cut last month because of the labor
market had tightened, which creates a risk of inflation in the
medium term, it said.  Unemployment  Chile’s  joblessness rate  unexpectedly fell to 6.5 percent
in the three months through July, the National Statistics
Institute said today, close to the 6.4 percent record low
reached in February. The median forecast of 15 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey  was that unemployment would be unchanged at 6.6
percent.  A rate cut is unlikely as long as the economy shows no
signs of slowing, one policy maker said.  The central bank will publish its quarterly monetary-policy
report on Sept. 5, where it will give forecasts for inflation
and economic growth.  Policy makers will keep borrowing costs unchanged at 5
percent through December before a temporary cut to 4.75 percent
in the first quarter of 2013, according to a central bank survey
of traders published on Aug. 22. Traders in the previous survey
forecast the key rate would fall to 4.75 percent within six
months and then stay at that level through August 2013.  External Risks  “Economic dynamism has been above expectations, but
external risks remain and that justifies keeping the rate on
hold for the next few months,” said Cesar Guzman, an economist
at Banco Security in Santiago. “Barring a big piece of
unexpected news it is difficult to see it changing.”  Annual inflation  has decelerated in each of the past five
months, from 4.42 percent in February to 2.5 percent in July.
The  consumer price index  has risen just 0.41 percent this year,
according to data from the National Statistics Institute.  Traders expect the pace of annual inflation to slow to 1.9
percent in February, before accelerating to 3.25 percent in
July, prices in the forwards market for  Chile ’s inflation-linked
accounting unit unidades de fomento show. The central bank
targets annual price rises of between 2 percent and 4 percent.  Prices climbed 0.37 percent in August, according to traders
in the forwards market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 