-- China Medical Technologies Files Chapter 15 Bankruptcy
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-08-31T21:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/china-medical-technologies-files-chapter-15-bankruptcy.html
China Medical Technologies Inc., a
maker of diagnostic products, filed for  Chapter 15  foreign-firm
bankruptcy protection in  New York , listing as much as $500
million in assets and debts.  China Medical, which makes products to monitor various
diseases including cancer, also listed foreign bankruptcy
proceedings pending in the  Cayman Islands , according to a
petition posted today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Chapter 15 helps shield overseas companies from U.S.
lawsuits and creditor claims while a company continues the
process abroad. The company in various documents lists
operations in Beijing,  Hong Kong  and the Cayman Islands.  “To date, the liquidators have been unable to locate any
other CMED assets anywhere in the world outside the Cayman
Islands,” said Kenneth M. Krys, joint official liquidator, in a
filing.  He said unsecured debt includes $276 million in 4 percent
senior convertible notes due in 2013; and $150 million in 6.25
percent convertible senior notes due in 2016; both governed by
Cayman law and mostly held by Americans.  Krys said in the filing that “it appears” the company’s
financial troubles resulted from alleged “fraudulent
transfers” of assets, and that the money is missing.  Last month, the company’s American depositary receipts fell
68 percent to $3.50 following a two-week suspension by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which questioned information
accuracy. The shares fell 15 percent in over-the-counter trading
to $2.90 in New York today.  The case is In re China Medical Technologies Inc., 12-
bk-13736,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  