-- Chinese Stock Index Caps Longest Monthly Losing Streak Since ’04
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-31T07:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/china-s-stock-futures-drop-as-citic-securities-earnings-decline.html
China’s benchmark stock index  fell,
capping a fourth month of losses, after declining earnings at
companies from  Citic Securities Co. (600030)  to Sany Heavy Industry Co.
showed the impact of the nation’s economic slowdown.  Citic Securities, the nation’s biggest listed brokerage,
dropped 1.2 percent and Sany Heavy sank to its lowest level
since October 2010.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. ,
the nation’s biggest lender, slipped 0.8 percent after earnings
growth slowed. Qingdao Haier Co., the largest refrigerator
maker, climbed 3.9 percent after first-half profit rose.  “Corporate earnings aren’t likely to have a big rebound in
the second half of the year given the sluggish economy,” said
 Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi
Investment Management Co., which manages about $120 million.
“The government may step in to boost confidence in the market
through measures such as encouraging share buybacks.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.3 percent to 2,047.52
at the close, the lowest level since February 2009. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  slipped 0.3 percent to 2,204.87. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong 
retreated 0.4 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, slid
0.9 percent in  New York  yesterday.  Signs that China’s economic slowdown is deepening dragged
the Shanghai Composite down 2.7 percent in August, a fourth
straight month of declines. That’s the longest streak since
August 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Worst Performer  Macquarie Group Ltd. lowered  China  equities to neutral from
overweight, citing the deteriorating outlook for banks amid a
“disturbingly” widespread weakness in the economy, according
to a note dated yesterday.  The Shanghai gauge has tumbled 8 percent this quarter, the
worst performer after Cyprus among 93 global stock benchmark
index tracked by Bloomberg, and has lost 6.9 percent for the
year. The measure trades at 9.3 times estimated earnings, the
lowest level since January, according to weekly  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Citic Securities fell 1.2 percent to 10.22 yuan after
saying net income dropped 24 percent from a year earlier in the
first six months. Sany Heavy, the biggest machinery maker, slid
4 percent to 9.87  yuan  after it said first-half profit fell 13
percent.  Profit Slowdown  ICBC dropped 0.8 percent to 3.82 yuan. Net income climbed
11 percent in the second quarter to 61.8 billion yuan ($9.73
billion), according to first-half figures reported yesterday by
the Beijing-based bank. Combined earnings of China’s five
biggest lenders increased 13 percent to 203.6 billion yuan in
the quarter, slowing from 33 percent a year earlier.  Central Huijin Investment Ltd., a unit of China’s sovereign
wealth fund, bought more yuan-denominated A shares of the
nation’s four largest banks including ICBC in the second
quarter, the Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing
lenders’ interim reports.  China’s 2,453 publicly traded companies’ combined first-
half net income dropped 0.38 percent from a year earlier to 1.01
trillion yuan, the China Securities Journal reported today,
citing the newspaper’s own statistics. First-half average
earnings per share fell 28 percent and combined inventory rose
17 percent, it said.  Disappointing Earnings  Listed companies finish releasing first-half earnings
reports today. Fifty-eight percent of companies in the Shanghai
Composite missed analysts’ estimates for second-quarter profit,
while 41 percent beat projections, according to  data  on 242
earnings reports compiled by Bloomberg.  Qingdao Haier advanced 3.9 percent to 10.45 yuan. The
appliance maker said first-half profit rose 21 percent from a
year earlier.  “Company earnings are not coming in great and they are
somewhat disappointing,” Arjun Jayaraman, who manages $400
million in emerging-market equities at Causeway Capital
Management, said in a phone interview from  Los Angeles 
yesterday. “That shows the impact of China’s slowdown. It will
take longer for corporate earnings to recover than it takes the
economy to rebound.”  The National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing are due to release a manufacturing
index for this month tomorrow. The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
may fall to 50 from 50.1 in July, according to the median
estimate of 24 economists by Bloomberg. Fifty marks the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 11.7
today, compared with this year’s average of 17.1. About 4.6
billion shares changed hands in the gauge today, 41 percent
lower than the daily average this year.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 1.6 percent to a one-
month low of $32.95 yesterday.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  