-- China Money Rate Drops to 3-Month Low as Banks Reduce Borrowings
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-31T08:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/china-money-rate-drops-to-3-month-low-as-banks-reduce-borrowings.html
China ’s overnight money-market rate
fell to the lowest level in almost three months on speculation
banks scaled back borrowings after meeting month-end cash
requirements.  The one-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 32 basis points to 2.07 percent as
of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It touched 2
percent earlier, the lowest level since June 11. The rate
declined 62 basis points in the week and fell 134 basis points
so far in 2012.  “Short-term cash supply is rebounding as banks have
finished borrowing to boost their loan-to-deposit ratio,” said
Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank
Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest lender.  The People’s Bank of China withdrew 54 billion  yuan  ($8.5
billion) of capital from the financial system, after three weeks
of net injections, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
China’s policies will be biased toward policy easing to rein in
risks to economic growth, Citigroup Inc. said in a report
yesterday.  The central bank will either cut lenders’ reserve ratios or
step up cash injections via reverse-repurchase contracts next
month because banks need more funds to meet regulatory
requirements before the quarter ends, China Merchant Bank’s Liu
predicted.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost needed to receive
the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was unchanged at 3.13
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contract
dropped one basis point this week.  The yield on the 3.14 percent government bond due February
2017 climbed one basis point to 3.08 percent today, according to
the Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  