-- Class Action Cases Get Top Court Review in Insurance Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-08-31T16:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/class-action-cases-get-top-court-review-in-insurance-case.html
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to
consider new constraints on class-action lawsuits, accepting an
appeal from a  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  unit in an  Arkansas  dispute over
homeowners-insurance claims.  The case turns on what the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
contends is an abusive tactic used by plaintiffs’ attorneys to
steer cases into friendly state courts. Under the disputed
approach, plaintiffs’ lawyers agree not to seek more than $5
million -- the threshold that sends class-action suits to
federal court, where corporate defendants often fare better.  That helps the attorneys and people serving as class
representatives to claim most of any award, according to the
Chamber of Commerce. The group says defendants lose procedural
protections they would get in federal court and people who might
be included in the class are denied the prospect of a larger
award.  The approach “allows putative class representatives to
circumvent congressionally imposed protections simply by
betraying the class they purport to represent,” the Chamber of
Commerce argued in court papers.  The  Supreme Court  has proven receptive to past accusations
of abuse of the litigation system. In 2011 the court rejected an
effort to sue  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  for discrimination on behalf
of potentially a million female workers.  Standard Fire  In the case granted review today, Travelers’s Standard Fire
Insurance unit is accused of failing to fully reimburse losses.
The lawsuit puts total damages, including attorney’s fees, at
less than the $5 million threshold for federal class-action
suits set by a 2005 law.  A lawyer representing those suing Standard Fire, Jonathan
Massey, argued in court papers that a voluntary damage limit
“avoids the risks of enormous class-action judgments that
Standard Fire argues motivated the enactment” of the 2005 law,
the Class Action Fairness Act.  A federal trial judge in Arkansas said the voluntary limit
on damages meant the case belonged in state court. A federal
appeals court in  St. Louis  then said Standard Fire couldn’t
appeal at that stage in the litigation.  The case is Standard Fire v. Knowles, 11-1450.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  