-- Colombia Bought $800 Million to Curb Peso Rally, Echeverry Says
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-08-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/colombia-bought-800-million-to-curb-peso-rally-echeverry-says.html
The Colombian government has bought
$800 million as it pursues a program of currency intervention
parallel to the central bank’s to weaken the peso and help the
country’s exporters.  The Treasury has bought $600 million in recent weeks, in
addition to $200 million bought by  Colombia ’s bank deposit-
guarantee fund, known as Fogafin, outgoing Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said in an interview in Barranquilla. The
purchases will continue under  Mauricio Cardenas , who takes over
in the next few days, Echeverry said.  “In the handover, we agreed that the government should be
present in this market in an intelligent way, giving support to
an  exchange rate  that is a bit more competitive,” Echeverry
said in an interview in Barranquilla, on Colombia’s Caribbean
coast. “The specific amounts and times are up to him.”  The  Finance Ministry  began to buy dollars this month, and
continued to do so even after the central bank stepped up its
own intervention. Banco de la Republica on Aug. 24 said it will
buy $700 million by the end of September, or an average of $28
million a day, from $20 million a day previously. Colombia had
 foreign currency reserves  of $34.7 billion as of July.  The peso has gained 5.9 percent in 2012, the biggest gain
after the Chilean peso and the Hungarian forint of 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as foreign capital continues to
pour into oil and mining projects, even as Europe’s debt crisis
weighs on investor sentiment.  Echeverry, a former academic who once worked as a teaching
assistant to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , quit
President  Juan Manuel Santos ’ cabinet last week, citing personal
reasons.  He said he planned to spend a “two or three years”
outside Colombia, work at his consultancy firm, and spend more
time with his three children, ages 2, 4 and 6.  The central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  a quarter
point for a second straight month at its August policy meeting
this week, citing the global economic slowdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 Jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  