-- Colombia Brags of Overtaking Argentina as Echeverry Eyes IMF Job
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-08-31T15:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/colombia-overtakes-argentina-in-size-of-economy-echeverry-says.html
Colombia’s finance chief, looking to
become the International Monetary Fund’s top official in  Latin
America , boasted that his economy has overtaken  Argentina ’s as
the region’s third-biggest as a result of the Argentine peso’s
slide on the unregulated  currency market .  Juan Carlos Echeverry, who last week announced he was
stepping down from his post, also said in an interview that
Colombia may change its representation on the IMF’s executive
board, moving from a nine-nation constituency led by Brazil, the
region’s biggest economy, to one headed by  Mexico .  Colombia’s economy was $15 billion larger than Argentina’s,
taking into account the IMF’s gross domestic product data and an
 exchange rate  of 6.37 Argentine pesos per dollar, Echeverry
said. In Argentina’s unregulated exchange market, in which
investors buy assets locally in pesos and sell them abroad for
dollars, the peso has slid 27 percent this year to 6.5247 per
dollar. That compares with an official rate of 4.6355.  “With this exchange rate, I can make the announcement
that I retire leaving the Colombian economy as the second
biggest in South America, and the third largest in Latin
America,” Echeverry said yesterday in the Caribbean coastal
city of Barranquilla.  Echeverry yesterday said he is applying to become the IMF’s
Western Hemisphere director in charge of monitoring the Latin
American and Caribbean economies. Former Chilean Finance
Minister Nicolas Eyzaguirre resigned from the Washington-based
post in July.  The IMF has repeatedly criticized Argentine government
statistics it says don’t accurately reflect inflation private
economists put at 24 percent. In turn, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has blamed the IMF for pushing the country
into a financial crisis that led to a 2001 default on $95
billion of bonds. Argentina hasn’t allowed the IMF to review its
finances as required by all IMF members since 2006.  Brazil  Echeverry, 49, didn’t say why Colombia is considering
abandoning the Brazil-led constituency on the IMF’s 24-member
executive board in favor of Mexico.  Still, under Echeverry’s leadership President  Juan Manuel Santos ’ government has increased ties with Mexico. The two
countries came together to create the Pacific Alliance of the
region’s most-open economies, distancing themselves from the
Brazil and Argentina-led Mercosur trade pact, which has been
raising import restrictions amid the global economic slowdown.
Colombia followed Mexico, Peru and Chile -- all members of the
fledgling trade group -- and implemented a free trade agreement
with the U.S. earlier this year.  “We have been exploring different possibilities, and
that’s still ongoing,” said Echeverry, a  New York  University-
trained economist who once worked as a teaching assistant to
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . “To us, the
constituency with Mexico, Spain, Venezuela and the Central
American countries seems very attractive.”  Echeverry described the conversations over a possible move
as “normal,” adding that it would happen in November, when the
next board election takes place. Other nations, including Turkey
and Austria, are also seeking to change seats as part of a 2010
agreement to give  emerging markets  a bigger say at the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  