-- Colorado Shooting Suspect Met With Psychiatrist June 11
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2012-08-31T04:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/colorado-shooting-suspect-met-with-psychiatrist-june-11.html
A  University of Colorado 
psychiatrist said she met with James Holmes less than six weeks
before he allegedly killed 12 people in a movie theater.  The psychiatrist, Lynne Fenton, testified yesterday in
state court in Centennial, Colorado, that her patient-doctor
relationship with Holmes ended with that meeting and she didn’t
see him again before the attack. She said revealing some further
details would violate confidentiality.  Holmes is accused of opening fire on the audience at a
midnight screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” in Aurora on
July 20, killing 12 and injuring at least 58. He is charged with
24 counts of first-degree murder and 116 counts of attempted
murder. First-degree murder is punishable by death or life in
prison under  Colorado  law.  Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the University of
Colorado-Denver campus where Fenton works, was in court
yesterday, in a red prison uniform, with his hands shackled and
his hair dyed orange. Fenton said she learned from a community
resource officer that Holmes was withdrawing from the
university. She said she communicated her concern about someone
to the officer. Citing confidentiality today, she said she
couldn’t say whether that person was Holmes.  Arapahoe District Attorney Carol Chambers said in a court
filing that Holmes was denied access to the university following
June 12 after he made threats to a professor.  ‘Conundrum’  Judge William Sylvester was asked yesterday to decide
whether a package Holmes sent Fenton the day before the attack
is covered by therapist- or doctor-patient privilege. The judge
called trying to determine the nature of the relationship
between Fenton and Holmes without violating privilege a
“conundrum.”  Sylvester said he didn’t have enough information to
determine whether Fenton and Holmes had a confidential doctor-
patient relationship on July 19. The judge set a hearing for
Sept. 20 to consider additional testimony.  Holmes’s lawyers suggested that they question Fenton with
only the judge and a court reporter present. The prosecution
objected to that idea.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kass in Colorado District Court in Centennial at
 kassj@msn.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  