-- Colombia Yields Fall Near Record Low on Lower Debt Auction Plans
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-08-31T20:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/colombia-yields-fall-near-record-low-on-lower-debt-auction-plans.html
Yields on  Colombia ’s peso bonds fell
toward a record low after the government cut plans for debt
auctions, signaling a reduced supply of the securities.  The yield on Colombia’s 6 percent peso-denominated debt due
in April 2013 fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 4.70 percent, according to the central bank. The yield
reached 4.69 percent Aug. 16, the lowest closing level since the
notes were issued in 2009.  Colombia will auction 16.36 trillion pesos ($8.96 billion)
of local bonds this year, down from the previously planned 17.36
trillion pesos, the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday. The
remaining 1 trillion pesos will be sold to government
institutions, the ministry said. The government had already
suspended auctions of short-term notes, known as TCOs, in
February.  “There’s a lack of supply of short-term debt and with
yesterday’s announcement it will be even greater,” Julian Cardenas, the head analyst at ING Pensiones y Cesantias, said by
phone from Bogota.  The government will finish its planned debt auctions for
2012 next month, offering 200 billion pesos of bonds in each of
the auctions scheduled for Sept. 12, Sept. 19 and Sept. 26.  The Colombian currency rose, following gains in global
equities and commodities, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today he wouldn’t rule out more stimulus to lower
a jobless rate he described as a “grave concern.”  The peso strengthened 0.3 percent to 1,825.20 per  U.S.
dollar . It’s up 6.2 percent this year, the best performance
after the Chilean peso and the Hungarian forint among all
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  August Performance  The peso fell 1.8 percent in August, the worst performance
among emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as the
central bank and government step up dollar purchases to ease
gains in the local currency.  Colombia’s central bank yesterday bought $35 million in the
 spot market  for a third straight day, up from the minimum of $20
million a day the bank has said it will buy until at least Nov.
2. On Aug. 24 Banco de la Republica said it will boost its
dollar purchases to $700 million by the end of September, or an
average of $28 million a day.  The Treasury has bought $600 million in recent weeks, in
addition to $200 million purchased by Colombia’s bank deposit-
guarantee fund, known as Fogafin, outgoing Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said in an interview yesterday. The purchases
will continue under  Mauricio Cardenas , who takes over in the
next few days, Echeverry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  