-- Commodities Holdings Advance as Soy, Oil Rally
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-08-31T05:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/commodities-holdings-advance-most-since-march-as-soy-oil-rally.html
Commodities investors increased
their holdings by the most since March as oil posted the biggest
rally in six months and soybeans gained to a record.  Open interest , or outstanding contracts, of raw materials
tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index added 1.3 percent
this month at 10.72 million contracts as of Aug. 29, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chicago-traded soybeans extended
their rally for a third month, climbing to a record yesterday,
and West Texas Intermediate crude futures advanced 7.4 percent.  Holdings expanded as prices of the GSCI gauge climbed 4.9
percent in August, suggesting investors are adding bets on a
further price rally. The worst U.S. drought since 1956 and dry
weather in  Russia  spurred buying in grains and soybeans, while
increasing Middle East tensions boosted crude.  “Open interest in commodities increased across the board
with agriculture as a meaningful contributor, as the U.S.
drought brings fresh buyers and sellers,” said Diego Parrilla,
chief investment officer of Nareco Advisors, a Singapore-based
hedge-fund firm. “We see risks skewed toward higher prices in
energy, grains and precious metals.”  Gains in energy and agriculture boosted the GSCI index for
a third consecutive month after a 13 percent slump in May when
concern that  Europe  may not be able to contain its debt crisis
caused the biggest loss in raw materials since 2008. Yesterday,
 Spain ’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  delayed seeking a second
rescue while pledging to continue bailing out its regions.  “We are concerned the market may get too complacent with
expectations of further monetary stimuli and a smooth resolution
of the European crisis,” said Parrilla.  Soybeans, Crude  Soybeans soared almost 45 percent this year, reaching a
record $17.7125 a bushel yesterday on the Chicago Board of
Trade, and are the biggest gainer on the GSCI. Wheat and corn
ranked second and third on the gauge. Hedge funds’ bets on a
rally in corn are the most in 16 months and near the largest for
soybeans since at least 2006, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show.  West Texas Intermediate crude was little changed at $94.60
a barrel as of 1:46 p.m. Singapore time.  Commodity assets under management rose by $16 billion in
July to $406 billion, Barclays Plc said in an Aug. 24 report.
Still, in the first seven months investors withdrew almost $6
billion, compared with a $7.8 billion inflow during the same
period last year, according to the report.  The S&P GSCI gauge entered a  bull market  on Aug. 21, rising
more than 20 percent from a June low. The index was little
changed at 666.97 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  