-- Concrete Lady Bids to Return Quebec Separatists to Power
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-08-31T14:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/concrete-lady-bids-to-return-quebec-separatists-to-power.html
Pauline Marois, the political
veteran seeking a greater government role in Quebec’s economy,
is poised to become premier in next week’s elections and return
her separatist party to power for the first time since 2003.  Four days before the Sept. 4 vote, Marois’s Parti Quebecois
is leading in opinion polls. The governing  Liberal Party , rocked
by student protests over tuition fees and allegations of
corruption after nine years in power, is running third behind
the nine-month-old  Coalition Avenir Quebec .  “Marois has enough experience in office as an
administrator,” Antonia Maioni, associate professor of
political science at  McGill University  in Montreal, said in a
telephone interview. “In terms of her background in finance and
other key ministries, she is one of the most competent
politicians out there.”  Marois has held 14 different ministerial posts in her 31
years as a politician, including finance minister, health
minister and deputy premier. In January, a newspaper columnist
nicknamed her “la dame de beton” (the concrete lady) for her
ability to weather defections and criticism.  A  survey  conducted Aug. 27 to Aug. 29 by pollster CROP
Inc., published today by  Montreal ’s La Presse newspaper, gave
the Parti Quebecois 32 percent voter support, compared with 28
percent for the Coalition Avenir Quebec and 26 percent for the
Liberals under Premier Jean Charest. The telephone survey of
1,002 people, which has a 3.1 percentage-point margin of error,
shows Marois with enough support to win power, but probably not
enough for a majority.  Vote Splits  That means Marois may need to rely on support of the other
parties to pass laws and hold off on the party’s central goal:
independence.  “Everything is going to come down to how the votes are
split,” Harold Chorney, a political science professor at
Montreal’s Concordia University, said in a telephone interview.
“If the PQ depends on support from the Coalition, Ms. Marois
isn’t going to be able to do what she wants to do with respect
to sovereignty or tuition fees.”  Balancing acts are nothing new to the 63-year-old Marois, a
mother of four and grandmother of two who gave birth to her
second child 11 days after being named to her first ministerial
post in 1981.  As Health Minister from 1998 to 2001, Marois engineered the
forced retirement of 1,500 doctors and 4,000 nurses to help the
province eliminate a C$5.7 billion ($5.74 billion) budget gap.
In her next assignment, she became the only  Quebec  finance
minister in 50 years to pay down the provincial debt.  Balance Budget  “I’m often blamed for having reached zero deficit,” she
told the Montreal Board of Trade in a speech Aug. 28. “I’ve
never disowned these decisions. They took a lot of courage.”  Marois, who has a Master of Business Administration degree
from the HEC Montreal business school, pledges to balance the
provincial budget by limiting program spending growth to 2.4
percent a year and boosting revenue through higher mining
royalties and income taxes. The tax increases, targeting
residents who earn at least C$130,000, would bring in C$610
million annually, according to the party  platform .  “We are going to run a very tight ship to reach our
balanced budget goal,” Marois said Aug. 28 in Montreal. “It’s
a very demanding goal, but it’s not my first one.”  Government debt amounted to about 62 percent of Quebec’s
2011-12 gross domestic product, highest among Canada’s 10
provinces, according to an August report by Toronto-based
credit-rating company DBRS Ltd. Quebec’s debt is rated A+ by
 Standard & Poor’s , Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and A (high)
by DBRS.  Investment Fund  Marois has promised to create a C$10 billion strategic
investment fund  -- to be run by the province’s public pension
fund manager, the Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec -- and
amend provincial law to make it easier for companies to fend off
hostile takeovers such as Lowe’s Cos.’s bid for Quebec home-
improvement retailer  Rona Inc. (RON)   “Today it’s the head office and the ownership of Rona that
is threatened,” Marois told reporters Aug. 9 in Saguenay,
Quebec. “We must act and we must do it with force.”  While Marois has refused to commit to holding a referendum
in her first mandate, she makes no secret that a sovereign
Quebec is her ultimate goal. A Parti Quebecois government would
call a referendum at the “appropriate” time, according to the
party’s platform.  Referendum Unlikely  Quebec, which is predominantly French-speaking, has twice
voted in referendums against seceding from  Canada , most recently
in 1995. The issue has lost momentum in recent years, with
today’s CROP poll showing support for sovereignty at 29 percent,
while 68 percent said they would vote ’No’ if a referendum were
held during a first Parti Quebecois mandate.  “Unless the political landscape changes completely, it’s
extremely unlikely that we’ll see a referendum in the next five
or six years,”  Jean-Herman Guay , a political science professor
at the University of Sherbrooke, said in a telephone interview.  Marie Barrette, a spokeswoman for the Parti Quebecois,
didn’t return messages this week seeking an interview with
Marois for this story. Marois declined to say this week what
she’d do on the issue of sovereignty in case of a minority
mandate.  “What I want is to have a free hand to do what I pledged
to do,” she told reporters in Montreal. “A majority mandate is
what I wish for. That’s what’s going to allow me to respect the
commitments I am making.”  Majority Critical  Winning a majority is critical for the Parti Quebecois if
it hopes to widen sovereignty’s appeal, said former Premier
Bernard Landry, who led the party from 2001 to 2005. Quebeckers
are growing less attached to Canada, which should benefit the
pro-independence movement, he said in an Aug. 29 interview.  “If the Parti Quebecois doesn’t get in, then there’s no
promotion of sovereignty and no referendum,” Landry said.  If Marois wins, she would become Quebec’s first woman
premier. The province would join British Columbia,  Alberta ,
Newfoundland and Nunavut in having a female head of government.  Marois’s success in reaching her goals will probably depend
on her ability to deal with Quebec’s unions, traditional backers
of the  Parti Quebecois .  Marois “has been very clear about the set of challenges
and the set of goals she has staked out,” McGill’s Maioni said.
To realize them, “she may have to go up against some vested
interests that have powerful links to the Parti Quebecois.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  