-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Rose to Three-Month High
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-31T17:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-reaches-highest-level-in-three-months.html
Consumer confidence  improved more
than projected in August as merchant discounts and record-low
 interest rates  help U.S. households bolster finances.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final sentiment
 index  climbed to 74.3, a three-month high, from 72.3 in July.
The gauge averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the
recession. Other reports indicated manufacturing is cooling.  Incentives by companies such as  General Motors Co. (GM)  are
boosting sales, just as Federal Reserve efforts to lower
borrowing costs are allowing Americans to reduce debt, which may
underpin consumer spending. Nonetheless, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke today said additional action to spur growth remains an
option because unemployment is a “grave concern.”  “Confidence is lackluster,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief
U.S. economist for High Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla,
 New York , who projected a gain in sentiment. “It typifies the
economy right now. It’s not strong, but not collapsing either.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to
1,402.70 at 1:19 p.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell to 1.58 percent from 1.62 percent late
yesterday.  The concern with elevated joblessness is global. Euro-area
unemployment rose to a record 11.3 percent in July, the same as
in June after that month’s figure was revised higher, a report
today showed.  In  Japan , consumer prices slid at a faster pace in July and
industrial production unexpectedly slumped, raising the danger
that the world’s third-largest economy has slipped back into a
recession.  Survey Results  The U.S. consumer sentiment gauge was projected to rise to
73.6, according to the  median  forecast of 60 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Estimates ranged from 72 to 75.2. The index
averaged 64.2 during the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009.  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions , which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
rose to 88.7, a four-year high, from 82.7 the prior month.  The share of households with incomes of less than $75,000
that said it was a good time to buy durable goods was the
highest since August 2007, according to the report.  Auto dealerships this year are getting incentives from
automakers to help prop up demand. Honda Motor Co., General
Motors and Toyota Motor Corp. are rewarding dealers whose sales
reach thresholds they’ve set, in turn allowing the vendors to
offer lower prices to potential buyers.  ‘Better Deal’  “It’s helped the consumer get a little bit better deal,”
Paul Ritchie, owner of Hagerstown Honda in  Maryland , told
 Bloomberg News . “When the customer needs another couple hundred
dollars for their trade, we’ve got something to work with. It
just makes deals possible.”  Extra efforts to meet monthly dealership goals probably
helped U.S. light-vehicle sales rise 18 percent this month to
1.27 million, the average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Industry wide deliveries this year through July
climbed 14 percent to 8.43 million, according to Autodata Corp.
in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  The sentiment report was less rosy when it came to the
outlook. The index of  consumer expectations  for six months from
now, which more closely projects the direction of  consumer
spending , fell to 65.1 from 65.6 in July.  That drop is more in line with other confidence measures
that were depressed by more gloomy projections. The New York-
based Conference Board’s index decreased to 60.6 in August, the
lowest level since November, from a revised 65.4 the prior
month, figures from the private research group showed this week.  Other Measures  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index hovered close to a
seven-month low last week, according to figures reported
yesterday.  Concerns about looming tax changes and government budget
reductions under the so-called fiscal cliff may be preventing
bigger gains in sentiment. Some $600 billion of tax increases
and spending cuts will take effect at the end of the year unless
lawmakers act.  “A major source of uncertainty is about when the fiscal
cliff will be bridged, and who will bear the burden,”  Richard Curtin , chief economist for the consumer sentiment survey, said
in a statement. “This uncertainty will increasingly cause
consumers to become more cautious spenders.”  Among recent reports pointing to an improvement in the
economy, payrolls increased in July by 163,000 workers, the most
since February. At the same time, the  unemployment rate  rose to
8.3 percent last month, and has been above 8 percent since
February 2009, the longest stretch in the post-World War II era.  Home Prices  Housing is also recovering. Home prices in 20 U.S. cities
climbed 0.5 percent in June from a year earlier, the first
increase since a tax credit boosted sales in 2010, according to
the S&P/Case-Shiller index released this week. Nationally,
property values jumped last quarter by the most in more than six
years, the data also showed.  Manufacturing, which represents about 12 percent of the
economy and was a mainstay in the early part of the recovery,
shows signs of cooling.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer fell to 53 this month from 53.7 in July.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. Economists forecast
the gauge would drop to 53.2, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey.  Demand for capital goods such as machinery and
communications gear dropped more in July than previously
estimated, revised data from the Commerce Department also
showed. The 4 percent decrease in bookings for non-military
capital goods excluding aircraft exceeded the 3.4 percent drop
estimated last week in the durable goods report. It remained the
biggest decline since November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  