-- Croatian GDP Contracts for Third Quarter as Consumption Falters
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-08-31T09:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/croatian-gdp-contracts-for-third-quarter-as-consumption-falters.html
Croatia’s economy contracted for a
third consecutive quarter as personal consumption and industrial
production declined because of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Economic output fell 2.1 percent in the three months ending
June 30 from the same period a year ago, the  statistics office 
in Zagreb said today in a preliminary estimate. Gross domestic
product shrank 1.3 percent in the first quarter. The office
didn’t release a quarterly GDP estimate.  “While in the first quarter there was modest growth in
retail trade as people prepared for a VAT increase to 25 percent
from 23 percent from March 1, we’ve seen an intense decline in
sales in the second quarter,” Zdeslav Santic, chief economist
at  Soc-Gen Splitska Banka d.d. , said by phone before the data
report.  The Adriatic Sea nation, which is set to become the
European Union’s 28th member in July 2013, is struggling to
revive its economy after two years of recession and a period of
stagnation in 2011. Industrial production declined 5.5 percent
in June from a year ago while retail trade contracted 5.1
percent in June after falling 4.4 percent in March and 7.3
percent in April.  The government on Aug. 2 reduced the 2012 growth forecast
to stagnation, as the effect of Europe’s economic and debt
crisis intensifies. The eight-month-old Cabinet of Prime
Minister  Zoran Milanovic  wants to attract investors with 8
billion kuna ($1.3 billion) from EU funds and reconstruction
banks for infrastructure and energy projects.  “As Europe’s crisis continues to affect exports,
consumption and capital investments, we can expect the downward
trend to continue,” Santic said, adding that revenue from
tourism in the third quarter should temporarily soften the fall.  The  World Bank  estimated Croatia’s economy will shrink 1
percent in 2012, while the  central bank  on July 9 revised its
forecast to a 1.6 percent contraction from a 1 percent decline
forecast in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  