-- Andy Roddick Delays Retirement With U.S. Open Win Over Tomic
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-01T02:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/defending-champion-stosur-advances-to-fourth-round-at-u-s-open.html
Andy Roddick  delayed his retirement
for at least one more match with a straight-set victory tonight
against Australia’s  Bernard Tomic  at the  U.S. Open .  Roddick, 30, who yesterday announced his decision to retire
from tennis after the tournament, advanced to a third-round
match against Fabio Fognini of Italy with a 6-3, 6-4, 6-0 defeat
of Tomic in 87 minutes in a night match at the National Tennis
Center in New York.  Roddick, the No. 20 seed from the U.S., claimed his only
major championship in New York in 2003. He is the last U.S. man
to win a Grand Slam singles title.  “That was so much fun, thank you guys,” Roddick said to
the crowd in an on-court interview. “I’m going to try to stick
around a little longer.”  British teenager Laura Robson posted her second straight
upset win, knocking off No. 9 seed Li Na of China in three sets,
while men’s defending champion Novak Djokovic advanced in
straight sets.  Women’s top seed  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus won 6-0, 6-1
last night against Zheng Jie of China, the No. 28 seed. Third
seed  Maria Sharapova  of Russia won 6-1, 6-1 in 58 minutes
yesterday against Stanford University senior Mallory Burdette.  Robson Wins  The 18-year-old Robson defeated Li 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 6-2 in
Louis Armstrong Stadium. Robson upset No. 23 seed Kim Clijsters
two days ago in Clijsters’s final singles match before retiring.  The win made Robson the first British woman to reach the
fourth round of a Grand Slam tournament since  Samantha Smith  at
Wimbledon in 1998. Ranked 89th on the WTA tour, she next faces a
fourth-round match against defending champion Samantha Stosur.  Stosur, the No. 7 seed from Australia, beat Varvara Lepchenko, the 31st seed from the U.S., 7-6 (7-5), 6-2 in Arthur
Ashe Stadium, with the opening set taking 59 minutes.  “She’s obviously full of confidence and had two very, very
good wins,” Stosur said of Robson at a news conference. “I
definitely can’t go into that match lightly. I have to go out
there and be really on my game and ready to play.”  Sharapova, the 2006 champion, has lost just seven games in
her three victories this week. She next plays Russia’s Nadia Petrova, the 19th seed, in the fourth round.  Burdette, 21, an American amateur who was playing in her
first Grand Slam event, was a wild-card invitee to the year’s
final major tournament.  Djokovic Advances  Djokovic, the No. 2 seed from Serbia, beat Rogerio Dutra
Silva of Brazil 6-2, 6-1, 6-2, making 14 unforced errors
compared to 36 for Dutra Silva. Reaching the third round for the
seventh time in as many visits to the U.S. Open, Djokovic will
face Julian Benneteau of France, seeded 31st, who won in four
sets against 18-year-old American Dennis Novikov.  David Ferrer , the men’s No. 4 seed from Spain, beat Igor
Sijsling of the Netherlands 6-2, 6-3, 7-6 (14-12), needing six
match points to move into the third round.  All of the women’s singles matches today -- the fifth day
of the two-week tournament -- were in the third round. The men
were playing second-round matches.  Petra Kvitova, the No. 5 seed from the  Czech Republic , beat
Pauline Parmentier of France 6-4, 6-4.  Marion Bartoli , the No.
11 seed, beat fellow Frenchwoman Kristina Mladenovic 6-2, 6-4.  Seven of the 12 remaining U.S. men were in action today.
The last time as many American men reached the second round was
1996, when there were also 12.  No. 9 seed John Isner had 23 aces in a four-set victory
against Jarkko Nieminen of Finland.  Brian Baker  lost in straight
sets to Janko Tipsarevic, the No. 8 seed from Serbia. Wild-card
entry  Steve Johnson , the two-time defending National Collegiate
Athletic Association champion from the  University of Southern
California , beat Ernests Gulbis of Latvia. Qualifier Bradley
Klahn lost to  Richard Gasquet , the No. 13 seed from France.  Juan Martin Del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open winner from
Argentina and the No. 7 seed, defeated  Ryan Harrison  of the U.S.
in four sets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  