-- Delaware Arbitration, J&J, E*Trade, Nasdaq: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-08-31T12:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/delaware-arbitration-j-j-e-trade-nasdaq-compliance.html
Delaware Chancery Court judges
sitting as arbitrators must hold public hearings and can’t
exclude the public and news media, a federal judge decided.  The decision, by U.S. District Judge Mary A. McLaughlin in
Philadelphia, came in a case brought last year by the Delaware
Coalition for Open Government against chief Delaware Chancery
Court Judge Leo Strine and the four other Chancery Court judges.
The lawsuit challenged a new practice, resulting from a 2009
law, which allowed parties to opt for confidential, expedited
arbitration with a sitting judge acting as the arbitrator.  “An arbitrator and a judge perform very different
functions,” McLaughlin decided in a 26-page opinion yesterday.
This type of proceeding, she said, “functions essentially as a
non-jury trial” giving rise to a qualified right of access
under the First Amendment.  David Finger, the attorney who filed the case, said the
ruling will strengthen the courts and improve the economy of
private arbitration using lawyers and retired judges who are
experts in Delaware law.  The state of Delaware plans to appeal the decision.  “In an increasingly competitive global marketplace, the
United States cannot afford to be at a competitive disadvantage
in providing efficient ways for businesses to resolve their
disputes,” Delaware said in a statement issued by Larry
Hamermesh, a law professor at Widener University who represented
Strine and the other Delaware judges in the case.  The case is Delaware Coalition for Open Government Inc. v.
Strine, 11-cv-1015, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Compliance Action  J&J Will Pay $181 Million Over Risperdal Marketing Claims  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  will pay $181 million to resolve claims
by 36 states that it improperly marketed and advertised the
antipsychotic drugs Risperdal and Invega.  J&J and its Janssen unit settled claims that it promoted
the drugs from 1998 through 2004 for uses not approved by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. New York Attorney General
Eric Schneiderman said yesterday the accord is the largest
multistate consumer protection-based pharmaceutical settlement.  “This landmark settlement holds the companies accountable
for practices that put patients in danger, and serves as a
warning to other pharmaceutical giants that they must play by
one set of rules,” Schneiderman said in a statement.  J&J agreed it won’t promote the drugs for off-label uses or
tout them falsely. The company said Aug. 2 that it agreed in
principal with the U.S. to settle three False Claims Act
lawsuits. They involve Medicaid-related claims for Risperdal,
Invega and the heart-failure drug Natrecor, as well as kickback
allegations involving  Omnicare Inc. (OCR)  J&J will pay as much as $2.2
billion, according to people familiar with the matter.  The company, based in New Brunswick,  New Jersey , settled
“to resolve the concerns of the attorneys general under state
consumer protection laws and to avoid unnecessary expense and a
prolonged legal process,” it said in a statement.  J&J didn’t admit wrongdoing or pay a fine or penalty.  “We have chosen this path to achieve a prompt and full
resolution of these state claims and to ensure we continue to
focus on our mission of providing medicines to meet the
significant unmet needs of many people who suffer from mental
illness,” Michael Yang, Janssen’s president, said in a
statement.  The settlement announced yesterday includes the District of
Columbia, as well as the 36 states.  For more, click here.  E*Trade Reaches Agreement With States in Antitrust Probe  E*Trade Financial Corp. (ETFC)  agreed to pay $100,000 and
implement an antitrust compliance policy and training program
under a deal with states investigating the retail securities
brokerage industry.  E*Trade also agreed to cooperate with the probe of possibly
collusive conduct by several retail securities brokers and firms
that assist brokers executing orders, Connecticut Attorney
General George Jepsen said yesterday in a statement.  The agreement was reached with Connecticut, Missouri and
Iowa, according to letters to the companies from Connecticut
describing the deal. TradeKing Group Inc. also reached a deal
with the states and agreed to pay $100,000, Jepsen said.  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  and Scottrade Inc. previously reached
deals in the investigation.  Robert Horton, an E*Trade spokesman, declined to comment on
the agreement. Representatives of TradeKing couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment. Neither company made an
admission of wrongdoing, according to the letters, which were
posted on the website of the Connecticut attorney general.  Knight Supports Nasdaq’s $62 Million Payout for Facebook IPO  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  supports  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s
proposal to pay $62 million to companies that suffered losses in
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s public debut, it said in a letter to the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The market maker joined Citadel LLC in  backing  the plan to
reimburse members for losses resulting from technology errors on
May 18, the first day of trading in Facebook shares.  Citigroup (C) 
Inc. asked the SEC last week to reject Nasdaq OMX’s proposal,
and UBS AG, which said it lost more than $350 million in trading
related to Facebook, urged the agency to work with the exchange
company to revise the plan to increase the amount paid.  Knight, along with Citigroup and the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association, recommended a broader
discussion of the limitation of liability that exchanges enjoy
for financial losses resulting from their own technical mishaps.
Nasdaq’s reimbursement plan is voluntary since the exchange’s
cap on specific losses it causes is $3 million.  “As exchanges have evolved over the years, with greater
and greater emphasis on profits and business expansion, the time
is right for a more fulsome discussion on this issue,” Knight
said in a letter dated Aug. 29. The broker asked the SEC to
approve the $62 million payout and defer commenting on “issues
relating to liability limitations and/or regulatory immunity
until there can be a more comprehensive discussion,” it said.  Joseph Christinat, a spokesman for New York-based Nasdaq
OMX, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Universal’s EMI Bid Said to Face Vote Paving Way for EU Ruling  Universal Music Group ’s 1.2 billion-pound ($1.9 billion)
bid for EMI’s recorded music business faces a key vote by
national regulators late next week, paving the way for a
European Union ruling, according to three people familiar with
the situation.  A positive vote on the deal by the national agencies may
allow the European Commission to rule on the purchase as soon as
a Sept. 19 meeting, said two of the people, who couldn’t be
identified because the process isn’t public.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music has offered to sell global
rights to EMI labels it earlier pledged to divest to eliminate
regulators’ concerns that the deal could make the world’s
largest record company too powerful in some European markets,
one of the people said.  Universal Music’s revised package of asset sales adds to an
earlier proposal to sell 60 percent of EMI’s European assets,
two people said earlier this month. Extra concessions may make
the iconic London-based label less attractive for Paris-based
Vivendi, saddled with debt and under investor pressure to
improve earnings, as it faces a deadline next month to pay for
EMI.  The extra remedies include the sale of global rights to
Parlophone Records, home to Coldplay and the Beastie Boys,
according to one of the people.  The commission said it couldn’t confirm the announcement
date for its decision, which must be taken by commissioners at
one of three sessions before a Sept. 27 deadline, according to a
press officer who declined to be named in line with official
policy.  Universal Music officials declined to comment on any offer
or the timing of any decision. EMI Music also declined to
comment.  Citigroup agreed in November to sell EMI’s recorded music
and publishing business in separate transactions for a combined
$4.1 billion.  Ex-News Corp. Lawyer Said to Be Arrested Over Phone-Hacking  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s former top U.K. lawyer, who clashed with  James Murdoch  over what he knew about phone-hacking at the News of the
World tabloid, was arrested in the probe, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Tom Crone was detained at his home and is being interviewed
by the  Metropolitan Police Service , said the person, who asked
not be identified because the matter isn’t public. The Met
didn’t identify Crone in a statement yesterday about the arrest
of a 60-year-old man in the investigation.  Crone emerged as a key figure in the scandal last year when
he and Colin Myler, a former editor at the newspaper,
contradicted testimony by Murdoch, News Corp.’s deputy chief
operating officer, to Parliament regarding when he found out
that phone hacking at the News of the World went beyond one
reporter jailed for the practice in 2007.  Crone also clashed with News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
after the men were called to testify at a parliamentary
committee and a separate judge-led inquiry into media ethics.
Crone said in April that the elder Murdoch told a “shameful
lie” to the inquiry when he said the lawyer was involved in a
cover-up of phone hacking.  The Guardian newspaper first reported Crone’s identity.  Crone’s lawyer, Henri Brandman, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s
U.K. unit, News International, declined to comment on
yesterday’s arrest.  SEC Said Poised to Act Against Ex-Stanford Brokerage Executives  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is poised to
file enforcement actions against four former executives of R.
Allen Stanford’s Houston-based brokerage over claims they
facilitated the sale of bogus investments that fueled a $7
billion Ponzi scheme, a person familiar with the matter said.  The agency’s commissioners this week authorized sanctions
against top officials at the Stanford Financial Group Co. unit
for aiding and abetting the fraud, which unraveled in February
2009, the person said. The actions will name Jay Comeaux, the
brokerage’s president from 1996 to 2005, his successor Daniel
Bogar, private client group head Jason Green and Bernard Young,
a former regulator who became chief compliance officer,
according to the person, who asked not to be identified because
the matters aren’t public.  Comeaux has agreed to settle the claims without admitting
or denying the allegations and consented to be permanently
barred from associating with a broker or investment adviser, the
person said. Bogar, Green and Young are fighting the SEC’s
claims.  Stanford, 62, was found guilty in March of using the
brokerage to sell fraudulent certificates of deposit issued by
his Antigua-based bank over the course of 20 years. He is
serving a 110-year prison sentence for the fraud, which drew on
more than 20,000 investors worldwide. Stanford’s former
accountants and other executives also face criminal and civil
claims.  J. Randall Henderson, an attorney for Young, said his
client will fight the claims “with whatever possible in terms
of resources and energy.”  Phone calls after regular business hours to attorneys for
Bogar, Comeaux and Green weren’t immediately returned. SEC
spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  In the Courts  FDA Sued Over Alleged Delays in Implementing Safe Food Rules  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration was sued over claims
that it has failed to enact regulations intended to help prevent
outbreaks of food-borne illnesses 18 months after a safety law
was signed.  The government missed a January deadline for setting
standards for the safe production and harvesting of fruits and
vegetables and was supposed to establish regulations requiring
food shippers to use sanitary practices by July, lawyers for the
Center for Food Safety and the Center for Environmental Health
said in a complaint filed Aug. 29 in federal court in San
Francisco.  The groups’ lawsuit claims the government has failed to
promulgate seven major food safety regulations required by the
Food Safety and Modernization Act, signed into law by President
Barack Obama in January 2011.  The lawsuit seeks a court order requiring the FDA to
implement the regulations. Curtis Allen, an FDA spokesman, said
in an e-mail that the agency can’t comment on pending
litigation.  The case is Center for Food Safety v. Hamburg, 12-4529,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  Fannie Mae Executives Get Securities Lawsuits Narrowed  A lawsuit alleging ex- Fannie Mae (FNMA)  Chief Executive Officer
 Daniel Mudd  and other former officials misled investors about
the company’s exposure to subprime and Alt-A mortgages was
narrowed by a federal judge in New York.  Investors who bought Fannie Mae shares from November 2006
to September 2008, including a Massachusetts pension board, sued
the company as a group in Manhattan federal court. U.S. District
Judge Paul Crotty yesterday ruled they could pursue securities-
fraud claims against Fannie Mae and its executives and dismissed
state-law claims and some related lawsuits by individual
investors. Crotty also allowed other aspects of the litigation
to continue.  Fannie Mae bought mortgages from lenders and issued
mortgage-backed securities. The U.S. government seized control
of Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , another mortgage-finance company,
in September 2008 after the biggest surge in mortgage defaults
in at least three decades threatened to topple the companies.  The judge also dismissed a suit against  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  that had been consolidated with the Fannie Mae litigation.
Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. alleged the bank misled investors
in its capacity as lead underwriter for the Fannie Mae
offerings, which Liberty purchased.  “Since Liberty failed to allege any actionable
misstatements contained in the offering circular, it cannot show
that Goldman made or supplied false statements to Liberty,”
Crotty said. The judge also dismissed claims against Citigroup
Inc. that were consolidated with the Fannie Mae litigation.  The judge rejected bids by Fannie Mae, Mudd and Enrico
Dallavecchia, Fannie Mae’s former chief risk officer, to dismiss
securities-fraud claims against them stemming from statements
about the company’s subprime exposure.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the lawsuit. James Wareham, a
lawyer for Mudd, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the ruling. Andrew Levander, a lawyer for
Dallavecchia, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail left at his
office after business hours. Andrew Wilson, a spokesman for
Washington-based Fannie Mae, declined to comment.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, declined to immediately comment on the lawsuit.  Crotty said that while Fannie Mae had argued the plaintiffs
were improperly relying on a “fraud by hindsight theory,” he
said it wouldn’t defeat the plaintiffs’ allegations of
misrepresentation and omissions that were allegedly misleading
at the time they were made.  Crotty did grant a motion by Fannie Mae, Mudd and
Dallavecchia to dismiss state-law claims, citing the federal
Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act of 1998.  Earlier this month, Crotty said Mudd and Dallavecchia must
face a suit filed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
that accuses him of misleading investors about the company’s
exposure to risky loans.  The case is In Re Fannie Mae 2008 Securities Litigation,
09-mdl-2013, Southern District of New York, (Manhattan).  Comings and Goings  Senior Treasury Tax Official Michael Caballero Joins Covington  Michael Caballero, the former international tax counsel at
the U.S. Treasury Department, will join Covington & Burling
LLP’s Washington office as a partner in its tax practice on
Sept. 10.  At the Treasury Department, Caballero led legislative,
regulatory and treaty projects, included the implementation of
the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the firm said in a
statement. Caballero also coordinated the representation of the
U.S. in various international forums, such as the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development.  Before moving to the Treasury Department, Caballero was a
partner at Paul Hastings LLP. He is currently chairman of the
D.C. Bar’s International Tax Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  