-- Delta Repair Center With Aeromexico to Boost Aerospace Hub
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-08-31T20:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/delta-aeromexico-to-build-repair-center-in-central-mexico.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  Grupo
Aeromexico SAB (AEROMEX*)  said they will build a maintenance, repair and
overhaul center in the central Mexican state of Queretaro,
bolstering the region’s growing aerospace industry.  The facility at Queretaro Intercontinental Airport will
replace one in Guadalajara and will have the capacity to service
as many as seven airplanes at a time, the two carriers said in a
 statement  today. The airlines will jointly invest as much as $50
million in the center, Aeromexico Chief Executive Officer Andres Conesa said in an Aug. 15 interview.  Queretaro, about 130 miles (209 kilometers) northwest of
Mexico City, already is home to a  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  aircraft
fuselage plant, a  General Electric Co. (GE)  turbine engineering
center, and factories of French airplane-engine maker  Safran SA. (SAF) 
Eurocopter, the helicopter unit of  European Aeronautic, Defence
& Space Co. (EAD) , is building an aircraft parts plant.  “It’s excellent news for the region,” said Luc Beaudoin,
principal of AeroShores Management Consulting, which advises
aerospace manufacturers on setting up operations in Mexico and
has an office in Queretaro. “It’s increasing the physical mass
of aerospace activities.”  For Mexico City-based Aeromexico, Mexico’s largest airline
by passengers carried, the repair center represents “a clear
recognition of world-class quality and service Mexico offers
through its skilled manpower,” Conesa said in the statement.  Ed Bastian, president of Atlanta-based Delta, the world’s
second-biggest carrier, said the facility would “usher in lower
maintenance costs.”  Delta rose 1.2 percent to $8.65 at the close in New York.
Aeromexico fell 0.9 percent to 20.02 pesos in Mexico City.  Aerospace Clusters  While low labor costs have helped draw manufacturers to
Queretaro, rising aerospace and automotive investment in central
Mexico may set the stage for “labor shortage and inflation,”
Beaudoin said in a telephone interview from Laval, Quebec.  Mazda
Motor Corp. (7261)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  announced plans last year to
build factories in the state of Guanajuato, which borders
Queretaro.  Mexico also has expanding aerospace clusters in the
northern border states of Baja California, Sonora and Chihuahua.
The industry is expected to draw increased investment in the
coming years, said Carlos Guzman, head of Promexico, the
national government’s investment promotion agency.  “Five years ago, we had close to 60 companies in this
sector, now we have more than 250,” Guzman said in an Aug. 27
interview. “We have formed a very robust supply chain in
Mexico, a very robust ecosystem that makes us more competitive,
especially to serve the North American markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in  Mexico  City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  