-- DLA, Jones Day, K&L Gates Bid for Singapore Law Licenses
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-08-31T12:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/dla-jones-day-k-l-gates-bid-for-singapore-law-licenses.html
DLA Piper, the world’s  second-
largest   law firm  by revenue, and Jones Day, the top legal
adviser on mergers by deal count, said they bid for licenses in
Singapore as the Asian city further opens its legal market.  Twenty-three foreign law firms applied for the licenses as
at the close of submissions today, the Ministry of Law said in
an e-mailed statement. The licenses allow foreign firms to
practice Singapore corporate law and hire locally qualified
lawyers.  K&L Gates LLP, based in Pittsburgh, and Watson, Farley &
Williams LLP, based in  London , also said they bid for the so-
called Qualifying Foreign Law Practice licenses in Singapore,
where $35.6 billion of mergers and acquisitions have been
announced this year, a 25 percent increase on the same period in
2011, while deals in U.S. and  Europe  fell.  “ Asia  is a key driver of global economic growth,” said
Sushma Jobanputra, the partner in charge of  Jones Day ’s
Singapore operations. “With that growth will come the increased
need for Singapore law advice.”  The number of licenses to be awarded will depend on the
quality of the applications, Singapore’s law ministry has  said .
Determining factors include the firm’s track record, number of
lawyers, commitment to offshore work and practice areas.  The law ministry, which will assess the applications with
officials from the  finance ministry , central bank and attorney-
general’s office,  said  it expects to award the licenses by the
end of the year.  Double Revenue  White & Case LLP, Latham & Watkins LLP, Clifford Chance
LLP, Herbert Smith LLP, Allen & Overy LLP and Norton Rose LLP
won the first licenses in 2008. They committed to double their
revenue, staffing and profits in the city in five years. Twenty
firms including Washington-based Jones Day had applied.  Foreign firms could previously advise on Singapore
corporate law through joint ventures or refer clients to a local
practice. The number of foreign lawyers in the Southeast Asian
city has almost doubled to 1,200 at the end of 2011 from 633 in
2007.  “The license has been very helpful to us in meeting the
needs of our clients since there is an increasing demand to
provide ‘one-stop’ shopping on matters,” said  Barrye Wall , the
Singapore-based regional section head for  White & Case  in Asia.  Law firms aren’t the only ones drawn to Singapore.
Investment bankers in the U.K. favor working in Singapore over
 New York  and London, according to recruitment firm Astbury
Marsden. About 60 percent of bankers said they expect the Asia-
Pacific region to dominate the global financial industry within
a decade, the recruiter said in its annual “Preferred Location
Survey.”  Joint Ventures  Singapore opened its legal industry in 2000 to boost the
financial services market and allowed foreign firms to set up
joint ventures. In 2008, the joint law venture scheme was
enhanced, allowing the foreign law practice to share as much as
49 percent of its Singapore partner’s profits in permitted areas
and directly hire local lawyers.  The Southeast Asian city announced in February that foreign
law firms can own stakes in local legal practices and relaxed
the rules for the admission of experienced foreign  trial
lawyers . Singapore’s legal services reform has raised concerns
among the local bar and lawmakers including  Hri Kumar , wary that
foreign law firms may dominate the industry.  Baker & McKenzie LLP, the largest law firm by revenue, and
Philadelphia-based Duane Morris LLP, which have joint ventures
with Singapore law firms, said they won’t apply for the
Qualifying Foreign Law Practice licenses.  Duane Morris’s ties with local law firm Arfat Selvam
Alliance LLC allows it the flexibility and ability to expand in
Singapore and the region, said Krishna Ramachandran, managing
director of the venture.  Clients are looking for law firms that can advise on
international and domestic issues, including on disputes, said
Edmund Leow, managing principal of Baker & McKenzie.Wong & Leow
in  Singapore .  “The joint law venture arrangement has allowed us to do
just that,” Leow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  