-- Dollar Falls to 3-Month Low as Bernanke Won’t Rule Out Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-31T21:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/dollar-falls-to-3-month-low-as-bernanke-won-t-rule-out-stimulus.html
The Dollar Index fell to a more than
three-month low as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
defended his unprecedented actions and made the case for further
monetary stimulus to counter unemployment.  The currency weakened against all but one of its 16 most-
traded peers as Bernanke said at an annual forum in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , that joblessness was a “grave concern” and that
further bond purchases under quantitative easing shouldn’t be
ruled out. The dollar also declined as reports showed business
activity in the U.S. expanded more slowly this month and demand
for U.S. capital goods dropped in July.  South Africa’s rand  was
among leading gainers as stocks and crude oil rose on demand for
higher-yielding assets.  “The fact that he said quantitative easing has worked in
the past, and helps the economy, probably suggests he’s leaning
towards more easing,” Charles St-Arnaud a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York , said of Bernanke
in a telephone interview. “People were expecting something a
little more direct in terms of signaling, but all the positives
that he pointed out suggest that he’s more on the side of
providing QE3.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, declined 0.5 percent to 81.250 at 5 p.m. in
New York after touching 80.964, the lowest level since May 22.
The dollar declined 0.6 percent to $1.2579 per euro and dropped
0.3 percent to 78.39 yen. The euro rose 0.2 percent to 98.56
yen.  Monthly Moves  The dollar fell 1.5 percent this month, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which tracks 10
developed-nation currencies. The yen dropped 1.8 percent and the
euro added 1 percent.  Australia ’s dollar was the biggest
decliner, sliding 3.4 percent, while  Norway ’s krone led gainers
with a 3 percent rise.  The Australian dollar declined as low as A$1.22311 per
euro, its least since July 4, as  China ’s  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  fell for a third day. The benchmark gauge yesterday
reached its lowest level since February 2009. China is
Australia’s largest export market. The Aussie rose 0.3 percent
to $1.0322.  Australia’s currency may drop against the greenback over
the next month to as low as $1.0098, the lowest level since
June, after breaching a key support level, Gaitame.com Research
Institute Ltd. said, citing trading patterns.  The South African rand gained, rebounding from a five-week
low against the dollar, as commodity prices rallied on stimulus
speculation. The currency rose 0.9 percent to 8.4 per dollar
after having increased as much as 1.4 percent, the most since
Aug. 21.  Krona, Peso  Sweden’s krona advanced 0.9 percent to 6.6261 per dollar
after gaining as much as 1.6 percent, the most since July 26.
The currency’s 3.9 percent gain against the greenback is the
second most this year after the  Mexican peso .  The peso advanced from near a four-week low against the
greenback after Bernanke said he may act to boost growth in the
economy of the Latin American country’s biggest trading partner.
The peso appreciated 1.2 percent to 13.1910 after touching
13.4383 yesterday, its weakest level since Aug. 2.  Mexico ’s currency has advanced 5.7 percent this year
against the  U.S. dollar  to lead gainers.  Brazil ’s real has
fallen 8.1 percent to pace decliners. The yen has slid 1.9
percent and the euro has dropped 3 percent.  Euro Forecast  The euro could decline to $1.2042 in the short-term and
depreciate to $1.15 by the end of the year, according to George Dowd, director of global foreign-exchange trading in  Chicago  at
Spectrum Asset Management LLC.  “We’ve seen a pick-up in rhetoric this week as to what the
policy is going to be in  Europe  going forward,” Dowd said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “If the European Central bank starts to move away from
Bundesbank recommendations, I don’t think that’s great for the
euro.”  ECB policy makers meet Sept. 6 with investors pushing
central-bank President  Mario Draghi  to detail his Aug. 2
proposal to reduce sovereign-bond yields by buying debt in
markets alongside Europe’s rescue fund.  Germany ’s Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann criticized the proposal, calling it
“touchy.”  Many policy makers at the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
previous meeting said additional stimulus probably will be
needed soon unless the economy showed a “substantial and
sustainable strengthening,” according to minutes of their July
31-Aug. 1 meeting.  ‘Clear Sign’  The Fed has expanded its  balance sheet  with two rounds of
bond purchases, known as quantitative easing, or QE. In the
first, starting in 2008, the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of
mortgage-backed securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt
and $300 billion of Treasuries. In the second round, announced
in November 2010, the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  “Even though initially the reaction was that there was no
clear sign of QE3 coming in September, they did say they would
provide additional policy accommodation as needed,” said  David Mann , regional head of research for the Americas at  Standard
Chartered  in New York. “It will depend even more than ever on
the next set of economic data, particularly payrolls.”  The dollar declined as the Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago Inc. said its  business barometer  fell to 53, from 53.7
in July. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. Economists in
a Bloomberg News survey forecast the gauge would drop to 53.2.  The 4 percent decrease last month in bookings for non-
military capital goods excluding aircraft exceeded the 3.4
percent drop estimated last week in the durable-goods report,
the Commerce Department said today. It remained the biggest
decline since November.  U.S. payrolls are forecast to add 125,000 jobs in August,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
Survey, following an increase of 163,000 in July. The report is
due Sept. 7. The  unemployment rate  is forecast to hold steady at
8.3 percent, according to a separate survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  