-- ECB Said to Use Greek Myth for Security on New Euro Notes
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-08-31T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/ecb-said-to-use-greek-myth-for-security-on-new-euro-banknotes.html
The  European Central Bank  is using
an image from Greek mythology to improve security on new euro
banknotes, four people familiar with the design said, even as
 Greece ’s near bankruptcy fuels a debt crisis that’s threatening
the future of the common currency.  Europa, the Phoenician princess abducted by Zeus who gave
the continent its name, will replace architectural images as the
watermark on the new notes, which the ECB wants to start rolling
out next year, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the plans aren’t public yet.  The Frankfurt-based ECB invited public relations companies
to pitch for the contract to help present the new notes and
dispel concern over the use of the image at a time when
investors are questioning whether Greece can remain in the euro
area, two of the people said.  Using an image that symbolizes the foundations and history
of Europe and transcends national boundaries may reinforce the
message of political leaders such as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  that the euro is a currency of unity. At the same time,
Greece triggered the sovereign debt crisis that’s driven up
borrowing costs for governments from  Rome  to Dublin, pushing at
least five economies into recession and threatening to destroy
the monetary union.  The ECB plans to make the designs public in November and
issue the first new note, a 5 euro bill, in May, two of the
people said.  Delayed Redesign  “As we have announced already some time ago, work on the
second generation of euro banknotes is ongoing,” ECB spokesman
Niels Buenemann said yesterday. “Details will be communicated
at a later stage.”  Central banks typically redesign their banknotes on a
regular basis to improve security and prevent counterfeiting.
Putting a face rather than a structure on the watermark may make
it harder for forgers to produce fakes. The ECB has repeatedly
delayed the redesign of euro banknotes, which were first
introduced in 2002.  In the first half of this year, the ECB  removed  251,000
fake banknotes from circulation, down from 310,000 notes
withdrawn in the previous six-month period.  Current euro notes show windows, gateways and bridges from
different eras in European architecture, both as the main
pictures on the bills and in the watermarks.  The new notes will retain these symbols and be very similar
to those in circulation other than the changed watermark, the
people said. The colors of the notes will be slightly different
and Europa will also show as a hologram on the silver marking on
the right-hand side of each bill, one of the people said.  The map of  Europe  on the notes will reflect the enlarged
European Union, according to information on the ECB’s website.  Phoenician Princess  In Greek mythology, Europa, the beautiful daughter of
Phoenician king Agenor and his queen Telephassa, was abducted by
Zeus. Taking the form of a white bull, the king of the Greek
gods seduced Europa and stole her away to the island of Crete.  Europa, whose moniker could be translated as “wide-
gazing” or “far-seeing,” is already depicted on Greek two-
euro coins and several commemorative pieces.  The ECB said in 2008 that it wanted to put the first notes
of a second series into circulation on Jan. 1, 2011, and roll
out the complete set over a period of several years.  Debt Crisis  The plan has been pushed back after the financial crisis
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. morphed
into a debt crisis, which has forced the ECB into uncharted
policy territory. ECB President  Mario Draghi  may on Sept. 6 give
details of a plan to buy  government bonds  to stem the crisis, a
measure opposed by Germany’s Bundesbank.  Meanwhile, observers from the ECB,  International Monetary
Fund  and European Commission return to Greece next week to
continue their assessment of the country’s deficit-reduction
progress. Without a positive review, Greece may not receive the
next tranche of its bailout money and be forced to exit the
monetary union it joined in 2001.  Greece’s influence on the euro and its physical form dates
to before the currency was created.  In 1996, then Greek Finance Minister Yannos Papantoniou
successfully pleaded for euro banknotes to feature the name
“euro” in the Greek alphabet, overcoming German protests.  According to an account from Ireland’s Ruairi Quinn, then
German Finance Minister Theo Waigel told Papantoniou that he’d
had “enough trouble in  Germany  trying to sell this idea of
giving up the mark, and now you want me to put funny letters on
it as well.”  According to Quinn, Waigel added: “It’s all irrelevant,
because you’re never going to qualify” anyway.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  