-- ECB Said to Give Central Bank 24 Hours to Digest Plan
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-08-31T17:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/ecb-said-to-give-central-bank-24-hours-to-digest-plan.html
The euro area’s 17 national central
bank governors will have about 24 hours to digest European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-buying proposal
before they start debating it, three officials said.  The ECB’s Executive Board will send a list of options for
the bond-buying program to the governors on Sept. 4, a day
before the Governing Council convenes in  Frankfurt , the central
bank officials said on condition of anonymity because the plans
aren’t public. The meeting concludes on Sept. 6, after which
Draghi holds his regular press conference. No single policy
option has emerged as preeminent, the officials said. An ECB
spokesman declined to comment.  The lack of a clear preference, the complexity of the issue
and the shortage of time increase the risk that Draghi won’t
present a detailed plan next week, according to economists at
Commerzbank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. The ECB may choose to
hold back some details of the plan until the German
Constitutional Court rules on the legality of  Europe ’s permanent
bailout fund on Sept. 12, two of the officials said.  Options under consideration include sovereign bond yield
caps and targets on spreads over German bunds, the three
officials said. One said there has also been discussion about
making purchases in a range of asset classes and not just
 government bonds . All stressed no final decisions have been
made.  The ECB has charged three committees to draw up proposals.
Draghi cancelled a trip to a meeting of central bankers in
 Jackson Hole  in the U.S. this week to work on options over the
weekend, two officials said.  Bundesbank Tensions  The deliberations take place against a background of
growing tension between the ECB and  Germany ’s Bundesbank, which
is openly opposed to government bond purchases.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann has considered quitting
over Draghi’s plan, Bild newspaper reported today, citing
unidentified people with knowledge of the situation. Weidmann
has decided to remain in his post to defend his position at next
week’s policy meeting, the newspaper said, adding German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  urged him to do so.  Draghi said on Aug. 2 that the ECB may intervene in the
secondary market to lower yields in countries that ask Europe’s
bailout fund to buy their bonds in the primary market. They
would need to agree to conditions for the aid by signing a
Memorandum of Understanding.  “Some recent policy proposals in Europe have been quite
constructive,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
today in Jackson Hole. “I urge our European colleagues to press
ahead with policy initiatives to resolve the crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  