-- Medivation’s Prostate Cancer Drug Approved by U.S. FDA
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-31T20:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/medivation-s-prostate-cancer-drug-approved-by-u-s-fda.html
Medivation Inc. (MDVN) , a biotechnology
company whose shares have jumped sixfold in the past 12 months,
won approval from U.S. regulators for a late-stage prostate
cancer treatment.  The drug, to be sold under the name Xtandi, was developed
with Tokyo-based  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) , and the companies will
split sales. The approval may increase San Francisco-based
Medivation’s sales to $357 million in 2013 from $60 million last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Medivation’s therapy, approved three months before the
scheduled decision date, is designed for patients whose cancer
has advanced beyond the prostate even with previous treatments,
the  Food and Drug Administration  said today in a statement.
Xtandi extended patients’ survival to 18.4 months, compared with
13.6 months for those on a placebo in a clinical trial.  “The need for additional treatment options for advanced
prostate cancer continues to be important for patients,”
 Richard Pazdur , the FDA director of the Office of Hematology and
Oncology Products, said in the statement. “Xtandi is the latest
treatment for this disease to demonstrate its ability to extend
a patient’s life.”  Medivation’s Xtandi will compete with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
Zytiga and  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ’s Provenge. Medivation plans to start
selling the drug in mid-September, Chief Executive Officer David Hung said. Zytiga generated $432 million in the first six months
of this year. Sales of Provenge were $162 million.  Treatment Cost  Medivation will join with Astellas’s U.S. sales force, and
the medicine will cost $7,450 for a 30-day supply, Hung said
today on a conference call. Patients in the clinical trial used
the drug for eight months. Hung called it “an historic day”
for the company.  Fifteen percent of the 241,000 American men a year who are
diagnosed with prostate cancer see it spread beyond the walnut-
sized gland, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  Medivation’s “cancer drug to me looks to be the best drug
so far for prostate cancer, which is a big category, a big
market,”  Howard Liang , a Boston-based analyst for Leerink Swann
LLC, said last month in a telephone interview. “It’s not common
for a mid-cap company to be associated with a product that’s
best in class for a big category.”  Medivation gained 7.6 percent to $104.86 at 4 p.m. New York
time, its highest closing price since the shares began trading
in 1996. The company announced Aug. 28 that it plans a two-for-
one stock split on Sept. 21.  The drug has also been submitted to the European Medicines
Agency,  Europe ’s drug regulatory body, Medivation said in a
statement. The EMA submission triggers a $5 million milestone
payment from Astellas, in addition to a $30 million payment for
the FDA approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  