-- Emmis Defeats Preferred Stockholders’ Bid to Block Vote
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/emmis-defeats-preferred-stockholders-bid-to-block-vote.html
Emmis Communications Corp. (EMMS) , the
ninth-biggest U.S. radio station operator, fended off a bid to
block a shareholder vote that could wipe out $34 million in
unpaid dividends owed to preferred stockholders.  U.S. District Judge Sarah Evans Barker in Indianapolis
yesterday denied a request by preferred shareholders for an
order preventing a vote on that proposal and others that were to
be the subject of a since-postponed Aug. 14 special meeting. The
shareholders claimed that if the proposed amendments became
effective, their preferred stock would become worthless.  “Plaintiffs have failed to meet any of the threshold
requirements for injunctive relieve,” Barker said in her 48-
page ruling. “We hold that any damage plaintiffs are likely to
suffer in the absence of injunctive relief is not irreparable.”  The shareholders could be “adequately compensated for by
an award of monetary damages, should they ultimately prevail
after a full assessment of the evidence,” Barker said. An
injunction barring a vote could harm Emmis’s stock price and its
efforts to refinance, Barker said.  Emmis, which had been little changed most of yesterday,
rose after the court’s decision, jumping 24 percent to $2.50 in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  Corre Opportunities  The judge heard testimony and oral argument during a two-
day hearing that ended Aug. 1. When Emmis lawyers told her they
would willingly delay the meeting, Barker told them she would
rule on or by yesterday.  Corre Opportunities Fund LP and other preferred
stockholders sued Indianapolis-based Emmis, which owns  radio
stations  in cities including  New York  and  Los Angeles , along
with Chairman Jeffrey Smulyan and other officers and directors.
Corre accused them of failing to comply with state and federal
disclosure laws.  “Emmis properly disclosed what was appropriate to disclose
in a timely way,” the company said in a May 29 court filing
opposing the investors’ request.  With a market capitalization of about $82 million, Emmis
has more than 40 million shares of stock outstanding, 2.8
million of which are preferred shares whose  holders  are
currently entitled to automatic dividends, according to a June
29 proxy statement issued in advance of the now-delayed vote.  Liquidation Value  Those dividends, worth 6.25 percent of the preferred
shares’ $50 liquidation value, or $3.125, haven’t been paid
since October 2008, the investors said in a court filing.
Including those unpaid dividends, each preferred share is worth
$62.12, according to that proxy statement and meeting notice.  Other proposals on the Aug. 14 ballot included elimination
of future preferred dividends unless declared and with that, the
abolition of preferred stockholders’ ability to elect two
members to the Indianapolis-based company’s board as long as
there are arrears.  All of this, Corre alleged in court papers, is a prelude to
Smulyan’s plan to take Emmis private.  “Our contention all along has just been leave us alone,”
John Barrett, managing partner of New York-based Corre Partners
Management LLC, which controls the plaintiff fund, said in a
phone interview in July.  Barrett testified at the hearing as did Smulyan, who denied
any intent to privatize the company following failed attempts to
do so in 2006 and 2010.  ‘Worn Out’  “I’m worn out from two years ago,” the chairman and chief
executive officer said. “I just don’t want to do it. I can’t
foresee a situation in which that would change.”  Smulyan owns almost 60 percent of Emmis’s common stock and
controls votes for almost 67 percent of the preferred shares,
meaning the votes will probably go in his favor, according to
the proxy statement.  “Let’s say all requirements were satisfied,” Barker said
of the dispute over whether the company properly disclosed its
intent. She said there is no doubt “that Mr. Barrett and his
group were victimized” when they failed to sell their shares to
Emmis and Smulyan.  “They were left holding an empty bag,” she said.  The case is Corre Opportunity Fund LP v. Emmis
Communications Corp., 12-cv-00491, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  Indiana  (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  