-- Theolia to Start Moroccan Wind Farm Development
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-08-31T09:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/theolia-loss-widens-on-higher-interest-costs-sales-jump.html
Theolia SA (TEO) , a French wind-energy
developer, expects to begin developing the first stage of its
300-megawatt project in  Morocco  over the next few months, its
chief executive officer said.  The Aix-en-Provence-based company signed an  agreement  with
the Moroccan government’s Office National de l’Electricite in
May 2011 for a two-phase wind project. The first stage will
double the capacity at the company’s existing 50-megawatt site
in Tetouan on the north coast of Morocco.  “We will be ready to start building this wind farm in a
few months,” Fady Khallouf, the CEO, said by phone today. The
wind conditions in Morocco combined with political support of
the industry make it an attractive market, and Theolia is eyeing
further opportunities in the country, according to Khallouf.  Theolia today reported its loss widened in the first half
as a surge in interest expenses offset a 21 percent gain in
electricity sales, according to an e-mailed statement. The net
loss was 10.3 million euros ($12.9 million) compared with 6.86
million euros in the first six months of 2011.  Theolia’s shares fell as much as 7.2 percent to 1.68 euros
in Paris trading. The stock has risen 38 percent since the start
of the month.  Interest expense relating to the company’s convertible bond
rose to 6.5 million euros from 2 million euros last year as the
number of bond conversions fell from last year’s levels.
Measures to pare debt at French wind farms resulted in a one-
time accounting charge of 2 million euros, Khallouf said.  The financial charges overshadowed a doubling of earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That
measure rose to 15.9 million euros from 7.6 million euros.
Revenue from electricity sales rose 21 percent to 26.3 million
euros.  “Despite the financial crisis, we are able to grow and
able to improve our profitability,” the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  