-- Erste Bank Chief Treichl Says Worst Is Over for Eastern Europe
-- B y   L i n d a   Y u e h   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-08-31T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/erste-bank-chief-treichl-says-worst-is-over-for-eastern-europe.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  Chief Executive
Officer Andreas Treichl said the worst effects of Europe’s debt
crisis are over for eastern Europe, where his bank is the third-
biggest western lender.  “I really don’t expect it to get worse, but it is bad
enough for the moment,” Treichl said in an interview in
Alpbach,  Austria . “Mainly because the loan growth is relatively
weak for the moment -- which is understandable in the sense that
the general mood that has affected Europe also has affected
central and eastern Europe.”  Erste, which makes about half its retail profit in eastern
Europe, cut its outlook in April and again in July after
deteriorating economic performance in the former communist part
of Europe hurt loan growth.  “We see positive signs -- we see that in those countries,
where the country, the people and the banks have a good
liquidity situation,” Treichl said in the interview with
Bloomberg Television yesterday. “My personal view is that with
very few exceptions the worst is over.”  Credit in the region is stagnating, according to the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. While that’s
weighing on economic expansion, it’s also closing budget and
current-account deficits, trimming foreign debt, nurturing local
deposit markets and safeguarding against bubbles. Foreign
lenders such as Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Austria’s Erste and
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  dominate eastern Europe’s
banking industry with three-quarters of total assets.  Better Margins  “The margins and the returns that you can achieve in
central and eastern Europe are substantially better than they
are in western Europe,” Treichl said. “The total return of
those banks in those markets is substantially better than at
home.”  Eastern Europe has “hope for growth,” Treichl said. “We
have the fantastic situation of having completely
underpenetrated banking markets, people who have substantially
lower incomes than in western Europe, but are substantially more
productive.”  OAO Sberbank (SBER) ’s recent move of entering the region by buying
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s east Europe unit is a “good
sign,” Treichl said, as it shows that “they must believe in
the future of that region,” he said, adding that the Russian
lenders financial prowess wasn’t a cause for concern.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Yueh  in Alpbach, Austria at 
 lyueh@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Alpbach, Austria at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  