-- ESM to Aid Spanish Banks in ‘Near Future,’ Regling Says
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-08-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/esm-intends-to-aid-spanish-banks-in-near-future-regling-says.html
The European Stability Mechanism is
on track to become operational in October and intends to work
directly with Spanish banks in the “near future,” said Klaus Regling, who heads the euro area’s bailout funds.  “The ESM will become operational most likely in October,”
Regling said yesterday at a conference in Alpbach,  Austria .  The bailout funds have the ability to recapitalize banks,
“which we intend to do on  Spain  in the near future,” Regling
said. He said the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility and the ESM can use the same set of instruments.  The 500-billion euro ($1.28 billion) ESM is the permanent
successor to the EFSF, the 440 billion-euro mechanism that has
backed bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . The ESM was
due to become operational in July and is on hold while  Germany 
and other countries work through the ratification process.  Spain is in the early stages of a bank-bailout package of
up to 100 billion euros that will be drawn from the bailout
funds. To start, the euro area has authorized up to 30 billion
euros in emergency funds from the EFSF, which Spain could access
if needed. Once the Spanish government completes a review of its
banks, it will be able to access EFSF or ESM funds to
recapitalize its financial system.  Direct bank bailouts are on hold until the euro area can
integrate its banking-industry oversight. European leaders in
June  decided  to create a common bank supervisor and beef up the
 European Central Bank ’s oversight role to pave the way for
direct bank bailouts from the firewall funds. Proposals are due
on Sept. 12, with an aim of wrapping up negotiations by the end
of this year and enabling direct bailouts next year.  Bailout Facilities  Countries receiving aid benefit from lower borrowing costs
when they agree to the conditions necessary to tap the bailout
facilities, Regling said. “We provide loans at our own funding
costs,” he said. “On average we only need to charge 1 percent
to the borrowing countries.”  He also said giving a banking license to the ESM or the
EFSF wouldn’t increase lending capacities.  “The lending capacity of the EFSF is fixed and the lending
capacity of the ESM is fixed,” Regling said. “Those who
advocate a banking license for these institutions want to make
the refinancing easier, but it would not lead to more lending
capacity. That’s just a wrong assessment.”  Regling said that while the topic of granting the ESM a
banking license had been discussed, “the conclusion was not to
do it.”  -- With assistance from Jonathan Stearns in Brussels. Editors:
 Patrick Henry , Jones Hayden  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Alpbach, Austria, at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  