-- EU Carbon Permits Are Second-Fastest Rising Commodity
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-08-31T16:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/eu-carbon-permits-are-second-fastest-rising-commodity.html
European Union carbon was the
second-fastest-rising commodity this month after northwest
European naphtha. United Nations emission credits dropped in
August, as their discount widened to a record.  EU carbon allowances for December rose 5.1 percent to close
at 8.08 euros ($10.15) a metric ton today on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London , the biggest jump this month. They
gained 16.6 percent in August, compared with naphtha’s 17.2
percent, according to a ranking of 80 commodities tracked by
Bloomberg. United Nations emission credits dropped 0.7 percent.  EU allowances declined 16 percent last month and surged 30
percent in June, as the European Commission in Brussels
considers intervening in the market to temporarily limit supply.
The start of German auctions of permits for Phase 3 of the
trading system, which begins next year, will probably be delayed
until October this year from September, a government official
said today.  “If there isn’t much Phase 3 supply available, it means
utilities may buy shorter-term futures,” said Tom Greenwood, an
analyst in London for Ideacarbon, which rates emission credits.
Carbon also tracked crude oil and German power higher today,
Greenwood said by phone.  Brent crude  advanced 8.9 percent for
the month.  UN Certified Emission Reduction carbon offsets rebounded
after reaching a record yesterday in intraday trading.  CERs for December jumped 7.3 percent today to 2.80 euros a
ton. They yesterday fell as low as a record 2.50 euros a ton,
after the Clean Development Mechanism Executive Board handed out
3.9 million tons of credits to industrial-gas-cutting projects
that had previously been under review.  Australia  said Aug. 28 it will allow its emitters to use
international carbon instruments including EU permits for as
much as half of their compliance needs, tightening the specific
limit on UN offsets to 12.5 percent from 50 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  