-- EU Plan Said to Give ECB Sole Power to Grant Bank Licenses
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-08-31T16:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/eu-plan-said-to-give-ecb-sole-power-to-grant-banking-license.html
The  European Central Bank  would have
the sole power to grant banking licenses under proposals to give
it supervisory powers and build a euro-area banking union, a
European Union official said.  The ECB would have a monopoly on granting all bank licenses
within the 17-nation euro area under the draft rules, due to be
unveiled on Sept. 12, the official said, speaking on condition
of anonymity because the plan isn’t final. This means the ECB
could decide to withdraw banks’ licenses, although national
regulators would still control when to shut down a lender.  Under the proposals, which are being drafted by the
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, the ECB would also
gain discretion over which banks to supervise directly and when
it will delegate day-to-day oversight responsibilities, the
official said.  National regulators will retain control over when and how
to close a bank under the proposals. At the same time, the
central bank would be able to make recommendations and have a
voice in the process, and it will have authority over setting
capital requirements.  “The ECB should be given full supervisory powers related
to financial stability,” Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, told
reporters today in Brussels. National regulators should remain
in charge of some other tasks, including consumer protection and
payment services, he said.  Oversight Politics  If adopted, the proposals would be a major step toward
creating an EU-wide financial services framework that can
override national self-interest. EU officials want the ability
to rein in local banking systems that have proven as big a
source of systemic risk as their larger, internationally
operating counterparts.  “It was not systemically important banks that felled
 Spain , it was the heavily politicized regional cajas,” said
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London .  German bankers already have begun to speak out against the
project. Stephan Goetzl, president of cooperative banks in the
German state of Bavaria, said today he rejects calls to subject
cooperative lenders to supervision by the European Central Bank,
saying nations would lose their ability to influence credit
availability for smaller companies.  Vast Majority  Germany  is prepared to accept that the ECB becomes
supervisor for all banks in the euro area on condition that the
vast majority of tasks are delegated back down to the national
level, said a German official.  This would fulfil the German government’s aim of keeping
supervision of local savings banks at the national level, said
the official, who couldn’t be identified because the talks are
private.  Romano Prodi , a former president of the European Commission
and ex-Italian prime minister, said today that the euro-area
bank-supervision plan shouldn’t be limited to the largest
lenders.  “If you have many medium-sized banks that don’t respect
the rules, you have a systemic danger,” Prodi said in a
Bloomberg Television interview near Versailles,  France .  Bund Losses  The 10-year German bund extended losses on news of the
ECB’s proposed powers, as did Finnish and Dutch debt of the same
maturity. European Financial Stability Facility 10-year bonds
also fell. The euro extended gains, trading at $1.2586 at 5:52
p.m. in Brussels, up 0.6 percent on the day.  Euro-area leaders in June  decided  to create a common bank
supervisor and beef up the ECB’s oversight role to pave the way
for direct bank bailouts from the currency area’s firewall fund.
The currency zone’s debt crisis, now in its third year, has
forced Ireland,  Greece ,  Portugal  and Cyprus to seek broad-based
aid, while the Spanish government was granted as much as 100
billion euros ($126 billion) to recapitalize its beleaguered
banking system.  The euro area should continue to rely on national
authorities to handle the recapitalization and winding down of
failing banks, De Rynck said. In time, the EU will make
proposals to transfer some of these powers to a European-level
authority that would be separate from the ECB, he said.  “There have to be links between the supervisory work that
detects risk that can lead to resolution later on,” De Rynck
said. The resolution process itself will need to be handled
nationally, he said.  Year-End  The proposals, which De Rynck said the commission would
like to wrap up by year-end, call for the ECB to have ultimate
decision-making authority for all banks in the euro area. The
ECB would be part of a “supervisory mechanism” that includes
national regulators, who will take part in preparing and
implementing decisions that affect their banks.  “The actual day-to-day verifications of what is happening
in banks, day-to-day supervisory tasks, obviously that will
differ for types of banks but that will be up to the single
supervisory mechanism to take such decisions,” he said.  Countries that are not part of the euro area would be able
to join the oversight regime voluntarily, under the proposal, an
EU official told reporters in Brussels.  At the European Banking Authority, a London-based agency
that handles disputes among European regulators, the ECB would
speak for the euro area on financial stability and national
regulators would represent their nations on other areas.  Voting Procedures  Talks are under way about how the EBA’s voting procedures
might change to protect the interests of non-euro area nations.  The commission’s proposal calls for the central bank to
have early intervention powers for banks that run into trouble,
the official said.  The EU will unveil a proposed timeline along with the
plans. The official told reporters there would be three elements
to the announcement: a proposal on the ECB’s new role, a policy
paper on banking union, and legislation to incorporate the ECB’s
new role alongside that of the EBA in existing regulations.  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said in a speech
this week that the central bank should be equipped with “all
the necessary instruments to effectively exercise banking
supervision” including “intervention powers” and “the right
to close down unviable banks.”  Direct Oversight  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the ECB
will need to focus its direct oversight on banks that can pose a
systemic risk to  Europe . He made the comment in an op-ed
published today in the Financial Times.  This sort of triage is “common sense,” he said. “We
cannot expect a European watchdog to supervise directly all of
the region’s lenders -- 6,000 in the  euro zone  alone --
effectively.”  Schaeuble also said bank supervision needs to be
accountable to the European Parliament and the council of
European leaders. He called for safeguards to be set up so that
the ECB maintains its independence on monetary policy matters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  