-- Euro Approaches 8-Week High Versus Dollar Before Bernanke
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-08-31T12:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/euro-approaches-8-week-high-versus-dollar-before-bernanke.html
The dollar fell to an eight-week low
against the euro before Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
delivers his annual speech on monetary policy at the central
bank’s symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  The U.S. currency weakened against all but one of its 16
major counterparts after Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart 
said yesterday the central bank has a tough decision on whether
to add further stimulus to promote a stronger economic recovery.
Bernanke’s address in 2010 preceded a second round of
quantitative easing to support growth. Sweden’s krona rose by
the most in three weeks against the greenback amid demand for
higher-yielding assets.  “The move is explicitly about positioning ahead of a
potentially dovish Bernanke speech and a signal for QE3,”
 Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “It
will be very difficult for him to over-deliver and for the euro
to rally further against the dollar. The risk of disappointment
is now quite elevated.”  The dollar fell 0.9 percent to $1.2620 per euro at 8:44
a.m. New York time after dropping to $1.2628, the weakest level
since July 2. The U.S. currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 78.40
yen. The euro gained 0.7 percent to 98.98 yen.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, fell 0.8 percent, extending this month’s decline to
1.9 percent.  Krona, Rand  Sweden’s krona advanced 1.3 percent to 6.6064 per dollar,
the most since Aug. 14, after gaining as much as 1.5 percent,
the most since Aug. 3.  The krona is the best performer over the past three months
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
appreciating 6.5 percent. The euro decreased 2.2 percent over
the same period while the greenback slipped 4.4 percent. The yen
led all decliners with a 4.5 percent drop.  The South African rand gained, rebounding from a five-week
low against the dollar, as commodity prices rallied on stimulus
speculation. The currency rose 0.7 percent to 8.4165 per dollar
after having increased as much as 1.1 percent.  The pound is set for a monthly gain versus the greenback as
a report showed U.K. house prices rose in August, easing concern
that the  recession  is worsening. The British currency rose 0.6
percent to $1.5883.  Fed Buying  Bernanke will deliver his speech at 10 a.m. New York time.
The Fed has bought $2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds of the
stimulus known as quantitative easing starting in 2008. Many
policy makers said additional measures would probably be needed
soon unless the economy shows signs of a durable pickup,
according to minutes of their most recent meeting released on
Aug. 22. They next meet on Sept. 12-13.  “The only game in town today is Bernanke speaking at
Jackson Hole,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.
“Bernanke will probably outline the tools that the Fed has at
its disposal. Any disappointment might push the dollar higher
and risk currencies lower.”  The U.S. currency also weakened before a government report
forecast to show factory orders climbed last month, damping
demand for safer investments.  Orders rose 2 percent, the most since December, according
to a Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce Department
report. A final reading for the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan confidence index will confirm the gauge increased this
month to the highest since May, economists said.  ‘Close Call’  More stimulus “is a close call, really,” Lockhart, who
votes on monetary policy this year, said yesterday in a CNBC
interview from  Jackson Hole . “I am not overly concerned with
the longer-term costs of more action but at the same time I see
limited benefit from more action.”  The euro rose versus the dollar and yen even after a report
showed unemployment in the region was at a record in July.  The jobless rate in the economy of the 17 nations using the
euro was 11.3 percent in July, the same as in June, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said. That’s the highest
since the data series started in 1995.  Spain  is considering pumping its own money into Bankia
group to re-capitalize the country’s biggest nationalized lender
rather than use the emergency portion of a 100 billion-euro
bailout from the European Union, two people with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  