-- Europe Stocks Rise as Bernanke Doesn’t Rule Out Stimulus
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-08-31T16:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/european-stock-index-futures-decline-hermes-might-move.html
European stocks rose as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he would not rule out
further bond purchases to boost growth and reduce unemployment,
which he called a “grave concern.”  Hermes International SCA (RMS)  gained 2.3 percent after the maker
of Birkin and Kelly bags raised this year’s sales-growth target
as first-half earnings beat estimates. Bankia SA climbed 6.3
percent as  Spain  was said to be considering recapitalizing the
country’s largest nationalized lender with its own money.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.5 percent to 266.23 at
the close of trade. The gauge declined 0.7 percent this week
amid signs that global economic growth is slowing and as the
Spanish region of Catalonia asked for a bailout from the central
government. Shares still gained 1.9 percent this month.  “As expected, Mr Bernanke confirmed that the Fed stands
ready to provide more policy stimulus but is not about to pull
the trigger just yet,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director
of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London . “The markets are taking
Mr Bernanke’s comments in their stride, with hopes for more
immediate central bank intervention now pinned on the ECB.”  “The costs of non-traditional policies, when considered
carefully, appear manageable, implying that we should not rule
out the further use of such policies if economic conditions
warrant,” Bernanke said today in a speech to central bankers
and economists at an annual forum in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Stimulus Meeting  Bernanke’s speech comes two weeks before he leads a meeting
of the  Federal Open Market Committee  to decide whether an
expansion of the Fed’s record stimulus is needed to spur growth.
Two rounds of large-scale asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
have so far failed to reduce the jobless rate below 8 percent
more than three years into the recovery.  Separately, a report showed business activity in the U.S.
expanded at a slower pace in August. The Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. said today its  business barometer  fell
to 53.0 this month from 53.7 in July. Figures greater than 50
signal expansion. Economists forecast the gauge would drop to
53.2, according to the  median  estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Euro-area  unemployment  reached the highest on record in
July, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said
today. The jobless rate in the economy of the 17 nations using
the euro was 11.3 percent, the same as in June after that
month’s figure was revised higher. That’s the highest since the
data series started in 1995.  National benchmark indexes advanced in every western-
European market today, except for the U.K. and Iceland. The
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index fell 0.1 percent, while  France ’s CAC 40
Index rose 1 percent.  Germany ’s DAX Index climbed 1.1 percent.  Hermes Gains  Hermes increased 2.3 percent to 228.95 euros as it said
annual sales growth excluding currency shifts “could be around
12 percent.” The company last month said it targeted annual
revenue growth of 10 percent.  Operating income climbed to 510.9 million euros ($640
million) from 418.1 million euros a year ago, beating the
average 502 million-euro  analyst estimate . Net income rose 15
percent to 335.1 million euros, beating the 320.7 million euro
average of three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Bankia (BKIA)  climbed 6.3 percent to 1.43 euros. Spain is
considering recapitalizing the country’s largest nationalized
lender with its own money instead of using the emergency portion
of a 100 billion-euro bailout from the European Union, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  This would allow Spain to put off forcing Bankia group’s
junior debt holders to bear part of the rescue cost, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the negotiations
are private. European officials backed burden sharing in the
talks because it would limit the need for public money, the
people said.  Lenders Advance  A gauge of European lenders was the  best  performer of the
19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600, with Banca Monte dei Paschi
dei Siena SpA surging 6.5 percent to 22.4 euro cents, and  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  rising 6 percent to 5.67 euros.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
increased 7.6 percent to 4.64 euros.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  added 0.7 percent to 2,735.5 pence as a
gauge of European mining shares rebounded from yesterday’s loss,
posting the second-best group performance on the Stoxx 600.
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  gained 7.7 percent to 385.1 pence and
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  rallied 5.7 percent to 952.2 pence.  Iliad SA (ILD) , the mobile-phone company that shook the French
market with 2 euro-a-month packages, jumped 4.4 percent to 126
euros, the highest price since at least 2004, as it reported
sales and profit that beat analyst projections after grabbing
3.6 million subscribers in the first six months of its venture
into wireless services.  Neste Oil  Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V) ,  Finland ’s only oil refiner, rallied 3.9
percent to 9.16 euros after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised the
stock to buy from sell.  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , France’s largest publishing company, jumped
3.5 percent to 22.35 euros after Credit Suisse Group AG said
there are “strong reasons” to purchase the stock. Lagardere
late yesterday reiterated its recurring earnings before interest
and taxes target.  Aeroports De Paris (ADP) , the operator of the Charles de Gaulle
and Orly airports, fell 2.5 percent to 63.01 euros as first-half
net income dropped 18 percent to 147 million euros. Kepler
 Capital Markets  cut the stock to reduce, the equivalent of sell,
from hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  