-- Euro-Area Unemployment at Record, Inflation Quickens: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-08-31T10:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/euro-area-unemployment-at-record-11-3-inflation-quickens-1-.html
Euro-area  unemployment  rose to a
record and inflation quickened more than economists forecast as
rising energy costs threaten to deepen the economic slump.  The jobless rate in the economy of the 17 nations using the
euro was  11.3 percent  in July, the same as in June after that
month’s figure was revised higher, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. That’s the highest
since the data series started in 1995. Inflation accelerated to
2.6 percent in August from 2.4 percent in the prior month, an
initial estimate showed in a separate report. That’s faster than
the 2.5 percent median forecast of 31 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  A 12.4 percent surge in crude-oil prices over the past two
months is leaving consumers and companies with less money to
spend just as governments seek ways to contain the debt crisis.
European  economic confidence  dropped more than economists
forecast to a three-year low in August and German unemployment
increased for a fifth month, adding to signs the euro-area
economy continued to shrink in the third quarter.  “The whole euro zone is undergoing negative growth
developments,”  Don Smith , a London-based economist at ICAP Plc,
told Ken Prewitt on  Bloomberg Radio  yesterday. “The sense is
that increasingly the euro-zone crisis is bearing down on
countries in northern Europe and Germany in particular and this
is really forcing officials’ hands toward coming up with a firm
solution.”  Debt Turmoil  The euro was higher against the dollar, trading at $1.2587
at 12:54 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.7 percent on the day. The
European currency has declined more than 12 percent in the past
year as EU leaders have battled the debt turmoil that has
prompted five euro-area countries to seek external aid.  The  European Central Bank , which will publish its latest
economic projections next week, said in June that the euro-area
economy may shrink 0.1 percent this year, with inflation
averaging 2.4 percent. The ECB aims to keep annual gains in
consumer prices just below zero.  With the economy cooling and executives and consumers
growing more pessimistic, companies may find it difficult to
pass on higher prices and instead focus on cost cuts. A gauge of
employment expectations among euro-area manufacturers declined
in August, the European Commission said yesterday.  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, which helped soften
the region’s slowdown in the first half of the year, indicators
are also weakening. The number of people out of work in Germany
increased a seasonally adjusted 9,000 to 2.9 million in August,
more than economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast.  Siemens, Alcatel-Lucent  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, on Aug.
27 announced 500 job cuts at the business making mechanical
drives to counter waning demand. The cuts add to thousands of
reductions that Siemens has announced this year, with Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  also lowing the profit target.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-largest carrier,
said on Aug. 22 that it plans to cut more jobs and may move some
activities outside Germany as it works on a savings plan aimed
at shaving 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) from annual costs by
2015.  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , France’s largest phone-equipment
supplier, said last month that it will eliminate 5,000 jobs.  In the U.K.,  house prices  rose the most in more than 2 1/2
years in August as a resilient employment market helped overcome
the impact of a shrinking economy,  Nationwide Building Society 
said today. The British Chambers of Commerce cut its U.K.
economic forecasts and now predicts the economy will contract
this year for the first time since 2009.  Industrial Production  In Asia, Japanese  industrial production  unexpectedly
slumped in July and consumer prices slid at a faster pace,
raising the danger that the world’s third-largest economy has
slipped back into a contraction. Industrial output also declined
in  South Korea .  Today’s report showed that 18 million people were
unemployed in the euro area in July, up 88,000 from the previous
month. At 25.1 percent, Spain had the highest jobless rate in
the EU. Portugal reported unemployment of 15.7 percent, with
Ireland at 14.9 percent. France’s jobless rate was at 10.3
percent.  Rising joblessness threatens to further curb  household
spending , deepening the economic slump. A gauge of euro-area
 consumer confidence  dropped to the lowest in more than three
years in August, with an indicator of their assessment of the
economic development over the coming year also slumping.  Distressed Nations  The ECB, which in July cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a
record low of 0.75 percent, is working out details of a plan to
purchase government bonds of distressed nations along with
Europe’s rescue fund. So far, neither  Italy  nor Spain has asked
for help from the bailout facility, the European Stability
Mechanism.  The central bank, led by  Mario Draghi , will hold its next
meeting on Sept. 6 in Frankfurt.  “There may be a little bit of disappointment,” Piero Ghezzi, head of global economics at Barclays Plc, told  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” on Aug. 29. “A
solution in Europe could be coming from the ECB if they were
willing to do unlimited and unconditional purchases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at   mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  