-- Ex-SAC Sigma Capital Adviser Horvath Seeks Trial Delay
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-31T23:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/ex-sac-sigma-capital-adviser-horvath-seeks-trial-delay.html
Jon Horvath, a former technology
analyst at SAC Capital’s Sigma Capital Management LLC, asked a
federal judge in New York to delay his  insider-trading  trial,
scheduled to begin Oct. 29, until January.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who is presiding over
the case of Horvath and his co-defendants, Level Global
Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and ex-Diamondback
Capital Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman , didn’t
immediately rule on the request. Today he ordered prosecutors or
any defendant who wished to respond to the request to do so by
Sept. 6.  Federal prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in New York filed a superseding, or
revised indictment, on Aug. 28 against all three defendants,
adding a charge of  securities fraud  involving  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  They
were previously charged with forming a “criminal club” of
friends and co-workers who reaped almost $62 million from
insider trading in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  shares.  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Antonia Apps and Richard Tarlowe
late Wednesday also filed a memo detailing their case against
the three men, with additional evidence that Newman, Chiasson
and Horvath attempted or did obtain material nonpublic
information about 11 more stocks not listed in the indictment,
including  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ;  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. (2330) ;  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) ;  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
 Western Digital Corp. (WDC)   A Co-Conspirator  Prosecutors also said in court papers that there was an
unnamed portfolio manager who was a co-conspirator who was part
of the scheme with Newman and Chiasson and identified sources of
inside information for the defendants.  Apps and Tarlowe said two of those men who’ve pleaded
guilty and already testified as prosecution witnesses in earlier
trials also passed information to these defendants, including
Mark Anthony Longoria, a former Advanced Micro manager and
Daniel DeVore, a former supply manager for Dell, who both
moonlighted as consultants for Primary Global Research LLC.  The U.S. also said Manosha Karunatilaka, a former Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. manager who pleaded guilty and
was sentenced to prison, also supplied nonpublic information to
the men.  Apps and Tarlowe said some of the trading in Nvidia was
conducted by Jesse Tortora of Diamondback and Newman. In
January, Stamford, Connecticut-based Diamondback agreed to pay
$9 million to end an insider-trading investigation.  ‘Resolved Matters’  Bharara’s office agreed not to prosecute the firm for the
actions of the two employees, while Apps said at the time that
the misconduct “was not known by the firm’s co-founders.”  “Diamondback fully resolved matters with the government
when it entered into its Non Prosecution Agreement in January
2012,”  Steve Bruce , a Diamondback spokesman said in an e-mailed
statement.  When he announced the case in January, Bharara described
how the information was allegedly passed from employees who
worked at technology companies to fund managers who traded on
the nonpublic information.  Bharara placed Sandeep Goyal, a former Dell employee, at
the center of the ring and said an unnamed person in the Dell
investor-relations department passed secret earnings information
to Goyal, who passed it on to Tortora.  Shared Information  Tortora, Horvath and Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, a Level
Global analyst, were friends who shared inside information on
public technology companies, including Dell, prosecutors said.  Another man, Danny Kuo, a former analyst at Whittier Trust
Co., a South Pasadena, California-based wealth-management
company was arrested and charged with the defendants in January.
He pleaded guilty in April and has also agreed to cooperate with
the government. Adondakis, Kuo, Tortora and Goyal, who have
pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the U.S., could testify
at trial.  Steve Peikin, a lawyer for Horvath, didn’t return calls
seeking comment about the government’s papers. John Nathanson, a
lawyer for Newman, and Greg Morvillo, a lawyer for Chiasson,
declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  