-- Ex-UBS Executive Ghavami Guilty in Municipal Bid-Rig Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-31T22:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/ex-ubs-executive-ghavami-guilty-in-municipal-bid-rig-case-1-.html
Ex- UBS AG (UBS)  managing director Peter Ghavami and two former colleagues were convicted of rigging bids
for contracts for investing proceeds of municipal bond sales.  After about two days of deliberations, jurors in  New York 
today found Ghavami, Gary Heinz and Michael Welty guilty of  wire
fraud  conspiracy for rigging bids from August 2001 to July 2002
and arranging to pay kickbacks to the brokerage firm CDR
Financial Products Inc. in exchange for help in manipulating
auctions.  Ghavami and Heinz were further found guilty of wire fraud
in connection with making payments. Welty was found not guilty
of wire fraud, and Heinz was found not guilty of one count of
witness tampering.  The trial followed a five-year federal antitrust
investigation into the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market . With
today’s convictions, 19 of 20 people charged have been convicted
or pleaded guilty to charges stemming from the probe, the
government said. One is awaiting trial.  Zurich-based UBS,  Bank of America Corp.  and other banks
have paid more than $700 million to settle U.S. claims over the
scheme.  “We’re disappointed with the verdict but we look forward
to pressing ahead in this fight,”  Charles Stillman , a lawyer
for Ghavami, said after the verdict.  Marc Mukasey , a lawyer for Heinz, said, “We respect the
verdict. We will continue to fight hard for Gary in the next
stage of the process.”  Defense Attorneys  Lawyers for Welty,  Preston Burton  and  Gregory L. Poe ,
declined to comment.  Sentencing dates haven’t been set for the three men. The
most serious charge, conspiracy to commit wire fraud, carries a
30-year maximum sentence.  Issuers of tax-exempt municipal bonds must use competitive
bidding when selecting firms to handle deals to invest the
proceeds, according to the indictment in the case. Prosecutors
alleged that the defendants skirted that requirement by
colluding with competitors to set bid prices, often to
deliberately lose the auctions.  Evidence included e-mails and 76 recordings of telephone
conversations in which the defendants discussed bids, sometimes
with individuals at competing firms just before deadlines for
bid submissions.  Prosecution Witness  Mark Zaino, a former UBS employee who testified for the
government under a cooperation agreement, told jurors that
defendants sometimes solicited intentional losing bids and gave
information to favored bidders to rig outcomes.  “A lot of people in this industry lost their moral
compass,” Kalina Tulley, a Justice Department lawyer, said Aug.
28 in closing arguments.  Another cooperating government witness, former CDR employee
Douglas Goldberg, testified that the UBS municipal derivatives
group paid the broker 10 to 15 times in exchange for help with
rigging bids.  Defense lawyers blamed the cooperating witnesses for much
of the alleged illegal activity. Stillman described Ghavami as a
“diligent, successful employee who carried out his work in good
faith.”  Mukasey told jurors in that Zaino, who worked at CDR before
jumping to UBS, was “operating behind everybody’s back” and
“scamming the UBS desk.”  Discussions with competitors of bids in phone calls were
examples of bluffing and other competitive tactics, Mukasey
said.  ‘Being Aggressive’  “Gary was being aggressive,” the defense lawyer said in
his closing arguments. “Gary was following the rules. That’s
good for competition.”  Three former  General Electric Co. (GE)  bankers, Dominick Carollo, Steven Goldberg and  Peter Grimm , were found guilty in
May in New York of conspiracy to commit fraud by manipulating
actions for municipal bond investment deals.  In December, CDR and its founder,  David Rubin , pleaded
guilty less than a week before they were to be tried on bid-
rigging charges.  UBS spokeswoman  Karina Byrne  said in an e-mailed statement
that the bank “exited the municipal investment and derivatives
business in 2008, and the conduct at issue concerns former
employees’ activities.”  “UBS resolved our own issues concerning this former
business with various regulators in May 2011,” she said.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan Chase spokesman, didn’t
return a call seeking comment about the verdict.  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for  GE Capital , declined to comment on
the cases. A Bank of America spokesman,  William Halldin , also
declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 