-- Texas Can Use Interim Districts in November Election
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/texas-can-use-interim-districts-in-november-election.html
Texas  will use interim voter maps
drafted by three federal judges in  San Antonio  for the November
election, delaying a redistricting fight between voting rights
activists and the state’s Republican leaders.  The three-judge panel ruled yesterday that interim voter
maps it created for use in Texas’s primary elections in May
after voting rights groups challenged state-drawn districts as
biased against minorities would remain in place for November.  Yesterday’s decision was in response to an Aug. 28 ruling
by a federal court in  Washington  that determined voter
boundaries created by Texas’s Republican-controlled legislature
intentionally discriminated against Hispanics and blacks.  Some minority rights groups urged the judges to delay the
election and redraw the maps, saying the interim maps embodied
much of the same discrimination rejected by the Washington
court.  “Everything will remain the same,” U.S. District Judge
Orlando Garcia said during yesterday’s hearing.  The ruling in Washington came in a separate lawsuit through
which Texas sought federal approval of its new maps under the
Voting Rights Act, a step required of all states with a history
of voting rights violations. The state said in a court filing
earlier yesterday that it would appeal that ruling to the U.S.
 Supreme Court .  Voting Access  Courtroom fights over voting access are intensifying
throughout the country as the election approaches. Voter cases
are under way in swing states, including  Florida ,  Ohio ,
 Pennsylvania  and  Wisconsin , where both Republican and Democratic
presidential campaigns see a possibility of victory.  A federal judge in Ohio yesterday threw out a Republican-
backed law that cut three days of early voting for most of the
state’s citizens, handing a victory to President Barack Obama’s
campaign organization. U.S. District Judge Peter Economus in
Columbus ruled that Ohio can’t give members of the military and
citizens living abroad three days more than other voters to cast
ballots. He ordered the previous schedule restored that allowed
anyone to vote until the day before an election.  “This court finds that plaintiffs have a constitutionally
protected right to participate in the 2012 election -- and all
elections -- on an equal basis with all Ohio voters,” Economus
said, ruling on a lawsuit brought by Obama for America.  “The people of Ohio had overwhelmingly expressed their
desire to preserve the early voting system which has been so
successful in recent years,” Aaron Pickrell, a senior adviser
with Obama for America-Ohio, said in a statement.  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, a Republican, said he
will file an appeal next week.  ‘We Disagree’  “We disagree with the ruling,” DeWine said yesterday.
“We have always allowed distinction for military voters, and to
say this violates equal protection is wrong.”  Ohio holds 18 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to
win a presidential race and no Republican has captured the White
House without a victory there. In 2008, Obama carried the state
with 51.5 percent of the vote.  In states that have tightened election procedures,
Republican-controlled legislatures said it was necessary to
prevent fraud and help elections run smoothly. Democrats say the
steps were aimed at limiting votes for Obama and helping
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney .  Florida Voting  A three-judge federal panel in Washington on Aug. 17
rejected an attempt to apply a state law curtailing early voting
days and poll hours in five counties subject to the Voting
Rights Act. Florida, the fourth-most populous U.S. state, failed
to show that the changes wouldn’t hurt minority voting, the
court said.  On Aug. 29, a federal judge in Florida said he will
permanently block new regulations of voter-registration drives
he previously found unconstitutional. The rules, passed by the
Republican-controlled Legislature and approved by Republican
Governor  Rick Scott , were “harsh and impractical,” U.S.
District Judge Robert Hinkle said.  A Pennsylvania judge on Aug. 15 upheld that state’s law
requiring voters to show identification to vote. That ruling is
being appealed.  Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen on Aug. 21 said
he was petitioning his state’s Supreme Court to hear his appeal
of two lower-court rulings striking down a voter-identification
requirement there.  Violations History  Texas is one of 16 jurisdictions with a history of voting
rights violations that under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act
need approval to change election procedures either from the
Justice Department or a special panel composed of district and
circuit court judges in Washington.  The legislature redrew electoral maps after the state grew
enough to gain four seats in Congress, adding almost 4.3 million
residents since 2000, according to the 2010 census.  Texas sued the administration of President  Barack Obama  in
July 2011 seeking so called pre-clearance for the plan and a
two-week bench trial was held in Washington in January.  The U.S. objected to two proposed congressional districts
and five state assembly districts. Several minority groups
objected to an additional state senate district.  Lawyers for Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott yesterday
asked the San Antonio court to stick with the interim maps for
the November election.  “There is no need to change the maps again,” Matthew
Frederick, an assistant attorney general, said during the
hearing. “They are legal and fair.”  ‘Illegitimate’ Districts  Luis Roberto Vera Jr., general counsel for the League of
United Latin American Citizens, who opposed use of the interim
maps, said in an interview that the Texas legislature will have
an opportunity to redraw new maps when it reconvenes in January.  Vera said that if new maps are drawn and approved, Texas
can hold special elections in May or June for whichever
“illegitimate” districts held elections based on the interim
maps.  Trey Martinez Fischer, chairman of the Texas Legislature’s
Mexican American Legislative Caucus, called yesterday’s decision
“reasonable” given the court and parties need time to fashion
boundaries that address the violations. His group opposed the
legislature maps in lawsuits filed in San Antonio and
Washington.  ‘Accurate First’  “Sometime getting things done quickly and getting it right
are in conflict,” Fischer said in an interview. “We prefer to
be accurate first and expedient second.”  In their Aug 28 ruling, U.S. Circuit Judge  Thomas Griffith 
and District Judges Beryl Howell and Rosemary Collyer said the
state’s plans contained evidence of discrimination.  Griffith and Collyer were appointed to the court by
President  George W. Bush . Howell was appointed by Obama.  In Congressional District 23, or CD 23, a sprawling
district stretching from San Antonio to El Paso in far western
Texas, the judges said Texas tried to make the district more
Republican without changing its Hispanic population levels. The
evidence showed that more than 600,000 people were moved into or
out of the district to address overpopulation of 149,000,
according to the ruling.  “The map drawers consciously replaced many of the
district’s active Hispanic voters with low-turnout Hispanic
voters in an effort to strengthen the voting power of CD 23’s
Anglo citizens,” Griffith said in the opinion. “In other
words, they sought to reduce Hispanic voters’ ability to elect
without making it look like anything in CD 23 had changed.”  Population Growth  Since minorities accounted for 89 percent of the state’s
 population growth , Texas was required to draw at least one of
the new congressional districts in a way that favored minority
candidates, the  Justice Department  argued.  “We have concluded that Texas’s failure to draw a new
minority district does in fact make the enacted plan
retrogressive,” Griffith said.  The judges found that the congressional plans were made
with discriminatory purpose, though they said there’s no direct
evidence of it. During the past four decades, Texas has “found
itself in court” during every redistricting cycle and has lost
every time, the judges added.  Griffith, in the opinion, said that the new voter maps
carved so-called economic engines out of black districts in
Houston and  Dallas . The Astrodome, the Medical Center, a rail
line and Houston Baptist University were all removed from the
district of U.S. Representative  Al Green , a Democrat, as was his
district office.  No Surgery  “No surgery was performed on the districts of Anglo
incumbents,” Griffith said. “In fact, every Anglo member of
Congress retained his or her district office. Anglo boundaries
were redrawn to include particular country clubs and, in one
case, the school belonging to the incumbent’s grandchildren.”  The case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The Washington
case is Texas v. U.S., 11-cv-01303, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington). The Ohio case is Obama for
America v. Husted, 12-cv-00636, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in San Antonio at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  