-- Texas Election Maps to Be Debated After ID Law Rejected
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-08-31T19:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/texas-election-maps-to-be-debated-after-id-law-rejected.html
The  Texas  districts from which
voters will elect congressional and state representatives are
being argued today before a three-judge panel in San Antonio,
one day after the state’s law requiring voters to have photo
identification was rejected by a court in  Washington .  The panel of three federal judges in San Antonio said in an
order yesterday that they preferred using interim maps for the
November election. They said that unless voting rights activists
persuaded them to act before the election, they intended to
address specific discriminatory boundaries when the
redistricting battle resumes “after all appeals to the U.S.
 Supreme Court  have been exhausted.”  The judges created the interim voter maps for use in
Texas’s primary elections in May after voting rights groups
challenged state-drawn districts as biased against minorities.  Some minority rights groups urged the judges to delay the
election and redraw the maps, saying the interim maps embodied
much of the same discrimination rejected by the Washington
court.  “This court has both the constitutional responsibility and
the time to adopt its own alternative to govern the 2012
elections and ensure that the voting rights of minority voters
in Texas are respected,” Luis Roberto Vera Jr., general counsel
for the League of United Latin American Citizens, said in a
court filing today.  Intentional Discrimination  On Aug. 28, a federal court in Washington determined that
voter boundaries created by Texas’s Republican-controlled
legislature and backed by Republican Governor  Rick Perry 
intentionally discriminated against Hispanic and black voters.
That ruling came in a separate lawsuit through which Texas
sought federal approval of its new maps under the Voting Rights
Act, a step required of all states with a history of voting
rights violations.  Texas, in a filing today in Washington, said it will appeal
the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court.  Yesterday, a Texas law requiring photo identification to
vote was rejected by federal judges in Washington in a third
case. The ruling by a special three-judge panel was the first
time U.S. judges weighed in on the Obama administration’s effort
to use the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to block a state from
requiring photo ID to participate in an election. Texas is one
of eight states that passed similar laws last year that
Republicans said would prevent voter fraud and Democrats said
were designed to suppress the vote for their party.  ‘Unforgiving Burdens’  “The state of Texas enacted a voter ID law that -- at
least to our knowledge -- is the most stringent in the
country,” U.S. Circuit Judge David Tatel wrote in the decision.
“It imposes strict, unforgiving burdens on the poor and racial
minorities in Texas are disproportionately likely to live in
poverty.”  Tatel, appointed to the bench by Democratic President  Bill Clinton , was joined by U.S. District Judges Rosemary Collyer and
Robert Wilkins. Collyer was named by Republican President  George W. Bush  and Wilkins by Democratic President  Barack Obama .  Texas is one of 16 jurisdictions with a history of voting
rights violations that under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act
need approval to change election procedures either from the
Justice Department or a special panel composed of district and
circuit court judges in Washington.  Texas election officials had told the court they needed a
ruling by the end of the month to be ready to enforce the photo
ID law in November. The ruling means the voter ID law won’t go
into effect before the November election.  ‘Victory for Fraud’  “Chalk up another victory for fraud,” Perry said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Today, federal judges
subverted the will of the people and undermined our effort to
ensure fair and accurate elections.”  Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , said today in a phone interview that the state won’t
seek immediate Supreme Court review in the the photo ID case.  Abbott, a Republican, said state officials are “confident
we will prevail” at the Supreme Court.  The “decision is wrong on the law and improperly prevents
Texas from implementing the same type of ballot integrity
safeguards that are employed by Georgia and  Indiana  -- and were
upheld by the Supreme Court,” Abbott said in a statement.  “This administration believes it should be easier for
eligible citizens to vote and to register to vote,”  Jay Carney ,
White House press secretary, said at a briefing. “We should not
be imposing unnecessary obstacles or barriers to voter
participation.”  Five States  At least five other states are awaiting decisions on the
legality of new voter identification requirements passed by
Republican-controlled legislatures.  South Carolina (BKSC) , whose law was blocked by the Justice
Department under the Voting Rights Act, is currently in trial
before federal judges in Washington with closing arguments
scheduled for Sept. 24.  Pennsylvania ,  Mississippi  and  New
Hampshire  are waiting to see whether the department will oppose
their laws.  Wisconsin  is appealing a state court judge’s ruling
that declared its voter-ID law unconstitutional.  The court’s ruling on the Texas ID law may help determine
whether other states’ statutes can be enforced,  Rick Hasen , an
election law blogger and professor at the  University of
California , Irvine’s law school, said in an interview before the
decision was issued.  Under the law Perry signed last year, voters who arrive at
the polls lacking one of the specified forms of state or U.S.-
issued photo IDs, would be given a provisional ballot. College
or university IDs aren’t among the authorized documents. Permits
to carry a concealed handgun are.  ID Law Exemptions  Those ballots would count only if voters bring an approved
ID to the registrar’s office within six days of the election.  The law exempts mail-in ballots and voters with significant
disabilities or religious objections to being photographed.  The  Justice Department  during a week-long trial on the
Texas law in July said at least 1.4 million registered voters in
the state lack any state-issued voter identification and those
voters are disproportionately Hispanic and black.  “By blocking this law, the court reaffirmed the right of
all people in this country to participate in our democracy,”
Nancy Abudu, a senior staff attorney with the American Civil
Liberties Union Voting Rights Project, said in an e-mailed
statement. Her group represented Texas-based organizations and
individuals in the case.  During the trial, lawyers for Texas argued that obtaining
the required identification was a minor inconvenience and called
the Justice Department’s number of affected voters “highly
inflated.” They accused the department of relying on a database
analysis that didn’t examine whether its list of voters without
ID included people who were dead or had moved out of state.  ‘Invalid, Irrelevant’  Texas also argued that the judges should look at studies of
other states that imposed photo ID laws rather than data on
Texas voters. Texas told the judges that social-science data
showing that voter ID laws didn’t reduce minority turnout in
Georgia or Indiana “answers the ultimate question” regarding
blacks and Hispanics in Texas.  In yesterday’s ruling, the judges said that all the
evidence presented by Texas “is some combination of invalid,
irrelevant and unreliable.”  They also said no one in the case submitted reliable
evidence on the number of Texas voters who lack photo ID.  The burdens on voters in Texas to obtain the required ID
are heavier than in Indiana, whose ID requirements were upheld
by the Supreme Court in 2008, Tatel said. Texans must apply for
state ID at a public safety office while almost a third of Texas
counties don’t have one, he said. During trial, state Senator
Carlos Uresti testified that for some towns, the nearest office
is about 100 to 125 miles away, according to the ruling.  ‘Working Poor’  “Even the most committed citizen, we think, would agree
that a 200 to 250 mile round trip -- especially for would-be
voters having no driver’s license -- constitutes a ’substantial
burden’ on the right to vote,” Tatel said.  He said such a “journey would be especially daunting for
the working poor.”  The wait times at these offices, which aren’t open on
weekends or beyond 6 p.m., can be as long as three hours,
according to the ruling.  Texas Poverty  The  poverty rate  in Texas is 25.8 percent for Hispanics and
23.3 percent for blacks, compared with 8.8 percent for whites,
according to U.S. Census data cited in the ruling.  “A law that forces poorer citizens to choose between their
wages and their franchise unquestionably denies or abridges
their right to vote,” Tatel said.  The judges said they didn’t decide whether the law was
crafted with discriminatory purpose after finding that the
requirements themselves were harmful to minority voters.  The case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The Washington
redistricting case is Texas v. U.S., 11-cv-01303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The photo ID case is
Texas v. Holder, 12-00128, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in San Antonio at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 