-- Texas Will Ask U.S. High Court to Review Voter Map Ruling
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-31T15:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/texas-will-ask-u-s-high-court-to-review-voter-map-ruling.html
Texas gave notice that it will ask
the U.S.  Supreme Court  to approve the state’s electoral
redistricting plan rejected this week by a special three-judge
panel in  Washington .  Texas, in a filing today in federal court in Washington,
said it was appealing the Aug. 28 ruling that found voter
boundaries created by the state’s Republican-controlled
legislature and backed by Republican Governor  Rick Perry 
intentionally discriminated against Hispanics and blacks.  Today’s one sentence filing doesn’t say whether Texas will
ask the Supreme Court to consider the case before the November
election. Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said on Aug. 28
that the state will use interim voter maps.  A federal court in San Antonio, which drew the interim maps
for the primary election, has scheduled a hearing today for
arguments on whether the maps can be used in the general
election in November.  Texas is one of 16 jurisdictions with a history of voting
rights violations that under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act
need approval to change election procedures either from the
Justice Department or a special panel composed of district and
circuit court judges in Washington.  Yesterday, a Texas law requiring photo identification to
vote was rejected by federal judges in Washington in a different
case. The ruling by a separate special three-judge panel was the
first time U.S. judges weighed in on the Obama administration’s
effort to use the Voting Rights Act to block a state from
requiring photo ID to participate in an election.  Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for Abbott, and Mitchell Rivard,
a  Justice Department  spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to e-
mail messages seeking comment on the filing.  The case is Texas v. U.S., 11-cv-01303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story: Tom Schoenberg in
Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Hytha
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  