-- Mexico Court Dismisses Challenges to Pena Nieto Election Victory
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-08-31T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/mexico-court-dismisses-challenges-to-pena-nieto-election-victory.html
Mexico ’s highest electoral authority
voted to dismiss a court action that sought to void the results
of the July 1 presidential vote, clearing the final hurdle for
ratifying Enrique Pena Nieto’s victory.  The electoral tribunal rejected runner-up  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador ’s demand to invalidate the results based on
allegations Pena Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party ,
known as the PRI, bought millions of votes with gift cards and
used campaign funds from illegal sources, creating unequal
voting conditions.  “It can be concluded that the free vote wasn’t affected,”
said Maria del Carmen Alanis Figueroa, one of the electoral
court’s seven justices, in Mexico City late yesterday. Lopez
Obrador’s coalition failed to present “objective” proof of
vote buying and coercion, she said.  The tribunal’s justices unanimously voted to dismiss  Lopez
Obrador ’s challenge.  Pena Nieto, who won the election by about 3.3 million
votes, will return the PRI to power after a 12-year hiatus from
more than seven decades of uninterrupted rule. While under
Mexican electoral law offers of cash and gifts are illegal when
a party asks for a vote in return, such practices aren’t listed
in the constitution as a valid reason for voiding an election.
The electoral tribunal has until Sept. 6 to formally name Pena
Nieto president elect.  Protests  Hundreds of protesters confronted police and broke through
a barricade outside the courthouse yesterday as the judges made
their arguments. Thousands have marched in the streets against
the results in the weeks leading up to the decision, and
students are planning more protests today.  The ruling  National Action Party  of outgoing President
 Felipe Calderon  joined Lopez Obrador’s Democratic Revolution
Party, or PRD, in alleging the PRI bought votes and exceeded
campaign financing limits. The PRI has denied any wrongdoing.  PRD President Jesus Zambrano said Aug. 29 that any decision
reached this week would be “irregular” given that the judges
haven’t reviewed all of the evidence brought by his party.  Pena Nieto, who is scheduled to take office Dec. 1, has
pledged to overhaul the economy, including plans to open the
state-owned oil monopoly to more private participation.  A recount last month of more than half of ballots cast
confirmed that Pena Nieto won the election with 38.2 percent of
the votes against 31.6 percent for Lopez Obrador.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  