-- Exorcist ‘Possession’; Bloom’s Mad ‘Doctor’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-09-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/exorcist-possession-bloom-s-mad-doctor-movies.html
Converting “The Exorcist” to
Judaism, “ The Possession ” might be Hollywood’s first horror
film to find its avenging hero in a  Brooklyn  shul.  The film so knowingly echoes William Friedkin’s 1973
demonic masterpiece that calling it derivative is pointless.  But  Ole Bornedal , the stylish Swedish director of 1997’s
terrific “Nightwatch,” also picks up Friedkin’s less-imitated
traits, from a slowly paced escalation of supernatural takeover
to credible performances from a committed cast.  Unfortunately, with a few booming exceptions, he missed the
frights.  Eleven-year-old Em (Natasha Calis) is a sweet, animal-
loving vegetarian quietly depressed over the recent divorce of
her parents (Jeffrey Dean Morgan and  Kyra Sedgwick ).  During a weekend at dad’s new house, Em makes a yard-sale
discovery of a seemingly unopenable wooden box carved with
Hebrew writing. The thing speaks to her -- and not in the usual
way of must-have bargains.  Soon enough, the dybbuk inside has transformed Em into a
moody, kohl-eyed nightmare. We know she’s not just another Goth
when she starts spewing moths and causing mom’s new boyfriend
(Grant Show) to lose his teeth.  Onward to Borough Park, Brooklyn, the Hasidic community
where Em’s dad finds Tzadok, a sympathetic rabbi’s son (played
by the Hasidic rap and reggae performer Matisyahu) who agrees to
an exorcism.  You know the rest, though writers Juliet Snowden and Stiles
White push “Possession” off the “Exorcist” track in one
surprising way, setting up a potential sequel. Here’s hoping
Bornedal hasn’t seen “Exorcist 2: The Heretic.”  “The Possession,” from Lionsgate, is playing across the
country. Rating: ** (Evans)  “The Ambassador”  “ The Ambassador ,” a grinning documentary by the Danish
journalist Mads Brugger, wallows in the corruption of a failed
African state.  Brugger shows how he was able to purchase Liberian
diplomatic credentials (all it takes, he says, is money) that
gave him the access to make shady deals with diamond-mining
interests in the Central African Republic.  To make it all more ridiculous, he swaggers around doing a
Hunter S. Thompson-esque impersonation of a rich white bwana,
complete with cigarette holder. He talks like a jackass, but
unlike Sacha Baron Cohen, he greases the palms of the bozos he’s
secretly filming.  I’d love to know how much the movie cost. (It was financed
by Lars von Trier’s production company, Zentropa.) Enormous sums
of money -- 15 million francs! -- appear to change hands; no one
mentions that one Central African Republic franc is valued at
about $0.0019. Still, those sums mount up.  Brugger claims to be building a match factory that will
employ the indigent pygmy population.  “I was giving these people a false sense of hope,” he
concedes; but he adds by way of justification that in  Africa 
“diplomats do this every day.”  The shots of deceived pygmies struggling to learn
matchmaking skills don’t quite fit the movie’s overall tone of
jokey absurdism.  In one sequence, the nitwit bwana tries to “bond” with
his pygmy assistants by playing these landlocked tribesmen tapes
of whale calls. Brugger serves up their blank, bewildered looks
as though he were filming a comedy sketch.  I wouldn’t call him racist. He isn’t mocking them for being
black but for being ignorant and poor.  So: Brugger immersed himself in the ecology of corruption,
bribing the venal and hoodwinking the naive, in order to
demonstrate -- what? That corruption is rampant in failed
African states? That’s news?  “The Ambassador,” from  Drafthouse Films , is playing in
 New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: *1/2 (Seligman)  “The Good Doctor”  Technique isn’t everything. The crumminess of ’40s and ’50s
B movies sometimes made them even darker, as though life were so
grim there was no point in expending the effort to give them a
little style.  That’s how “ The Good Doctor ” feels: as blah as a soap
opera -- which is what it seems, at first, to be.  Orlando Bloom plays an intern having trouble settling into
hospital routine. He’s intimidated by the experienced nurses and
clumsy at sucking up to the senior doctors who have the power to
make or break his career.  We see him at loose ends in his barren apartment; watch him
perk up around a pretty patient (Riley Keough) who’s in for a
kidney problem; and witness his discomfort when her parents push
him at her overbearing sister.  We see him furtively altering her meds so she’ll stay
hospitalized. And only gradually do we realize he’s nuts.  Written by John Enbom and directed by Lance Daly, “The
Good Doctor” regards everything from the young maniac’s point
of view, so the focus of suspense becomes not what he’ll do next
but whether he’ll be caught.  It’s icily superficial, showing us little about him but his
anxiety and practically nothing about anyone else.  The idea of a doctor sabotaging a patient is so unsettling
that the picture has the power to make you squirm and sweat. But
it’s no fun. It doesn’t give you anything but the creeps.  “The Good Doctor,” from  Magnolia Pictures , is playing in
New York and Los Angeles. Rating: *1/2 (Seligman) Rating:  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 