-- Export Slump Stalls Canada Growth in Second Quarter
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-08-31T16:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/export-slump-stalls-canada-growth-rate-at-1-8-in-second-quarter.html
Canada ’s economic growth rate
remained stalled in the second quarter as slowing export growth
offset a pick-up in business investment and an increase in
stockpiles, suggesting little reason for an increase in policy
interest rates.  Gross domestic product grew at a 1.8 percent annualized
pace in the three-month period, matching the revised January-
March figure. The median forecast of 25 economists  surveyed  by
 Bloomberg News  was for the rate to fall to 1.6 percent from an
originally reported 1.9 percent first quarter pace.  The data confirm Canada’s economy has lost momentum over
the past year because of a weakening global recovery, growing at
an average annual 1.8 percent pace over the past three quarters.
That’s down from the 3 percent pace in the two years after the
country emerged from the 2009 recession, giving Bank of Canada
Governor Mark Carney less scope to raise borrowing costs.  The Canadian economy is “not weak enough to cause serious
concerns, but certainly on the other side, not strong enough to
get the bank off the sidelines,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  Major Indicator  Today’s report is the last major indicator before the Bank
of Canada’s Sept. 5 interest-rate decision. The bank’s  key
policy rate  has been 1 percent since September 2010, the longest
unchanged period since the 1950s. Swaps trading shows investors
priced in 7 basis points of tightening by the bank’s April 2013
decision, down from 20 basis points on Aug. 15.  “This is another print that makes it somewhat unusual to
have a hawkish sounding Bank of Canada,”  Derek Holt , vice
president of economics at Scotia Capital Inc. in Toronto, said
in a note to clients, citing the economy’s reliance on
inventories and weak consumer and government spending, housing
and exports.  Canada’s currency rose 0.7 percent to 98.58 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 11:45 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the 10-year
government bond was little changed at 1.77 percent.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the GDP figures show
that the expansion is “modest”, and the country’s economy
remains relatively stronger than other major industrialized
economies. The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.7 percent pace in the
second quarter.  Completing Recovery  Carney reiterated Aug. 22 that an interest-rate increase
“may become appropriate” as Canada completes a recovery from a
recession that ended in mid-2009 with the lowest borrowing costs
of any country not directly affected by the financial crisis.  Carney said in  a speech  that while the economy has been
affected by “short-term special factors” such as maintenance
shutdowns of energy projects, growth is expected to accelerate
through next year and its momentum remains in line with
potential output.  The economy grew 0.2 percent on a monthly basis in June,
Ottawa-based  Statistics Canada  said today, higher than the
median economist forecast of 0.1 percent gain.  Non-residential business investment rose at an annualized
9.4 percent rate in the second quarter, the fastest pace in a
year and surpassing pre-recession levels for the first time, the
data show. Businesses also added an annualized C$7.01 billion
($7.08 billion) in inventories during the quarter, meaning
stockpiles added 1.7 percentage points to growth in the period,
the largest single contribution.  Exports Slow  Exports grew at a 0.8 percent pace, the slowest in a year,
even as imports accelerated to the fastest growth rate since the
second quarter of 2011. Net exports have acted as a drag on
growth for two consecutive quarters.  Consumer spending growth accelerated to a 1.1 percent
annualized pace in the second quarter from 0.7 percent in the
first quarter. Total domestic demand growth accelerated to 1.7
percent from 1.3 percent.  Growth in housing investment slowed to 1.8 percent in the
second quarter, the slowest since the last quarter of 2010.
 Government spending  fell by an annualized 0.5 percent, its
second consecutive quarterly decline.  The personal savings rate rose to 3.6 percent in the second
quarter, up from 3.1 percent in the first, Statistics Canada
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  