-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Guarantee Fees Boosted by Regulator
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-09-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-guarantee-fees-increased-by-regulator.html
Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
U.S.-owned mortgage-finance companies, will raise by an average
of 10 basis points the fees they charge lenders to guarantee
loans, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  said in a statement.  FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco sought the fee
increase to boost fiscal stability at the government-sponsored
enterprises and shrink their footprint in the mortgage market,
where they own or guarantee about 60 percent of U.S. home loans.  “These changes will move Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
pricing closer to the level one might expect to see if mortgage
credit risk was borne solely by private capital,” DeMarco said
in the statement released yesterday.  The guarantee-fee increases, which begin taking effect in
November, probably will be passed on to borrowers in the form of
higher  interest rates  and are small enough that they won’t stall
mortgage lending, banking-industry trade groups said.  “It’s obviously going to have a small impact on pricing,
but given that  mortgage rates  are the lowest they’ve ever been,
we think it’s probably the right time to do it,” Joseph Pigg,
vice president at the  American Bankers Association , said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  An increase of 10 basis points would cost a borrower with a
$200,000 mortgage about $4,000 over a 30-year loan term.  FHFA, which has overseen  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac since
they were seized by regulators in 2008, has been planning since
last year to raise fees charged for guaranteeing principal and
interest, a system designed to boost lending and homeownership.  Local Cost  The agency said it also will seek public input on a plan to
charge different guarantee fees in each state based on the local
cost to the GSEs of carrying foreclosures. Calibrations of
pricing based on risk are part of FHFA’s plan to encourage a
revival of private industry’s role in housing finance.  “The 10-basis point increase is an incremental step toward
implementing risk-based pricing,” Isaac Boltansky, a
Washington-based policy analyst at Compass Point Research &
Trading LLC, said in a phone interview. “The real issue that
observers have to keep in mind is that there’ll be a whole new
approach going out from FHFA based on state-level information.”  The lack of private capital in the housing market isn’t
driven only by competition from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac but
also by uncertainty about prices and other concerns,  David Stevens , president of the  Mortgage Bankers Association , said in
a telephone interview. Therefore, he said, regulators should
ensure they don’t raise the fees too high.  ‘Excessive Increases’  “Excessive increases may disproportionately affect the
housing recovery without creating any new entree of private
capital,” Stevens said.  The fee increase will begin Nov. 1 for loans sold for cash
and Dec. 1 for loans exchanged for mortgage-backed securities,
FHFA said.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have taken almost $190 billion
in U.S. aid since they were placed under conservatorship in
September 2008 after losses on investments in risky loans pushed
them to the brink of insolvency. The companies have paid about
$46 billion in the form of dividends on the government’s nearly
80 percent stakes in each of them. In future quarters, the
companies will turn over all profits to the Treasury instead of
paying dividends, FHFA said this month.  The last guarantee-fee increase took effect in April after
Congress boosted them by 10 basis points to fund a payroll tax
cut. It was the first time fee proceeds had been diverted into
the  U.S. Treasury  instead of helping offset the risk borne by
Washington-based Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  of McLean, Virginia.  The average guarantee fee charged by the two companies rose
to 28 basis points in 2011 from 26 basis points in 2010,
according to a report FHFA also released yesterday. By the end
of the year, after both increases are in effect, fees could
average about 48 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  