-- FIFA System Said to Approve Soccer Trades Cited as Irregular
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-31T14:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/fifa-system-said-to-approve-soccer-trading-cited-as-irregular.html
As many as 10 soccer player trades
that Argentine authorities last week cited as improper tax
avoidance arrangements were validated by  FIFA’s  transfer
registration system that aims to combat financial
irregularities, two people familiar with the situation said.  The trades involving Argentine players were registered
through seven Uruguayan clubs including Centro Atletico Fenix
for which they never appeared, the Argentine federal tax agency
said Aug. 24. Brazilian players including Porto striker Hulk
have been traded in the same way through Uruguay’s Club Atletico
Rentistas, stock-market filings in Portugal show.  The Argentine trades were processed by governing body
FIFA’s Transfer Matching System, which was made compulsory in
2010 to improve regulation of soccer’s $3 billion transfer
market, said the people, who declined to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. FIFA Vice-President
Jim Boyce said more checks on the player agents involved may be
necessary to prevent the so-called “bridge” transfers.  “It does appear to be becoming a little chaotic,” Boyce
said in an interview yesterday. “There are obviously problems
with some of the agents.”  FIFA’s press office declined to answer e-mailed questions
about whether the trades should have been validated by the
system, which requires clubs to give details of contracts and
bank accounts involved. Centro Atletico Fenix officials declined
to comment, referring calls to the  Uruguayan soccer federation ,
which also declined to comment.  FIFA Rules  The Uruguayan federation contends no regulations were
broken in the movement of players through its country, the
people said. If that’s the case, FIFA could change its rules to
limit a player to moving teams once every six months, according
to Raffaele Poli, a researcher at the  International Center for
Sports Studies  in Neuchatel,  Switzerland , who co-writes an
annual study on transfers.  Since February, FIFA has looked at an arrangement that
allowed Hulk, whose real name is Givanildo Vieira de Sousa, and
other Brazilian players to move to European teams via Rentistas,
a Montevideo-based club for which he never played.  Rentistas got 19 million euros ($24 million) from trading
90 percent of the rights of Hulk to Porto in two tranches in
2008 and 2011, according to stock-market filings by the
Portuguese team at the time.  World No. 4 Team  Rentistas President Mario Bursztyn said in a Feb. 8
interview the transfer fee in such a deal is redirected to a
company owned by player agent Juan Figer called Lamico. Bursztyn
said the club gets a monthly retainer fee from Figer in return.
Figer follows all the rules of his profession, his spokesman
Jose Aparecida Miguel said.  Brazil ’s Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo said yesterday FIFA
should outlaw such transfers.  “We don’t have the power in Brazil to interfere in the
legislation of other countries, but FIFA should prohibit the
activity of these ghost clubs,” Rebelo said in an interview in
 London .  Uruguay’s national team reached the semifinals of the 2010
 World Cup  and is ranked world No. 4 by FIFA. The country’s
league clubs tend to be smaller than counterparts in traditional
powerhouses Brazil and  Argentina .  Offshore Companies  Some of the transfer fees in trades through Uruguay are
diverted to investors via offshore companies, according to the
Argentine tax agency said. Investors are allowed to buy stakes
in player transfer rights from clubs under FIFA rules, provided
they don’t interfere in trading.  Michel Platini , the president of European soccer’s
governing body UEFA, said his organization is looking ways to
potentially eliminate the practice from the continent because
it’s “killing” clubs.  “Today the clubs have no power, no money,” Platini told
reporters today. “I sell one player to your company for 10
euros and you sell him for 20 million euros and you have 20
million, not the clubs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Brasilia at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  