-- Ford, Toyota Each Say They Make World’s Top-Selling Car
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-08-31T19:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/ford-says-focus-tops-toyota-corolla-in-sales-citing-ihs.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s biggest car
company, are each saying they produce the best-selling car in
the world in the first half. Their definitions are the key.  Focus was the world’s top-selling “single-car nameplate,”
-- a vehicle sold under only one name -- with 489,616 sales in
2012’s first six months, topping Corolla’s 462,187, Ford said in
statement that cited researcher IHS Automotive. Toyota said its
first-half Corolla sales total is 603,840, including Corolla
derivatives such as the wagon sold in the U.S. as the  Matrix .  Auto companies use sales supremacy as a marketing tool to
attract buyers. Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has
set a goal to boost global sales by 50 percent to 8 million
vehicles by 2015. That goal has come under pressure as growth
has slowed in  China  and the European market has declined to its
lowest level in 17 years.  “We are proud of the momentum and customer demand for the
 Ford Focus  around the world,”  Mark Truby , a company spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  In addition to the Matrix, the calculation by IHS left out
sales of Toyota’s Auris, as the Corolla is known in Europe, and
the Corolla Verso wagon that is sold in  Japan , said Chris Hopson, a sales analyst for IHS. The researcher also excluded a
Focus derivative, the C-Max wagon, from Ford’s total, he said.  Corolla Count  Toyota has sold 722,000 Corolla worldwide through July,
said  Mike Michels , a spokesman based in Torrance, California,
where the Toyota City, Japan-based automaker has its U.S. sales
headquarters.  “Corolla Verso, Auris and Matrix have been consistently
recognized and reported as Corollas in sales results,” Michels
said in an e-mail.  Toyota sold about 48,000 Auris models and 58,000 Corolla
Versos in the first half, Hopson said.  “In the world of lies, damn lies and statistics, I’m sure
Toyota is thinking this is one of those instances,” Hopson said
in an interview. “The data we supplied to Ford was nameplate
level only, just Focus to Corolla.”  Ford’s European Focus sales were included in the count.
The automaker introduced a redesigned version of the small car
worldwide last year.  “The Focus is attracting many new customers to the Ford
brand for the very first time, particularly in Asia,”  Jim Farley , Ford’s global marketing chief, said in a statement
issued out of Thailand, where it was celebrating the production
of the company’s 350 millionth vehicle, a Focus.  Asia Plans  Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , is stepping up
investments in Asia to tap demand from China to India after
widening losses in Europe prompted the carmaker to cut its
outlook in July for full-year profit. The company said this week
it will bring its luxury  Lincoln  nameplate to China in the
second half of 2014.  Toyota, rebounding from the lost production caused by last
year’s earthquake and tsunami in Japan, has taken the global
sales lead back from  General Motors Co. (GM)  in the first half.  Corolla was the leader in first-quarter sales, at 300,800,
followed by Focus with 277,000 and the Toyota Prius hybrid at
247,230 with an expanding line, according to sales figures
provided by the companies at the time.  Toyota started selling a new version of the Corolla in
Japan in May. It is the most-popular passenger car ever with
more than 39 million sold, said Curt McAllister, a spokesman.  Ford’s F-Series full-size pickup line has been the best-
selling truck in the U.S. for 35 years and the best-selling
model line for 30 years. It includes versions such as the F-150,
F-250 and F-350.  Elusive Value  While it would be difficult to quantify the value of being
the top seller in a segment, it does help appeal to customers,
said Ian Beavis, executive vice president of the global
automotive group at Nielsen Holdings NV and a former sales and
marketing executive at Ford,  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  and  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. (7211)   “People in focus groups do say they justify purchases
because a vehicle is popular,” Beavis said last week in an
interview. “They like to belong to a successful group. It’s a
psychological issue, and it works in reverse, because people
will be suspicious of models that aren’t popular.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  