-- Ford, Groupon, Pernod-Ricard: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-31T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/ford-groupon-pernod-ricard-intellectual-property.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  was accused in a
lawsuit of infringing a 2008 patent covering a fuel-injection
system in its F-150 trucks.  Ford allegedly began selling vehicles, including the F-150,
that incorporated the patent’s fuel system design after telling
the inventor the company had no interest in the technology,
according to the complaint filed Aug. 29 in federal court in
Philadelphia by TMC Fuel Injection System LLC. The company,
based in Wayne, Pennsylvania, is seeking a court order barring
Ford’s conduct, in addition to unspecified damages.  Ford’s discussions with Shou L. Hou, the patent inventor,
began in December 2004, more than two years after an application
was filed to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for the
technology, TMC said in the complaint. Discussions about
licensing the technology failed in 2008 when Ford said the
company wasn’t interested in pursuing the system, according to
the complaint.  In dispute is patent 7,318,414, which was issued in January
2008.  The technology addresses performance and fuel waste by
increasing the fuel injection dynamic range, TMC said in the
complaint. The system offers fuel savings of as much as 35
percent in city driving and also delivers a power boost option
for acceleration, TMC said in papers filed with the complaint.  Todd Nissen, a spokesman for Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford,
said the company had “only just heard about the lawsuit,” and
would have no comment at this time.  Ford’s F-150 is available with a fuel-efficient EcoBoost
engine. EcoBoost, introduced in 2009, uses direct fuel injection
and turbocharging to increase fuel economy.  Ford last year introduced its first EcoBoost engine for F-
Series pickups. Trucks equipped with that engine accounted for
42 percent of the model line’s retail sales in July, the company
said in its latest sales statement issued Aug. 1.  The case is TMC Fuel Injection System LLC v. Ford Motor
Co., 12-cv-04971, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Groupon, LivingSocial, Discount Marketers, Sued Over Patent  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and LivingSocial Inc. were sued by a patent
owner claiming the discount online marketers are infringing
protected technology for mobile telephone advertising.  XcellaSave Inc., based in Middle Village, New York, asks
for a jury trial and unspecified damages from Chicago-based
Groupon and LivingSocial of Washington, according to two
lawsuits filed Aug. 29 in federal court in Delaware. It’s
accusing the companies of infringing patent 8,254,894, which was
issued Aug. 28.  The infringing companies continue “to create and
disseminate promotional and marketing materials” and technical
information in applications including the iPhone, Android,
BlackBerry and Windows-based mobile phones, without permission,
XcellaSave alleges in court papers.  Groupon spokeswoman Julie Mossler declined to comment on
the lawsuit. LivingSocial spokeswoman Maire Griffin didn’t
immediately return an e-mail message seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  The cases are XcellaSave v. Groupon, 12-cv-1085 and
XcellaSave v. LivingSocial, 12-cv-1086, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Apple Win Over Samsung Seen Aiding InterDigital Patent Deals  InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  Chief Executive Officer Bill Merritt said
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s legal victory over  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  showed
the value of patents, helping spur demand for the assets his
company plans to sell.  Samsung was ordered to pay Apple about $1 billion on Aug.
24 for infringing intellectual property -- a verdict that
validated businesses that rely on innovation, Merritt said Aug.
29 in an interview. InterDigital, a wireless technology
developer, has been offering batches of its patents to buyers
after abandoning a plan to sell the whole company last year.  “We’re encouraged by the value being placed on patents,
and there’s strong opportunity in the market,” Merritt said at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “As with any market
that’s strong, you want to move quick.”  The company already agreed to sell about 1,700 patents,
about 8 percent of its portfolio, to  Intel Corp. (INTC)  for $375
million in June. InterDigital, based in King of Prussia,
Pennsylvania, said in its annual report that it received
royalties from more than half of all 3G, or third-generation,
mobile devices sold last year, including ones from Samsung,
Apple,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)   InterDigital, which has about 20,000 patents in total, said
in July 2011 that it had hired  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and
 Barclays Plc (JNK)  to explore a possible sale of the company, seeking
to capitalize on a boom in demand for patent portfolios. The
company found that buyers were more interested in portions of
the portfolio worth less than $1 billion, Merritt said.  Buyers of mobile patents could include Samsung, Google
Inc., Amazon.com Inc., Nokia Oyj or any mobile manufacturer,
said Kevin Stadtler, president of Stadtler Capital Management
LLC in Fort Worth, Texas, who owns about 20,000 shares of
InterDigital.  “The real beneficiaries following the Apple-Samsung
lawsuit are the companies that own intellectual property, the
patent arms merchants,” Stadtler said. “People are seeing how
this is disrupting Samsung’s momentum.”  A jury in San Jose, California, found Aug. 24 that Samsung
infringed six of seven Apple patents at stake in the trial. The
jury also determined that all of Apple’s patents at stake were
valid. Apple won findings that Samsung devices diluted the value
of its so-called trade dress, or how a product looks.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Pernod-Ricard Wins Chinese Trademark Case Over ‘Chivas’ Marks  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) , France’s largest distiller, won a
trademark case in China, the British trade publication Drinks
Business  reported .  The three-year suit ended with a court ordering two
companies to pay 500,000 yuan ($78,745) for the unauthorized use
of Pernod-Ricard’s “Chivas” trademarks and trade dress,
according to Drinks Business.  The suit targeted “Elysee Royal” whisky made by Yantai
Aowei and Yantai Chivas, the publication reported.  Earlier this year, a Chinese court turned away a Pernod-
Ricard challenge to the use of “Chivas” by a clothing
manufacturer, according to Drinks Business.  China Says It May Blacklist Unauthorized Trademark Applicants  China’s State Administration for Industry and Commerce is
considering developing a blacklist of those who apply for
trademark rights in unauthorized efforts to exploit the names of
famous businesses, athletes and other celebrities, China Daily
 reported .  Last year, two Chinese swimsuit companies applied to
register the names of two medal-winning members of that nation’s
Olympics team without permission, the newspaper said.  Other athletes whose names have been used in unauthorized
trademark applications are  Liu Xiang , a  hurdler  on the Chinese
team, and National Basketball Association players Jeremy Lim and
the now-retired Yao Ming, the newspaper reported.  In some cases, names were registered well in advance of an
athlete’s fame, such as badminton player  Lin Dan , whose name was
registered in 1997 for a brand of animal feed, according to
China daily.  Hadassah Sues San Diego Group for Trademark Infringement  Hadassah, the Women’s Zionist Organization of America Inc. ,
filed a trademark-infringement lawsuit against a San Diego-based
nonprofit organization that seeks to build girls’ self-esteem.  The Hadassah Project has been asked repeatedly to stop
using the name, according to the complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in San Diego. The group’s website indicates that
it plans to offer a home for emancipated teen mothers.  The San Diego group says  it uses “Hadassah” -- a Hebrew
form of the name of the Biblical Queen Esther -- because its
program “represents a girl’s mental and physical transition
from that of like a ‘prisoner-exile’ to a ‘Queen.’”  The 100-year-old Zionist group, based in New York, said the
Hadassah Project’s use of the name in connection with services
targeted at women and girls will probably cause the public to
assume falsely that the two entities are affiliated.  It asked the court to bar the San Diego group’s use of the
world “Hadassah” and for the destruction of all allegedly
infringing promotional material and content. Additionally,
Hadassah seeks the transfer of the Hadassahproject.org domain
name and awards of damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  The Hadassah Project didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Hadassah, The Women’s Zionist Organization of
America Inc. v. The Hadassah Project, 12-cv-02139, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of California (San Diego).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ‘Spider-Man’ Producers to Settle Taymor Lawsuit, Filing Says  The producers of the Broadway musical “Spider-Man: Turn
Off the Dark” and the show’s fired director,  Julie Taymor ,
agreed to settle a lawsuit over royalties and creative control,
according to a court filing.  Terms of the agreement in principle weren’t disclosed in
the order filed yesterday in Manhattan federal court.  Taymor, 59, was removed from the $75 million spectacle in
March 2011, after critics lambasted it during an extended 182-
performance preview period. She sued the producers in November,
saying they violated her intellectual-property rights by making
changes without her permission and didn’t pay royalties due her
as a co-book writer.  Kirkland & Ellis LLP’s  Dale Cendali , a lawyer for the lead
producers,  Michael Cohl  and Jeremiah Harris, declined to comment
on the filing. Taymor’s spokesman, Chris Kanarick, didn’t return
an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 11-cv-
08002, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Paramount Asks Judge to Uphold Puzo’s ‘Godfather’ Contract  Paramount Pictures Corp., the maker of the films based on
 Mario Puzo ’s novel “The Godfather,” asked a judge to reject an
attempt by the author’s estate to terminate its contract with
the studio.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount sued Anthony Puzo, Mario’s son and
executor, in February to prevent the publication of a new sequel
to “The Godfather,” claiming it wasn’t authorized. Puzo
countersued in April to cancel the contract, saying Paramount
had breached it.  “There is no affirmative obligation of Paramount’s that
can be said to be breached here,”  Richard Kendall , a lawyer for
the studio, told U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan at a hearing
yesterday in Manhattan on a motion to dismiss Puzo’s claim.
“All Paramount has done is assert and affirm its rights under
the contract.”  The first “Godfather” film came out in 1972 and won
Academy Awards for best picture and adapted screenplay, for
which Puzo shared the credit.  Francis Ford Coppola  directed the
three “Godfather” movies.  Paramount contends that it owns the book and movie rights.
 Anthony Puzo  claims that the Los Angeles-based studio breached a
1969 agreement with his father. The contract reserved certain
rights, including book publishing, for the author, the estate
said in court filings. Mario Puzo died in 1999.  Paramount said in its complaint that after Puzo died, the
company agreed to allow Bertelsmann AG’s  Random House  to publish
a single Godfather sequel, “The Godfather Returns,” which came
out in 2004.  The estate published another novel, “The Godfather’s
Revenge,” in 2006 without Paramount’s approval, the studio
said. Paramount sued after the estate announced a plan to
publish a third sequel, “The Family Corleone,” this year.  That sequel, by Ed Falco, was published in May by Grand
Central Publishing. Under terms of an interim settlement between
Paramount and Puzo, proceeds from the book will be put in escrow
pending the outcome of the litigation, according to court
papers.  Paramount claimed Puzo’s estate infringed its copyright by
publishing the novel and infringed its trademark with the design
of the book.  The case is Paramount Pictures v. Puzo, 12-01268, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  