-- Forint Caps Biggest Weekly Decline in Three Months on Rate Cut
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-08-31T14:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/forint-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-three-months-on-rate-cut.html
The forint had the biggest weekly
decline in three months on speculation  Hungary ’s central bank
will repeat this week’s unexpected cut in the benchmark rate and
that the government faces delays in bailout talks.  Hungary’s currency gained 0.4 percent to 284.01 per euro by
4:23 p.m. in Budapest, paring its five-day retreat to 2 percent
and its slide in August to 0.8 percent, the worst weekly and
monthly performance on a closing basis since May. Yields on the
government’s benchmark three-year bonds fell seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.735 percent compared with 7.299
percent at the end of July.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank lowered the two-week deposit rate
by 25 basis points to 6.75 percent on Aug. 28. Of 18 economists
in a Bloomberg survey, 17 projected the bank would leave rates
unchanged while Lars Christensen from  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  forecast
the cut. The Monetary Council voted to ease monetary policy by a
“tight” margin even as Hungary faces delays in meeting its
inflation goal, MNB President  Andras Simor  told reporters
yesterday.  “The rate cut was premature and has put pressure on the
Hungarian currency,” Carolin Hecht, a Frankfurt-based
strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a research report today.
“Markets seem to assume that the recent rate cut was not the
last one,” Hecht said, adding that the euro-forint rate still
has “upside potential.”  Forward-rate agreements used to wager on interest in three
months fell four basis points to 6.40 percent, the lowest since
September 2011 yesterday. The FRAs traded 50 basis points below
the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, indicating expectations for
as much as half a percentage point cut in the benchmark rate.  Threatening Aid  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  insists on a tax on
transactions at the central bank, threatening aid talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union which object
to the measure,  Origo  reported today, citing unidentified
government officials.  The Economy Ministry and the office of Mihaly Varga, the
minister in charge of the aid talks, didn’t immediately respond
to questions sent by e-mail today.  The IMF hasn’t set a date for the continuation of talks,
spokesman Gerry Rice said yesterday, Hungary’s state-run news
service MTI reported.  “The market expects the negotiations to be continued in
early September, which now seems less and less likely,” said
 Akos Kuti , a Budapest-based analyst at broker Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  