-- Fresenius Fails to Meet Goal of Deciding on Rhoen-Klinikum
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-08-31T15:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/fresenius-fails-to-meet-goal-of-deciding-on-rhoen-klinikum-2-.html
Fresenius SE failed to meet a goal
of deciding whether to revive a 3.1-billion-euro ($3.9 billion)
offer for German hospital operator  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK)  this month
as both sides blamed each other for stalling the deal.  Fresenius has no plan to make an announcement today or over
the weekend about Rhoen, said a person close to  Bad Homburg ,
Germany-based Fresenius who declined to be identified because
the matter is confidential.  Asklepios Kliniken GmbH , the
hospital company that blocked the earlier offer by taking a
stake in Rhoen, complicated the matter by asking Germany’s
antitrust regulator for permission to increase its holding.  The jockeying reflects the battle for supremacy in the
German market for private hospitals. Fresenius’s Helios unit
took the lead with the takeover of Damp Group in March. Rhoen
ranks second by revenue, while Asklepios places third. Asklepios
is concerned the deal would limit competition and hurt business
and bought its stake to make the takeover more difficult, a
person close to the company said.  “Right now it’s a pretty difficult situation because there
are so many parties involved,” Moritz Dullinger, a Zurich-based
analyst for Kepler Capital Markets, said by phone. “It is a
deadlock situation.” He has a reduce rating on Rhoen’s stock.  Rhoen rose 0.5 percent to close at 18.95 euros in
 Frankfurt . The stock has dropped 14 percent from its peak this
year after Fresenius’s previous bid failed. Fresenius climbed
1.1 percent to 84.82 euros.  Asklepios asked the German cartel office whether it’s
allowed to increase its stake in Rhoen-Klinikum to more than 10
percent, Rudi Schmidt, a spokesman for the company, said by
phone today. Spokespeople for Fresenius and Rhoen declined to
comment.  Failed Bid  In April, Fresenius offered to buy all outstanding Rhoen
shares at 22.50 euros each. The tender offer was contingent on
holders tendering 90 percent of the stock plus one share, the
ownership level required in Rhoen’s bylaws to achieve a complete
merger. Asklepios, a closely held company based in Koenigstein,
 Germany , announced June 27 it had acquired a 5 percent stake,
and two days later Fresenius said the bid failed because only 84
percent of Rhoen shares had been tendered.  B. Braun Holding GmbH, a Melsungen, Germany-based company
that supplies medical products to hospitals, further thickened
the plot by buying a 5 percent stake in Rhoen this week.  “They have a very good relationship with Asklepios,”
Dullinger said. And because B. Braun and Asklepios are closely
held, they have more leeway to act, he said. Asklepios’s only
shareholder is its founder, Bernard Broermann.  New Offer  Meanwhile, people close to Fresenius and Rhoen-Klinikum
each said the companies support a new bid, pointing toward the
other party for the hold-up.  Now, Fresenius is leaning toward a new offer under which it
would need 50 percent plus one share to complete the deal, two
people with knowledge of the company’s deliberations, who
declined to be identified because the matter is confidential,
said this week.  Rhoen’s 10  supervisory board members  representing
shareholders have agreed to step down to make room for Fresenius
executives if the deal goes through, according to two people
close to Rhoen. Another person, who also declined to be
identified, said some of the board members pledged to step down
only if certain conditions were met, demands which the Fresenius
side is unwilling to meet, and therefore a new offer has yet to
be made.  A new offer may be held up because some members of
Fresenius’s supervisory board may be concerned about the risks
related to controlling only 50 percent plus one share of Rhoen
and the attempts by B. Braun and Asklepios to block the deal,
said two of the people. Two other people close to Fresenius said
the would-be acquirer’s supervisory board is unified about
pursuing the purchase and isn’t holding up the deal.  Adding to Earnings  Fresenius said Aug. 9 it expected to announce by the end of
August whether it would revive the offer.  The acquisition may still go through, though there are many
scenarios that could play out,  Justin Smith , an analyst at
 Societe Generale , wrote in a report dated yesterday. Buying 50
percent plus one share of Rhoen would add to Fresenius’s
earnings, he wrote.  Asklepios is seeking a minority stake in Rhoen-Klinikum,
Kay Weidner, a spokesman for the German cartel office, said by
phone today. Weidner declined to comment in more detail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  