-- Dempsey, Lloris Move to Tottenham Before English Soccer Deadline
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-31T23:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/fulham-signs-berbatov-maicon-to-city-as-transfer-deadline-nears.html
Tottenham signed midfielder  Clint Dempsey  and goalkeeper Hugo Lloris on the final day of the
English soccer transfer period, while Premier League champion
Manchester City brought in five new players.  Fulham added veteran striker Dimitar Berbatov and Queens
Park Rangers made Marseille’s Stephane Mbia the 12th new signing
of the summer before yesterday’s 11 p.m. U.K. time deadline.  Dempsey’s move to Tottenham from Fulham came after he was
linked with Liverpool for most of the summer. Fulham accepted a
bid from Aston Villa yesterday morning, but the U.S. national
team player said he wanted to join Liverpool, Sky Sports News
said.  Dempsey, whose 50 career Premier League goals are a record
for an American, then signed with Spurs in the final hour of the
transfer window after Fulham and Liverpool were unable reach an
agreement.  The signing came after Spurs added French national team
captain Lloris from Lyon. The 25-year-old is a two-time
goalkeeper of the year in  France ’s Ligue 1 and has appeared 36
times for the French national team.  Spurs also sold Dutch national team midfielder Rafael van der Vaart to German club Hamburg, Giovani dos Santos to Spanish
club Real Mallorca and sent Danny Rose to Sunderland on a
season-long loan.  Manchester City completed its busy day by signing
midfielder Javi Garcia from Benfica for 20 million euros ($25
million), plus a possible extra 3 million euros depending on
performance targets. Benfica also will get 50 percent of any
sell-on fee, according to a regulatory stock market filing from
the Portuguese club.  Maicon, Mancini  Brazilian national team defender Maicon was among the new
additions at Manchester City. The 31-year-old joins from  Inter
Milan , which he helped win the  Champions League  in 2010, and
reunites with  Roberto Mancini  after working under the manager
for two years with the Italian club.  City also signed striker  Scott Sinclair  from Swansea,
Fiorentina defender Mataja Nastasic and free-agent goalkeeper
Richard Wright. The Premier League champs also sold midfielder
Nigel de Jong to AC Milan and sent Stefan Savid to Fiorentina in
the Nastasic deal. It also moved striker Roque Santa Cruz to
Malaga in Spain on a season-long loan.  Berbatov, 31, received a contract that runs until 2014
after joining Fulham from  Manchester United . He scored 56 goals
for Tottenham in 149 games and won two Premier League titles
with United after his 30-million-pound ($48 million) move from
Spurs in 1998, then fell down the pecking order after the club
signed  Robin van Persie  last month. Fulham also added winger
 Kieran Richardson  from Sunderland for an undisclosed fee.  New Face  Mbia became the latest new face at QPR, signing a two-year
contract to join from French club Marseille. The Cameroon
international can play either in defense or midfield. QPR also
said midfielder  Joey Barton  has joined Marseille on a season-
long loan in a separate move. Barton is serving a 12-match
suspension from the English Football Association for violent
conduct after getting a red card during a game at Manchester
City on the final day of last season.  Midfielder  Charlie Adam  signed a four-year deal at Stoke
after leaving Liverpool, and Swansea added winger Pablo
Hernandez from Valencia for a club-record fee of 5.5 million
pounds, the Welsh club said on its website. Juventus said on its
website that it signed Arsenal forward Nicklas Bendtner on a
season-long loan, while the Gunners also sent forward Park Ju
Young to Spanish club Celta Vigo on loan.  Everton completed the signing of Bryan Oviedo from
Copenhagen for an undisclosed fee, and Southampton signed
midfielder Gaston Ramirez from Bologna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 