-- Gap’s Piperlime Whips Web Into Reality With SoHo Store
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-08-31T11:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/gap-s-piperlime-whips-web-into-reality-with-soho-store.html
Piperlime,  Gap Inc. (GPS) ’s online-only
fashion boutique, is replicating its website in the real world
with its first physical store next week as the biggest U.S.
specialty-apparel company looks to spur growth in  North America .  The 4,000-square foot store, set to open Sept. 6 in
 Manhattan ’s SoHo neighborhood, is designed to evoke the 21st-
century sensation of walking into  Piperlime.com .  The store’s designer wear is grouped by trends such as
“Color Clashing” and “Wear the Pants,” while the top 10
seasonal fashions from Piperlime.com are displayed on a wall.
Pages such as “Girl on a Budget” and picks from stylist Rachel Zoe have turned into racks. The store will have more than 800
items, including shoes, clothing and jewelry at prices from $49
to $600, Jennifer Gosselin, the brand’s general manager, said
while giving an exclusive tour of the store Aug. 29.  “In terms of experiencing the brand, it’s the difference
between having a relationship over e-mail versus one in
person,” Gosselin said. “It really does come to life here.”  Giving Piperlime a brick-and-mortar presence is a new move
for Gap, which has called the unit its fastest-growing online
property. While the San Francisco-based company also has been
building stores for Athleta, its formerly online- and catalog-
only active-wear brand, Piperlime is different because it
doesn’t have its own label and instead combines third-party
merchandise with style advice.  “Brands are brands because they have relationships with
their customers,” Gosselin said on the tour. “If you think
about having a relationship, it needs to be in a 3D world, it
can’t just be on the screen.”  Gosselin declined to comment on whether Gap is planning
additional Piperlime stores.  Shoe Store  Piperlime, introduced by Gap in 2006 as an online shoe
store following the success of Zappos.com, hangs items from  Kate
Spade  and BCBG Max Azaria alongside merchandise from lesser-
known labels such as Tinley Road, giving customers a chance to
discover new names in a boutique-like environment as they do on
the Web, Gosselin said. The store carries 15 denim brands,
including Levi’s and Citizens for Humanity, in 76 colors from
classic indigo to patterns of floral tapestry and snakeskin.  A curved shoe wall with built-in shelves weaves through the
middle of the store, showcasing boots, heels and handbags.
Shoppers can relax on couches and benches surrounding painted-
white pillars and use touchscreens and a computer to browse
Piperlime’s website, receiving free overnight shipping on items
unavailable in-store.  Fitting Rooms  Four large fitting rooms are outfitted with three-way
mirrors, and Gosselin says Piperlime store associates will be
trained to gauge how much assistance customers may need.  The store echoes the online experience with pieces of
Piperlime.com’s “wit and whimsy,” as Gosselin called it: a
mannequin sits on a chair 12 feet above the ground, oversized
spherical lights hang above the shoes, and lime green park
benches and plastic pigeons dot the space.  Piperlime and Athleta  increased  sales 22 percent to $301
million in the year ended Jan. 28, accounting for 2.1 percent of
Gap’s revenue. They represent Gap’s growth prospects in North
America, with global sales from Gap,  Old Navy  and Banana
Republic stores as well as its wholesale revenue declining 2.8
percent to $13 billion in that period.  Success at Piperlime physical stores may add to a
turnaround at Gap’s older brands that has boosted the shares 95
percent this year to $36.11 yesterday, the highest closing price
since Aug. 1, 2000.  Piperlime’s opening is timed to coincide with New York’s
Fashion Week, when many retailers keep doors open until 11 p.m.
and offer celebrity and designer appearances, styling seminars
and special offers on merchandise. Zoe and Olivia Palermo,
another guest fashion editor for Piperlime, will be at the
store.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  