-- Spanish Bonds Plunge as Government Boosts Rescue Fund for Banks
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-31T16:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/german-bunds-set-for-2nd-weekly-gain-as-spain-delays-bailout.html
Spain ’s 10-year bonds declined,
pushing yields up the most in four weeks, after the nation’s
government bolstered the powers of its bank rescue fund, known
as FROB, to restructure troubled lenders.  German securities pared a decline as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he wouldn’t rule out further bond
purchases to boost growth and reduce unemployment. A European
Union official said the  European Central Bank  would have sole
power to grant banking licenses. Spain’s bonds also slid after
Moody’s Investors Service extended the nation’s debt review and
reiterated the risk of a downgrade.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered
Catalonia’s credit rating to junk.  “The increase in the size of FROB may indicate banks’ re-
capitalization needs are greater than estimated by reports,”
said  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income analyst at Investec Bank
Plc in  London . Spanish borrowing costs surged because of the
“bigger transfer of liabilities to the sovereign,” she said.  Spanish 10-year yields climbed 26 basis points, or 0.26
percentage point, to 6.86 percent as of 4:49 p.m. London time,
after rising as much as 30 basis points, the most since Aug. 2.
The 5.85 percent security due Jan. 2022 slid 1.72, or 17.20
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,259) face amount to 93.14. The 30-year
rate jumped as much as 26 basis points to 7.40 percent, the
highest level since Aug. 3.  The FROB will be able to take on debt to a limit of 120
billion euros in 2012, the Spanish economy ministry said in a
statement today.  ‘Bad Bank’  The “bad bank” Spain’s government will set up to take
soured real estate from the lenders it has bailed out will seek
private investors and try to sell the assets over 10 years to 15
years, it was also announced today.  “The size of the bank or asset management company will
depend on the assets that are defined, which are the companies
that are helped out and very definitively the valuation given to
these assets,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said at a news
conference in  Madrid  today. The aim is for private investors to
take a majority stake in the bad bank and that it shouldn’t
yield a loss for taxpayers, he said.  The FROB was among the mechanisms approved today by Spain’s
cabinet as it set out a new framework for restructuring a
banking industry mauled by losses from the country’s property
crash. The terms of the European bailout of as much as 100
billion euros that Spain sought for its banking system in June
require the government to spell out procedures for dealing with
failed lenders that limit costs to taxpayers.  Bernanke Comments  Bernanke told central bankers and economists at the Fed’s
annual symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that “nontraditional
policies” should not be ruled out if economic conditions
warrant, according to a text of his speech released in
 Washington .  “The costs of nontraditional policies, when considered
carefully, appear manageable, implying that we should not rule
out the further use of such policies if economic conditions
warrant,” Bernanke said.  Germany’s 10-year yields rose two basis points to 1.34
percent, after climbing as much as eight basis points, the most
since Aug. 20. The rate increased five basis points this month.  The ECB would have sole power to grant banking licenses
under proposals to give the central bank supervisory powers and
build a euro-area banking union, a European Union official said.  ECB Meeting  The central bank would have a monopoly on granting all bank
licenses within the 17-nation euro area under the plan, due to
condition of anonymity because the plan isn’t final.  ECB policy makers meet next week in  Frankfurt , where they
may announce their own bond-buying program to quell the euro-
area debt crisis.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 the central bank
may resume buying  government bonds  to reduce borrowing costs of
crisis-hit countries including Spain and  Italy .  Spain’s requesting purchases of its sovereign debt by
European rescue funds may increase medium-term risk to
bondholders even as it would alleviate it in the short term,
Moody’s said in a statement yesterday.  The New York-based ratings firm reduced Spain’s credit
rating to its lowest level of investment grade on June 13,
cutting it three steps to Baa3 from A3.  Volatility on Spanish government bonds was the highest in
euro-region markets today, followed by Italy, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two-and 10-year
securities, and credit-default swaps.  German securities returned 4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian
bonds earned 11 percent and Spanish debt fell 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  