-- German Retail Sales Unexpectedly Fell in July as Economy Weakens
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-08-31T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/german-retail-sales-unexpectedly-fell-in-july-as-economy-weakens.html
German retail sales unexpectedly
declined in July as the sovereign debt crisis curbed growth in
 Europe ’s largest economy.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, slipped
0.9 percent from June, when they rose a revised 0.5 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. That’s the
strongest increase since March. Economists forecast a gain of
0.2 percent, according to the median of 15 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey . Sales fell 1 percent from a year earlier.  While the jobless rate in Germany remained at 6.8 percent
in August, unemployment edged higher for a fifth month as
Europe’s debt crisis weighs on growth and corporate earnings.
Still, Europe’s largest economy is outperforming most of its
euro-region peers as rising wages bolster purchasing power and
consumption.  “The situation on the labor market in  Germany  is
deteriorating,” said Matthias Thiel, an economist at M.M.
Warburg & Co. in Hamburg. “On the other hand, higher wages and
the high level of private consumption have a stabilizing effect
on the economy.”  The statistics office said it exchanged about 9,800
companies representing 33 percent of the sample it uses to
calculate the monthly retail sales statistics in July.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, on July 31 posted
second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as sales
rose in its home market and at its Cash & Carry and Media-Saturn
units.  Cooling Economy  While the outlook for private consumption remains
“favorable,” the Bundesbank said on Aug. 20 that the economy
may cool further as a result of the region’s fiscal crisis.  German growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the second quarter
from 0.5 percent in the first as companies postponed
investments. The number of people without a job increased a
seasonally adjusted 9,000 in August.  Siemens AG (SIE)  said on Aug. 27 it will cut 500 jobs at its
German factories making industrial gear boxes and clutches by
2016, citing slack demand. Europe’s largest engineering company
said last month reaching its full-year earnings goal has become
harder after profit and sales fell short of analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  