-- Gerry Weber Jumps on Dutch Partner’s Takeover: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   M y r i a m   W e c k e r
-- 2012-08-31T11:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/gerry-weber-jumps-on-dutch-partner-s-takeover-frankfurt-mover.html
Gerry Weber International AG (GWI1) , a
German fashion chain, gained the most in nine weeks after
acquiring a majority stake in its largest Dutch franchise
partner.  Gerry Weber rose as much as 4.6 percent to 33 euros, the
steepest intraday increase since June 29, and was trading up 3.9
percent at 1:46 p.m. in Frankfurt in the biggest gain today on
the HDAX Index in  Germany .  The group bought 51 percent of Houses of Gerry Weber and
the concession stores, resulting in a majority share in 25
Houses of Gerry Weber outlets and 15 stores in the Netherlands,
the company said in a statement today, without disclosing a
price. The group has the option to acquire the remaining 49
percent starting in 2017, the company said.  “It’s extremely probable that Gerry Weber will buy the
remaining 49 percent after the transition period with the old
management,” Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at B. Metzler Seel.
Sohn & Co. in Frankfurt, said by phone today. The retailer,
which is “very strongly positioned,” continues to look at
Germany and neighboring countries for potential acquisitions.  “All their investments are financed through their own  cash
flow , allowing them to avoid debt,” Frericks said. “They are
very likely to see a rise in profits.”  The company, based in Halle in the state of North Rhine-
Westphalia, said it plans to expand abroad, and the Dutch
purchase allows it to benefit from “the growth potential of one
of our most important European markets,” Chief Executive
Officer Gerhard Weber said in the statement. The franchise
partner will remain in charge of management for the time being.  Gerry Weber acquired CASTRO Deutschland GmbH, a German
apparel and accessories chain, and Austrian clothing retailer
Don Gil Textilhandel GmbH in 2011. The group operates the Gerry
Weber, Gerry Weber Edition, G.W., Taifun and Samoon by Gerry
Weber brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Myriam Wecker in  Frankfurt  at 
 mwecker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  