-- Good Enough for Mitt, but What About the Rest of Us?
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n   a n d   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-08-31T14:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/good-enough-for-mitt-but-what-about-the-rest-of-us-.html
The last in a series of reports from Margaret   Carlson and
 Ramesh Ponnuru  from the  Republican National Convention  in
Tampa,    Florida . Margaret:  Poor Mitt Romney. He had to give the speech of his
life at a convention  bookended by two disasters: Isaac and Clint -- one
natural, the other  self-inflicted. Who in his right mind would turn the stage over to an actor to  ad-lib
whatever he wanted, stepping on the carefully edited movie intro  about Romney’s
life? Every speech is fly-specked by Central Control, but apparently not  the
one by  the "mystery guest" hyped all day by the campaign. What a singular lack
of judgment to give a quirky performer like  Clint Eastwood  the freedom to mock
the president as an empty  chair who crudely told Romney to do something
anatomically impossible. Perhaps it was to lower the bar for Romney  to clear so that when he gave an
 exceptionally good speech , it was, well,  exceptional. Let’s give Romney his
due. He had to give the speech of his life,  and did. It wasn’t the greatest
speech ever, or the greatest   convention speech ever, or even the greatest
speech of this convention. (That  honor goes to  two speeches,  one from  Senator
Marco Rubio of Florida and  the other from  New Mexico Governor Susana  Martinez.)
It was, however, the greatest speech  Mitt Romney  has ever given. For the people in the hall, Romney had them at "hello." For those
independents at home tuning  into the campaign for the first time, they needed
to have a reason to like him,  and if they listened to only the first half of
his speech, they will. In the early passages, he showed the kind of  warmth generally hidden by his
cramped manner.  He choked up remembering the  “true partners” his parents were,
how each day his father put a single rose on  the bedside table of his wife of
64 years, how she knew something was terribly  wrong the morning he died because
there was no rose. He has trouble with women -- about 10 points'  worth of trouble -- but they
surely loved his statement about how his father wanted his mother  to win
because women should be appreciated for their intellect as well as the  100
things they do each day to keep their families going. He captured the  joy of
the kids piling on the bed, the relief that a child leaving home took a  job
nearby. But as the speech went on, it got darker.  Romney openly scoffed at global
warming in a two-fer: He mocked Obama’s  grandiosity for saying he would control
the rise of the oceans, and he mocked the very idea of  controlling the rise of
the oceans. When Romney took a detour into foreign  policy, it was as successful as his
trip abroad last month. He graciously  granted President  Barack Obama  chops for
killing  Osama bin Laden , but pivoted to accuse Obama of  making us less safe
today because of  Iran , of throwing  Israel  under the bus,  eager to give Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  too much room. On the bright side, Romney got  to the
end without ever mentioning  Afghanistan . Whoever wins, the troops will  come
home. Before the speech ended, the Romney  campaign put out  a statement  to stunt
the Clint debacle. We should all get the  joke, it more or less said, in the
same way we were supposed to find it amusing  when Romney detoured into
birtherland last week. Clint was to be seen as “a  break from all the political
speeches." Romney finished with a bang. It's hard not to love the end of a convention --
the confetti, the family emerging in  waves,  all those straight white teeth and
tousled hair chasing balloons around  the stage. Will we remember that, or
Eastwood talking trash to an empty chair?   ( Margaret Carlson  is a columnist for Bloomberg View.  Follow  her on
Twitter. )   Ramesh:  All through the primaries, Romney seemed to be just
good enough to win -- which is to say, not quite good enough to put the race
away convincingly until the end. Evidently that’s the way he’s going to win the
general election too, if he wins it. His convention address isn’t going to go in
any anthologies of American oratory. It achieved the mission the campaign set
for it, though, as did the convention as a whole. Or rather, the missions. There were four. First, Romney had to be
“humanized,” to invoke the week’s pervasive cliché. Like you, Margaret, I
thought this was the most successful part of Romney’s speech, and of the
speeches that came before -- too long before! -- his. Second, Romney had to coax
those Obama voters open to his candidacy to feel good about a decision to
abandon the president, and his critique of Obama’s record was pitched perfectly.
(Parts of it do not, however, repay close scrutiny. The more I think about it,
the odder it seems that Romney said that Americans “deserved” to have the
immediate aftermath of a financial crisis be the best years of their lives.) Third, Romney had to refrain from scaring anyone -- from saying anything that
inadvertently played along with the Obama team’s effort to portray him as the
most extreme Republican ever to menace the republic. This imperative accounts
for the strikingly non-ideological cast of much of Romney’s speech. Fourth,
Romney had to offer better times for the middle class. My main concern about the speech, as about the convention as a whole, is that
it gave too much weight to Mission No. 1 and not enough to Mission No. 4. The
Romney campaign seems to think that once Americans see Romney as likable, they
will trust him to be president. They may be right. Or it may be the other way
around: Not until they trust him to promote their interests will they find him
likable. This is what I suspect. I would have preferred for Romney to spend more
time making the case for how his agenda would help the country. But maybe what
he said about it was just good enough.   ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)    