-- IPO-Bound Workday Said to Win Contract for Google’s HR
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/google-s-hr-software-upgrade-is-a-coup-for-ipo-bound-workday.html
Workday Inc., the business-software
maker planning an initial public offering, has signed up a big
customer in  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for its online tools to manage employee
operations, two people familiar with the deal said.  Workday, based in Pleasanton,  California , would replace
parts of Google’s home-grown human resources software for tens
of thousands of its employees, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information isn’t public. The world’s
largest Internet search engine has hired Deloitte LLP to help
integrate Workday’s software, they said.  The deployment is a coup for Workday, the cloud-computing
company that’s been winning deals for its HR and financial
management software against market leaders  SAP AG (SAP)  and  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  Workday plans to raise as much as $400 million in a public
offering, it said in a regulatory filing yesterday.  The online business-software company was founded by David Duffield and Aneel Bhusri, two former top executives at HR-
software pioneer PeopleSoft Inc. Along with online-software
maker  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , Workday has been peeling business
away from Oracle -- which bought PeopleSoft in a hostile $10.3
billion takeover in 2005 -- and SAP, the largest maker of
enterprise applications.  Katelin Todhunter-Gerberg, spokeswoman for  Mountain View ,
California-based Google, declined to comment. Eric Glass, a
spokesman for Workday, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment.  Workday had $134.4 million in sales for the year ended Jan.
31, and a net loss of $79.6 million, according to its S-1 filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Workday’s more than
325 customers include  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX) , Kimberly-
Clark Corp. and Four Seasons Hotels Inc.  The company would join a spate of enterprise software
makers that have gone public in recent months, including Palo
Alto Networks Inc., ServiceNow Inc. and Splunk Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  