-- Greek Budget Cuts Focus on Pension Curbs to Gain Troika Approval
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-08-31T11:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/greek-budget-cuts-focus-on-pension-curbs-to-gain-troika-approval.html
Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras has drafted an 11.7 billion-euro ($14.7 billion)
package of spending cuts that will mean about a third of savings
will come from reduced spending on pensions.  The two-year package, which is still being discussed by the
coalition parties that support the government of Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras, provides for 3.5 billion euros in savings from
reduced pensions, lower lump-sum payments and an increase in the
number of days worked required to qualify for the minimum
pension, according to one document distributed to reporters in
 Athens  by one of the parties.  An overhaul of the public sector, including wage cuts for
lawmakers and ministry officials, will provide another 2 billion
euros in savings in 2013 and 2014. Wages for police, firemen and
other uniformed personnel are to be cut by as much as 12 percent
and Christmas and holiday bonuses will be abolished as part of a
1.5 billion-euro savings drive.  Samaras is struggling to find common ground with his
coalition partners on the cuts required by the so-called troika
of the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  to qualify for international funds.
 Evangelos Venizelos  of the socialist Pasok party and Fotis Kouvelis of Democratic Left said earlier this week the package
needs to avoid the across-the-board cuts in wages and pensions
that have pushed the country to a fifth year of recession.  Progress Review  The troika returns to Athens next week to continue its
review of  Greece ’s progress in meeting the terms of its 240
billion euros of bailout loans. Without a positive review, the
other countries in the euro area may not approve the
disbursements of funds, which could lead to Greece’s exit from
 Europe ’s single currency.  Samaras said yesterday the country needs to prove it’s
serious about meeting promises made to international creditors.
The new package contains “painful, necessary spending cuts”
and will be the last of its kind because Greek society can no
longer take such austerity measures, he said.  Another 1.3 billion euros will be saved in cutting benefit
payments, including “rationalization” of family payments,
“adjustments” to disability benefits and a cap and means-
testing for benefits paid to unmarried, dependent daughters,
according to the document.  Stournaras is to meet with German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  in Berlin on Sept. 4 before European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy  visits Athens on Sept. 7 to meet with Samaras.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  