-- Michael Jackson Glorified in Spike Lee Movie in Venice
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-08-31T13:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/michael-jackson-glorified-in-spike-lee-movie-in-venice.html
Twenty-five years to the day after
 Michael Jackson  released his chart-topping album “Bad,”
director Spike Lee rolled out his documentary on the making of
the album at the  Venice  Film Festival.  “Bad 25” features informal footage shot by Jackson
himself and recordings of his vocal exercises. There are also
interviews with personalities he influenced -- including  Mariah Carey , Cee Lo Green,  Kanye West  and even Justin Bieber.  Lee’s two-hour artistic tribute completely dismisses the
tabloid reports of Jackson’s bizarre personal life, his pet
monkey,  plastic surgery  and oxygen tank.  “It’s like saying there’s a cobweb on the ceiling of the
Sistine Chapel,” says producer-composer  Quincy Jones  early on
in “Bad 25.”  The documentary gives a blow-by-blow account of how the
“Bad” album came about, focusing on the music videos for a
more visual moviegoer experience.  Director  Martin Scorsese  is interviewed at the start about
his 18-minute video for the “Bad” single, shot in the New York
subway. Scorsese confesses that Michael’s signature crotch touch
was a surprise to him -- and kept it in because it didn’t look
inappropriate.  We hear of Jackson’s rivalry with Prince, and their frosty
meeting, at which Prince appeared with a voodoo box that Jackson
was convinced would put a spell on him.  Beating ‘Thriller’  Jackson had a motivational message of “100 million
albums” which he inscribed in a mirror even before “Bad” came
out, so determined was he to match and exceed the popularity of
the previous album “Thriller.” His record producer also notes
that Jackson had a business mind and would count his royalties.  Many segments are devoted to Jackson’s dance moves and
choreographies. The film shows his well-publicized admiration of
 Fred Astaire  and classic musicals, as well as of the more recent
“All That Jazz.”  The movie ends with participants describing where they were
when they heard of his death. The final shots, taken at the end
of a mega-concert, are of Jackson saluting the audience with his
arms stretched out in a crucifixion-like position.  “For me, this is a love letter to Michael,” said Lee, in a
“Bad” T-shirt and a black beret, at a Venice news conference
after the screening.  Lee said he and Jackson were close in age, and he related
to the pop star: “I had the afro, the look, but singing and
dancing: that’s where it stopped.”  One of the main reasons he did the film was because its
producers “wanted to just concentrate on the music,” he said,  Lee heard of Jackson’s death while speaking at a Cannes
conference. He flew back to the U.S. and was “out of it” for
months, he said. Realizing he only had one Jackson album on his
digital player, Lee bought every CD the star recorded and for 
the next year only played his music.  The 69th Venice Film Festival continues through Sept. 8.
Information:  http://www.labiennale.org/en/cinema/   Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend,
 Warwick Thompson  on London theater and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S.
theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Venice at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 