-- Highland Capital Spat With Ex-Partner Turns to Lawyers
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-31T17:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/highland-capital-spat-with-ex-partner-daugherty-turns-to-lawyers.html
Highland Capital Management LP’s
courthouse feud with former executive Patrick Daugherty over his
statements and the investment advisory firm’s money has veered
into the conduct of Daugherty’s legal counsel.  Judge Martin Hoffman in  Dallas  today heard an argument from
lawyers for Highland and Chief Executive Officer James Dondero
seeking sanctions against Daugherty and his attorneys at
Houston-based Looper Reed & McGraw PC.  Highland lawyer James Stanton told Hoffman that
Daugherty and his attorneys misled the judge about talking with
the media when they filed a counterclaim in May that included
privileged and confidential information about Highland.  “This is not how it’s supposed to be under the Texas
lawyers’ creed,” Stanton told the judge.  Ruth Ann Daniels, Daugherty’s lawyer, responded, “The
question is, ‘What is confidential and privileged about anything
in our lawsuit?’”  Hoffman, who didn’t rule on the matter, said he would
address the issue of what information might be confidential and
privileged at a future hearing. He said he would issue sanctions
if he believes the material in Daugherty’s counterclaim is
confidential.  Divorce Case  Dallas-based Highland sued Daugherty for allegedly making
defamatory comments about the business to investors and for
breach of contract on April 11. Two weeks earlier Daugherty, who
left the firm in September 2011, had testified against James
Dondero as a witness for Rebecca Dondero at a hearing in the
couple’s divorce case.  “He told me his plan was to get his net worth down and pay
her as little as possible,” Daugherty said James Dondero had
told him when they’d met for drinks in February.  Daugherty denied the Highland allegations and in May
countersued, claiming he is owed an unspecified amount of money
from a joint venture and firm employee retention and incentive
plans.  Daugherty and his lawyers also filed a request for the
imposition of sanctions against Highland and its lawyers,
Andrews Kurth LLP, accusing them of waging “a vicious smear
campaign,” after which the case was briefly sealed at
plaintiffs’ request.  In an Aug. 20 filing, Daugherty and Looper Reed also
responded to the sanctions request by calling it “baseless”
and “devoid of merit.”  “Highland initiated this litigation to defame Daugherty,
to avoid paying him the compensation and ownership interests in
Highland affiliated entities that he is owed and to punish
Daugherty for his truthful testimony in Dondero’s divorce
proceedings,” according to the defense filing.  The case is Highland Capital Management LP v. Daugherty,
12-04005, District Court of Dallas County,  Texas , 68th Judicial
District.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net ;
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  