-- Iliad Reaches Record Since 2004 IPO on Mobile Users: Paris Mover
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-08-31T07:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/iliad-profit-sales-beat-estimates-on-french-wireless-discounts.html
Iliad SA (ILD) , the wireless company that
shook the French market with 2 euro-a-month ($2.50) packages,
rose to a record in Paris after winning 3.6 million subscribers
in the first six months of its venture into mobile and beating
earnings estimates.  The shares rose as much as 5.9 percent, the biggest jump in
three months, to 127.75 euros, a record since the Paris-based
company first sold shares publicly in January 2004 for 16.3
euros apiece. The stock was up 3.5 percent at 124.90 euros as of
9:31 a.m. local time.  Shares of the broadband company founded by entrepreneur
Xavier Niel have jumped more than 30 percent this year, as Iliad
took wireless customers from  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s
SFR unit. Iliad’s market-share was about 5.4 percent at the end
of June, up from the 4 percent it had 80 days after it started
its wireless business.  “The mobile trends are strong again -- they’ve got solid
customer intake in the second quarter,” said Stephane Beyazian,
an analyst at Raymond James Euro Equities. “One point to keep
an eye on is how heavy investments will be going
forward.”  Iliad’s first-half revenue jumped 39 percent to 1.44
billion euros, the company said today. Net income fell 45
percent to 80 million euros because of startup costs on mobile.
Analysts had projected profit of 75 million euros on sales of
1.37 billion euros, based on seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Growth Forecast  Iliad entered the mobile market under the brand name Free
on Jan. 10 with discounted packages priced at 2 euros and 19.99
euros a month. It distributes exclusively over the Internet and
doesn’t subsidize handsets, in a strategy based on lower prices
and costs on average compared with those of  France Telecom , SFR
and  Bouygues SA. (EN)   “When we look at the wave of subscribers we’ve gotten on
mobile and fixed, we have hints telling us that it won’t just
stop from one day to the next,” Chief Financial Officer Thomas Reynaud said in an interview.  Iliad forecast “strong” revenue growth in 2012 and
expects sales of more than 4 billion euros by 2015. Its mobile
market share should reach 15 percent in  France  “in the mid-
term” and 25 percent “in the long run,” it said.  “We could do even better in the second half if we play our
cards right,” Reynaud said, referring to the 39 percent sales
increase in the first half.  The company still makes most of its business by selling
fixed-line phone packages. Revenue from that business, which
accounted for 78 percent of sales in the first half, will grow
more than 5 percent in 2012, Iliad said. Sales in the fixed unit
grew 9 percent in the first half to 1.13 billion euros.  Rivals Outpaced  In mobile, Iliad has outpaced other late entrants in
 Europe , such as Yoigo in  Spain  and Three in the U.K. and  Italy .
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo edged up to 5 percent of the Spanish
market at the end of 2011, five years after its service started.
Three, the wireless unit of billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13) , took about eight years to win 10 percent of the
U.K. and Italian markets.  In France, competitors have scrambled to fight back by
lowering prices, drafting cost-cutting plans and starting
separate discount brands to sell voice and data packages over
the Internet, stripped of a phone and of in-store service.  France Telecom, the country’s former monopoly and largest
phone company said last month it stabilized its wireless market
share at home at about 38 percent thanks to price cuts.  Vivendi said yesterday it would cut operating costs by
about 500 million euros annually by the end of 2014 at the SFR
unit. The division’s earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization slumped 18 percent in the second quarter. Third-
ranked competitor Bouygues cut its profit target this week, also
citing increased competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  