-- Limelight Must Face Akamai Online-Content Patent Claims
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-08-31T19:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/limelight-must-face-akamai-online-content-patent-claims-1-.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) ’s patent
claims over online content delivery networks against  Limelight
Networks Inc. (LLNW)  were revived by an appeals court.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  ordered a lower court to reconsider whether Limelight
infringed the Akamai patent. In a related decision issued today,
the court reinstated claims  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  made against closely
held Epic Systems Corp. on a patent for a method of
communication between doctors and their patients.  The issue in both cases was whether a company can be liable
for infringing patents when various parties carry out parts of
an innovation. The ruling will affect disputes over software,
financial systems and medical diagnostic testing.  “Akamai should be given the benefit of this court’s ruling
disapproving the line of divided infringement cases that the
district court felt compelled to follow,” the court  wrote .  Limelight, which argued that it can’t be held liable for
infringement unless it performed all steps of an Akamai patent,
was supported by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  who
are seeking to curtail similar suits against them. Drugmakers
including Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  sided with
Akamai, arguing such a limit would weaken  patent rights  and hurt
innovation.  “Limelight continues to believe it does not infringe and
will pursue all procedural avenues to vindication,” the company
said today in a statement.  Aiding, Abetting  Limelight and Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Akamai compete
in the market for content-delivery networks that store and
distribute movies or music to computers on behalf of services
such as Hulu LLC or  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Akamai had won a $45.5 million
jury verdict, only to have it thrown out after a judge ruled
there was no infringement because Tempe, Arizona-based Limelight
didn’t perform all of the steps covered by the patent. Some were
performed by the websites.  The Federal Circuit, sitting with all active judges, heard
the Akamai and McKesson cases on the same day.  “We are very pleased with the new standard the appeals
court has adopted,”  Jeff Young , an Akamai spokesman, said in an
e-mail. “We are very excited about the opportunity to prove
Limelight’s infringement as well as the new protections afforded
to interactive innovations like those pioneered by Akamai.”  The majority likened its ruling to criminal cases in which
a person is found guilty of aiding or abetting a crime without
committing the offense.  ‘Harmful Acts’  “The law frequently imposes a duty (and liability upon
breach of the duty) on parties who use innocent third parties to
carry out harmful acts,” the majority wrote in the unsigned 6-5
decision.  The Akamai case initially focused on whether Limelight
could be found liable for direct infringement when it didn’t use
all the steps. Instead, the majority said it wouldn’t address
that issue and ruled on whether Limelight could lose the case if
it were found to have encouraged others to use the invention.  Circuit Judge Richard Linn, in his dissent, said the
majority was extending  patent law  beyond what Congress and the
 Supreme Court  have allowed when it comes to indirect
infringement.  San Francisco-based McKesson sued Epic over its MyChart
software program, which is sold to hospitals and medical groups.
Health-care providers use the software to give patients a way to
access their records as well as scheduling and treatment
information.  Provider, Patient  A federal judge rejected McKesson’s infringement claim,
saying that Epic didn’t perform all the steps covered by the
patent, nor did it control others to perform all of the steps.
The McKesson patent is for a method for a health-care provider
and patient to communicate automatically with each other.  The case is Akamai Technologies v.  Limelight Networks ,
2009-1372, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Akamai Technologies v.
Limelight Networks Inc., 06cv11109, U.S. District Court,
District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  The McKesson case is McKesson Technologies Inc. v. Epic
Systems Corp., 2010-1291, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit. The lower court case is McKesson Information Solutions
LLC v. Epic Systems Corp., 06cv2965, U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net 
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  