-- IMF’s Deputy Lipton Says Global Recovery Remains ’Very Rocky’
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-08-31T17:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/imf-s-deputy-lipton-says-global-recovery-remains-very-rocky-.html
David Lipton , the International
Monetary Fund’s No. 2 official, said the global economic
recovery remains “very rocky” while the  Federal Reserve  still
has further tools to use as needed.  “They have room to maneuver if things worsen and they will
have to see what the economic circumstances are,” Lipton said
in an interview with Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers.”  Global recovery will continue as long as the U.S. doesn’t
go over the fiscal cliff and Europe “plugs away at its
problems,” he said in the interview from Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  Lipton said the U.S. must avoid going over the fiscal
cliff, which he said the IMF has estimated would cut as much as
4 percentage points from gross domestic product.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said Aug. 22
that scheduled tax increases and spending cuts in 2013 would
lead to economic output shrinking, unemployment rising, and
conditions that would “probably be considered a recession.”  On Europe, Lipton said the  European Central Bank  needs to
ensure that monetary policy transmission mechanisms work. He
said it is “an open subject” whether the IMF would need to
assist in a bond buying plan for Europe.  EBC Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said yesterday
the IMF should be involved in setting conditions for countries
applying for bond-buying aid from Europe’s bailout fund.  ECB Plans  ECB President  Mario Draghi  on Sept. 6 could give details of
a plan to buy  government bonds  to stem the crisis, a measure
opposed by Germany’s Bundesbank.  “Europe has to decide that,” Lipton said, regarding the
IMF’s role. “Right now, Draghi has not been specific. I imagine
he’ll have more to say in the future, maybe even when they meet
next week,” he said. “Spain has not asked us for a program so
we’re not in the business of preparing one,” he said.  Representatives of the IMF and the other members of the so-
called troika, including the European Commission and the
European Central Bank, return to Athens next week to review
Greece’s progress in meeting the terms of its 240 billion euros
of bailout loans.  Euro-area  unemployment  was 11.3 percent in July, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That matches the prior month’s rate as the highest since the
data series started in 1995.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  