-- India Growth Beats Estimates After Rate Cut to Aid Spending
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-08-31T10:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/india-growth-beats-estimates-after-rate-cut-to-fight-europe-risk.html
India’s economy  grew more than
estimated last quarter after the central bank cut  interest rates 
to support spending at home as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimped
export growth. Bonds fell and the rupee pared losses.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.5 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, faster than the three-year low
of 5.3 percent in the previous quarter, data from the  Central
Statistical Office  in New Delhi showed today. The median of 39
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 5.2 percent gain.  “Despite slightly higher growth, the underlying momentum
remains weak,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in Mumbai. “India needs a faster expansion to cut poverty
and accelerate development, but its economic performance is
likely to remain below potential.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  faces pressure to rejuvenate
a development agenda hampered by graft allegations and political
gridlock, as inflation near 7 percent limits the central bank’s
room to lower rates further to revive investment. India and BRIC
peers China, Russia and  Brazil  are relying on domestic demand as
Europe’s woes dim the outlook for overseas sales.  Inflation has been fanned by food costs and a 17 percent
drop in the rupee against the dollar in the past year that made
imports such as oil costlier. A below-average monsoon threatens
to exacerbate price increases and weigh on growth by crimping
farm output.  Rupee, Stocks  The yield on the 8.15 percent bond due June 2022 rose to
8.23 percent as of 3:19 p.m. in Mumbai from 8.19 percent
yesterday. The rupee little changed at 55.655 per dollar, after
sliding as much as 0.3 percent earlier. The BSE  India  Sensitive
Index fell 0.8 percent.  GDP rose 3.9 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the
slowest pace since 2009, based on an alternative estimate using
expenditures on goods and services, according to calculations by
Bloomberg.  India’s  wholesale-price index  rose 6.87 percent last month
from a year earlier, the fastest inflation in the BRIC group
even as the pace eased to a 32-month low. India also faces
record borrowing needs to plug the widest BRIC budget deficit
and a trade shortfall that has pressured the rupee.  The nation is “somewhat of an outlier in the world” as
inflation remains above a comfort level of about 5 percent even
as GDP growth moderates, according to  Reserve Bank  of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao. He left borrowing costs unchanged at
8 percent in July for a second meeting, after a 0.5 percentage
point cut on April 17.  Faster Development  Brazil lowered its lending rate for the ninth straight
meeting this week to a record low 7.5 percent. The nation’s GDP
growth probably slowed to 0.7 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, the weakest pace since 2009, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey before a report today.  India’s central bank predicts a 6.5 percent GDP climb in
the 12 months that began April 1, matching last year’s pace,
which was a nine-year low following a moderation in investment.  “Today’s growth rate was driven by the construction sector
and other services,” said Suvodeep Rakshit, an economist at
Kotak Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “But the weak growth story
still continues. The Reserve Bank of India’s priority remains
inflation, so the onus is on the government to accelerate
reforms.”  Farm output rose 2.9 percent in the three months through
June from a year earlier, compared with a 1.7 percent gain in
the previous quarter, today’s report showed. Manufacturing
expanded 0.2 percent, while construction jumped 10.9 percent.  Budget Deficit  Singh is under pressure to achieve faster growth in a
nation where the majority of people live on less than $2 per day,
according to World Bank estimates.  The Reserve Bank has cited India’s  fiscal gap  as among
inflation risks. Singh’s administration is struggling to rein in
spending on a subsidy program ranging from diesel to fertilizers
even as weaker expansion crimps tax revenues.  The government’s goal is to narrow the budget shortfall to
5.1 percent of GDP in the fiscal year through March 2013, from
5.8 percent. Forecasters including Citigroup Inc. predict the
deficit will instead widen as expansion falters.  S&P and Fitch have said they may strip India of its
investment-grade rating because of such risks. Companies such as
 Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  have felt the impact of slower growth.
Deliveries from its Indian business declined 3.6 percent in the
three months ended June.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram has pledged to
unveil a road map for fiscal consolidation to assuage concern
that policy missteps are clouding India’s outlook.  The government has forgone increased foreign investment in
industries from retailing to insurance in recent months, in part
as coalition allies objected. Legislation to revamp taxes to
bolster expansion is also stalled.  “The government has its back to the wall,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the New Delhi-based Centre for Media
Studies. “There is little possibility of it hitting back and
taking any meaningful reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  