-- Iron Ore Rises for First Time in Two Weeks as Price Fell Too Far
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-08-31T16:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/iron-ore-rises-for-first-time-in-two-weeks-as-price-fell-too-far.html
Iron ore  rose for the first time in
more than two weeks on speculation prices have fallen too far.  The price of  iron ore  with 62 percent iron content for
immediate delivery to the Chinese port of Tianjin, a benchmark
for  Asia , rose 70 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $89.40 a dry ton
today, according to a  price index  compiled by The Steel Index
Ltd. The last time prices rose was on Aug. 14. Iron ore has
declined about 50 percent over the past year amid weaker demand
in China.  “It does look like prices have probably overshot to the
downside,” Ric Deverell, global head of commodities research at
Credit Suisse AG in London, said by phone today. “I would
characterize what we’re seeing as signs of stabilization, but
it’s probably too early to say that we’re out of the woods.”  As prices decline, steel producers in  China  may switch to
imports from lower-quality and more expensive domestic ore,
which will support the market in the first quarter, according to
Deutsche Bank AG. Prices should rebound to about $100 a ton in
the fourth quarter, Credit Suisse said in a report yesterday.
Monthly crude steel production in China rose to a record 61.7
million tons in July, according to government data.  The steel-making ingredient is expected to rebound this
year because current prices aren’t profitable for producers in
China and other countries, Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, said Aug. 27.  Prices could still “surprise to the downside” if Chinese
iron-ore producers don’t scale down production and if steel
output doesn’t recover, Credit Suisse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  