-- MIT's Forbes Says Bank Leverage Boosts Contagion Risk
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-08-31T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/mit-s-forbes-says-bank-leverage-boosts-contagion-risk.html
An excessively-leveraged banking
system increases the risk that a crisis in one country will
spread to another, according to a paper presented at a Federal
Reserve conference in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  “A top priority should be reducing leverage in banking
systems,” Kristin Forbes, an economist at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology , said in a paper presented today at the
Kansas City Fed’s annual meeting of economists and central
bankers. “Countries should also support portfolio investors’
efforts to diversify and invest abroad” and not give
“preferential treatment for debt financing,” she said.  Policy makers are trying to make financial markets more
resilient to outside shocks, responding to the credit freeze
that damaged global growth in 2008 and a debt crisis in  Europe 
that’s damping the recovery. Fed officials said Europe’s turmoil
presents a “significant downside risk” to the U.S. economic
outlook, minutes of their July 31-Aug. 1 meeting showed.  Forbes highlighted four main paths a shock follows in
crossing borders. Crises can spread via banks, trade and through
investors who may be forced by losses in one country to sell
assets in other countries. Turmoil can also be transmitted
through “wake-up calls,” when new information about a nation’s
vulnerabilities prompts investors to reassess risks in other
countries, said Forbes, 42, a Sloan School of Management
professor.  While long-term structural reforms such as reducing bank
leverage will be most effective in minimizing contagion,
regulators have other options for minimizing the risk of
“negative spillovers,” Forbes said.  ‘Restore Confidence’  “It is critically important to restore confidence that
money deposited in banks will be accessible in the future,” she
said. “The best alternative” to minimize contagion today in
the euro area “appears to be well-designed  deposit insurance 
combined with appropriate banking regulations and supervision.”  Forbes said “the analysis and policy implications” of her
paper “apply to the current challenges in the euro area.”  Europe’s focus on sharing liabilities through the  European
Central Bank , European Stability Mechanism and European
Financial Stability Facility may increase contagion risks as
investors begin to question the solvency of countries providing
bailout funds, she said.  Regulators shouldn’t impose  capital controls  or ease  bank
regulations  because they will make countries more vulnerable to
shocks, according to the paper. Policies that increase the debt
burden on sovereign nations should also be avoided, Forbes said.  Forbes worked in mergers and acquisitions at Morgan Stanley
from 1992 until 1993 and with the  World Bank ’s policy research
department from 1993 until 1994. She was deputy assistant
secretary for quantitative policy analysis at the U.S. Treasury
Department from 2001 until 2002. In 2003, she became the
youngest member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers
and worked there until 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  