-- Lithuania’s BBB Rating Affirmed by S&P on Budget Policies
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-08-31T11:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/lithuania-bbb-rating-affirmed-by-s-p-as-budget-policy-boosts-gdp.html
Lithuania’s sovereign credit rating
was affirmed by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited the Baltic
nation’s commitment to budget policies that promote sustainable
economic growth.  S&P kept its stable outlook on Lithuania’s BBB rating, its
second-lowest investment grade, on a par with Russia and
 Bulgaria , according to a statement today from  London .  “The Lithuanian government has made significant progress
in consolidating the public finances,” the ratings company
said. “We expect fiscal deficits to continue declining over the
medium term and for consolidation efforts to be helped by a
forecast return to strong economic growth.”  The Baltic nation plans to narrow this year’s budget
deficit to within 3 percent of  gross domestic product  from 5.5
percent in 2011. After expanding 5.9 percent last year, the
economy will grow 3 percent in 2012, the central bank predicts.  The yield on  Lithuania ’s 2022 dollar bond fell 4 basis
points to 4.15 percent as of 1:25 p.m. in Vilnius, the capital.  There are “significant risks” that this year’s fiscal
shortfall will be “marginally” higher than the government’s
target after the first-half deficit reached about 2.4 percent of
full-year estimated GDP, S&P said.  “Fiscal prudence is particularly important for Lithuania
as its currency board affords it no meaningful monetary or
exchange rate flexibility,” it said.  S&P, which also raised the country’s short-term foreign and
local currency rating to A-2 from A-3, warned that rising gas
and heating prices may spur  price growth , hindering plans to
meet inflation criteria for euro adoption.  “Whatever the case, we believe that Lithuania’s
authorities may hesitate to apply for  euro-zone  membership for
as long as the economic and debt crises in the euro zone
persist,” the ratings company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  