-- J&J Loses Appeal of $257.7 Million Risperdal Verdict
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-08-31T16:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/j-j-loses-appeal-of-257-7-million-risperdal-verdict.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  lost a bid to have
a Louisiana appeals court throw out an award of almost
$258 million that a jury ordered it to pay state officials over
the marketing of its Risperdal antipsychotic drug.  A state appeals court in  Lake Charles , Louisiana, today
rejected J&J’s claims that it was unfairly barred from defending
itself against allegations that its Janssen unit defrauded the
state’s Medicaid program by misleading regulators and residents
about Risperdal’s health risks.  “We find that the trial court was not manifestly erroneous
in casting Janssen with civil monetary penalties, attorney fees,
and costs for its violations” of Louisiana’s Medicaid fraud
laws, the appellate court said in a 32-page ruling.  The ruling comes a day after  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based J&J and Janssen agreed to pay $181 million to resolve
claims by 36 states that they improperly marketed and advertised
Risperdal and Invega, another antipsychotic medicine.  Janssen intends to appeal the decision to the Louisiana
Supreme Court,  Teresa Mueller , a J&J spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “The lower court proceedings in this case were rife with
serious, prejudicial errors, such as lack of evidence that a
false or fraudulent claim was submitted to the Medicaid program
for reimbursement,” she said in the statement. Janssen “acted
responsibly” and didn’t violate state medical assistance law,
she said.  Pending Judgments  The Louisiana penalty is one of three pending judgments
against J&J over claims that the second-biggest maker of health
products hid  Risperdal’s  risks and tricked state Medicaid
programs into paying inflated prices for it. The company faces
suits from at least seven other states over Risperdal marketing.  In April, a judge in  Arkansas  ordered the drugmaker to pay
$1.2 billion in fines over Risperdal marketing. That verdict
came three months after J&J decided to end a trial in  Texas  over
the drug’s sales with a $158 million settlement. In June 2011, a
judge in  South Carolina  ordered J&J to pay $327 million in
penalties for deceptively marketing the medicine.  The drug’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. It generated
$3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of J&J’s revenue,
according to company filings. Sales of the drug fell to
$527 million in 2010, according to earnings reports.  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations that the company marketed the
drug for unapproved uses, J&J executives said in a regulatory
filing.  Justice Department  J&J officials have reached an agreement with the U.S.
 Justice Department  to pay as much as $2.2 billion to resolve
probes of its sales of drugs, including Risperdal, according to
people familiar with the matter,  Bloomberg News  reported earlier
this year.  In the Louisiana case, lawyers argued J&J and Janssen
defrauded the state’s Medicaid program by wrongfully marketing
the drug to doctors as safer and better than competing medicines
so they could sell it at an artificially inflated price.  Jurors found J&J officials violated the state’s Medicaid
fraud laws 35,542 times over Risperdal. The panel imposed a
penalty of $7,250 for each violation.  Judge Donald Hebert  later
added $70 million in legal fees and $3.3 million in expenses to
cover Louisiana’s cost of suing.  J&J and Janssen argued in court filings with Louisiana’s
Third Circuit Court of Appeal that Hebert’s miscues during the
trial warranted having the verdict and penalties thrown out.  Evidence Barred  Hebert’s decision to bar evidence that  Louisiana  officials
placed Risperdal on the state’s preferred drug list and covered
prescription costs without complaint hamstrung J&J’s defense,
the company argued.  The judge “made numerous erroneous evidentiary rulings
that prevented appellants from mounting any real defense,” the
company wrote.  Hebert also let lawyers for the state make “inflammatory
and improper” arguments that whipped up the jury’s emotions and
paved the way for an award of hundreds of millions of dollars in
penalties, the company said.  The appeals court rebuffed those arguments, finding Hebert
properly construed the state’s Medicaid fraud laws and insured
jury arguments didn’t improperly influence the verdict.  “We find the trial court’s instruction to the jury that
arguments by counsel have no evidentiary value to be sufficient
to preclude any potentially improper statements from influencing
the jury or contributing to its verdict,” the appeals court
judges wrote.  The case is Caldwell ex rel. State of Louisiana v. Janssen
Pharmaceutical, 04-C-3967, 27th Judicial Court, St. Landry
Parish, Louisiana (Opelousas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  