-- Javi Garcia Tops Man. City’s Deadline-Day Shopping List: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-31T07:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/javi-garcia-tops-man-city-s-deadline-day-shopping-list-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Deadline-Day List  Manchester City put Benfica midfielder Javi Garcia atop its
list of transfer deadline day targets and will try to conclude a
22 million-pound ($34.7 million) deal for the player today, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  City manager  Roberto Mancini  is expected to add Swansea
winger  Scott Sinclair , Fiorentina defender Matija Nastasic,
Inter Milan full-back Maicon and ex-England goalkeeper Richard Wright to his squad before today’s 11 p.m. deadline for Premier
League clubs to trade players, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Manchester-Milan  City will pay Inter Milan 3 million pounds for Maicon, 31,
who will get a two-year contract worth about 90,000 pounds a
week, the  Mirror reported .  City midfielder Nigel de Jong will join AC Milan for a
transfer fee of 3.5 million pounds, the Mirror said.  Essien Move  Arsenal made a surprise move to take Chelsea midfielder
 Michael Essien  on a season-long loan, the  Daily Mail reported .  Gunners manager  Arsene Wenger  wants to add a defensive
midfielder before the transfer deadline and Chelsea counterpart
Roberto  Di Matteo  will consider letting Essien leave on loan,
the Mail added.  Schurrle in, Sturridge out?  Chelsea is preparing to loan out striker  Daniel Sturridge 
if it can complete the signing of Bayer Leverkusen’s Andre Schurrle, who would cost about 20 million pounds, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Liverpool, Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur have all inquired
about Sturridge, 22, who would be available on a one-year loan,
the newspaper added.  Berbatov Bonanza  Fulham shattered its pay structure to make Manchester
United striker Dimitar Berbatov the highest-paid player in the
London club’s history, the  Sun reported .  The Cottagers will pay United a fee of 4 million pounds for
Berbatov, who will earn 100,000 pounds a week, the Sun said.  Record Breaker  Tottenham has been told to break its transfer record to
sign Portugal midfielder Joao Moutinho, who’s the top target of
manager Andre Villas-Boas, the  Mail reported .  Spurs were in advanced talks last night about a deal to
bring Moutinho to White Hart Lane from Porto, which values him
at 30 million pounds, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  