-- Kenya Inflation Slows for Ninth Month, Fueling Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-08-31T12:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/kenya-inflation-slows-for-ninth-month-fueling-rate-cut-bets-1-.html
Kenyan  inflation  slowed for a ninth
month in August, increasing the likelihood that policy makers in
 East Africa ’s largest economy will cut interest rates for a
second straight meeting.  The inflation rate declined to 6.1 percent from 7.7 percent
in July, the Nairobi-based  Kenya  National Bureau of Statistics
said today in an e-mailed statement. Prices fell 0.3 percent in
the month.  The Central Bank of Kenya lowered its benchmark  interest
rate  by 1.5 percentage points to 16.5 percent in July, the first
reduction in 18 months, to bolster the $34 billion economy.
Growth eased to 3.5 percent in the first quarter, the slowest
pace in two years, weighed down by high interest rates. Second-
quarter data is due to be released next month.  “There is little question that Kenyan interest rates have
further to fall,”  Razia Khan , the head of Africa economic
research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in an e-
mailed note. “Kenya’s economy will benefit from further
stimulus but the speed of the stimulus provision is likely to be
carefully controlled.”  Slower price gains for food, after a drought-fueled surge
last year, and imported fuel gives the central bank wider scope
to cut borrowing costs and keep credit flowing.  Money Supply  “They can’t grow the economy without growing  money
supply ,” Alexander Muiruri, a fixed-income analyst with African
Alliance Investment Bank Ltd., said by phone from Nairobi.
Growth in private lending by commercial banks slowed to 16.4
percent in June from 21.5 percent a month earlier.  Food-price inflation slowed to 3.6 percent in August from
6.6 percent, while transport eased to 3.4 percent from 5.2
percent, the statistics agency said.  The  central bank ’s rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee
is scheduled to next meet on Sept. 5.  The shilling lost a quarter of its value against the dollar
and hit a record low of 106.75 in October, driving up import
costs. The currency rebounded in the remainder of last year and
has been stable this year. It was little changed after today’s
figures at 84.35 per dollar as of 2 p.m. in Nairobi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  