-- Kodak, Tribune, Jefferson County, AMR, ATP: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-08-31T12:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/kodak-tribune-jefferson-county-amr-atp-bankruptcy.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the bankrupt
photography pioneer, reported a net loss of $78.8 million in
July on revenue of $162.5 million. The cost of sales exceeded
revenue by $3.5 million.  The Kodak companies in bankruptcy reorganization ended July
with $438.2 million in cash, a decline of $72 million on the
balance sheet from June, according to the operating report filed
with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  Kodak’s July loss from continuing operations was $52.3
million. In June, the comparable loss was $35.3 million.  The larger net loss last month was mostly the result of
$12.6 million in interest expense and $12.2 million in
reorganization costs.  Three times this month, Kodak pushed back the deadline to
find the highest bids for digital-imaging technology. The
hearing that would have been Sept. 7 will now go ahead on Sept.
19, assuming a buyer is found.  Kodak’s $400 million in 7 percent convertible notes due in
2017, which sold for 21.055 cents on the dollar on Aug. 9, last
traded on Aug. 29 for 14.432 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The decline occurred after Kodak was
unable to find a buyer for the digital imaging portfolio by the
company’s self-imposed deadline earlier this month.  Kodak, based in Rochester,  New York , filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in January, listing $5.1 billion in assets and
$6.75 billion in debt. Liabilities for borrowed money, totaling
$1.6 billion, included $100 million on a first-lien revolving
credit and $96 million in outstanding letters of credit.  Other liabilities include $750 million in second-lien
notes, $406.1 million in convertible notes, and $252.4 million
in senior unsecured notes. Trade debt was $425 million.  Kodak’s Chapter 11 case is In re Eastman Kodak Co.,
12-10202, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Updates  Tribune Reports $7.8 Million in July Operating Income  Tribune Co., publisher of the Los Angeles Times and  Chicago
Tribune , reported $7.8 million of income in July before
reorganization costs, on $256.6 million in total revenue.  The month ended with a net loss of $97.5 million because of
$105 million in reorganization costs as the Chicago-based
company won confirmation of its exit plan.  The operating report filed this week with the bankruptcy
court in Wilmington,  Delaware , showed cash increasing in the
month by $44 million to end at $2.38 billion.  Bankruptcy reorganization has been expensive. Through July,
Tribune spent $270 million on professionals for itself and
creditors. July’s professional cost alone was $11.9 million.  Creditors appealing approval of the reorganization plan
were given an Aug. 29 deadline for posting a $1.5 billion bond
as the cost of blocking Tribune from implementing the plan
during an appeal. There is no evidence in court records of the
filing of the bond. A federal district judge refused to reduce
or eliminate the $1.5 billion bonding requirement imposed by the
bankruptcy judge last week.  Implementing the plan will allow Tribune to exit the
bankruptcy reorganization begun in December 2008. For discussion
of the bankruptcy court’s opinion confirming the plan, click
here for the July 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Tribune, the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S., listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in its Chapter 11 petition. The company owns
eight newspapers and 23 television stations.  The Chapter 11 case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Jefferson County Courthouse Lease Raises Questions  Jefferson County,  Alabama , said it has sufficient
courthouse facilities in Birmingham, so doesn’t need the newly
built courthouse and jail in Bessemer, 15 miles (24 kilometers)
to the southwest.  Abandoning the courthouse may raise a question about
whether the lease for the facility was a bona fide lease or a
disguised financing.  The Bessemer facility was built by the Jefferson County
Public Building Authority using $87 million in bonds guaranteed
by Ambac Assurance Corp. First Commercial Bank is indenture
trustee for the bondholders.  The county was given permission from the bankruptcy court
earlier this year to make an interest payment using a  reserve
fund . There is now $2.5 million left in the reserve fund, enough
to cover the $2 million interest payment due Oct. 1.  The county leases the Bessemer facility from the authority.
The bondholders’ security includes the income stream from the
county. Otherwise, the authority isn’t liable to pay the bonds
if the county doesn’t pay rent.  Primary funding for the courthouse rent was a county
occupation tax that the state rescinded. Without replacement
revenue, the county says it can’t cover the lease payments.
Since there are adequate facilities in Birmingham, the county
scheduled a Sept. 13 hearing for permission to terminate the
lease.  The county said it negotiated unsuccessfully with Ambac and
the indenture trustee to reduce debt on the bonds.  If the county terminates the lease and the judge concludes
it was a lease and not a disguised financing, the damage claim
for breach of lease would be limited under bankruptcy law to no
more than three years’ rent, or a fraction of what’s owing on
the bonds.  If Ambac or the indenture trustee were to convince the
judge it’s a disguised financing, unsecured claims against the
county might include the unpaid balance owing on the bonds.  Although it’s unclear whether the bankruptcy judge will
make rulings about the courthouse lease, he will be making a
decision about the limits of the bankruptcy court’s power over
internal operations of a governmental unit in Chapter 9.  The county decided to close the inpatient portion of the
Cooper Green Mercy Hospital. The city of Birmingham responded by
filing suit in state court to block the closing. The city
contends the county has the responsibility under state law to
bear the cost of providing medical care for indigents.  The county replied by asking the bankruptcy judge to halt
the suit as a violation of the so-called automatic stay that
bars legal actions outside of bankruptcy court. Birmingham
answered, contending the suit is an exercise of regulatory
powers not halted by bankruptcy.  The dispute also involves the question of constitutional
and statutory limitations on the power of a federal or
bankruptcy court to direct the operations of a state or
municipal government.  The bankruptcy judge said he will issue a ruling later. For
a Bloomberg story on yesterday’s hearing, click here.  Jefferson County began the country’s all-time largest
Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy in November, saying long-term
debt is $4.23 billion, including about $3.1 billion in defaulted
sewer debt where the holders can look only to the sewer system
for payment.  The Chapter 9 case is In re Jefferson County, Alabama,
11-05736, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama
(Birmingham).  AMR Negotiating with Investors to Help Fund Reorganization  AMR Corp. is talking with a group of 10 investors about
providing “equity and other financings” to assist the parent
of  American Airlines  Inc. in formulating a Chapter 11 plan and
emerging from bankruptcy reorganization.  AMR filed papers this week in bankruptcy court for
permission to pay the group’s professional expenses while they
investigate the possibility of investment. The group could form
the basis of a reorganization plan to fend off a merger sought
by  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   If approved by the Manhattan bankruptcy judge at a Sept. 20
hearing, AMR would pay the standard hourly fees for Milbank
Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP, the group’s lawyers. The airline
would give  Houlihan Lokey , the financial adviser, a $150,000
monthly fee and a so-called success fee if the work ends up with
a transaction.  Potential investors in the group include J.P. Morgan
Securities,  Claren Road Asset Management LLC  and King Street
Capital Management LP. AMR said the investors are already
“substantial creditors.” For other Bloomberg coverage, click
here.  AMR, based at the airport midway between Dallas and Fort
Worth,  Texas , listed assets of $24.7 billion and debt totaling
$29.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
November. American Airlines entered bankruptcy with 600 aircraft
in the mainline fleet and another 300 with American Eagle, the
feeder airline.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Syms, Filene’s Confirm Liquidating Chapter 11 Plan  Liquidating retailers  Syms Corp. (SYMSQ)  and subsidiary Filene’s
Basement LLC won the signature of the bankruptcy judge yesterday
on a confirmation order approving the companies’ Chapter 11
plan. Creditors of Syms are being paid in full. Filene’s aren’t.  Because Syms creditors with $54 million in claims are to be
fully paid over several years, shareholders were permitted to
retain their stock. Creditors will be paid post-bankruptcy
interest on their claims at the federal judgment rate, which is
a fraction of 1 percent.  Technically, the Syms plan isn’t a liquidation. The company
will remain in existence, shareholders retain stock and the
business can take advantage of accumulated tax losses to offset
income generated as remaining real estate is sold.  Through mediation in June, Syms and subsidiary Filene’s
Basement LLC reached a settlement with the two official
committees representing shareholders and creditors.  Marcy Syms, who owns more than 54 percent of the existing
stock, will sell her shares to the company for $2.49 each, or a
total of $19.5 million. For details on the plan, click here for
the July 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Syms closed unchanged yesterday at $3.55 a share in over-
the-counter trading. During bankruptcy, the closing peak was
$12.65 on Dec. 12. The low was $2.70 on Aug. 17.  For Bloomberg coverage of the confirmation hearing, click
here.  Syms, based in Secaucus,  New Jersey , acquired Filene’s
through a bankruptcy auction in June 2009 in Filene’s second
Chapter 11 reorganization. At the outset of the bankruptcy case
in November, there were 25 Syms stores and 21 Filene’s
locations.  The stores were closed and inventory sold. Leases were
terminated, leaving Syms with owned real estate to sell after
emerging from bankruptcy.  Assets were listed in the Chapter 11 petition for
$236 million, including real estate on the books for
$97.7 million. Liabilities were listed at $94 million, including
$31.1 million owing on a revolving credit with  Bank of America
NA  as agent. In addition, there were $11.1 million in letters of
credit outstanding on the revolver.  The case is In re Filene’s Basement LLC, 11-13511, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Hawker Beechcraft to File Plan with Superior in a Week  Hawker Beechcraft Inc. told the bankruptcy judge at a
hearing yesterday that it’s about a week away from filing a
definitive agreement selling the business to Superior Aviation
Beijing Co. Ltd.  A revised Chapter 11 reorganization plan will be filed at
the same time, the aircraft maker’s lawyer said.  There was no mention at yesterday’s hearing of the judge’s
Aug. 24 rejection of a bonus program for eight top executives.
The program was fatally defective because it “pays a bonus for
confirming a plan that is likely to occur,” the judge ruled.  For a Bloomberg story on yesterday’s hearing, click here.  Hawker filed under Chapter 11 in May with a reorganization
plan already negotiated that would have converted secured and
unsecured debt to equity, reducing debt by $2.55 billion.
Although the plan was filed in late June, Hawker announced in
July there was a tentative agreement for a sale to Superior for
$1.79 billion. Superior is 40 percent-owned by the Beijing
municipal government.  For details on the original swap plan, click here for the
July 3 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For details on Superior’s
tentative offer, click here for the July 10 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Hawker’s $183 million in 8.5 percent senior unsecured notes
due in 2015 traded on Aug. 24 for 15.75 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The $302 million in
8.875 percent senior unsecured notes due in 2015 traded on Aug.
9 for 17.25 cents, Trace said.  The Wichita, Kansas-based designer and manufacturer of
light and medium-sized jet, turboprop and piston aircraft
generated revenue of $2.34 billion in 2011.  Total debt for borrowed money is $2.55 billion, according
to the proposed disclosure statement. Other claims include
pensions underfunded by $493 million, according to a court
filing.  The case is In re Hawker Beechcraft Inc., 12-11873, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee, Lawyers to Receive $59.3 Million in Fees  The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC and his lawyers received approval this week from
the bankruptcy judge to be paid $59.3 million, including
$43.3 million covering work performed from Oct. 1 through Jan.
31.  The other $16 million was for previously approved fees that
were held back from payment. For a rundown on the fees and the
cuts imposed by the Securities Investor Protection Corp., click
here for the Aug. 20 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The trustee was given authority this month to make a
distribution of about $2.4 billion to customers, representing
33.5 percent of their claims. Customers previously received
4.6 percent. Although about $11 billion has been collected
toward payment of customers’ $17 billion in claims, trustee
 Irving Picard  is precluded from making additional distributions
on account of appeals some customers are taking from rulings by
the bankruptcy judge.  Whether customers are eventually paid in full may turn on
the outcome of an appeal later this year in the  U.S. Court of
Appeals . A district judge ruled that Picard could file lawsuits
to recover payments going back only two years before bankruptcy.
If Picard wins the appeal, his suits will reach back six years.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008 with the
appointment of the trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-
cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  ATP Failed to Disclose $70 Million in Bond Demands  While ATP Oil & Gas Corp. was winning interim approval to
finance the bankruptcy reorganization begun on Aug. 17, the
company didn’t disclose that it had received a demand from the
U.S. Interior Department requiring the posting of $70 million in
bonds to cover the plugging and abandonment of wells, two
creditors contend.  ATP is a producer and developer of oil and gas wells mostly
in the  Gulf of Mexico . After a hearing on Aug. 21, it won
approval of secured financing, including interim authorization
for part of the financing intended ultimately to include $250
million in new borrowing power.  In addition, the court allowed the lenders to convert about
$365 million in pre-bankruptcy secured debt into a post-
bankruptcy obligation.  Warrior Energy Services Corp. and  Superior Energy Services
LLC (SPN)  contended in a court filing yesterday that ATP failed to
disclose to the parties or to the court that it had received the
Interior Department’s demand for bonds on Aug. 17. The creditors
say the demand for bonds may be a default under the newly
approved interim financing agreement.  The creditors are asking the bankruptcy judge in Houston to
reconsider approval of the financing, especially the conversion
of $365 million in pre-bankruptcy debt. The reconsideration
hearing is on the court’s calendar for Sept. 6.  Although a creditors’ committee has been formed, it hasn’t
selected lawyers, the creditors said. According to the
creditors, the company said it intended to discuss the bonding
demand with the newly formed committee.  A call to ATP’s lawyers for comment wasn’t returned.  ATP filed under Chapter 11 in its Houston hometown with
cash down to $10 million. ATP listed assets of $3.6 billion and
liabilities of $3.5 billion on the March 31 balance sheet.  The new financing is being provided by some of the same
lenders owed $365 million on a first-lien loan where  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  serves as agent. There is $1.5 billion on
second-lien notes with  Bank of New York Mellon Trust Co.  as
agent.  ATP’s other debt includes $35 million on convertible notes
and $23.4 million owing to third parties for their shares of
production revenue.  Trade suppliers have claims for $147 million, ATP said in a
court filing.  The second-lien notes traded yesterday for 26.4 cents on
the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ATP reported a net loss of $145.1 million in the first
quarter on revenue of $146.6 million. Income from operations in
the quarter was $11.8 million.  For 2011, the net loss was $210.5 million on revenue of
$687.2 million. The year’s operating income was $152.7 million.  The case is In re ATP Oil & Gas Corp., 12-36187, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Sun Capital Completes Acquisition of Pemco World Air  Pemco World Air Services Inc., a provider of heavy
 maintenance and repair services  for commercial jet aircraft,
witnessed the first court-approved sale of the business fall
apart. The second sale, to secured lender Sun Capital Partners
Inc., was approved by the bankruptcy court on Aug. 9 and
completed on Aug. 24.  Sun Capital, based in Boca Raton,  Florida , stepped in when
the originally approved sale to an affiliate of  VT Systems Inc. 
didn’t work out. For details on the sale to Sun Capital and a
settlement between the firm and unsecured creditors, click here
for the Aug. 8 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The buyer is taking over Pemco’s name. The bankrupt company
is changing its name to WAS Services Inc.  A Sun Capital affiliate acquired the $31.8 million in
senior secured debt from Merrill Lynch Credit Products LLC and
was also the holder of a $5.6 million subordinated secured loan.
In addition, Sun Capital provided $6 million in financing for
the Chapter 11 effort.  Pemco’s facilities are in Tampa, Florida, and Erlanger,
 Kentucky . An operation in Dothan, Alabama was closed. Pemco also
converts passenger aircraft to cargo service. The petition
stated that assets and debt were both less than $100 million.  The case is In re Pemco World Air Services Inc., 12-10799,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  AFA Foods’ Last Plant Brings $300,000 Extra at Auction  AFA Foods Inc.  held an auction on Aug. 28 for the last
unsold plant, resulting in a $300,000 increase in the purchase
price for the New York facility.  Before the auction, a group of four buyers were anointed as
the so-called stalking horse with an offer of $2.21 million.
They were outbid at auction by a group including BiditUp
Auctions Worldwide Inc., with an offer of $2.5 million.  The bankruptcy court in Delaware on Aug. 29 approved the
sale to the BiditUp group.  AFA was one of the largest ground-beef producers in the
U.S. It filed for Chapter 11 protection in April after publicity
about so-called pink slime “dramatically reduced the demand for
all ground beef products,” the company said.  Controlled by Yucaipa Cos., AFA already sold plants in
 California ,  Georgia ,  Pennsylvania  and Texas.  The Chapter 11 case is being financed with a loan of about
$60 million provided by existing lenders General Electric
Capital Corp. and  Bank of America Corp.   AFA said that assets are on the books for $219 million,
with debt totaling $197 million. Liabilities at the outset
included $11.5 million on a  term loan  and $47.9 million on a
revolving credit owed to first-lien lenders GECC and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   Previous sales generated enough to cover the first lien,
AFA said. A Yucaipa affiliate has a $75.6 million second lien.
There was $60 million owing to trade suppliers, according to
court filing.  The case is In re AFA Investment Inc., 12-11127, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  New Filings  Sheepshead Bay Condos File with $32 Million in Debt  Emmons-Sheepshead Bay Development LLC, the owner of 49
unsold condominium units on Emmons Avenue in  Brooklyn , New York,
filed for Chapter 11 protection yesterday in Brooklyn.  The units at the waterfront project are worth $14 million
according to the petition. Debt, almost all secured, is more
than $32 million.  TD Bank NA (TD)  is the principal lender.  The filing was precipitated by foreclosure, according to a
court paper. A slowdown in sales “completely deprived it of
 cash flow ,” the company said in a court filing.  The case is In re Emmons-Sheepshead Bay Development LLC,
12-46321, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  Western Mohegan Tribe Tries Bankruptcy a Second Time  The Western Mohegan Tribe and Nation of New York, which
calls itself a tribe although it’s not yet formally recognized
by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, is making another stab at
reorganization in Chapter 11.  The first effort came to naught when the Chapter 11 case
was dismissed in June by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Chicago .  The tribe characterizes itself as an unincorporated
association. It and its 200 members own a 250-acre parcel in
Ulster County, New York. The tribe previously said its purpose
is to “preserve the members’ way of life and to build a tribal
business, including a gaming casino.”  The tribe originally filed under Chapter 11 in March in
Chicago, where it claimed a joint venture was in bankruptcy. The
U.S. Trustee sought dismissal of the case and won.  The U.S. Trustee said there was a fire on the Ulster County
property that destroyed all existing buildings. There was no
insurance, the U.S. Trustee said.  With no income from the property, the U.S. Trustee argued
that reorganization was impossible. The bankruptcy judge elected
to dismiss the case in June rather than convert to liquidation
in Chapter 7.  The tribe filed again in Chapter 11, this time in  Albany ,
New York. In the petition filed Aug. 29, the tribe wasn’t
represented by a lawyer. The lawyer in the Chicago case
withdrew, claiming financial hardship for not being paid.  Ordinarily, only individuals may file for bankruptcy
without a lawyer. The tribe gave the court a case saying that a
tribe can proceed in federal court without a lawyer.  The new petition lists assets of $2.5 million and debt
totaling $8.4 million.  During the prior Chapter 11 effort, the tribe sought to
have the bankruptcy transferred to district court, where it
would have asked the judge to decide whether or not the group
should be formally recognized as a tribe.  The district judge declined to remove the suit from
bankruptcy court.  In the prior bankruptcy, the tribe said it had been seeking
recognition for 10 years, running up $1.7 million of legal fees.  The new case is In re Western Mohegan Tribe and Nation of
New York, 12-12252, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of
New York (Albany). The prior case was Western Mohegan Tribe and
Nation of New York, 12-09292, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  Bankruptcy Podcast & Video  ResCap Bonuses, Vitro’s Defeat, Verizon Lawsuit  Residential Capital LLC had the unfortunate distinction of
being the second company inside one week where the bankruptcy
judge refused to approve a bonus program for senior executives,
for reasons Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News
bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle discuss on their video and
podcast. The video also covers the multi-billion dollar
fraudulent transfer suit going to trial in October against
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  To see the video, click here.  On the podcast, Rochelle and Pacchia talk about Vitro SAB,
the Mexican glassmaker, and the major defeat it sustained when
an appellate judge ruled that the bankruptcy court should have
put several subsidiaries into involuntary bankruptcy last year.  The last item on the podcast explains why an auto dealer
was saddled with almost $70,000 in actual and punitive damages
for refusing to turn over a car worth only $10,000. To listen to
the podcast, click here.  Advance Sheets  Collection Letter on Student Loan Ruled Deceptive  A collection agency used false, misleading and deceptive
debt-collection practices when it sent a letter telling an
individual her student-loan debt was “not eligible for
bankruptcy discharge and must be resolved.”  The unsigned ruling was made yesterday by three judges on
the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan, reversing a district
court which had dismissed a lawsuit against the collection
agency brought under the federal Fair Debt Collection Practices
Act. The individual sued on behalf of herself and 181 other New
York residents who received the same letter.  The Second Circuit in Manhattan acknowledged that
discharging student loan debt in bankruptcy is difficult,
although not impossible, under Section 523(8) of the  Bankruptcy
Code .  The appeals court said that proper standard is whether the
“least sophisticated consumer” would interpret the letter as
meaning that student loan debt is never dischargeable. The
district court erred, according to yesterday’s opinion, by
analyzing whether the particular debt stood much chance of being
discharged in bankruptcy.  In reinstating the suit, the appeals court said the letter
was “false on its face” and “fundamentally misleading.”  The case is Easterling v. Collecto Inc., 11-3209, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  