-- Korea Aerospace Stake Sale Fails as Only Korean Air Bids
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-08-31T07:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/korea-aerospace-stake-sale-fails-as-only-korean-air-bids.html
Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd. (047810) 
shareholders’ plan to sell a 1.05 trillion won ($925 million)
stake in the country’s only planemaker failed because of a
shortage of offers.  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490)  was the only bidder to register by the
3 p.m. deadline today,  Korea Finance Corp.  said in a statement.
The shareholders will decide whether to hold another round of
bidding after further discussions, it said without elaboration.
At least two bids are needed because of rules governing sales by
government entities.  Interest in the planemaker may have been damped by concerns
about the impact of December presidential elections and
objections to the sale raised by some lawmakers. The company
expects to more than double orders this year as  North Korea ’s
militarization and rising defense spending in  emerging markets 
spur demand for its helicopters and T-50 trainer jets.  “Apart from the political risk, the bigger question is who
will want to buy the company,” said Justin Lee, a Seoul-based
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “It’ll take some time to find
an owner as the deepening economic uncertainties discourage
takeovers.”  Korean Air , which already makes parts for Airbus SAS and
Boeing Co., submitted a preliminary bid as it tries to expand
its aerospace business. The company didn’t say how much it would
offer. The sale is being managed by  Korea Development Bank  and
Credit Suisse AG.  Airbus, Boeing  Korea Finance is offering part of its 26 percent stake in
Sacheon-based Korea Aerospace in the sale. It plans to remain
the second-biggest  shareholder .  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , Samsung
Techwin Co. and Doosan Group are each selling 10 percent
holdings.  The planemaker has a market value of $2.2 billion,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The  shares  dropped 1
percent to close at 25,750 won in  Seoul  before the announcement.
Korean Air rose 0.1 percent to 47,500 won.  Lawmakers have objected to the sale because of concerns
about transparency. Korea Finance is acting “hastily” and
placing the planemaker under private control may weaken public
accountability, Chyung Ho Joon of the Democratic United Party
said during a July 30 meeting of the National Policy Committee,
a parliamentary body that oversees Korea Finance and other
agencies.  Opinion Polls  Kim Jung Hoon of the ruling New Frontier Party also said at
the same meeting that the current administration shouldn’t rush
the sale. His colleague Park Geun Hye is leading opinion polls
ahead of the December election. President  Lee Myung Bak  will end
his five-year term in February.  Korean Air which generated 3.3 percent of revenue making
plane parts last year, has previously been unsuccessful in
buying a stake in Korea Aerospace. The company abandoned a
three-year-long attempt to gain control of the planemaker in
2006 because of a lack of progress.  Korea Aerospace has a limited pool of potential bidders
because national-security rules mandate that it remains under
local ownership. The South Korean military accounted for 57
percent of the company’s 1.29 trillion won sales last year.  Korea Aerospace plans to spend 245.4 billion won this year,
including construction of a new plant that will make wing
components for Airbus A320 planes under a record $1.2 billion
deal signed in March. The company also supplies Boeing.  The Korean company said in February that total orders this
year may more than double to 5.45 trillion won. Second-quarter
 net income  increased 27 percent to 44.1 billion won and sales
rose 6.6 percent to 395.5 billion won.  Heavy Fighter  The Korean planemaker is separately working on the nation’s
first heavy fighter, after developing the  KUH-Surion helicopter 
with Eurocopter. Next year, it will begin making the FA-50, a
light combat fighter based on the T-50, which will be supplied
to the South Korean  air force .  The company is set to bid for a $15 billion contract to
supply training jets to the U.S. The bid is in partnership with
Lockheed Martin Corp., which helped develop the T-50. Talks on
selling the trainers to  Iraq  and the  Philippines  are also under
way after the company won its first overseas order, from
 Indonesia , last year. The company lost out on an Israeli order
to Finmeccanica SpA in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  