-- Korean Bonds Complete Monthly Gain, Won Falls on Slowdown
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-08-31T07:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/korean-bonds-set-for-monthly-gain-won-falls-on-slowdown-signs.html
South  Korea ’s five-year bonds
finished a fifth monthly advance, the longest run of gains since
2004, and the won fell as signs Asia’s fourth-biggest economy is
losing momentum spur speculation  interest rates  will be cut.  Factory  output  contracted 1.6 percent in July from a month
earlier, following a 0.6 percent decline in June, a government
report showed today. Exports probably shrank 6.8 percent in
August from a year earlier, a separate survey showed before
official data due tomorrow. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will speak today in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , where he may
discuss the possibility of further monetary easing.  “Industrial output continuing to decline is seen as a sign
of slowdown and history has shown that yields fall on
expectations of inflows ahead of the Fed’s quantitative
easing,” said Lee Seung Hoon, a Seoul-based fixed-income
analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. “Overseas investors buying bond
futures recently is also supporting the securities.”  The yield on the government’s 3.5 percent bonds due March
2017 fell 11 basis points this month, or 0.11 percentage points,
to 2.86 percent in  Seoul , Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. That
matches a July 25 level, which was the lowest for a benchmark
five-year  note  in Bloomberg data going back to August 2000. The
rate slid one basis point today and eight basis points this
week. So far this year, the yield has dropped 60 basis points.  Three-year debt futures climbed 0.33 to 106.30 for the
month and the one-year interest-rate swap declined three basis
points to 2.86 percent.  Interest Rates  Six out of seven board members at the  Bank of Korea  opted
to cut the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate in July, minutes
released this week showed, boosting speculation the central bank
may act further to support growth. The bank refrained from
lowering rates this month and the next policy meeting is due
Sept. 13.  The won weakened 0.4 percent this month to 1,134.63 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
was little changed today and for the week. It appreciated 1.6
percent this year.  One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, jumped 14 basis
points this month to 7.95 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  