-- Korean Corporate Bond Sales Fall on Rate-Cut Expectations
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-08-31T07:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/korean-corporate-bond-sales-fall-on-rate-cut-expectations.html
Sales of won-denominated bonds by
South Korean companies declined to the lowest since May this
month amid speculation issuers are waiting for the central bank
to cut  interest rates  again.  Offerings fell 21 percent to 3.31 trillion won ($2.92
billion) from the previous month, and were below the 12-month
average of 4.78 trillion won, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Three-year AA- rated corporate yields, the benchmark
according to the  Korea  Financial Investment Association, dropped
17 basis points this month to 3.27 percent today in Seoul, the
least in data going back to 1993. Similarly rated U.S. corporate
debt rose one basis point to 2.11 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Bank of Korea  governor Kim Choong Soo will probably lower
interest rates when policy makers meet on Sept. 13, according to
ING Groep NV and Standard Chartered Plc, as manufacturing
confidence stayed near the lowest level since the global
financial crisis. About 80 percent of issuance last month came
after the central bank’s surprise rate cut on July 12.  “Sales are down this month because borrowers stayed on the
sidelines to gauge on BOK’s direction next month,” Jason Lee, a
senior credit analyst at KB Investment & Securities Co. in
 Seoul , said in a telephone interview on Aug. 29. “The
possibility of another rate cut may further drive down borrowing
costs, and that should boost offerings next month.”  Corporate bond yields declined 33 basis points since the
July rate cut through the end of last month.  Lotte, S-Oil  Only 14 companies came to market this month, compared with
30 in all of July, the data show. A 780 billion won offering by
Lotte Shopping Co., South Korea’s largest department store
operator, and a 500 billion won sale by  S-Oil Corp. (010950)  made up 39
percent of total issuance.  The cost for raising money from bonds is cheaper than
getting bank loans, Kim Kun Soo, a spokesman for Seoul-based
Lotte said in an e-mailed response to questions from  Bloomberg
News  on Aug. 2. Corporate borrowers pay an average of 5.53
percent for bank  loans  as of July, the latest figures available,
according to data compiled by the Bank of Korea.  The yield premium on the three-year, AA- corporate debt
relative to comparable  government bonds  narrowed to 51 basis
points today, matching the lowest since 2007 reached on Aug. 29,
data from the association show.  Woori Investment & Securities Co. was the biggest
underwriter this month, arranging 21 percent of sales, according
to the data. The Seoul-based company was also the largest
arranger this year, the data show.  Government Bonds  Companies also sold 11 percent fewer bonds than the same
month a year earlier, according to the data. August is
“seasonally a slow month,” because many market participants
are on summer vacation, said Byun Jeong Hye, a credit analyst
with Seoul-based Shinhan Investment Corp.  Elsewhere in the markets, yields on  South Korea ’s 3.25
percent bonds due in June 2015 decreased two basis points to
2.77 percent today, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. Three-year
yields rounded out a fifth monthly decline.  The won, little changed today at 1,134.63 against the
dollar, weakened 0.4 percent in August and is poised for the
first monthly loss since May.  Samsung Heavy Industries Co., the world’s second-biggest
shipbuilder, is planning to offer 500 billion won of bonds next
month, the Seoul-based company said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News on Aug. 22, without giving further
details. Korea Ratings Corp., one of the country’s three credit
assessment companies, gives Samsung Heavy a fourth-biggest AA-
 grade .  ‘Solid’ Companies  “Companies may hold offerings until next month because
another cut is expected,” Shinhan Investment’s Byun said by
telephone on Aug. 29. “But with solid credit companies like
Samsung Heavy expected to tap the market, sales will rebound.”  Next week,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,  Asia ’s second-biggest
mobile-phone maker, is planning a sale of three-year and five-
year bonds to raise 200 billion won, according to preliminary
data compiled by Bloomberg. Korea Southern Power Co. is also
readying a 300 billion won offering of notes with three
different maturities, the data show.  Borrowers raised 37.1 trillion won from bond sales so far
this year, compared with 37.04 trillion won in the same period
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  