-- NBC Criticized for Limited Airtime of Paralympic Games
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-09-01T04:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/nbc-criticized-for-limited-airtime-of-paralympic-games.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal , which
broke ratings records with its extensive coverage of the  London 
Olympics, is facing complaints from disability organizations for
choosing not to air more of the Paralympic Games.  NBC Sports obtained rights for five and a half hours of
Paralympics coverage from the U.S. Olympics Committee,
consisting of four 60-minute highlight segments and a 90-minute
wrap-up a week after the games conclude, the company said.
Stations in Britain and  Australia , meanwhile, are showing
hundreds of hours of live coverage, according to the U.K.’s
 Telegraph newspaper .  “NBC is making a mistake because they are missing an
opportunity to build this into a whole new medium for
entertainment,” Dick Traum, president and founder of Achilles
International, a New York-based organization that supports
athletes with disabilities, said in an interview. “They could
also be doing great things for the disabled community by
bringing more focus on it.”  NBC, controlled by Philadelphia-based Comcast, is
“presenting all the coverage that our rights permit,” Chris McCloskey, a spokesman for the network, said in a statement. The
programming time is an increase from the 90 minutes devoted to
Beijing’s Paralympics in 2008.  Spotlighting Athletes  Like the regular Olympics, the games are held every four
years. The event was started in 1948 in England to spotlight
athletes with disabilities.  “In the U.S., we will have the most coverage ever for a
 Paralympic Games  through both broadcast and online channels,”
Charlie Huebner, the USOC’s chief of Paralympics, said in an e-
mailed statement. ”We are proud of the expanded coverage we are
offering with NBC in London, and the USOC is committed to
expanding coverage of future Paralympic Games.”  The U.K. Disabled People’s Council called NBC’s lack of
coverage “really, really appalling,” according to the
Telegraph.  NBC’s broadcasts of the London  Olympic Games  reached 219.4
million viewers, making it the most watched U.S. television
event ever. NBC aired more than 5,000 hours of Olympic events
between its broadcast and cable stations this summer, the most
coverage ever for the event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  