-- New Iran Nuclear Report Should Not Be Signal to Attack
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-31T19:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/new-iran-nuclear-report-should-not-be-signal-to-attack.html
The latest report on  Iran’s nuclear
program  from the  International Atomic Energy Agency  gives ample
ammunition to Israeli leaders who argue that they need to bomb
now. The report confirms what we have long understood, that  Iran 
is working to build a nuclear weapons capability.  But that’s all. The report doesn’t change the calculus
about whether Israeli airstrikes would be the best way to stop
Iran’s nuclear weapons effort, and it doesn’t say Iran is
building a weapon.  The IAEA’s latest update makes four important things clear.
First, that Iran has recently been putting less energy into
developing its main uranium enrichment facility at Natanz, and a
lot more into expanding production at the hardened bunker at
Fordow, near the holy city of Qom.  Second, that the pace at which Iran is producing uranium
enriched to 20 percent picked up sharply in February and has
continued at that pace -- the report has a handy graph showing
that trend. Uranium enriched to about 3.5 percent is used for
civilian  power plants . Iran says it needs the 20 percent fuel
for a medical reactor. But from that stage it’s a lot quicker to
enrich to weapons grade, which is about 90 percent.  Both changes coincide with the period in which  Israel  has
been threatening to bomb Iran. It’s hard to determine which is
the chicken and which the egg: Israel’s threats or Iran’s dash
to build a bombproof  production line .  Third, that since the IAEA first demanded access to a
military site called Parchin in January, Iran has kept out the
inspectors, stalled on negotiations and suddenly begun razing
and apparently cleaning the site. The Vienna-based agency was
given intelligence that an explosive containment vessel was
constructed at the site to develop a detonator for a nuclear
warhead. They want to find out if it’s true.  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  on Friday repeated his insistence
that Iran is not pursuing nuclear weapons, and that to do so
would be “a sin.” So, why the reluctance to admit inspectors to
Parchin?  Finally, the report says that IAEA monitoring suggests none
of Iran’s enriched uranium stocks appear to have been diverted.
Just less than half of the 20 percent enriched uranium Iran has
produced so far (the total to August stands at 189.4 kilograms,
or 417.6 pounds) is been being used to make plates for the
medical reactor. That leaves a stockpile of about 90 kilograms.
It takes roughly 175 kilograms to make a bomb. Iran produced
about 45 kilograms of the fuel since May, so at that rate,
assuming no more is used for the medical reactor, Iran could
have enough 20 percent uranium for a bomb by next spring. Iran
already has enough lower enriched uranium, though using that
stock would be a longer route.  Israeli leaders can’t be sanguine about a nuclear program
in the hands of a despotic regime that doesn’t believe Israel
should exist. It’s also true that much remains unknown about
Iran’s nuclear program -- including other facilities. But then
again, if their existence is unknown, they can hardly be
targeted with bombs.  Apart from the U.S. electoral calendar, these are probably
some of the reasons President  Barack Obama ’s administration
insists there is still more time to pressure Iran into
compliance using economic sanctions that only started to bite in
July.  Nor does the latest IAEA report change any of the
calculations we have mentioned before about the uncertain wisdom
of airstrikes conducted by Israel alone. As General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Thursday,
these would delay but not stop the Iranian program. Also, the
repercussions of an Israeli attack are impossible to predict,
and any gain from a delay would probably be lost to an all-out
rush by Iran to weaponize after it ejects IAEA monitoring. An
Israeli attack without international backing could also help
Iran by unraveling sanctions.  None of that means Israel won’t act. If anything, Dempsey’s
comment Thursday that he doesn’t “want to be complicit” if
Israel chooses to strike suggests he thinks the decision could
be close. That may be, but the latest IAEA report, as worrying
as it is, does not amount to a trigger. The timing of an Israeli
attack would remain political, linked to U.S. presidential
elections, and that would be a mistake.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 