-- New York Plaza Owner Sahara Told to Refund Bonds
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-09-01T06:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/new-york-plaza-owner-sahara-ordered-to-refund-3-billion-of-debt.html
India’s top court ordered Sahara
group, the owner of  New York ’s Plaza Hotel, to repay 174 billion
rupees ($3 billion) of bonds after finding the company guilty of
flouting debt-sale rules.  The Supreme Court yesterday  asked  Sahara Commodity Services
Corp. and Sahara Housing Investment Corp. to return, within 10
days, money raised selling optionally fully convertible
debentures. India’s market regulator last year said the debt
issue didn’t comply with public sale rules.  The verdict may hamper the expansion plans of the closely
held group of companies, said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief
strategist at SMC  Global Securities Ltd. (GLBS)  Sahara led by Subroto Roy, who oversees businesses from film production to mortgage
lending and has assets valued at 500 billion rupees, in 2010
bought  London ’s Grosvenor House and in July bought a controlling
stake in New York’s Plaza Hotel.  “It will be challenging times for the group,” Thunuguntla
said. “They may need to shelve their expansion plans in retail
and housing businesses for the next couple of years.”  Shares of the group’s publicly traded companies fell.
 Sahara Housingfina Corp. (SHFC) , a mortgage lender, dropped 3.3 percent
to 78.7 rupees in  Mumbai  yesterday, its lowest in more than six
months.  Sahara One Media & Entertainment Ltd. (SHRA)  fell 0.7 percent
to 103.4 rupees.  Judges K.S. Radhakrishnan and J.S. Khehar in their ruling
yesterday named retired judge B.N. Agrawal to oversee the refund
process. Sahara is “healthy” and will not delay payments to
investors, it said in an e-mailed statement on Aug. 31.  Seize Assets  The court also authorized the Securities & Exchange Board
of  India , the market regulator, to seize the group’s assets
should it fail to repay bondholders. Sahara, the main sponsors
of India’s cricket team, will also have to pay interest that
amounts to 7 billion rupees, according to Arvind Dattar, a
lawyer representing investors.  “This verdict protects the interest of investors in the
market,” said SEBI’s lawyer Pratap Venugopal.  The process of repaying investors will have to be completed
in three months, according to the judgment. The group will have
to pay 15 percent interest on the debt, the judges said. SEBI on
Nov. 24, 2010 restrained the companies from selling the bonds
after “persistent refusal” to provide details, according to a
notice on the regulator’s website.  Sahara said last month it will spend 30 billion rupees on
building retail operations to sell food and household products
direct to homes.  Central Bank Ban  Roy started his business in the late 1970s from Gorakhpur,
a town in the northern state of  Uttar Pradesh  with a capital of
2,000 rupees and three employees, according to its website. It
now has assets worth over 500 billion rupees spread across 32
businesses, the company said.  The group also has 33,633 acres (136 million square meters)
of land spread across India. It owns the 10,600-acre Aamby
Valley city, a three-hour drive from Mumbai, where it has built
holiday homes for the rich. Sahara bought a 42.5 percent stake
in the Force India Formula One team for $100 million from
billionaire Vijay Mallya in October and owns the Indian Premier
League’s Pune Warriors cricket team.  Yesterday’s judgment isn’t the first where the group was
asked to refund money.  The group’s financial services company Sahara India
Financial Corp. was barred by India’s central bank from taking
deposits. In 2008, the  Reserve Bank  of India banned the Lucknow,
India-based Sahara from accepting deposits and ordered it to
repay investors by 2015 after the company failed to pay the
minimum  interest rate  and meet investment rules. The company was
asked to cut deposits by 40 percent to 90 billion rupees by June
2011 according to the Reserve Bank.  In response to the central bank order, Sahara said it will
repay investors four years before the deadline stipulated by the
central bank. The company said it will repay 730 billion rupees
to depositors by December, according to an advertisement in the
Times of India on Aug. 31, 2011. There have been no
announcements on the repayment from the company since.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  