-- New Motorola Phone Is Said to Have Edge-to-Edge Screen
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   J o n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 2012-08-31T15:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/new-motorola-phone-is-said-to-have-edge-to-edge-screen.html
Motorola Mobility ’s next mobile
phone, due to be unveiled at an event with  Verizon Wireless  next
week, will feature an edge-to-edge screen and work with LTE
networks, a person familiar with the product said.  Motorola Mobility, which  Google Inc. (GOOG)  acquired in May, has
scheduled a Sept. 5 press conference in New York with Verizon,
the largest U.S. wireless carrier. The phone, which is expected
to go on sale later this year, will run a version of Android,
said the person, who asked not to be named because the details
haven’t been released.  The phone would be the most high-profile product debut for
Motorola Mobility since the company was purchased by Google for
about $12.5 billion. The model also would be one of the first
full-screen phones in the U.S., meaning it uses the entire front
of the device as a display. The approach maximizes the screen
viewing space by eliminating the black frames or bezels around
the display.  Motorola Mobility is counting on new features to help stand
out from an increasingly crowded smartphone field.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is
preparing to introduce a redesigned iPhone on Sept. 12,
according to two people with knowledge of the plan. Nokia Oyj,
meanwhile, is planning to unveil its first phones running
Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8 on Sept. 5.  Brenda Raney , a spokeswoman for  Basking Ridge , New Jersey-
based Verizon Wireless, declined to comment, as did  Jennifer Erickson , a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman.  LTE Speeds  Google, based in Mountain View, California,  acquired 
Motorola Mobility to shore up its intellectual property and
support its Android operating system, which the phone
manufacturer was already using. The new phone will run Android
and take advantage of the network speeds offered by Verizon’s
LTE technology, the person said. Verizon has the largest U.S.
network running LTE, or long-term evolution.  Google shares  rose 0.9 percent to $687.62 at 11:33 a.m. in
New York. The stock had climbed 5.5 percent this year through
yesterday. Shares of Verizon Communications Inc., the co-owner
of Verizon Wireless, advanced 0.3 percent to $42.90. They are up
6.6 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Erlichman in  San Francisco  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  