-- Nomura to Cut $1 Billion of Costs in Wholesale Unit
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-08-31T10:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/nomura-said-to-plan-1-billion-cost-cuts-focusing-on-overseas.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s
largest brokerage, plans to cut an additional $1 billion of
costs by March 2014 as it retreats from a global expansion under
Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai.  The reductions will center on wholesale operations, which
include investment banking and equities, spokesman Eiji Miura
said at a briefing after Nagai told 450 managers of the plans in
Tokyo today. Nomura will cut jobs, mainly at overseas units
including Europe, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The move marks Nagai’s first step toward reversing an
expansion abroad overseen by predecessor Kenichi Watanabe, who
stepped down a month ago amid an insider-trading scandal.
Nomura, which has posted losses overseas for nine straight
 quarters , implemented a $1.2 billion cost-cutting program last
year after expenses swelled following the purchase of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European businesses in 2008.  “A billion dollars is perhaps in the upper range of what
market participants expected,” said Azuma Ohno, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Barclays Plc, who rates the shares equalweight. “Job
cuts are unavoidable given the severe global business
environment. Nomura will have to explain how the reductions will
help to improve its bottom line.”  European Cuts  The brokerage employed 3,975 people in  Europe  and 2,423 in
the Americas, mostly in  New York , among its 35,063 staff
globally at the end of June. Operations in Europe have taken the
brunt of efforts to trim costs over the past year, with the
region accounting for 450 of the 560 jobs cut worldwide as the
sovereign debt crisis roiled markets and slowed economic growth.  Most of Nomura’s European employees work in its wholesale
unit, which includes investment banking and trading operations
in  London .  The bank will strengthen its cross-border businesses
including mergers and acquisitions advisory, Nagai, 53, said,
according to one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the meeting was private. The company will bolster
cooperation between divisions across regions, the person said.  Shares of Nomura, which had earlier climbed as much as 2.7
percent, rose 0.4 percent to 258 yen at the close of trading in
Tokyo, while the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  declined 1.6 percent.
The stock, which touched a 37-year low in November, has gained
about 11 percent this year, compared with the Nikkei’s 4.6
percent advance.  “Investors will probably wait to see how effective the
cost-reduction measures will be,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a
Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, who rates the
stock as outperform. “If the restructuring efforts kick in and
help improve Nomura’s Europe business, we may see some more
bullish momentum for the shares.”  ‘Mother Market’  Nagai, who took charge of the domestic securities unit in
April before becoming CEO on Aug. 1, signaled last month that he
will focus on business at home and elsewhere in  Asia , describing
the region as the “mother market.”  “I want to make a new business strategy free from the
past,” Nagai said at a news briefing on July 26.  Net income  tumbled 89 percent in the three months ended
June from a year earlier to 1.9 billion yen as investment
banking fees and brokerage commissions fell, Nomura reported on
July 26. It posted a 12.1 billion yen pretax loss from overseas
operations, led by Europe.  Lehman Architects  Watanabe, 59, and former Chief Operating Officer Takumi Shibata, architects of the Lehman purchase, stepped down in July
after Japan’s financial regulator found that employees leaked
information on share sales managed by the company. Staff gave
tips on equity offerings by  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Inpex
Corp. (1605)  and Tokyo Electric Power Co. to traders who short-sold the
stocks before the issuances were announced in 2010.  The Financial Services Agency on Aug. 3 ordered Nomura to
improve its securities operations by implementing remedies the
brokerage identified after an internal investigation. Nomura has
vowed to enhance internal controls, prevent similar incidents
and regain public trust under Nagai.  With its reputation tarnished, Nomura lost underwriting
deals. The firm was demoted from leading  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) ’s
$8.4 billion initial public offering and ceded its rank as the
country’s top bond underwriter as issuers dropped the bank.  It still holds the No. 1 position in Japan for mergers and
acquisitions advice as well as equity underwriting, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Globally, Nomura has climbed to 10th in mergers advice this
year from 12th in all of 2011, the data show. It is also 10th
for managing share sales, unchanged from last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  