-- Notre Dame Fans Touch Down in Dublin for Guinness and Golf
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-08-31T07:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/notre-dame-fans-touch-down-in-dublin-for-guinness-and-golf.html
The  Island Golf Club  in north Dublin
is preparing for a naval invasion, as U.S. football fans flood
into Dublin.  Members at the club, where it costs about 115 euros ($144)
a round, are giving up tee times this week to allow U.S.
visitors in Ireland for the game between the University of  Notre
Dame  Fighting Irish and the U.S. Naval Academy Midshipmen enjoy
some golf. The teams start their season at sold-out Aviva
stadium in Dublin tomorrow in the  Emerald Isle Classic , which
the Tourism Ministry expects to bring about 35,000 Americans to
the country.  “Staff have pushed out the boat to meet the extra needs of
our American visitors,” said Henry Collier, 63, president of
the golf club, which expects about 500 American visitors in the
through Sunday. “After nine holes we’ve organized a special
tent so they can have refreshments, including pints of
Guinness.”  The Irish government, which received an international
bailout in 2010, is spending about 600,000 euros to promote the
game as part of a project to bring more visitors of Irish
ancestry to the country. Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s government
is focusing on tourism as one route out of the worst recession
in the country’s modern history.  Trips to Ireland from  North America  fell by 4 percent in
the first six months of the year compared with the same period
in 2008, when the Irish economy began to collapse in the wake of
a real estate bust. Next year, the government is organizing a
series of events, known collectively as the Gathering, in its
biggest single biggest tourism initiative.  Late Summer Sun  So far, some American visitors have been pleasantly
surprised by the city, as Dublin bathed in late summer sunshine.
“No rain, very shocking, I was expecting rain,”  Brian Kelly ,
Notre Dame coach, told reporters on the sidelines yesterday. “I
had the rain gear out, but this is a beautiful sunny day in
Ireland.”  All transatlantic flights by  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , the
Dublin-based carrier, are fully booked this week, according to
Declan Kearney, a company spokesman. The airline expects to
bring more than 13,000 passengers to Ireland from the U.S. this
week, including a chartered flight from  Washington  for the Navy
team and their entourage.  “Dublin is full, there are people staying 50 miles away,”
said Tim Fenn, Chief Executive of the  Irish Hotels Federation .
“What has been great about this particular event has been the
fact that it has taken the people out into the regions.”  U.S. Broadcast  The game will be broadcast in the U.S. by CBS, and is being
picked up by ESPN in  Europe , according to Ireland’s tourism
ministry.  The build-up to the game hasn’t been free from controversy.
University of Notre Dame football radio analyst Allen Pinkett
was suspended for at least the season opener after he said the
team needs “criminals” to win.  Pinkett said during a radio interview this week that
successful teams need a few bad citizens. He spoke after Notre
Dame suspended two players, including leading rusher Cierre
Wood, for two games for violating team rules.  Bloomberg Radio  is the broadcast home for Notre Dame
football in  New York .  Back at the Island Golf Club, which dates back to 1890,
Collier said the course will be flying the U.S.’s Stars and
Stripes flag as well as the Notre Dame flag this week.  “When Americans come out here and visit and play golf,
they are absolutely overwhelmed with the beauty of the place,
provided the weather is benign,” said Collier. “We all know
with Irish weather it is hit and miss.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  