-- Nowotny Sees ECB Lowering Economic Forecast for 2012, 2013
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-08-31T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/nowotny-sees-ecb-lowering-economic-forecast-for-2012-2013.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said ECB will lower its forecast
for the euro area’s economic developments in 2012 and 2013 when
it publishes estimates next week.  “There won’t be an improvement, but more of a worsening of
expectations,” Nowotny told reporters in Alpbach, Austria, late
yesterday. “The differences in growth rates between the North
and the South will unfortunately increase -- we are expecting
negative growth, a retraction in all Southern countries for 2012
and a stagnation in  France .”  The ECB is due to announce its quarterly economic forecast
on Sept. 6. In June it forecast a 0.1 percent economic
contraction in the euro area this year, unchanged from a March
estimate, while it lowered its prediction for 2013 growth to 1
percent from 1.1 percent. Inflation was projected at 2.4 percent
for 2012 and 1.6 percent for 2013.  “Uncertainty is increasing massively and I think it is
important that in a sensitive situation like this, every step of
monetary and economic policy is taken with great caution,” he
said.  Nowotny, who also heads the Austrian central bank, said he
was “warning” of taking “rash” or “brute” measures,
comparing the situation to the murder of the Archduke of  Austria 
in 1914 in Sarajevo, which led to the start of the First World
War.  Euro Exit  “Measures that appear self-evident and are supported by
the public can lead to a chain reaction and end in
catastrophe,” Nowotny said, citing the return to old currencies
or an ousting of the Greeks from the euro area “without
appropriate insurances.”  Nowotny said that while a central bank had little influence
on cost inflation, the ECB had a wide set of instruments to
fight demand inflation. While there are no indications of demand
inflation in the euro area, the ECB could react immediately,
should this change.  “We could overnight immediately raise the reserve
requirement rate, we could undue all the expansive measures we
have set,” Nowotny said. “A fear that there might be
uncontrollable waves of inflation, can perhaps exist in respect
to the development of costs that we can only influence with
difficulties, but certainly not regarding the development of
demand.”  Price stability remains the top priority for the ECB,
Nowotny said. Referring to recent differences between  Germany ’s
Bundesbank and the ECB regarding a bond-buying plan, Nowotny
said that these were “differences on details.”  “What always exists are diverging views on details of
technical implementation and such, but you have to see this in
the right dimension -- this isn’t about principles,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  