-- NYC Best: BBQ Pitmeisters, Electric Zoo, Rock the Bells
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-09-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/nyc-best-bbq-pitmeisters-electric-zoo-rock-the-bells.html
Dance your way through the weekend
at the Electric Zoo.  Move to techno, trance, house, dubstep and indie at music
festival on Randall’s Island.  More than 100 performers -- ranging from Axwell to Skrillex
and Tiesto -- will be entertaining the crowd of determined party
animals.  For non-stop action, join the after-parties each day at the
Best Buy Theater and Roseland Ballroom.  Runs from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. rain or shine. Information:
 http://www.madeevent.com/ElectricZoo .  Prefer hip-hop? The East coast edition of Rock the Bells
features some 3 dozen artists on two stages.  There’s upcoming talent J.Cole and Tinie Tempah as well as
veterans Ice Cube, Salt-N-Pepa and headliner Nas.  Don’t miss Deltron 3030.  Doors open at 11 a.m. rain or shine.  The festival takes place at the PNC Bank Arts Center in
Holmdel,  New Jersey . Information:  http://rockthebells.net .  Saturday Afternoon  It’s a pork-lover’s heaven at Pig Island as master chefs
cook up locally raised hogs.  The animals come from Mosefund Farm, Raven and Boar, Fossil
Farms, Autumn’s Harvest Farms and other specialty sources.  Dinosaur BBQ’s John Stage, Hecho en Dumbo’s Danny Mena and
Casa Mono’s Anthony Sasso are among the culinary experts
preparing the meat.  Craft beer by Sixpoint, along with  New York  wines and
cider, complete the porcine feast.  From 11:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at Colonel’s Row,  Governors
Island . Information:  http://www.pigisland.com .  Saturday Night  Silent-screen hero  Charlie Chaplin  makes it to Broadway.  The new musical about the rags-to-riches life of “The
Tramp” stars Rob McClure.  Jenn Colella is Hedda Hopper, who set out to ruin Chaplin
for his liberal politics and scandalous love life, while Erin
Mackey is Oona O’Neill, the star’s fourth young wife, who
finally brought him marital happiness.  The musical was written by Christopher Curtis and Thomas
Meehan and directed by Warren Carlyle.  In previews at the Ethel Barrymore Theatre, 243 W. 47th
St., for a Sept. 10 opening. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://chaplinbroadway.com .  Sunday  Head down to  Greenwich Village  for the Washington Square
Outdoor Art Exhibit.  Now in its 82nd year, the show started during the
Depression when  Jackson Pollock  and Willem de Kooning couldn’t
pay their rent. They put work out on the sidewalk in hopes of
selling some pieces.  Now artists from all over the world are represented in the
plein air presentation.  Runs through Sept. 9. Information: +1-212-982-6255;
 http://wsoae.org .  Sunday Afternoon  Take a stroll along the High Line and pay a visit to Erwin Wurm’s “Big Kastenmann” or “Big Box Man.”  The quirky Austrian artist’s New York debut is an 18-foot-
tall businessman with no head. Made of cast aluminum, he’s
wearing a suit jacket splashed with pink paint, but no pants.  The box man is standing sentry just outside the Standard
Hotel, which is offering a limited edition of a print by Wurm
called “Pee on Someone’s Rug,” from his 2003 series
“Instructions on How to Be Politically Incorrect.”  At 848 Washington St. at 13th St. Information: +1-212-645-
4646;  http://www.standardhotels.com .  Stop by Keith McNally’s bistro Pastis for a Pimm’s Royal
and seared tuna Nicoise.  At 9 Ninth Ave. Information: +1-212-929-4844.  Sunday Evening  In “Detroit,”  David Schwimmer  and Amy Ryan star as a
suburban couple who make friends with the recovering addicts
next door, played by Darren Pettie and Sarah Sokolovic.  Friendly backyard barbeques will never be the same.  Written by Lisa D’Amour, the dark comedy was directed by
Anne Kauffman.  In previews at  Playwrights Horizons , 416 W. 42nd St., for a
Sept. 18 opening. Information: +1-212-279-4200;
 http://www.playwrightshorizons.org .  Monday  In 1930-31, archeologists discovered an untouched
underground tomb at the Kharga Oasis in  Egypt  with three reused
wooden coffins.  In one, they found the wrapped body of a young woman, her
hair decoratively braided. At one shoulder was a basket
containing grave goods, including a coin of Nero.  At the other, strung with nine necklaces, was the body of
her newborn baby.  Objects from the site can be seen at the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art, open on this holiday Monday.  You can also get a last look at exhibitions closing on
Labor Day: “Durer and Beyond,” “Bellini, Titian and Lotto”
and “Ellsworth Kelly Plant Drawings.”  “Objects from the Kharga Oasis” runs through Aug. 4, 2013
at 1000 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org .  Have a late lunch at the Mark, Jean-Georges Vongerichten’s
elegant East Side eatery.  Start with a kumquat mojito and then dig in to the steamed
shrimp salad, with avocado and enoki mushrooms.  At 25 E. 77th St. Information: +1-212-606-3030.  Monday Evening  Grab a chair in Lincoln Center Plaza for the free HD
screening of Donizetti’s “Anna Bolena.”  Anna Netrebko  has the title role in the new production by
 David McVicar  that opened the  Metropolitan Opera ’s 2011-2012
season.  Ildar Abdrazakov is the fickle  Henry VIII , whose lustful
attentions have moved on to another woman.  Marco Armiliato is on the podium.  Starts at 7:30 p.m. Information: +1-212-362-6000;
 http://www.metoperafamily.org .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard with a fall theater
 preview  and  Greg Evans  on  movies .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 