-- Obama Emphasizes Veterans Support as War Recedes
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-08-31T19:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/obama-emphasizes-veterans-support-as-war-recedes.html
President  Barack Obama  used a stop
at Fort Bliss,  Texas , today to remind voters that he kept his
vow to end the war in  Iraq  and wind down the conflict in
 Afghanistan , while promising veterans they won’t be forgotten.  Even though the trip was listed as official business rather
than a campaign event, Obama’s remarks directly addressed some
of the criticisms by Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , from national security to the economy.  “If you hear anyone trying to say that America is in
decline or that our influence has waned, don’t you believe it,”
Obama said. “Around the world, there is a new attitude toward
America, new confidence in our leadership. When people are
asked, which country do you admire most, one nation always comes
out on top: the  United States of America .”  Obama made the same trip on Aug. 31, 2010, followed by an
address to the nation from the White House that evening in which
he declared an end to the U.S. combat role in Iraq. The
president declared an end to the war 16 months later in a speech
to troops at Fort Bragg,  North Carolina . The U.S. flag was
lowered over Baghdad the next day.  “Because of your determination to succeed you turned back
an insurgency,” told the soldiers at Fort Bliss. “You helped
pull Iraq back from the abyss.”  Economic Concerns  Romney, who accepted the  Republican Party ’s nomination for
president yesterday in Tampa,  Florida , tied Obama’s handling of
the economy to the concerns of veterans, in remarks earlier this
week.  “They’ve served their country. They want to get back to
work,” Romney told the  American Legion  in a speech Aug. 29 in
Indianapolis. “This president’s greatest failure is that he’s
not delivered those jobs.”  Obama, who never mentioned the election or Romney in his
address, said his policies are focused on reviving the economy
with special attention given to finding jobs for veterans.  “After fighting for America, you shouldn’t have to fight
for a job in America,” he said.  Obama will be returning to campaigning tomorrow with a trip
to the swing states of Iowa,  Colorado , Ohio and  Virginia  before
heading to the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte,
North Carolina, next week.  He also will stop in  Louisiana  on Sept. 3 to assess damage
and relief efforts following Hurricane Isaac. Romney was in
Louisiana today.  Soldiers’ Meeting  Before delivering remarks to about 5,000 soldiers in an
aircraft hangar at Fort Bliss, Obama met privately with 13
soldiers and some of their spouses for a discussion about
support services.  In conjunction with the visit, Obama today issued an
executive order directing federal agencies to expand suicide-
prevention programs and meet demand for mental health and
substance abuse treatment services for veterans and their
families.  The Department of  Veterans Affairs  is ordered to hire 800
counselors to empower veterans to support other veterans, while
the department adds 1,600 mental health professionals by June
2013, the executive order said.  The order directs the Defense Department to establish a
suicide-prevention program, and orders the VA to increase the
veteran crisis line capacity by 50 percent by Dec. 31 and link a
troubled veteran to a mental health professional within 24
hours.  Iraq Veterans  More than 2 million soldiers have served in Iraq or
Afghanistan since 2001. Tours have been of “unprecedented
duration and frequency,” the White House said in a statement,
making expanded services necessary.  Romney, in Indianapolis, criticized the Obama
administration for a backlog of disability claims and proposed
defense cuts that could increase unemployment.  Soldiers based at Fort Bliss, home of the 1st Armored
Division, were part of the March 2003 invasion of Iraq and were
among the last to serve in combat roles. At the peak of the
conflict, about 170,000 U.S. troops were stationed in Iraq. More
than 4,400 U.S. soldiers were killed and almost 32,000 were
wounded, Pentagon figures show.  In his acceptance speech in Tampa last night, Romney made
no mention of the war in Afghanistan, which is still being
fought. Obama has used the issue to attack his rival. In a
campaign speech at  University of Virginia  in Charlottesville
Aug. 29, Obama said Romney thought ending the war in Iraq “was
tragic” and that the Republican presidential nominee “doesn’t
have a plan” to bring troops home from Afghanistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Fort Bliss at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  