-- Ohio Must Restore Three Days of Early Voting, Judge Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-08-31T22:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/ohio-early-voting-days-must-be-equal-for-all-u-s-judge-rules.html
A U.S. judge in Ohio threw out a
Republican-backed law that cut three days of early voting for
most of the state’s citizens, handing a victory to President
 Barack Obama ’s campaign organization.  In a third setback for Republican-sponsored election law
changes this week, U.S. District Judge Peter Economus in
Columbus ruled that Ohio can’t give members of the military and
citizens living abroad three days more than other voters to cast
ballots. He ordered the previous schedule restored that allowed
anyone to vote until the day before an election.  “This court finds that plaintiffs have a constitutionally
protected right to participate in the 2012 election -- and all
elections -- on an equal basis with all Ohio voters,” Economus
said, ruling on a lawsuit brought by Obama for America.  Fights over voting access are intensifying in swing states
including  Florida , Ohio,  Pennsylvania  and  Wisconsin , where both
Republican and Democratic presidential campaigns see a
possibility of victory. Voter cases are also under way in
 Alabama ,  Texas  and  South Carolina .  Today’s decision follows two rulings this week by federal
judges in  Washington  rejecting laws passed by Texas’s
Republican-dominated Legislature and approved by Republican
Governor  Rick Perry . One stopped the state from requiring
photographic identification to vote. The other blocked a
redistricting plan that the court said would discriminate
against black and Hispanic voters.  Registration Drives  On Aug. 29, a federal judge in Florida said he will
permanently block new regulations of voter-registration drives
he previously found unconstitutional. The rules, passed by the
Republican-controlled Legislature and approved by Republican
Governor  Rick Scott , were “harsh and impractical,” U.S.
District Judge Robert Hinkle said.  Economus, appointed in 1995 by Democratic President  Bill Clinton , rejected the state’s arguments that election boards
would be “tremendously burdened” by the decision.  “The people of Ohio had overwhelmingly expressed their
desire to preserve the early voting system which has been so
successful in recent years,” Aaron Pickrell, a senior adviser
with Obama for America-Ohio, said in a statement.  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, a Republican, said he
will file an appeal next week.  ‘We Disagree’  “We disagree with the ruling today,” DeWine said. “We
have always allowed distinction for military voters, and to say
this violates equal protection is wrong.”  Ohio holds 18 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to
win a presidential race and no Republican has captured the White
House without a victory there. In 2008, Obama carried the state
with 51.5 percent of the vote.  Vice President  Joe Biden , at a campaign event today in
Lordstown, Ohio, said Obama will win the election if he takes
Ohio.  Ohio previously had one early-voting period that enabled
all voters to cast ballots until the day before Election Day.
Legislation signed by Republican Governor  John Kasich  during the
past two years cut back early voting, retaining the right to
vote in person during the last three days only for people
residing abroad or in the military.  Obama and Democrats sued DeWine and Secretary of State Jon Husted on July 17, arguing the disparate treatment of two groups
was unconstitutional.  Military Rights  The case was “never about taking away the right of the
military or anyone else to vote during those three days, it’s
about restoring that right to other Ohioans,” Donald McTigue,
an attorney for the Obama campaign, told Economus during oral
arguments on Aug. 15.  The state said it had a justifiable reason for treating
military voters and those residing abroad differently, arguing
in court papers that by limiting early balloting for everyone
else,  Ohio ’s 9,800 polling places could synchronize records to
prevent people from voting more than once.  The “state believes that there needs to be time to prep
for election day,” William Consovoy, an attorney for Ohio, told
the judge.  A second Ohio lawsuit, challenging Husted’s Aug. 15
directive to equalize voting hours in all 88 of the state’s
counties, in part by eliminating all weekend balloting, was
filed on Aug. 24 by his Democratic predecessor Jennifer Brunner.  Tightened Procedures  In states that have tightened election procedures,
Republican-controlled legislatures said it was necessary to
prevent fraud and help elections run smoothly. Democrats say the
steps were aimed at limiting votes for Obama.  Beyond the Texas and Ohio cases, a three-judge federal
panel in Washington on Aug. 17 rejected an attempt to apply a
state law curtailing early voting days and poll hours in five
counties subject to the Voting Rights Act. Florida, the fourth-
most populous U.S. state, failed to show that the changes
wouldn’t hurt minority voting, the court said.  A Pennsylvania judge on Aug. 15 upheld that state’s law
requiring voters to show identification to vote. That ruling is
being appealed.  Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen on Aug. 21 said
he was petitioning his state’s  Supreme Court  to hear his appeal
of two lower-court rulings striking down a voter-identification
requirement there.  The case is Obama for America v. Husted, 12-cv-00636, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net 
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 