-- Oil Heads for Second Monthly Gain Before Fed Chairman’s Speech
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-31T12:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/oil-heads-for-second-monthly-gain-before-fed-chairman-s-speech.html
Oil headed for a second monthly
increase, its biggest since October, as investors awaited a
speech by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  Futures advanced as much as 1.4 percent. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is scheduled to speak today at a symposium where in
2010 he foreshadowed economic stimulus measures by the bank.
Prices fell yesterday to the lowest close in two weeks as
producers worked to restore  Gulf of Mexico  output and refiners
prepared to resume operations after Hurricane Isaac passed.
Companies halted 95 percent of U.S. oil production in the Gulf
and 73 percent of natural-gas output, the Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement said yesterday.  “Bernanke is likely to outline the fact that the Fed has
‘options’ and is prepared to use them to stimulate the economy
if necessary,” said Guy Wolf, a strategist at London-based
commodities broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd. “Supply
fundamentals have been tight for crude recently and there is no
immediate sign of that slipping.”  Oil for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose as much as $1.32 to $95.94 a barrel and was at
$95.84 a barrel at 1:45 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday
dropped 0.9 percent to $94.62, the lowest close since Aug. 15.
Prices are down 0.3 percent this week, the first weekly decline
since July 27, and have gained 8.8 percent this month.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 86 cents to $113.51 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
narrowed to $17.67 from $18.03 yesterday.  Jackson Hole  Fed Chairman Bernanke is due to speak today in  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming. Policy makers have said they are prepared to
provide new stimulus “fairly soon” unless there is evidence of
“substantial and sustainable” improvement in the recovery,
according to the minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee
meeting that ended Aug. 1. The group plans to meet in September.  Companies including  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said they are
assessing offshore facilities in the Gulf of Mexico before
returning workers. Isaac was downgraded to a tropical depression
after pounding the New Orleans area on the seventh anniversary
of  Hurricane Katrina .  Four oil refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast, capable of
processing 882,000 barrels a day and representing 5.1 percent of
the country’s capacity, remained shut after Isaac passed.  Isaac was about 95 miles (150 kilometers) south-southwest
of  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , the National Hurricane Center said in
an 11 p.m. New York time advisory. The storm, which made
landfall as a hurricane on Aug. 28, was moving north at 10 miles
per hour, with maximum sustained winds of 30 mph.  Venezuela Fire  Petroleos de Venezuela SA plans to finish cooling the area
affected by a fire at its largest refinery as early as today and
resume operations, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said yesterday.  Firefighters continued to douse  storage tanks  with foam
that spilled out onto the streets outside the Amuay refinery as
crews worked to remove rubble from homes and businesses
destroyed by an Aug. 25 blast.  Iran  wants global  oil prices  to rise to $130 a barrel and
is producing as much crude as it did before the U.S. and Europe
tightened sanctions on its exports, Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi
said yesterday without specifying a grade of crude.  Crude in New York may decline next week on speculation that
Gulf of Mexico output and refinery operations will quickly
resume after Hurricane Isaac, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Seventeen of 29 analysts, or 59 percent, forecast prices
will decrease through Sept. 7. Eight respondents, or 28 percent,
predicted that futures will increase and four said there will be
little change in prices. Last week, 57 percent of analysts
projected an increase.  Still, prices have technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, at about $92.89 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures
rebounded from this indicator about four weeks ago. Buy orders
tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  