-- Oil Caps Biggest Monthly Gain Since October on Stimulus
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-08-31T19:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/oil-rises-first-time-in-three-days-on-fed-speculation.html
Oil capped the biggest monthly gain
since October as  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
he wouldn’t rule out more stimulus to boost the economy.  Futures climbed 2 percent after Bernanke said the Fed will
implement measures as needed to spur growth and the dollar fell
to an eight-week low against the euro. Crude extended its rally
after the government said 95 percent of U.S.  Gulf of Mexico  oil
output was shut in for a third day because of Hurricane Isaac.  “Bernanke knows that stimulus is coming,” said  Peter Schiff , chief executive officer of Westport, Connecticut-based
brokerage Euro Pacific Capital, which has $3 billion in customer
accounts. “Oil is going up because of the weak dollar and
central bank easing. We’ll be over $100 soon.”  Oil for October delivery increased $1.85 to settle at
$96.47 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
increased 0.3 percent this week and 9.6 percent this month.  Floor trading in  New York  will be closed for the U.S. Labor
Day holiday on Sept. 3. Electronic trading, which begins at its
normal time on Sept. 2, will halt from 1:15 p.m. to 6 p.m. New
York time on Sept. 3 before resuming, exchange owner CME Group
Inc. said on its  website .  Brent oil for October settlement rose $1.92, or 1.7
percent, to end the session at $114.57 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “The Federal Reserve will provide additional policy
accommodation as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery
and sustained improvement in labor market conditions in a
context of  price stability ,” Bernanke said at the Kansas City
Fed’s annual economic-policy  symposium  in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  Bernanke spoke two weeks before the next meeting of the
 Federal Open Market Committee .  Quantitative Easing  The Fed’s policy makers implemented two rounds of large-
scale asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion from December 2008
to June 2011. These efforts have failed to cut the jobless rate
below 8 percent more than three years into the recovery.  “It sounds like he has pretty much decided already,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester, Massachusetts. “It’s an almost done deal.”  Bernanke’s 24-page speech reviewed the Fed’s policy actions
through the financial crisis and use of nontraditional policy
tools such as outright bond purchases, concluding that they have
been effective in boosting growth and improving financial
conditions.  “The costs of nontraditional policies, when considered
carefully, appear manageable, implying that we should not rule
out the further use of such policies if economic conditions
warrant,” he said.  Dollar, Equities  The dollar fell to $1.2638 per euro, the lowest level since
July 2. A weaker dollar boosts oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased as much as 1
percent. The S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities added as much as
1.4 percent.  Oil pared gains briefly after the Bernanke remarks as some
investors were disappointed that he didn’t announce a third-
round of stimulus plan.  “People were expecting even more,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  Oil rose as the  Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement  reported about 1.31 million barrels a day of U.S.
Gulf oil output remained halted, with 499 platforms and 48 rigs
still evacuated as of 11:30 a.m. New Orleans time today. It was
the third consecutive day the government agency reported a 95
percent shut-in rate.  Gulf Output  Companies including  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said they are
assessing offshore facilities in the Gulf of Mexico before
returning workers.  Some refineries in Louisiana resumed production.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  begun returning the 503,500-barrel-a-day
Baton Rouge refinery in Louisiana to normal operations, the
company said on a community hotline yesterday. It also initiated
the startup process at the Chalmette refinery in Louisiana.  Placid Refining Co. LLC started its Port Allen, Louisiana,
refinery yesterday, according to an e-mailed statement from the
company.  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  got a 1 million-barrel loan of
crude from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve after its
Garyville refinery Louisiana operated at reduced rates because
of supply problems caused by Hurricane Isaac. The loan, which is
separate from a release of reserve oil, will be returned within
three months with premium barrels, similar to interest, the
Energy Department said in a statement.  Refineries Return  “Oil might also be responding to the fact that some of
these refineries are coming back online,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if some of the refiners put in request for
oil from the SPR to make up for lost supply.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 466,156
contracts as of 3:48 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 400,126
contracts yesterday, 26 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.51 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  