-- Hon Hai Quarterly Net Misses Estimates on Investment Losses
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-08-31T12:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/hon-hai-quarterly-net-misses-estimates-on-investment-losses-1-.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, posted
profit that missed analyst estimates as investment losses and a
lull in Apple Inc.’s iPhone sales damped earnings.  Second-quarter net income was NT$12.6 billion ($421
million), 2.9 percent less than a year earlier, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on first-half earnings reported
today. That missed the NT$14.6 billion of 13  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hon Hai posted a writedown from its planned investment in
 Sharp Corp. (6753)  while losses at its Hong Kong-listed handset
affiliate  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038)  widened 12-fold.
The company said today it reversed the provision for losses on
the Sharp deal as of July 31 because it wasn’t approved by local
authorities.  “FIH’s loss really dragged them down and they suffered
from a lull in the cycle between the old iPhone and the new,”
 Kirk Yang , who rates Hon Hai overweight as managing director for
technology research at Barclays Plc in  Hong Kong , said before
the earnings announcement.  Second-quarter consolidated sales rose 13.7 percent to
NT$893 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. First-
half net income was NT$27.5 billion, from NT$27.4 billion a year
earlier on a 25 percent increase in sales to NT$1.89 trillion,
it said in an exchange filing today.  Loss Provision  Hon Hai and its computer-case making affiliate Foxconn
Technology Co. in March  announced  plans to buy a combined 9.88
percent stake in Sharp for 66.9 billion yen ($851 million) to
give it access to display and electronics technology.  The Taiwanese company said its first-half results include
provision for losses of NT$4.5 billion because of its planned
investment in Sharp. As the deal wasn’t approved by the local
authorities, Hon Hai reversed the provision as of July 31, the
company said in a statement today. The deal has no impact on Hon
Hai’s finances as of July 31, it said.  Hon Hai owns about 70 percent of Foxconn International, as
well as stakes in Foxconn Technology Co. and  Chimei Innolux
Corp. (3481)   Foxconn International, which makes handsets for  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and doesn’t supply to Apple, on Aug.
27 reported a first-half loss of $226 million and said it sees
“tremendous challenges” in returning to profitability this
year.  Chimei Innolux earlier this month posted a second-quarter
loss of NT$9.57 billion. Foxconn Technology Co. last night
posted a loss of NT$2 billion.  Shares Decline  Hon Hai shares fell 0.8 percent to NT$84.80 at the close in
Taipei trading before the earnings were announced. The stock has
added 13 percent this year, outpacing a 4.6 percent climb in the
benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  index.  Apple, which contracts Hon Hai to make its iPad and iPhone,
on July 24 posted profit and sales that fell short of analysts’
projections as customers held off on purchases while waiting for
a new model to be released.  Revenue will drop this quarter from the prior period, the
Cupertino, California-based designer of iPods and Macs said.
Gross margin fell from the prior period and will decline again
this quarter, it said. Hon Hai’s margins have widened in the
past when Apple’s narrowed, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hon Hai, the flagship of founder Terry Gou’s Foxconn
Technology Group, boosted capital expenditure to a record NT$92
billion last year as it shifted production to inland  China ,
closer to the hometowns of its 1.2 million-strong  workforce .  Sharp Meetings  Results of interim inspection by the Fair Labor Association
published this month showed the company ahead of schedule in
improving conditions while finding that work hours continue to
exceed targets and legal mandates. Foxconn this month also
raised wages in Zhengzhou,  Henan Province  which hosts an iPhone
factory, and said it would pay an additional high-season bonus.  Gou, who traveled to  Japan  this week to meet industry
executives, is looking to Sharp to boost Foxconn’s technology
and capacity for making displays. The Osaka-based maker of
screens, TVs and white goods, seeks funds to pay off debt after
widening its loss forecast eightfold for the current year.  Net income will be NT$19.8 billion this quarter on
consolidated sales of NT$977 billion, according to the average
of 12  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Thirteen of 27
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg rate the stock buy while four
recommend investors sell it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  