-- One in Four Voters Are ‘Persuadable,’ Poll Analysis Finds
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-31T16:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/one-in-four-voters-are-persuadable-poll-analysis-finds.html
One in four registered voters may be
open to changing their position in the race between President
 Barack Obama  and Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , according to a
poll analysis released today.  The  analysis  of an  ABC News/Washington Post poll  conducted
before this week’s  Republican National Convention  in Tampa,
Florida, found that 24 percent of Obama supporters and 29
percent of Romney backers may be persuaded to switch sides.
Democrats are preparing to convene their convention next week in
Charlotte,  North Carolina .  The analysis sought to identify “persuadable” voters by
identifying those who are “anxious” about the candidate they
support and are seeking more information about their positions,
said  Gary Langer , president of New York-based Langer Research
Associates. He conducted the Aug. 22-25 ABC and the analysis
released today.  The analysis found plenty of voters up for grabs between
now and the Nov. 6 election, including 3 in 10 midwesterners and
27 percent of self-described moderates.  “These are less ideologically driven, more middle-ground
voters,” Langer said in an interview. “They’re less likely to
hold strongly held positions on some of the key issues in the
campaign. These appeals to red-meat, partisan issues are not
going to play all that well.”  People age 65 and older were less persuadable, at 18
percent, than those under that age, at 28 percent, according to
the analysis. Eighteen percent of northeasterners were judged as
persuadable, a smaller share than residents of any other region.  “If you ask people who’d they vote for, almost everyone
does have a current preference, but that doesn’t mean they’re
not persuadable,” Langer said.  The poll of 857 registered voters had a margin of error of
plus or minus 4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Tampa,  Florida , at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 