-- Orders for U.S. Capital Goods Fall More Than Prior Estimate
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-08-31T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/orders-for-u-s-capital-goods-fall-more-than-prior-estimate.html
Demand for U.S. capital goods such
as machinery and communications gear dropped more in July than
previously estimated, a sign manufacturing will contribute less
to the economic expansion.  The 4 percent decrease in bookings for non-military capital
goods excluding aircraft exceeded the 3.4 percent drop estimated
last week in the durable goods report, the Commerce Department
said today in  Washington . It remained the biggest decline since
November. A 54 percent surge in aircraft demand, which is often
volatile, pushed  total  factory bookings up by 2.8 percent last
month, the biggest gain in a year.  Companies are delaying equipment purchases and other
spending amid apprehension about a package of U.S. tax increases
and spending cuts that are set to take effect in January, a
fiscal cliff that has overshadowed U.S. gains in  consumer
spending  and  job creation . Things are no better in  Europe , where
an index of executive and  consumer confidence  in the 17-nation
euro region is at its lowest in three years.  “We’re seeing manufacturers a bit concerned,” Megan
Ellis, associate economist at John Hancock Financial Services in
 Boston , said before today’s report. “Overall, manufacturers are
very nervous about what demand will be.”  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
 projected  total orders would rise 2 percent. Estimates of 61
economists polled ranged from a decline of 0.4 percent to an
increase of 3.1 percent. Orders dropped 0.5 percent in June, the
same as previously estimated.  Durable Goods  Demand for durable goods rose 4.1 percent, revised from the
4.2 percent jump reported last week. Orders for non-durable
items climbed 1.5 percent after falling 2.3 percent in June.
Last month’s gain was paced by petroleum, clothing and tobacco.  Factory orders excluding the volatile transportation
category, increased 0.7 percent in July after dropping 2.2
percent in June.  The surge in civilian aircraft bookings last month followed
a 33 percent jump in June. Boeing Co., the largest U.S. aircraft
maker, said it received 260 orders last month, up from 24 in
June.  Bookings for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment is proxy for future business investment. The category
has been down in four of the past five months. Shipments of
those goods, which are used in calculating gross domestic
product, fell 0.5 percent in July, also worse than the unchanged
reading reported last week.  Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the economy
and has been at the forefront of the recovery that began June
2009. Cooling business investment could offer less support to
the expansion in the third quarter as companies avoid incurring
new costs including capital investments and new hires.  Business Investment  Spending on equipment and software advanced at a 4.7
percent annual rate in the second quarter, the weakest
performance in almost three years and down from a 5.4 percent
gain from January through March.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty regarding the European
economy, the pace of a general industrial recovery in  China  as
well as the potential for a fiscal cliff in the  United States ,”
said Jim Shaw, chief financial officer of Minneapolis-based
 Donaldson Co. Inc. (DCI) , which manufactures filtration systems. “So
we’ll continue to manage our operating expense levels cautiously
in the near term,”      he said in an Aug. 27 earnings call.
“We’ve been cautious in managing our discretionary operating
expenses, such as adding head count.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  