-- Morgan Stanley Manager Has Meal 424 at Charlie Trotter’s
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-09-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/morgan-stanley-manager-has-meal-424-at-charlie-trotter-s.html
It’s a vivid memory for Ray Harris.  At 9 o’clock on an autumn night in 1994, he entered Charlie
Trotter’s restaurant in  Chicago  for the first time.  “After three visits, I sent Charlie a letter. I compared
his cooking with the greats of  France  such as  Joel Robuchon  and
 Alain Ducasse ,” said Harris, 55, a managing director and vice
chairman at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney in  New York .  Harris, who made frequent business trips from his New York
base, kept coming back, sometimes as often as twice a week.
Trotter said he starting letting him eat free after meal 175.  “I couldn’t give him a bill anymore,” Trotter said by
phone this week. “At that point, I wasn’t interested in
commerce. Ray was serious about everything from how the utensils
were placed on the table to the wine. I like serious people.”  Harris and his wife, Shaun, will be at Trotter’s for its
last serving tonight before the restaurant closes after a 25-
year run. It will be Harris’s 424th meal at the restaurant, more
than any other customer. The couple also dined there last night
and on Wednesday.  “Ray was the leading customer by a good margin. There have
been people who have been here 280 times,” said Trotter, who
will begin studying philosophy at the  University of Chicago  this
autumn. Harris earned his MBA at the school.  The restaurant’s final supper will depart from tradition
with a $250-per-person buffet. Tables will be rearranged to
accommodate food stations. The menu includes spit-roasted
curried goat, pork belly risotto, collard greens, shucked
oysters and Kobe beef sliders.  “It’s the antithesis of Charlie Trotter’s,” the chef said
about the menu. “These are things we normally don’t serve.”  Other Chefs  He will get help in the kitchen from Chicago-based chefs he
groomed such as Graham Elliot of Chicago’s GEB and dessert bar
queen Mindy Segal of  Hot Chocolate . Koren Grieveson of Avec will
also be on hand, and Anne Burrell, star of the Food Network’s
“Secrets of a Restaurant Chef,” will fly in from New York to
serve one of her signature dishes.  Harris said he will bring some wines from his personal
cellar, including a double magnum of a 1982  Chateau Pichon
Longueville , a 1990 Chave Hermitage and a 1989 Chateau Angelus.  Launched in 1987, Trotter’s became a global dining
destination known for complex dishes and impeccable service.
 Wine Spectator  magazine called it the best restaurant in the
world for wine and food in 1998 and the U.S.’s best in 2000.  In the past decade, Trotter saw younger restaurateurs grab
the spotlight in Chicago and win Michelin stars, including  Grant
Achatz  of Alinea.  Worth Trip  Harris said Trotter’s practice of rarely repeating a menu
and crafting 10-course meals tailored to his palate made it
worth the trip. He fondly recalls a poultry-themed dinner that
included squab, quail and pheasant.  “We had a legendary New Year’s Eve meal about 10 years
ago. There were truffles in all the dishes,” Harris said.
“There were even truffles in the ice cream.”  In New York, Harris’s A-list includes  Daniel Boulud ’s
Daniel and Cafe Boulud, where he says he has eaten a total of
about 100 times in 15 years. He’ll still dine out when visiting
Chicago, in places such as Naha, Salpicon and Alinea. But
nothing will match his favorite:  “Going to  Charlie Trotter ’s was like going to my own
personal dining room. I bought Christmas gifts for his staff.
They are like family.”  (Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Craig
Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 