-- Emerging Market Stocks Advance on Bernanke’s Jackson Hole Speech
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-31T21:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/most-emerging-stocks-fall-on-earnings-concern-samsung-advances.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
the first time in six days as U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he would not rule out further measures to boost
the economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.3 percent to 947.33,
trimming its loss this month to 0.5 percent. Share gauges in
 Poland ,  Hungary  and  Turkey  advanced more than 1 percent.
Brazil’s Bovespa index slid for a third day as  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  fell the most in three months. Russian
stocks retreated for a third day as OAO Lukoil, the nation’s
second-largest oil producer, reported a drop in second-quarter
profit.  Bernanke said additional asset purchases are an option as
policy makers consider further steps to bring down an
unemployment rate of more than 8 percent that he called a
“grave concern,” in a speech to central bankers in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming  today. Spain delayed making a decision on seeking
a European Union bailout for its banks while unemployment in the
euro area rose to a record in July. The European central bank,
led by  Mario Draghi , will hold its next meeting on Sept. 6 in
Frankfurt.  “The reading of the market is that there is a probability
that there will be further stimulus from the Fed,” said  Michael
Ganske , head of emerging-market research at Commerzbank AG in
 London . “Investors are trying to read out every statement about
possible support and that’s the reason for the rally in the
equity market. In addition, the market is expecting ECB to be
more detailed about their support for the region when they meet
next week.”  EM ETF Gains  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, increased 1
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF (EEM) 
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, slid 2.6 percent.  The Bovespa dropped 0.3 percent. Eletrobras, as Brazil’s
largest power utility is known, tumbled 8.2 percent after Banco
Itau BBA SA cut its ratings on utility stocks. Poland’s WIG 20
Index of stocks climbed 1.4 percent while Hungary’s BUX Index
added 1.1 percent. Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index gained 1.8
percent.  Bernanke, speaking two weeks before the next meeting of the
 Federal Open Market Committee , repeated its last statement that
the central bank “will provide additional policy accommodation
as needed” to spur growth. Two rounds of large-scale asset
purchases totaling $2.3 trillion have so far failed to reduce
the jobless rate below 8 percent more than three years into the
recovery.  Index Valuations  The developing nations’ gauge has advanced 3.4 percent this
year, trailing an 8.2 percent jump by the MSCI World Index of
developed nations. The emerging-markets index trades at 10.8
times estimated earnings, compared with 13 for the MSCI World,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Russia’s Micex Index retreated 0.5 percent. Lukoil dropped
2 percent after saying profit fell 69 percent in the second
quarter, missing analyst estimates, as  oil prices  declined
faster than export taxes.  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866)  slumped to a nine-month
low in  Hong Kong  as BOCOM International Holdings Co. cut its
stock estimate after the company reported a wider first-half
loss this week. South Korea’s STX Pan Ocean Co. fell 4.7 percent
after a measure of commodity shipping costs dropped to a six-
month low.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  rose 1.5 percent in  Seoul 
after a Tokyo judge ruled the company’s smartphones and a tablet
computer didn’t infringe on an Apple Inc. patent.  China Weakness  “While many agree that the worst phase of economic
slowdown has passed, we’re still not seeing a clear recovery
trend, with companies reporting slower profits,” Chu Moon Sung,
a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion, said by phone.
“Hopes for more measures in the U.S. are still valid.”  The Hang Seng China Enterprises  Index (VXEEM)  of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong dropped 0.7 percent to its lowest since July
26, as Macquarie Group Ltd. downgraded Chinese equities to
neutral from overweight. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped
0.3 percent, capping a fourth straight month of losses. Malaysia
is closed for a holiday.  Macquarie cut  China equities  to neutral, saying in a report
dated yesterday that early economic and financial stability seen
during the second quarter are being replaced by “disturbingly
wide-seen weakness” in the economy. A neutral rating implies
investors should hold the same proportion of Chinese shares as
are represented in benchmark indexes.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries increased 1 basis point to 318,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  