-- Total’s Elgin Platform to ‘Hopefully’ Restart Before End of 2012
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-08-31T11:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/total-s-elgin-platform-to-hopefully-restart-before-end-of-2012.html
Total SA (FP)  Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie said production from the Elgin field in
the U.K.  North Sea , shut by a gas leak, could restart by the end
of the year.  “Hopefully before the year-end, it’s very difficult to say
exactly when,” he said today in an interview at a conference
outside Paris. “This gas is needed, especially during the
winter time. We will do our best.”  Total is struggling to raise output after the North Sea
field was evacuated and shut down March 25 following a natural
gas leak. A 2012 restart of Elgin will be “challenging,” Chief
Financial Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere said last month.  The shutdown at Elgin rattled investor confidence in
Total’s production growth targets and may cost as much as $400
million in lost output this year. The platform, about 240
kilometers (149 miles) east of Aberdeen in  Scotland , and the
nearby Franklin operation, provide about 2 percent of the
company’s annual output.  “We have to make sure everything is in place, we cannot
take any risks,” de Margerie said. “It’s safety first,
especially after what happened.”  Total hasn’t yet made a decision on whether to sell its
French natural gas network TIGF, he said. “There is no plan,
it’s a study. No decision has been taken,” he said.  Asset Sales  Total began a series of asset sales and purchases in 2010,
seeking to raise energy production. The French  oil company  in
2011 agreed to sell its 6.4 percent stake in the Norwegian
Gassled pipeline network to Silex Gas Norway AS, owned by German
insurer Allianz SE.  TIGF’s 5,000 kilometers of pipeline in southwestern France
transport about 12 percent of the country’s natural gas and had
2010 revenue of 370 million euros, according to its website.  The sale of the network may fetch about 2.5 billion euros,
two people familiar with the process said last month.  The French company is working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Lazard Ltd. to seek buyers for the transmission network,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because talks
are private. Potential bidders include companies such as Enagas
SA, the operator of  Spain ’s natural-gas grid, infrastructure
investors including Global Infrastructure Partners Ltd., and
also pension funds, one of the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  