-- How U.S. Naval Power Grew to Match Mercantile Ambitions
-- B y   A l a s d a i r   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-08-31T15:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/how-u-s-naval-power-grew-to-match-mercantile-ambitions.html
In the early years of the American
republic, Sackets Harbor in upstate  New York  was one of the U.S.
Navy’s most important ports, guarding access to the St. Lawrence
River. In the War of 1812, Americans repulsed two British
assaults there. As the war ended, they erected an odd memorial
to their victories: the forlorn, uncompleted hulk of the
battleship  New Orleans .  It could still be seen rotting on its stocks 70 years
later. If it had been launched, the New Orleans would have been
one of the most powerful ships in the Navy. It was larger than
Horatio Nelson’s  HMS Victory . But when peace came, construction
stopped and the New Orleans began its long decline.  It wasn’t alone. From 1813 to 1816, Congress authorized the
construction of 16 large battleships. In 1830, only one was on
duty. Six were launched but quickly removed from service. Six
others stood incomplete in naval yards. Frederick de Roos, a
British officer visiting New York in 1826, was startled by the
condition of the USS  Ohio , put into storage immediately after
launching in 1820. “A more splendid ship I never beheld,” he
wrote. “She is already falling rapidly into decay.” In
Philadelphia, de Roos marveled at the USS Pennsylvania, designed
to be the largest fighting ship of any nation, whose hull had
never touched water.  This was the ghost fleet. It was a product of the nation’s
struggle, in the first decades of the 19th century, to reconcile
its mercantile ambitions with its deep ambivalence about the
expansion of a national-defense establishment.  Production of Empire  Americans were a trading people “traversing all the seas,”
as  Thomas Jefferson  said, “with the rich production of their
empire.” By 1830, the U.S. had the second-largest merchant fleet
in the world. But the expansion of trade wasn’t easy without
naval protection. This had been the lesson of the War of 1812,
which was triggered by American frustration about British
interference with its merchant fleet. It was a war for “free
trade and sailors’ rights,” President  Theodore Roosevelt  later
wrote. “Meaning by the former expression, freedom to trade
wherever we chose without hindrance save from the power with
whom we are trading.”  The naval buildup of 1813-1820 was supposed to provide the
merchant fleet with the protection it badly needed. But
enthusiasm for the expansion was short-lived. Instead, the
government became obsessed with fiscal retrenchment.  Andrew Jackson , elected to the presidency in 1828, said his aim was to
eliminate the national debt entirely within his
administration. Extinguishing the debt, Senator Thomas Hart
Benton argued, would do more good for national security than
“one hundred ships of the line, ready for battle.”  The U.S. was conducting an experiment: aiming to become a
mercantile power, but not a naval one. By the mid-1830s, the
limitations of this policy were clear. When the country almost
went to war with  France  in 1834, trading interests were alarmed.
“It would be madness to close our eyes to the truth,” the
Philadelphia Gazette said. “Our trade and our navy must have
been instantly swept from the ocean by the overwhelming
superiority of the French marine.”  Once again, the U.S. became sensitive to its vulnerability
to foreign navies. In 1838, the captain of the USS Independence
was “mortified at his own weakness” as he negotiated for release
of a merchantman seized by French warships. There were also
reports of British warships interfering with American vessels.  One of the most vigorous advocates for a shift in policy
was a young naval officer named Matthew Maury. “With a small
commerce, a small navy was required,” Maury wrote in the
Southern Literary Messenger in 1840. “But now, with a commerce
full-fledged, spreading her wings on every sea, a larger Navy is
loudly called for.”  A Growing Power  Unfortunately the U.S. was entering a deep depression, and
the Treasury was draining rapidly. Still, the country began to
take its first steps toward the expansion of naval power. The
USS  Pennsylvania  was finally launched, and several other 1812-
era battleships were restored to service. Experiments with new
steam-powered frigates began, and a naval academy was
established. A small expedition was commissioned to explore the
Pacific coast, which was not yet U.S. territory.  By the late 1840s, the U.S. had the most powerful navy in
its history. This wasn’t saying much: Britain and France still
had vastly larger fleets. In 1846, the tonnage of British
warships under construction was triple what the U.S. had afloat.
Still, national policy had reached a critical juncture. The U.S.
equivocated about naval power after the War of 1812, and the
ghost fleet was the result. After 1840, it never would again.  (Alasdair Roberts is a professor of law and public policy
at Suffolk University Law School in  Boston . His book “America’s
First Great Depression: Economic Crisis and Political Disorder
after the Panic of 1837” was published by Cornell University
Press in May. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the author of this post:
Alasdair Roberts at  alasdair.roberts@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  