-- Pentagon Says Ex-Navy Seal Violated Non-Disclosure Pact
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-08-31T18:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/pentagon-says-ex-navy-seal-violated-non-disclosure-pact.html
The Pentagon said a former U.S. Navy
SEAL who wrote a firsthand account of the raid that killed  Osama bin Laden  violated an agreement he signed never to divulge
classified information and may face legal action.  The former SEAL broke the agreement by writing the new
book, “No Easy Day: The Firsthand Account of the Mission That
Killed Osama Bin Laden,” Pentagon General Counsel Jeh Johnson
wrote in a letter released last night. The letter was addressed
to the author, who wrote the book under the pen name “Mark
Owen,” care of the book’s publisher.  “In the judgment of the  Department of Defense , you are in
material breach and violation of the non-disclosure agreements
you signed” in 2007, Johnson wrote to Owen. “Further public
dissemination of your book will aggravate your breach and
violation of your agreements.”  Johnson said the letter was meant to put the author on
notice that “the department is considering pursuing against you
and all those acting in concert with you all remedies legally
available to us.”  V for Valor  The author was first identified publicly by  Fox News  as
Matt Bissonnette, 36, of La Mirada,  California , who was a member
of the elite counterterrorism SEAL Team Six that killed  Bin
Laden . Among Bissonnette’s awards and decorations are five
Bronze Stars with “V” for Valor device, according to a Navy
information sheet released earlier this week. The Bronze Star is
the military’s fourth-highest award for bravery.  The 2007 agreement “invites, but by no means requires Mr.
Owen to submit materials for pre-publication review,”
Bissonnette’s attorney, Robert Luskin of the Washington firm of
Patton Boggs LLP, said in a letter today to Johnson.  Although the agreement “does require pre-publication
security review under certain circumstances, that obligation is
expressly limited to specifically identified” classified so-
called Special Access programs spelled out on the date it was
signed, Luskin wrote.  “It is difficult to understand how the matter that is the
subject of Mr. Owen’s book could conceivably be encompassed by
the non-disclosure agreement that you have identified,” Luskin
said.  Sept. 4 Release  The book is scheduled to be published Sept. 4 by Dutton, a
unit of Penguin Group USA, and is already No. 1 on  Amazon.com ’s
best-seller list. Bissonnette co-wrote the book with Kevin
Maurer, who has previously written about special-operations
warfare.  Bissonnette said in his book he took steps to ensure that
he wouldn’t be inadvertently releasing classified information
and hired a former special operations attorney to review the
manuscript.  The Defense Department hasn’t ruled out any options for
taking action against the author, Pentagon spokesman  George Little  told reporters today. He declined to specify steps the
Pentagon may take against the author or the publisher.  “When you write something that may contain classified
information, you have to go through pre-publication review and
that did not occur in this case,” Little said. The Department
also is still reviewing to determine if the book contains
classified information, he said.  Special Operations  The Pentagon hasn’t specifically asked the publisher to
cancel or delay the book’s publication, Little said, pointing to
the text of the letter that says further dissemination would
aggravate the author’s breach of agreement.  The Pentagon consulted with the  Department of Justice 
before sending the letter, Little said.  Pentagon and special-operations officials haven’t publicly
acknowledged the official designation of the Navy unit known
informally as SEAL Team Six and formally as the Naval Special
Warfare Development Group, or Devgru, based in Dam Neck,
Virginia.  “The operations discussed in this book have been written
about in numerous other civilian and government publications and
are available in open sources to the general public,”
Bissonnette wrote.  “The events depicted in ‘No Easy Day’ are based on my own
memory,” he wrote. “Conversations have been reconstructed from
my recollections.”  Luskin wrote that Owen is “respectful of his obligations.
But he has earned the right to tell his story; his abiding
interest is to ensure that he is permitted to tell it while
recognizing the letter and spirit of the law and his contractual
undertakings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  