-- Philippine Peso Gains a Second Day, Pares Monthly Drop on Growth
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-08-31T08:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/philippine-peso-gains-a-second-day-pares-monthly-drop-on-growth.html
The  Philippine peso  advanced for a
second day, paring a monthly loss, after a government report
showed gross domestic product expanded faster than economists
estimated in the  second quarter .  Growth in the $225 billion economy will probably reach the
high end of an official forecast for an expansion of 5 percent
to 6 percent this year, Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio
Balisacan said yesterday. GDP increased 5.9 percent in the three
months through June from a year earlier, compared with a 5.5
percent gain predicted by analysts in a Bloomberg survey,
according to official figures released Aug. 30.  “Philippine economic fundamentals remain strong and will
continue to attract investments,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a
regional economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  Singapore .
Should global policy makers boost efforts to spur growth,
“investors will favor countries with the best prospects and
that will include the  Philippines ,” he said.  The peso gained 0.3 percent today to close at 42.085 per
dollar in  Manila , data from Tullett Prebon Plc show. It fell 0.8
percent this month, the worst performance since May. One-month
implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to
price options, fell 20 basis points today to 6.10 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government will boost spending to fund rebuilding of
structures damaged by floods earlier this month, and that will
further support the economy, Balisacan said yesterday.  Policy Review  “Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will review the stance of
policy, and calibrate any further action” after considering the
impact of increased public spending and the global demand
slowdown, Governor  Amando Tetangco  wrote in a mobile-phone
message yesterday. Policy makers meet next on Sept. 13.  The central bank may keep the overnight borrowing rate at a
record-low 3.75 percent for the rest of the year and will favor
prudential measures to manage inflows, Tanuwidjaja said. The
peso may strengthen to 41.80 by year-end, he predicted.  The yield on the 12.75 percent bonds due July 2014 rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.98 percent,
according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp. The rate was 2.94 percent at the end of July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 