-- Strongest Philippine Earthquake Since 1990 Causes Minimal Damage
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-09-01T05:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/philippines-tsunami-warning-canceled-after-magnitude-7-6-quake.html
The strongest earthquake in more
than two decades to hit the  Philippines  caused minimal damage,
with one death reported.  A magnitude-7.6 earthquake struck offshore 108 miles (174
kilometers) northeast of Surigao City, at the northern tip of
Mindanao Island at 8:47 p.m. local time yesterday, triggering a
tsunami warning that was lifted after two hours, according to
the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center. Evacuations were ordered in
eastern, central and southern regions of the country as the
tremor triggered landslides, killing a 44-year-old woman and
wounding a child.  “Last night’s quake is the strongest to hit the country
since the 1990 quake in Luzon,” Civil Defense Administrator
Benito Ramos said in a telephone interview today. “This was
stronger than what hit Negros” earlier this year.  A  6.8-magnitude quake  killed 51 and left more than 60
people missing in the Negros and Cebu regions in February. That
tremor damaged homes and bridges and shut offices, schools and
malls in the central Philippines. A 7.7-magnitude quake killed
more than 1,500 people on the main island of  Luzon  in  July 1990 .  Yesterday’s earthquake didn’t cause major damage as the
epicenter was 112 kilometers (70 miles) from the nearest shore
in Eastern Samar, Renato Solidum, the country’s chief
volcanologist, said in a telephone interview today. The February
temblor was closer to land,  A magnitude 7.9 quake in the Celebes Sea off Mindanao in
1976 triggered a tsunami that left an estimated 6,000 people
dead or missing, Solidum said.  Bridges Damaged  In yesterday’s quake, two bridges in Eastern Samar were
damaged while floors of the Abreeza Mall in Davao City cracked,
the disaster coordination agency said in a  2 a.m. report .
Several homes in Cagayan de Oro were damaged by flooding, while
a house in Agusan del Sur caught fire after a gas lamp was
toppled during the tremor.  The Philippines has been battered by natural disasters in
recent months, killing dozens of people and sparking criticism
of President  Benigno Aquino ’s handling of the crises.  Flooding 
in the capital and nearby provinces last month killed more than
100 people and caused at least 3 billion pesos ($73 million) of
damage to infrastructure and crops.  Damage from yesterday’s quake was limited as “evacuation
protocols were followed,” Aquino’s spokeswoman, Abigail Valte,
told government radio today.  Citizens must review earthquake
plans and check if their homes and offices can withstand tremors,
Valte said.  Food Packs  Aquino last night ordered officials to ensure the
evacuation is “peaceful and orderly,” spokesman Edwin Lacierda
said in a mobile phone message yesterday. Social Welfare
Secretary Dinky Soliman has prepared food packs for deployment
to affected areas, Lacierda said.  The Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology
recorded 163 aftershocks as of 8 a.m., the strongest at 6.4-
magnitude.  “The quake lasted a long time and there was panic,”
Surigao del Norte Governor Sol Matugas said yesterday.  Surges measuring as high as 19 centimeters (7.5 inches)
were reported in Surigao City, Solidum, said yesterday. The
first tsunami didn’t hit Samar province and Siargao Island as
expected at around 9:32 p.m., Solidum said. Before 11 p.m., the
Pacific Tsunami Warning Center had scrapped the tsunami alert.  The quake cracked roads and bridges and cut power in some
areas, Northern Samar province Governor Paul Daza said on DZMM
radio last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Guinto at   jguinto1@bloomberg.net 
Clarissa Batino at   cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net 
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  