-- Philips TV Maker TVP Cuts Costs to Offset Weaker Europe Demand
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-08-31T10:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/philips-tv-maker-tvp-cuts-costs-to-offset-weaker-europe-demand.html
TPV Technology Ltd. (903) , which took over
Royal Philips Electronics NV’s television operation, said it’s
cutting costs as it’s seen no recovery in demand for sets in
 Europe .  “It’s a very mixed picture in Europe, with significant
double-digit declines in southern Europe and flat to slightly
decreasing sales in the northern part,” Maarten  de Vries , head
of TPV Vision, the joint venture with Philips in which it has a
majority, said at the consumer electronics IFA fair in Berlin.  De Vries is budgeting for growth in TV sales to 270 million
units in 2015 from 245 million last year, driven by
strengthening demand in  Russia ,  Brazil  and eastern Europe. TPV,
tasked with restoring the TV operation to profit, is
“streamlining” the cost base by integrating manufacturing
sites of both companies.  A deadline to reach break even hasn’t been set, though TPV
has demonstrated it can turn around a business, having
overhauled Philips’s PC monitor business within two years, de
Vries said.  TPV has changed its strategy for TVs, by broadening the
offering beyond the higher-priced segment to the mid and lower-
bracket markets. That led to high-single-digit growth in the
second quarter, said de Vries.  With its headquarters in Amsterdam, TP Vision is the last
major television maker in Europe, relying on the heritage of the
Philips-brand to battle with Asian competitors such as  Samsung
Elecronics Co. (005930)   “The Philips brand is our strongest asset,” de Vries
said. “If you ask people the association with the Philips
brand, the majority will mention TVs.”  To boost its market share, TP Vision is also betting on so-
called smart TV’s, with 80 percent of the products currently
enabled to allow users to listen to music, watch videos and play
games via the internet using the same screen.  “Preferences are changing and we have to make sure we have
the right product offering for the younger generations,” de
Vries said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  