-- Posen Says Major Central Banks Should Ease Policy More
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-08-31T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/posen-says-major-central-banks-should-ease-policy-more.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Adam Posen  called on central banks from  Europe  to the U.S. to be more
aggressive in combating lackluster economic growth and
inflation.  As he prepares to leave the U.K. central bank today, Posen
said the Bank of England should “more actively” consider
buying assets other than gilts, the  Federal Reserve  should
pursue more quantitative easing and the  European Central Bank 
should intervene to reduce bond yields in Spain and  Italy .  Posen steps down after three years as a member of the
Monetary Policy Committee having led the charge for expanding
monetary stimulus in the U.K. His pitch for central banks to do
even more runs counter to the warning of some officials and
analysts that fresh asset purchases would have limited economic
impact.  “All central banks are wrestling with this issue of are
you pushing on a string,” Posen told reporters yesterday at a
conference of central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . “I
genuinely believe that worry is exaggerated.”  The Bank of the England is right to be “open to” more
asset purchases if needed by the economy and should also look to
buy corporate bonds or securitized business loans to “more
directly address the shortfalls in the British credit system,”
Posen said.  The U.K. central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee next
meets Sept. 6, two months after increasing its quantitative
easing target by 50 billion pounds ($79 billion). It said this
month it will assess “other potential policy options” as it
reviews the impact of its funding for lending plan to boost
credit.  Program Success  Posen said it’s “premature” to judge the success of that
plan.  Posen said he doesn’t see “any particular advantage” in
cutting  interest rates  because more quantitative easing can
achieve the same result and it has been argued that market
structures could be damaged as borrowing costs near zero.  “We believe QE is largely substitutable for cutting
rates,” he said. “It’s not a perfect substitute, but it
roughly does the same thing.”  As he prepares to return to the U.S. to head the
Washington-based Peterson Institute for International Economics,
Posen said the Fed should introduce another round of bond
purchases known as quantitative easing given that U.S. inflation
is low and unemployment is too high.  “What definition of the Fed’s mandate do you have that
doesn’t say you should be trying to respond to this,” he said.
“It’s not that easing is always the answer, it’s that
sufficient ease is hard to achieve when we’re in this kind of
situation and you’ve got to keep going until you get to that
sufficient ease.”  Bernanke Speech  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who last month said a third
asset-purchase program was an option, has an opportunity to
update his policy outlook today in a speech at the symposium.  While the Fed is studying the U.K’s program to boost credit
to companies and households, Posen said the program may not be
suitable because the U.S. banking system is in better shape than
the U.K.’s and commercial lending is less of a problem.  Posen praised suggestions for the Fed to better outline
what it is trying to achieve, saying he had sympathy with Fed
Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans ’ proposal that the Fed
shouldn’t raise interest rates until the  unemployment rate  falls
below 7 percent or inflation rises above 3 percent.  “It’s not about the number, it’s about providing a
baseline to which the central bank can be held accountable and
people have a way of talking to each other,” he said.  Bond Yields  Turning to the ECB, Posen said bond yields in Spain and
Italy are out of line with economic fundamentals and it’s within
the central bank’s mandate to act to reduce them, perhaps by
setting caps.  ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s decision to withdraw from the
Jackson Hole conference suggests the ECB is working on a plan
ahead of the Sept. 6 meeting of its Governing Council, he said.  “It is difficult if not impossible to justify their long
bond rates being as high as they are,” Posen said. “It is
entirely within a central bank’s mandate and capabilities to
deal with that. They should be intervening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Jackson Hole, Wyoming at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  