-- Prince Leads Traders Down London's Tallest Tower in Shard Abseil
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-08-31T07:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/prince-leads-traders-down-london-s-tallest-tower-in-shard-abseil.html
The son of  Queen Elizabeth II  will
abseil down Western Europe’s tallest skyscraper on Monday,
racing traders, marines and the wife of the foreign secretary.  A charity event will see Prince Andrew, also called the
Duke of York, suspended by wire more than 1000 feet (305 meters)
above the south bank of the Thames River, leading 39 people down
the tower, according to a  statement . Ted Hood, the chief
executive officer of Source Holdings Ltd., will join him.  “I’m going to be 50 next year, and I thought ‘this is mid-
life crisis perfect,’” Hood, whose company provides exchange-
traded funds, said in an interview. “There’s one guy in the
office who’s abseiled before and said ’no way, you are going to
die of fear.’”  The Shard, which is owned by Seller Property Group Ltd. and
the Qatar Central Bank, is 1,016 feet tall and is named for its
tapering glass-clad icicle shape. The apartments, which start
from level 53, may be in or above the clouds for one in four
days a year.  The abseilers include British mountaineer Chris Bonington,
a group of royal marines and Ffion Hague, the wife of Britain’s
Foreign Secretary  William Hague . Each participant needed to
raise a minimum of 25,000 pounds ($39,460) to win a place,
according to the  event’s website .  Danger Money  Hood, whose training amounts to a few hours descending a
seven-story building, raised much of his sponsorship through his
employer. He also used the Internet, including the social
networking pages offered by  Facebook Inc. (FB) , to gain support,
though he says that may turn out to be more dangerous than the
abseil itself.  “A good way of telling people I’m trying to raise money is
to stick this on Facebook, which I did, which is how my wife
found out,” he said. “She was not happy with either me doing
it or with me not discussing it with her first. There’s more
danger on the home front than on the ‘falling down the side of
the building’ front.”  The abseil will begin at the summit on the 87th story and
twenty of the group will travel to the 20th floor, according to
the statement. The remaining people will end their descent at
the 78th floor. The money raised will support the Outward Bound
Trust and the Royal Marines Charitable Trust Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net . 