-- Rand Rebounds From Five-Week Low as Bernanke Keeps Stimulus Open
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-08-31T15:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/rand-rebounds-from-five-week-low-as-commodity-prices-rally.html
The rand gained, rebounding from a
five-week low, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said
he wouldn’t rule out further bond purchases to boost growth and
reduce unemployment, which he called a “grave concern.”  South Africa’s currency advanced 0.5 percent to 8.4302 per
dollar as of 4:33 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring its decline this
month to 2 percent. The rand initially reversed gains after
Bernanke’s prepared speech was published, before recovering. The
yield on 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed two basis points,
or 0.2 percentage point, to 6.74 percent, for an 8 basis point
advance in the month.  Bernanke’s speech to central bankers and economists at an
annual forum in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , comes two weeks before he
leads a meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee  to decide
whether an expansion of the Fed’s record stimulus is needed to
spur growth. His address in 2010 preceded a second round of
quantitative easing, boosting demand for higher-yielding assets
including commodities and emerging-market bonds. Raw materials
account for 45 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to
government data for 2011.  “The initial reaction was a knee-jerk one,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “Investor
hopes for monetary easing haven’t come about, but they are
likely to in the future. He said there’s no reason why they
shouldn’t use it if they need to spur economic growth.”  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  in the U.S. traded 0.7
percent higher. South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index
added 0.2 percent, extending gains this month to 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  