-- Rangers’ NHL Opener Is First of 11 Games on NBC Sports Group
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-08-31T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/rangers-nhl-opener-is-first-of-11-games-on-nbc-sports-group.html
The  New York Rangers ’ Oct. 12 season
opener at the Stanley Cup-champion Los Angeles Kings is among 11
Rangers games scheduled to be televised during the National
Hockey League season by the NBC Sports Group.  The start of the season, however, is in jeopardy with the
collective bargaining agreement set to expire Sept. 15. NHL
Commissioner Gary Bettman said last month that owners won’t
operate the 2012-13 season without a new contract.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and NBC Sports Network are entering the
second season of a $2 billion, 10-year agreement with the NHL,
the largest media rights deal in league history. It would be the
eighth consecutive season the networks have shown NHL games
nationally in the U.S., with the NBC Sports Group scheduled to
telecast more than 100 games during the season.  NBC Sports Network will show the Rangers’ home game against
the  Washington Capitals  on Nov. 14, while NBC will televise the
NHL Thanksgiving Showdown between  New York  and  Boston  on Nov.
23.  How to split an estimated $3.2 billion in league revenue is
at the center of talks between the league and the NHL Players’
Association.  The union canceled yesterday’s talks to draft a response to
the league’s latest proposal. A meeting is scheduled this
morning at the NHL’s New York offices.  The league’s latest proposal increases the amount paid to
players by $460 million over six years, according to the
league’s website. Terms include fixed payments during the first
three years, with players and owners splitting revenue 50-50
from the fourth year.  “Both parties are committed -- if there are reasons to
meet and continue to move forward -- to meet as often as it
takes to get a deal done,” Deputy Commissioner Bill Daly said
yesterday. “But obviously every day that goes by it’s less and
less likely that we’ll be able to come to closure on all of the
issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  