-- Recession in U.S. Likely If Congress Doesn’t Act, Feldstein Says
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 2012-08-31T13:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/recession-in-u-s-likely-if-congress-doesn-t-act-feldstein-says.html
The  U.S. economy  will probably fall
into a recession in 2013 if lawmakers can’t break an impasse
over the  federal budget , Harvard University economics professor
 Martin Feldstein  said.  “We have avoided recession until 2013,” Feldstein said in
a Bloomberg Television interview from Jackson Hole, Wyoming.
“If the fiscal cliff actually happens -- which I don’t think it
will but if it happens -- then we get pushed into a recession.
We are talking about knocking 4 or 5 percentage points off”
gross domestic product.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said Aug. 22
that scheduled tax increases and spending cuts in 2013 would
lead to economic output shrinking, unemployment rising, and
conditions that would “probably be considered a recession.”  “We are starting with a very weak economy,” Feldstein
said. “The economy is certainly very weak now and is expected
to stay weak for the rest of the year. We are crawling along in
the bottom of an economic hole and we could easily see a further
decline if there is a negative shock.”  There is no sign of an agreement to avoid a so-called
fiscal cliff. Congressional leaders have said they probably
won’t consider until after the election the Bush-era tax cuts
set to expire Dec. 31 or the automatic spending cuts that would
begin taking effect in January.  Feldstein also said he didn’t think the  Federal Reserve 
should take additional action to stimulate the economy, which
has been held back by uncertainty over fiscal policy rather than
monetary policy.  Feldstein, 72, is a former president of the National Bureau
of Economic Research and a member of the NBER committee that
declared the recession ended in June 2009. He formerly served as
chief economic adviser to President  Ronald Reagan .  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
Michael McKee in Jackson Hole, Wyoming at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  