-- Romney Misleads on Obama Health Cost: Reality Check
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-31T04:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/romney-s-critique-of-obama-health-cost-misleading-reality-check.html
Each side has made statements about
the other’s positions in the presidential campaign. How do some
assertions in Republican nominee  Mitt Romney ’s acceptance speech
at the Republican National Convention square with the facts?  Obamacare’s Cost  The claim: “We must rein in the skyrocketing cost of
health care by repealing and replacing Obamacare.”  The background: Though President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
plan was modeled after one enacted in  Massachusetts  by Romney,
and its mandate that Americans buy insurance was initially
proposed by Republican lawmakers, Republicans have opposed the
law. Republican-led states unsuccessfully sued to overturn it.  The facts: Connecting current inflation in health care to
the new law, which doesn’t take full effect until 2014, is a
stretch. Health-care costs have been rising faster than prices
in general for many years, though the pace has been slowing
recently, in part because of the recession. Health costs rose
3.4 percent in 2010 from 2009, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, while the U.S. inflation rate was 1.6 percent.  Obama’s health-care law cuts future Medicare costs by more
than $700 billion over 10 years, in part by reducing payments to
hospitals and insurance companies, including those that provide
costlier Medicare Advantage plans. Romney says he would restore
that money. The  Congressional Budget Office  has estimated that
repeal of the law would increase the federal deficit by $100
billion over 10 years.  Republicans have yet to offer full details of how they
would replace the health-care law. They have pushed measures to
limit compensation for patients injured by medical malpractice.
A 2009 Congressional Budget Office report found that a $250,000
cap on damages would reduce health costs by $54 billion over 10
years, or 0.5 percent of annual health-care spending.  Relations with Israel  The claim: “President Obama has thrown allies like  Israel 
under the bus.”  The background: Obama and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  have had public disagreements on several issues,
including over the expansion of settlements in occupied
territories that Palestinians claim as their homeland, and
whether or when to use force against  Iran  to prevent the Islamic
Republic from building a nuclear bomb. Romney has attempted to
sow doubts about Obama’s support for Israel in an apparent
effort to peel off Jewish voters, who gave the Democrat 78
percent of their votes four years ago.  The facts: Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  told  CNN  in
July, “I should tell you, honestly, that this administration,
under President Obama, is doing, in regard to our security, more
than anything that I can remember in the past.”  Obama’s ‘Apology Tour’  The claim: “I will begin my presidency with a jobs tour.
President Obama began with an apology tour.”  The background: Obama, trying to reset relations with
 Europe  following the administration of President  George W. Bush ,
acknowledged in Paris that “there have been times where America
has shown arrogance and been dismissive, even derisive.” He
went on to say, “But in Europe, there is an anti-Americanism
that is at once casual, but can also be insidious. Instead of
recognizing the good that America so often does in the world,
there have been times where Europeans choose to blame America
for much of what’s bad.”  The facts: Obama didn’t begin his presidency with an
apology tour.  Independent fact-checkers have debunked this
story. The Washington Post said, “The apology tour never
happened.” Politifact said, “There is criticism in some of his
speeches, but it’s typically leavened by praise for the  United
States  and its ideals, and often he mentions other countries and
how they have erred as well. There’s not a full-throated,
sincere apology in the bunch.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Barry in Washington at 
 mbarry24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  