-- Romney’s TV Audience Rises 40% From Ryan’s Earlier Total
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-31T22:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/romney-s-convention-audience-increases-from-ryan-s-viewer-total.html
Republican Presidential nominee Mitt Romney, officially kicking off his campaign as his party’s
standard bearer, attracted about 30.3 million viewers to his
acceptance speech last night on national television.  Romney, whose speech closed the Republican National
Convention in Tampa, Florida, drew about 40 percent more viewers
than his vice presidential running mate, Wisconsin
Representative  Paul Ryan , Nielsen said today in a statement.  The Republican nominee sought to identify with the dreams
and disappointments of U.S. voters amid high unemployment,
presenting himself as a unifying figure with the expertise to
create jobs and heal partisan rifts. He tailored part of his
speech to win the votes of women with stories of how his mother
and wife had shaped his life, saying their struggles were often
harder than those faced by men and that he would be a president
who “understands what they do.”  In 2008, more than 38.9 million watched the comparable
closing night of the Republican convention, when John McCain
accepted his party’s nomination, Nielsen said. That was also
more than the total who tuned in for Barack Obama’s acceptance
speech, Nielsen said.  Democrats hold their convention next week starting Sept. 4
in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  News Corp.’s Fox News again led last night’s coverage, with
9.06 million viewers between 10 p.m. and 11 p.m. New York time,
when Romney gave his speech, according to the website TV By The
Numbers.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC was second with 4.44 million, the
website said.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC was third with 3.85 million.  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s broadcast network registered 3.73 million viewers, while
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s CNN had 2.33 million and Comcast’s MSNBC
attracted 1.88 million, according to the website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  