-- Romney’s Republicans Stress Competence Not Clarity on Choices
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-08-31T04:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/romney-s-republicans-stress-competence-not-clarity-on-choices.html
Republicans used their national
convention to promise a return to prosperity, asking Americans
to trust that decisive leadership and a small-government vision
would reverse a national decline.  Speakers in Tampa, Florida, including presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney , blamed an underperforming economy on an
underachieving president. While several, including New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie , referred to the “hard choices” and
pain necessary to rein in the federal deficit, they offered few
details about the sacrifices required.  “What is needed in our country today is not complicated or
profound,” Romney said last night in accepting the nomination.
“It doesn’t take a special government commission to tell us
what America needs,” he said. “What America needs is jobs.
Lots of jobs.”  In diagnosing the nation’s economic ills, the Republicans
hit upon familiar villains -- runaway spending, oppressive
regulation and excessive taxation -- and offered familiar
remedies. To replace President  Barack Obama ’s “hope and
change” credo of 2008, they reprised the small-government theme
President  Ronald Reagan  rode to victory in 1980.  “The choice is whether to put hard limits on economic
growth, or hard limits on the size of government, and we choose
to limit government,” said Representative  Paul Ryan  when he
accepted the nomination to run for vice president.  Romney’s Plan  Accepting the party’s nomination, Romney promised more jobs
and lower taxes. He unveiled a five-point plan he said would
create 12 million jobs. He would cut income-tax rates by 20
percent while eliminating the estate tax and alternative minimum
tax. The resulting revenue loss would be made up by eliminating
various tax breaks, which he has refused to specify.  At a Bloomberg panel discussion, Lanhee Chen, Romney’s
policy director, said the candidate would consider a proposal by
economist  Martin Feldstein  of  Harvard University  to cap high-
income taxpayers’ individual deductions. Yet Chen brushed aside
demands for Romney to disclose more details about his plans.  “You know, we can talk about specific provisions. We can
talk about the write-off for interest on municipal bonds. We can
talk about X, Y, Z,” he said. “But that is a process that will
require the president to lead.”  Fresh Problems  Party leaders spoke of an incumbent whose policies hadn’t
resolved the economic crisis he inherited and had spawned fresh
problems: crony capitalism, encroachments upon individual
liberty and a  crippling debt  that threatened the country’s pre-
eminence.  “The world knows that when a nation loses control of its
finances, it eventually loses control of its destiny,” said
former Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice .  With Obama likely to win a majority of black and Hispanic
votes, a key audience for Republicans this week was the white
working-class voters who have been an essential part of
Republican electoral coalitions for four decades. Four years ago,
such voters -- “the working men and women of this country” in
Ryan’s words -- backed Republican candidate  John McCain  of
 Arizona  over Obama by a margin of 58 percent to 40 percent.  These voters, who made up 39 percent of the electorate in
2008, have been disproportionately hurt by the financial crisis
and anemic recovery.  Earnings Fall  Between 2007 and 2010, working-class individuals -- those
in nonprofessional occupations who lack college degrees -- saw
their median earnings fall 4.6 percent, according to a study of
U.S. Census data prepared for  Bloomberg News  by Sentier Research
of Annapolis,  Maryland . Over that period, earnings for college-
educated professionals or managers rose 1.9 percent.  Working-class males were especially hard hit, with median
annual earnings falling 6.6 percent, more than three times the
1.9 percent loss suffered by all employees, the study found.  Christie, who gave the keynote address, sought to align the
party with blue-collar Americans.  Said Christie: “We are the great-grandchildren of men and
women who broke their backs in the name of American ingenuity;
the grandchildren of the greatest generation; the sons and
daughters of immigrants; the brothers and sisters of everyday
heroes; the neighbors of entrepreneurs and firefighters,
teachers and farmers, veterans and factory workers.”  Revival Signs  The Republicans’ gloomy economic assessment ignores
indications that a slow expansion is continuing.  Earlier this week, the Commerce Department revised upward
its estimate of second-quarter growth to 1.7 percent from an
initial 1.5 percent. The economy is likely to grow at an annual
rate of 1.8 percent in the third quarter and 2.1 percent in the
fourth, according to 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Stock Index has risen 11.3
percent this year and has more than doubled since its March 2009
nadir.  Corporate profits  reached $1.9 trillion in the second
quarter, more than 15 percent higher than the pre-crisis peak in
2006.  There was little mention this week that the housing market,
the source of the economy’s weakness, shows signs of
strengthening. In July, new  home construction  hit an annual rate
of 746,000 homes, up from 478,000 in April 2009, amid the
collapse of the housing bubble.  Global Concern  There are plenty of reasons to be concerned about the
economy. With  Europe  near recession and  China  slowing, the U.S.
remains vulnerable. The  Congressional Budget Office  warned of a
renewed recession next year if lawmakers can’t agree on a deal
to avoid what is known as the fiscal cliff, a package of
automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to take
effect in January.  “By any number of measures, the strength of the recovery
has been and remains disappointing,”  Dennis Lockhart , the
president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta, said in an Aug.
21 speech. “Our current expansion is not on the track we would
wish.”  Republicans hammered at the jobs crisis, which shows no
sign of ending. The economy this year has produced a monthly
average of 160,570 private sector jobs -- less than half the
343,000 created during the same period in Reagan’s presidency.  The  unemployment rate  in July was 8.3 percent and has
topped 8 percent since February 2009. It may remain as high as
7.7 percent in late 2014, according to the Federal Reserve’s
latest projections.  “To the majority of Americans who now believe that the
future will not be better than the past, I can guarantee you
this: If Barack Obama is re-elected, you will be right,” Romney
said last night.  Clock Ticking  High above the convention floor, a set of spinning dials
underscored another Republican preoccupation. Throughout the
convention, the “ national debt clock ” showed a continually
updated tally of the nation’s roughly $16 trillion in red ink.  For the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30, the federal
government is projected to run a $1.1 trillion deficit,
according to the Congressional Budget Office. That marks the
fourth consecutive year of 13-figure shortfalls. “His trillion
dollar deficits will slow our economy, restrain employment, and
cause wages to stall,” Romney said last night.  Republican deficit concerns aren’t shared by investors. The
yield on 10-year Treasury notes fell to 1.63 percent from 2.56
on Aug. 5, 2011, when Standard & Poor’s lowered the U.S. credit
rating, as investors fled European government debt for the
perceived safety of U.S. government securities.  Low Yield  The 10-year Treasury’s current yield is more than 3
percentage points below the 4.67 percent average for the 10
years that preceded Obama’s inauguration.  Republicans sought to turn their plans to cut spending for
entitlement programs into an electoral plus with another
demographic group that in recent elections has supported the
party, the elderly. In 2008, voters 65 and older backed McCain
over Obama by 53 percent to 45 percent, the only age group that
the Republican candidate won.  Ryan said “the biggest, coldest power play of all in
Obamacare came at the expense of the elderly” and that the
administration had “funneled” $716 billion out of Medicare,
the health-insurance system for the elderly, to pay for the 2010
health law that extends coverage to most Americans.  Benefits Intact  According to the nonpartisan Concord Coalition, there are
no cuts to seniors’ Medicare benefits as part of Obama’s health-
care law, the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
The plan scales back payments to providers of Medicare Advantage
plans, an alternative to Medicare that uses private insurers. It
also slows the growth of Medicare payments to hospitals and
other health providers.  Republicans are assuming that Medicare Advantage providers
will respond to the reduced government payments by trimming
senior benefits. They also assume the same savings in their
House-sponsored budget plan crafted by Ryan. The health-care law
backed by Obama plows the projected savings back into subsidies
to help low-income individuals buy insurance, while Ryan’s plan
counts the money toward debt reduction.  Ryan also said a Romney-Ryan administration will “protect
and strengthen Medicare, for my mom’s generation, for my
generation, and for my kids and yours.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Tampa, Florida at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net 
Mike Dorning in Tampa, Florida at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 