-- Romney Campaign Mutes the Racial Dog Whistles for Tampa
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-08-31T07:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/romney-campaign-mutes-the-racial-dog-whistles-for-tampa.html
Mitt Romney  delivered a good
acceptance speech that will help him in the polls. But it won’t
fundamentally change the contours of his campaign, which now
depends on compensating for his deficits with women and
Hispanics by maximizing the white working-class male vote.  This means emitting a series of “dog whistles” -- carefully
coded messages heard only by anxious white voters inclined to
think President  Barack Obama  is too easy on minorities.  Neither Romney nor his running mate, Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , went heavy on dog whistles in their speeches
this week. The  Republican National Convention  was devoted to
softening Romney’s image and too much racial subtext would have
gone over badly.  But both men did assert that Obama was raiding Medicare to
pay for Obamacare, a coded way of telling senior citizens that
the president was taking their benefits and giving them to poor
(read black) uninsured people.  This is entirely untrue. Obama’s plan doesn’t cut any basic
Medicare benefits and, in fact, reduces prescription-drug costs
for senior citizens.  Welfare Myth  Meanwhile, a welfare dog whistle continues to account for
half of Romney’s paid advertising against Obama. A Romney ad in
heavy rotation says that under a recent welfare-policy change
“they just send you your welfare check.” That’s false, but it
successfully conjures  unemployed  people sitting on the couch
mooching off the middle class.  Contrary to the claims of some Democrats, there was no
explicit racist tone at the convention in Tampa,  Florida . When a
black CNN camerawoman was pelted with nuts by two white
convention goers who said, “this is how we feed the animals,” it
was an isolated incident. Green, not black, is the color that
most interested the well-heeled delegates.  Even so, I was troubled to find delegates -- including one
with close ties to Romney -- who actually believe that Obama
should disclose his Occidental College transcript to prove that
he deserved to be admitted to  Columbia University  as a transfer
student in 1981. This was a sign that even as the so-called
birthers have been relegated to the fringe, many Republicans
still disrespect Obama in ways that they might not if he were
white. Dare I say the same might go for  Clint Eastwood ?  In employing dog whistles, the Romney campaign is tapping
into racial themes that Republicans have used going back to
1968, when  Richard Nixon  inaugurated his infamous “Southern
strategy.”  After the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 as well as race riots in 1967 and 1968, Nixon, who
viewed politics as “the mobilization of resentments,” used a
law-and-order theme to appeal directly to white anxieties over
school busing and other extensions of the civil-rights movement.  Embraced by a generation of Republican candidates, the
strategy turned the solidly Democratic South solidly Republican.
But it had plenty of appeal in the North, too, especially when
the argument pitted hard-working middle-class whites against
minorities receiving government assistance.  Ronald Reagan ’s code words included “welfare queens” and
strapping “young bucks” on  food stamps .  Newt Gingrich  this year
took to calling Obama “the food-stamp president.”  The presence of a black man in the White House complicates
the introduction of racial themes, which is why Romney didn’t
adopt this strategy until he fell behind over the summer.  Willie Horton  Romney’s communications director,  Eric Fehrnstrom , told me
in Tampa that there was no racial component to the campaign,
“nothing like the furlough ads.” This was a reference to the
infamous “Willie Horton” ads made on behalf of  George H.W.
Bush  against Massachusetts Governor  Michael Dukakis  in 1988. The
ads used scary images of a black inmate released under a
Massachusetts furlough program who went on to kill a woman.  Fehrnstrom was arguing that anything short of explicit
racial imagery was in bounds, even if untrue. “We’re not going
to let our campaign be dictated by fact-checkers,”  Neil Newhouse , Romney’s pollster, said after both the Medicare and
welfare attacks were exposed as false.  A century ago, a black boxer named Jack Johnson was
heavyweight champion of the world. As chronicled in the play and
movie, “The Great White Hope” (and in the book “Unforgivable
Blackness,” by Geoffrey C. Ward), the white world was determined
to dethrone Johnson by any means necessary.  Obama doesn’t have character weaknesses that can be
exploited. He makes a small target, which is frustrating for
Republicans. His failures on the economy might not be enough to
get Romney over the finish line. So after the glow of their
convention wears off, Republicans will probably be back on the
same low road they have traveled in the past.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  U.S. should back
Egypt’s peace plan  for Syria; Stephen L. Carter on why he is
 still an NFL fan ; William Pesek on  China’s slowing economy ;
 Amity Shlaes  on how Romney can cut the  mortgage-interest
deduction ; Naomi Schaefer Riley on why  summer college tours are
a waste of time .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 