-- Samsung Adds Google App Store in TVs to Replicate Linkup
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-08-31T15:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/samsung-adds-google-app-store-in-tvs-to-replicate-linkup.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the largest
maker of televisions, will combine  Google Inc. (GOOG)  services with its
Internet-connected TVs, overcoming previous differences over how
to replicate their partnership in smartphones.  In the U.K., Samsung plans to offer TVs with the Google
Chrome browser and Android application store before the end of
the year, said Hyun-suk Kim, head of Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung’s TV business. While Google wanted to make its Android
system available for TVs, Samsung has worked to establish its
own TV platform, he said.  “If Google will create then we have to work with them
because they could be dominant,” Kim said in an interview in
Berlin today. “Google TV has been out there for two years but
still we did not find the right experience with them yet.”  Samsung, which became the world’s top smartphone
manufacturer after adopting the Android operating system, is
wagering that mobile-phone users who are hooked to consuming
content on their devices will want the same level of access at
home -- and on bigger screens. The company is expanding the
range of smart TVs as it bids to take its global market share
beyond 30 percent.  Last quarter, Samsung accounted for 19.2 percent of all
flat-panel TVs sold, according to market researcher IHS. That’s
about 9.4 million units, based on global shipments of 48.9
million TVs.  Patent Disputes  So far, Google TV set-top boxes and high definition TVs,
produced in partnership with  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,
have received lackluster reviews and an even cooler reception
from customers.  “We are working with them very closely,” Kim said of
Google at the annual IFA consumer-electronics fair, where it
also unveiled Android smartphones amid a string of patent
disputes with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  “If we can find the killer experience,
we will openly say we will be working with them.”  A Google official today referred to a blogpost by Suveer
Kothari, who heads Google TV global distribution, which said the
companies “will be expanding the premium content and services
available through Samsung Apps” as part of the agreement.  The partnership will pitch Samsung and  Mountain View ,
California-based Google against Apple in a new industry. Apple
is in talks with at least one of the largest U.S. cable
companies to carry live television and other content, a person
with knowledge of the plans said this month.  Separate Teams  Google rose 1 percent to $688.18 at 11:14 a.m. in  New York .
Apple added 0.5 percent to $667.39. Samsung closed 1.5 percent
higher at 1.233 million won in  Seoul .  LG, the second-largest TV manufacturer, which began selling
Google TV in the U.S. in July, is selling 5,00O units per month,
said Kwan Sup Lee, a vice president of the company.  “We take the lead in partnership with Google,” he said in
an interview today. Samsung’s own TV platform is currently
“very closed,” he said, adding that “they prefer a strategy
where they lead rather than cooperate with others.”  Samsung, which has kept its TV engineers and its smartphone
team separate, sees television app stores to be less relevant
for consumers than with smartphones, Kim said. While the company
benefits from its size when striking content deals, it has just
20 local applications for TVs in the U.K.  “Samsung has the scale that’s unparalleled,” said Andrew
Ladbrook, an analyst at Informa in  London . “They pushed smart
TV before anyone else did. They’re winning a lot of that premium
TV segment which is where you make all your margin.”  The company is also working on a video-on-demand offer that
brings different video streaming services such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ,
Hulu LLC, and Amazon.com Inc. onto the Samsung platform, the
executive said.  “It’ll be a single idea with a single account,” Kim said.
“If we can combine the services, they will have to join.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Berlin at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  