-- SEC Seeks Sanctions Against Ex-Stanford Brokerage Execs
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-08-31T22:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/sec-seeks-sanctions-against-ex-stanford-brokerage-execs.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission accused four former executives of R. Allen Stanford’s
Houston-based brokerage of facilitating the sale of bogus
investments that fueled a $7 billion  Ponzi scheme .  Top officials at the Stanford Financial Group Co. unit
willfully aided and abetted the fraud, which unraveled in
February 2009, the SEC said today in an administrative order.
The agency named Jay Comeaux, the brokerage’s president from
1996 to 2005, his successor Daniel Bogar, private client group
head Jason Green and Bernerd Young, a former regulator who
became chief compliance officer.  Comeaux settled the claims without admitting or denying the
allegations and agreed to be barred from associating with a
broker or investment adviser. An administrative law judge will
determine any financial penalties. Bogar, Green and Young are
fighting the SEC’s claims.  Stanford, 62, was found guilty in March of using the
brokerage to sell fraudulent certificates of deposit issued by
his Antigua-based bank over the course of 20 years. He is
serving a 110-year prison sentence for the fraud, which drew on
more than 20,000 investors worldwide. Stanford’s former
accountants and other executives also face criminal and civil
claims.  The SEC has been reviewing the brokerage’s role for more
than two years amid criticism from investors and lawmakers who
said regulators should’ve caught the fraud sooner. The SEC’s
internal watchdog faulted the agency in a report, saying no
meaningful probe of Stanford’s businesses was conducted until
2005, even though examiners suspected fraud eight years earlier.  Fighting Claims  J. Randall Henderson, an attorney for Young, said yesterday
his client will fight the claims “with whatever possible in
terms of resources and energy.”  John Kincade, an attorney for Green, said in an e-mail that
his client had no knowledge of Stanford’s fraud. “We look
forward to the opportunity to clear Mr. Green’s name, and we are
confident we will succeed.”  Phone calls to attorneys for Comeaux and Bogar weren’t
immediately returned.  Bogar, Young and Green took several trips to Antigua to
investigate and perform due diligence on Stanford’s bank, and
they knew that the bank refused to allow the brokerage to review
and confirm its investment portfolio, including historical
performance and claims that it was focused on highly liquid
investments, the SEC said.  False Claims  They then armed brokers with offering documents making
claims they knew to be false, including that depositors were
protected by a comprehensive insurance program. In 2007 and
2008, the brokerage sold more than $2 billion of the CDs, the
SEC said.  “They mischaracterized Stanford’s CD program as safe and
secure when in fact it was a secret trading program known only
to a select few individuals,” Kevin Edmundson, an assistant
director of enforcement in the SEC’s regional office in  Fort
Worth ,  Texas , said in an interview. “U.S. investors deserved to
know that the CD program was a black box.”  The brokerage, which derived more than half of its revenue
from the CDs, also gave employees financial incentives to sell
the fraudulent products, according to the order. Advisers got 1
percent upon the sale, a trailing commission of 1 percent for
each year of the CD’s term and additional quarterly bonuses
based on total volume of CDs sold. By February 2008, an outside
consultant advised the executives that the compensation was
above the market rate and resulted in a distorted focus on the
sale of Stanford CDs, the SEC said.  Conflicts of Interest  Bogar and Young also knew or were reckless in not knowing
that the brokerage failed to disclose certain conflicts of
interest, according to the SEC. The conflicts included the
brokerage earning revenue from Stanford’s bank by managing its
private equity investments and producing research reports on its
 asset allocation  at the same time it was selling the CDs,
according to the order.  Young became the top compliance official at Stanford’s
brokerage in 2006 after having worked for nearly two decades at
the National Association of Securities Dealers, which became the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in 2007. He headed
NASD’s Dallas office from 1999 to 2003, the brokerage-industry
self-regulator said in a 2009 report. Young now works at
Magnolia, Texas-based MGL Consulting LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  