-- SEC Says It Will Appeal Ruling on Stanford Victim Payouts
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-31T21:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/sec-says-it-will-appeal-ruling-on-stanford-victim-payouts.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said it will appeal a federal judge’s ruling that
blocked it from ordering the Securities Investor Protection
Corp. to compensate victims of R. Allen Stanford’s $7 billion
fraud.  The SEC, in a filing today in federal court in  Washington ,
said it will ask the  U.S. Court of Appeals  to decide whether
SIPC, an industry fund that covers losses from brokerage firm
failures, bears responsibility for the 7,000 clients who
invested in Stanford’s  Ponzi scheme .  U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins on July 3 said the SEC
failed to show that those victims met the definition of
“customer” under the Securities Investor Protection Act, which
set up the nonprofit fund run by the brokerage industry. He
declined to order a liquidation proceeding in federal court in
 Texas , where the unwinding of Stanford’s firm is taking place.  “We’re certainly going to defend ourselves and the judge’s
opinion,”  Stephen Harbeck , the fund’s president, said in a
phone interview. “The decision below will be affirmed, but it
will take some time.”  A federal jury in Houston convicted Stanford on March 8 on
13 of 14 charges brought in connection with his Ponzi scheme,
including four counts of  wire fraud  and five of mail fraud. He
was sentenced on June 14 to 110 years in prison.  SIPC Balks  The SEC told SIPC in June 2011 to start a process that
could grant as much as $500,000 for each Stanford client -- the
same maximum amount it offers in other cases. After SIPC balked,
the SEC sued the congressionally chartered group for the first
time.  SIPC argued in court that there was no basis for requiring
it to guarantee investments at an entity that isn’t a member,
such as Antigua-based Stanford International Bank. The
organization also said it doesn’t guarantee an investment’s
value, protect against fraud or cover investments with offshore
banks.  SIPC covers the damages of individual investors who lose
money or securities held by insolvent or failing member
brokerage firms. It agreed to pay victims of  Bernard Madoff ’s
multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme and investors who may have lost
money in the October collapse of commodities broker  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)   Stanford Losses  Harbeck said SIPC didn’t get involved in the Stanford
losses because investors received actual certificates of deposit
after the brokerage passed their money to a bank. What happened
after that isn’t under SIPC’s purview because the Stanford
account holders have possession of their securities, he said.  The Securities Investor Protection Act “does not even
permit, much less require, the initiation of a liquidation for
purchasers of the offshore bank certificates of deposit at issue
here,” SIPC said in a court filing.  The SEC decided that there was no true separation between
Stanford’s bank and the brokerage firm. Customers who made
investments with the bank were effectively depositing money with
the brokerage and should get SIPC coverage, the SEC said in
court filings.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Securities Investor Protection Corp., 11-mc-00678, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  