-- Sharp Cut to Junk by S&P as Foxconn’s Gou Ends Visit
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-08-31T12:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/sharp-falls-as-foxconn-says-companies-renegotiating-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ’s  credit rating  was cut
to speculative grade by  Standard & Poor’s  as Foxconn Technology
Group said it was still renegotiating a planned investment. The
stock fell 13 percent, and Sharp found a defect in some
smartphone displays.  Standard & Poor’s lowered its long-term rating on the
Osaka-based electronics maker by two levels to BB+, the highest
non-investment grade, saying it suffers from weak  cash flow  and
deteriorating market conditions. Sharp, which has the biggest
percentage decline on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  this year, was
kept on a negative ratings watch.  Terry Gou, the billionaire founder of Taipei-based Foxconn,
left Japan this week without announcing the conclusion of a deal
to invest in Sharp. The two companies are renegotiating an
investment agreement reached in March after Sharp widened its
full-year loss forecast eightfold, causing its share price to
slump.  “Terms and conditions of the deal remain uncertain,” S&P
said in a statement today. The ratings company will continue to
monitor the Foxconn alliance talks and may downgrade Sharp
further if its prospects for recovery or its “relationships
with credit banks and strategic partners worsen,” it said.  Panel Defect  Sharp’s September 2013 convertible bonds dropped 6.3
percent to 74.50 yen per face value of 100 yen, the biggest
daily decline since Aug. 8. Today’s stock-price  plunge  of 13
percent to 198 yen is the biggest since Aug. 3 and extends
Sharp’s  slump  this year to 71 percent.  The company found a defect during a “dropping test” for
display panels made in Kameyama,  Japan , for an unspecified
client, Tetsuo Onishi, the senior executive managing officer in
charge of accounting, told reporters in Osaka today. Sharp is
trying to avoid delaying a client’s product launch, he said.  “It’s a minor problem that we need to clear, we want to
aim for perfection,” Onishi said. “We don’t want people to
think products made at our Kameyama plant are garbage.”  Sharp has delayed mass  production  of screens for the new
iPhone because of manufacturing problems, the Wall Street
Journal reported earlier today, citing people familiar with the
matter. The company had planned to start shipping them by today,
the report said.  Further Downgrade  Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for Sharp, declined to
comment on whether the company makes displays for iPhones.
Apple’s Japan office declined to comment, according to a
spokesman who wouldn’t be named, citing company policy.  Standard & Poor’s also cut Sharp’s short-term rating to
“B,” the highest non-investment grade, and said that may be
cut further.  Foxconn, the assembler of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and iPads,
doesn’t expect to announce a deal with Sharp today, Simon Hsing,
a spokesman for the Taipei-based company, said by phone. The
Taiwanese company said earlier this month it hoped to finalize
terms of the transaction by today.  “It’s not that we didn’t make any progress” in talks with
Foxconn this week, Onishi said. The company wants to complete
the deal “ASAP,” he said.  Foxconn’s Gou didn’t appear at a scheduled press conference
in Sakai, Japan yesterday and left the country without making
any public statement.  Gou’s Silence  “It gave the impression that talks may have gotten
complicated when Gou didn’t show up at the scheduled press
conference,” said  Nobuo Kurahashi , an analyst at  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in  Tokyo . “There have been many reports
saying a final agreement is close, raising expectations.”  Sharp President Takashi Okuda met with other Foxconn
executives in Osaka yesterday to discuss alliance terms, Hiroshi Takenami, a spokesman for the Japanese company, said yesterday.
The two companies are still in talks to renegotiate the March
investment agreement, Foxconn Vice President Tai Jeng-wu said
yesterday in Sakai. The talks haven’t reached a final stage, he
said.  Foxconn, through its two Taipei-listed units,  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the world’s largest contract
manufacturer of electronics, and Foxconn Technology Co., a maker
of computer cases, agreed in March to buy 9.9 percent of Japan’s
biggest liquid-crystal display maker for 67 billion yen ($853
million) in a sale of new shares.  Raising Cash  Gou’s group agreed in March to invest 133 billion yen in
Sharp and an affiliated display-making plant. Gou has already
invested his own money in Sakai Display Products Corp. to
jointly run the unit with Sharp and has said he expects to list
its shares in  Taiwan  in 2014.  Foxconn “can’t fail” in the renegotiation of its proposed
investment in Sharp, Tai said yesterday at a briefing in Sakai.
“But we will not rush into any decisions.”  Sharp is seeking to raise  cash  and cut costs as it faces a
total 706 billion yen in bonds, commercial paper and borrowings
maturing within one year. The company will cut 5,000 jobs, its
first  workforce reduction  since 1950, as part of plans to reduce
fixed costs by 100 billion yen, it said earlier this month.  Foxconn plans to proceed with its investment in Sharp “at
the most appropriate time and most appropriate price” because
it’s looking at the long-term prospects, Gou said Aug. 5.  Gou left Japan, said Taiwan’s former Vice President Vincent Siew, who was traveling with Gou as part of a business
delegation.  “There is speculation and concern over whether Sharp will
really get the  capital ,” Mizuho’s Kurahashi said. “The shares
probably won’t rebound for any reason other than a formal
announcement by the companies that their capital tie-up is going
through.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in  Osaka  at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  