-- Skadden, Latham, Sullivan & Cromwell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/skadden-latham-sullivan-cromwell-business-of-law.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s former top U.K. lawyer,
who clashed with  James Murdoch  over what he knew about phone-
hacking at the News of the World tabloid, was arrested in the
probe, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Tom Crone was detained at his home and is being interviewed
by the  Metropolitan Police Service , said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the matter isn’t public. The Met
didn’t identify Crone in a statement yesterday about the arrest
of a 60-year-old man in the investigation.  Crone emerged as a key figure in the scandal last year when
he and  Colin Myler , a former editor at the newspaper,
contradicted testimony by Murdoch, News Corp.’s deputy chief
operating officer, to Parliament regarding when he found out
that phone hacking at the News of the World went beyond one
reporter jailed for the practice in 2007.  Crone also clashed with News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
after the men were called to testify at a parliamentary
committee and a separate judge-led inquiry into media ethics.
Crone said in April that the elder Murdoch told a “shameful
lie” to the inquiry when he said the lawyer was involved in a
cover-up of phone hacking.  The investigation into the widespread interception of
mobile-phone voice mail by journalists is running parallel to
probes into computer hacking at News Corp.’s Times newspaper and
bribery of public officials by its Sun tabloid, the country’s
best-selling daily title.  Crone’s lawyer, Henri Brandman, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment. A receptionist said Brandman was at a police
interview and didn’t name the lawyer’s client.  Crone was the News of the World’s attorney until it was
closed in July 2011 in response to the scandal. More than 60
arrests have resulted from the three probes that police began
after new evidence was uncovered in civil lawsuits by victims.
Investigations in 2006 and 2009 failed to reveal the extent of
the illegal practice.  For more, click here.  Dewey Seeks to Approve $71 Million Partner Settlement  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the defunct law firm, filed papers
Aug. 29 for bankruptcy court approval of settlements with about
400 partners designed to bring in $71 million. The settlements
represent about 80 percent of the $89 million the firm was
seeking to recover from all former partners.  The undisclosed settlement amount for each partner was a
function of that partner’s income in 2011 and 2012, unreimbursed
tax advances, and unpaid capital. Members of the executive
committee and the most highly compensated partners pay more.  The top three managers at the firm aren’t in the
settlement. They are  Steven Davis , the former chairman; Stephen
DiCarmine, the former  executive director , and Joel Sanders, the
former chief financial officer.  The so-called unfinished business claims against partners
who generated the most business aren’t settled.  Injunctions and releases are a key component of the plan.
The partners insisted they not be exposed to suit for claims the
firm has or might be able to bring. Even if the bankruptcy court
approves the settlement at a Sept. 20 hearing, the settlements
won’t become effective until the firm wins approval of a Chapter
11 plan at a confirmation hearing.  Dewey says the settlement will bring in a larger net
recovery than years of lawsuits. The firm said the Chapter 11
plan will be filed within a month “or so.”  Dewey once had 1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under
Chapter 11 in May. There was secured debt of about $225 million
and accounts receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of
bankruptcy, the firm said. The petition listed assets of $193
million and liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan)  For more, click here.  Delaware Judges Can’t Hold Secret Arbitrations, Court Rules  Delaware Chancery Court judges sitting as arbitrators must
hold public hearings and can’t exclude the public and news
media, a federal judge decided.  The decision, by U.S. District Judge Mary A. McLaughlin in
Philadelphia, came in a case brought last year by the Delaware
Coalition for Open Government against chief Delaware Chancery
Court Judge Leo Strine and his four associates over a new
practice of designating a judge as an arbitrator before closing
the courtroom.  “An arbitrator and a judge perform very different
functions,” McLaughlin decided in a 26-page opinion yesterday.
“The First Amendment protects a qualified right of access to
criminal and civil trials.”  David Finger, the attorney who filed the case, said the
ruling will strengthen the courts and improve the economy of
private arbitration using lawyers and retired judges who are
experts in Delaware law.  “I always thought this was a no-brainer,” he said.  The state of Delaware plans to appeal the decision,
according to a statement. Delaware was named as a defendant in
the lawsuit because the legislature passed a law in 2009
allowing the confidential arbitration process.  “In an increasingly competitive global marketplace, the
United States cannot afford to be at a competitive disadvantage
in providing efficient ways for businesses to resolve their
disputes,” Delaware said in a statement issued by Larry
Hamermesh. Hamermesh, a law professor at Widener University
represented Strine and the other Delaware judges in the case.  The case is Delaware Coalition for Open Government Inc. v.
Strine, 11-cv-1015, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Deals  Carlyle Group to Buy DuPont’s Auto-Paint Unit for $4.9 Billion  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-largest private equity
firm, agreed to acquire DuPont Co.’s auto-paint unit for $4.9
billion, giving it control of the second-biggest maker of
coatings for cars and trucks.  Latham & Watkins LLP advised Carlyle Group while Skadden
Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP represented DuPont.  Latham’s corporate team was led by partners Daniel Lennon
and David Dantzic, and its financing team was led by partners
Patrick Shannon, Jason Licht and Jennifer Van Driesen. Both the
corporate and financing teams are based in the firm’s Washington
office. New York partner David Raab advised on tax.  Leading this matter for Skadden are New York mergers and
acquisition partners Brandon Van Dyke, Thomas Greenberg and Lou Kling.  The deal will be completed in the first quarter of 2013,
subject to regulatory approvals, DuPont and Washington-based
Carlyle said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The sale marks DuPont’s exit from the auto-paints market,
which it has served since the advent of the automobile. U.S.
auto output is still less than its pre-recession peak while the
price of titanium dioxide, a raw material used in paint, has
surged.  DuPont Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman 
is focusing on other industries such as food and biofuels.
DuPont hired Credit Suisse Group AG in October to seek buyers
for the unit, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  For more, click here.  Scotiabank Agrees to Buy ING Unit for C$3.13 Billion  Bank of Nova Scotia  announced the biggest takeover in its
history by agreeing to buy ING Bank of Canada from  ING Groep NV (INGA) 
for C$3.13 billion ($3.16 billion) in a bid to expand its
deposits.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Norton Rose Canada LLP
represented ING Groep. Torys LLP is representing Scotiabank.  S&C’s team is led by partner Mark Menting. The team also
includes mergers and acquisitions partner Brian Hamilton,
intellectual property partner Nader Mousavi, tax partner Ronald Creamer and executive compensation partner Matthew Friestedt.  The Norton Rose team is led by partners Peter Wiazowski and
Andrew Fleming and also includes the following partners: Marc
Duquette, mergers and acquisitions; Derek Chiasson, tax; Anne
Gallop and Martin Rochette, executive compensation and benefits;
Ruth Wahl, governance; and Kevin Ackhurst, competition.  Torys’s team includes partners Michael Siltala, Cornell
Wright and Stefan Stauder, corporate; Corrado Cardarelli and
Andrew Wong, tax; Conor McCourt and Edward Fan, intellectual
property; Jay Holsten and Omar Wakil, competition;  Andrew Gray ,
litigation; Mitch Frazer, employment; Blair Keefe, banking; and
Christine Vogelesang, regulatory.  Scotiabank, Canada’s third-largest lender, will spend C$1.9
billion after deducting excess capital at ING Direct in the cash
deal, the Toronto-based bank said in a statement. Scotiabank
will sell 29 million shares at C$52 each for proceeds of C$1.51
billion to fund the takeover.  The takeover is the biggest bank deal in Canada since
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  bought Canada Trust for C$8 billion in
1999, Bloomberg data show.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  acquired National
Trustco Inc. in 1997 for C$1.21 billion, and Toronto-Dominion
bought 57 branches from  Laurentian Bank of Canada (LB)  in 2003 for
C$112.5 million.  For more, click here.  Fees  Madoff Judge Approves Trustee Firm Fees of $59.3 Million  The trustee and law firm liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s
brokerage were awarded $59.3 million in fees by the US.
bankruptcy judge handling the con man’s case, according to a
federal court filing yesterday in Manhattan.  The award brings the total for trustee Irving Picard’s law
firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP, to around $330 million since
Madoff’s 2008 arrest, or about the same amount Picard has paid
investors from a customer fund.  Baker & Hostetler billed for $43.3 million in fees for work
from Oct. 1 to Jan. 31, also requesting $16 million previously
held back. Such so-called holdbacks of a portion of fees are
customary in bankruptcy court.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  this month approved
Picard’s request to make a second customer payment that may
reach $2.4 billion, or seven times as much as investors in
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme have received so far.  The Madoff brokerage liquidation case is Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Moves  McDermott Adds to Energy Regulatory and Commodities Practice  McDermott Will & Emery LLP hired Robert M. Lamkin as a
partner in its energy advisory practice group in Washington.
Lamkin, previously a shareholder at Greenberg Traurig LLP,
focuses on the electric power sector.  He advises energy-trading firms, power generators,
renewables project developers and other energy industry
participants. He has represented clients in wholesale and retail
energy trading matters, including negotiation of energy trading
documentation, physical and financial trade documentation, power
purchase agreements and renewable energy credit agreements, the
firm said.  McDermott has more than 1,000 lawyers, with 17 offices in
the U.S., Europe and a strategic alliance with MWE China Law
Offices in Shanghai.  Litigation  Macy’s Judge Says He Will Deny Bid on Martha Stewart Accord  A bid by  Macy’s Inc. (M)  to stop  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  from selling
products designed by  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  will
be denied, a New York judge said after a hearing.  Justice Jeffrey K. Oing in Manhattan yesterday said he will
rule against Macy’s request for a preliminary injunction
blocking Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney from taking any steps
under an agreement reached with New York-based Martha Stewart
Living last year.  Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain,
sued Martha Stewart Living in January to stop it from executing
a sales agreement with J.C. Penney announced in December, with
Macy’s claiming an exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart
products in certain categories including bedding and cookware.  Oing said he would deny the request for a preliminary
injunction against J.C. Penney because Macy’s hadn’t proven that
it was likely to succeed on its claims of tortious interference
and unfair competition.  Martha Stewart Living last month said J.C. Penney agreed to
pay at least $282.9 million in sales commission over a 10-year
period under an amended agreement, a $110.5 million increase
from the terms disclosed in December. The amended accord also
adds new products.  Theodore Grossman, an attorney with  Jones Day  who is
representing Macy’s, argued that the retailer will suffer
irreparable harm if J.C. Penney is allowed to continue working
under the contract with Martha Stewart Living.  “Macy’s made a huge investment and took a huge risk in
investing in Martha Stewart when it did,” Grossman said.  J.C. Penney will abide by the preliminary injunction issued
last month and won’t sell Martha Stewart-branded products in the
exclusive product categories, said Mark Epstein, a lawyer for
the Texas retailer with Munger Tolles & Olson LLP.  “We’re not going to take a design from Macy’s, sand off
the mark and knock it off,” Epstein said.  The case is Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp., 652861/2012,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan). The old case is Macy’s
Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, New
York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 