-- Slovenia’s Economy Shrank in Second Quarter as Exports Eased
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-08-31T08:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/slovenia-s-economy-shrank-in-second-quarter-as-exports-eased.html
Slovenia’s  economy  shrank more than
analysts expected in the second quarter as exports to  Europe 
slowed and investments and consumption faltered after the
government’s austerity measures.  Gross domestic product contracted 3.2 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a 0.2 percent drop in the first three
months, the  statistics office  in Ljubljana said on its website.
A survey of six economists forecast a 1.2 percent drop.  “The result in the first quarter was clearly a positive
surprise that will not be repeated in the second quarter,”
Wolfgang Ernst, an analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) 
in Vienna said before the report. “Given weak retail sales
data, especially in May and June, and ongoing weak industrial
production, I would expect GDP to fall up to 2 percent.”  Economists from London to Warsaw have said Slovenia is on
course to seek international assistance as the economy is on the
verge of entering its second recession in three years and its
lenders rely on the European Central Bank loans for liquidity.
Slovenia’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service,
 Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  in early August because of
domestic banks’ need for fresh capital. All three rating
companies keep a negative outlook on the sovereign.  Yields Climb  Slovenia’s borrowing costs surged above 7 percent earlier
this month, a threshold that forced Ireland and Portugal to ask
for an international bailout.  “Government bond yields have been over 7 percent for much
of the past few weeks, but for now the government appears to be
OK with these borrowing costs,”  William Jackson , an emerging-
markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said
yesterday. “For the government to seek help, it would probably
require a fresh flare-up in tensions in the  euro zone , causing
local bond yields to spike and making borrowing prohibitively
costly.”  The government of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa , which came to
power in February after early elections, has denied it will seek
assistance from the European Union to prop up its banking
industry. The administration is also pushing to implement
spending cuts and tax increases to gain investor confidence as
the debt crisis that started more than two years ago in Greece
continues to roil markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  