-- Slowing Canada Economy May Cut Flaherty’s Fiscal Cushion
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-08-31T15:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/slowing-canada-economy-may-cut-flaherty-s-fiscal-cushion.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  says he may be losing the cushion he built into his
fiscal plan as the world’s 11th-largest economy slows.  Flaherty’s said today he may need to revise his deficit
targets amid risks to the global recovery, even as the latest
data suggest the government is on track.  “The current global economic environment means there is
downward risk to the fiscal track presented in budget 2012,”
Flaherty told reporters today in Toronto, saying the  European
debt crisis  is the key risk to Canada’s economy, which is also
being affected by sluggish U.S. growth.  Statistics Canada  today released second-quarter gross
domestic product figures today that show the country’s economy
stalled at a 1.8 percent annual rate.  The weak growth, coming after negative economic reports
that brought the Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for Canada to
its lowest since 2009, may crimp government revenue and
undermine Flaherty’s ability to come in below his target for a
C$21.1 billion deficit this fiscal year.  “It’s unlikely they are going to outperform in a big
way,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto. “As recently as three or four months ago it
did look like as if there was a big possibility” that Canada
would “seriously” beat this year’s deficit target, he said.  Fiscal Plan  Flaherty’s March 29 fiscal plan, which forecast surpluses
beginning in 2015, projected nominal GDP growth of 4.6 percent
this year. Nominal GDP is a better predictor of the tax base and
revenue because it includes changes in prices. The budget built
in a C$3 billion cushion for revenue by assuming output would be
about C$20 billion below the consensus of private-sector
forecasts.  That assumption now seems to be closer to reality than the
initial growth projections, economists say. Adding a cushion to
the budget “was clearly the right approach,” Flaherty said
today.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  deputy chief economist Derek Burleton
said he’s forecasting about 3.5 percent growth in nominal GDP
this year, while Royal Bank of Canada projects about 3.4 percent
this year and  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s outlook is 3.7 percent. Nominal
GDP in the quarter was 3.5 percent higher than a year earlier,
Statistics Canada said today, with the growth rate slowing to an
annualized 0.5 percent pace in the April-June period.  Nominal Growth  The country’s economy in nominal terms grew by 5.9 percent
in 2011, and the decline this year reflects in part falling
prices for the country’s commodities. The Bank of Canada
Commodity Average  Price Index  has  averaged  638.18 this year, 5.1
percent lower than the 2011 average.  Flaherty today said his government would be prepared to
take additional stimulus measures if there is another major
economic crisis.  “What has been done before can be done again,” Flaherty
said.  On the positive side for the government’s balance sheet,
borrowing costs are below those forecast in the budget, helping
offset the impact of any slowdown in revenue. Ten-year
government bond yields have  averaged  1.9 percent this year,
compared with budget forecasts for an average 2.2 percent in
2012. A one percentage-point increase in borrowing costs would
raise debt charges by about C$1.7 billion and raise the deficit
by C$600 million, the 2012 budget  estimated .  Tax Receipts  Monthly budget data has also been showing buoyant revenue
growth, at least so far this fiscal year. Federal government
receipts in the first three months of the year that began in
April are up 4.7 percent, led by higher employment insurance
premiums and corporate income taxes.  Canada ’s federal deficit in the first three months of the
fiscal year that began in April fell 53 percent to C$1.98
billion ($2.01 billion), the finance department said in a
document published today.  “It’s not clear at this stage how they all net out,’
Burleton said in a telephone interview. ‘‘Clearly from an
economic perspective, we are looking at a weaker performance
compared to what we had expected earlier this year.”  Flaherty is due to update his fiscal projections over the
next months in his traditional fall economic update.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  