-- Solars Lead Weekly ADR Slump Before PMI Report: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-08-31T20:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/solars-lead-weekly-adr-slump-before-pmi-report-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities traded in New York
fell, sending the benchmark index to the biggest five-day loss
in six weeks as economists expected the government to report
industrial output growth slowed for a fourth month in August.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. declined 0.2 percent to 87.95 in
New York. The gauge retreated 2 percent this week, paring its
monthly gain to 1.4 percent, the most since February.  Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  and  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  tumbled
for the week after cutting shipment forecasts for 2012.  China
Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH)  posted a weekly drop after the carrier
said first-half profit sank 85 percent.  An official Purchasing Managers’ Index, due today at 9:00
a.m. from the statistics bureau, may fall to 50 from 50.1 in
July, according to the median estimate of 25 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Fifty marks the dividing line between expansion
and contraction. Forty-nine companies in the Bloomberg gauge
releasing  earnings  since mid-July have  missed  analysts’
estimates by an average 8.8 percent, compared with 3 percent
above projections a year ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Equity investors are waiting to see that the Chinese
government is doing something to support the economy,” Charlie Awdry, a portfolio manager at Henderson Global Investor’s $800
million  China Opportunities Fund (GAHKCHA) , said by phone yesterday from
London. “The cycle of the economy is bouncing somewhere near
the bottom. Managements at Chinese manufacturing and industrial
companies are saying generally it’s pretty tough.”  China ETF Rises  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.4 percent yesterday
to $33.07, trimming its loss this week to 2.8 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of the biggest U.S. shares added 0.5
percent to 1,406.58, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said he wouldn’t rule out more steps to lower a jobless rate he
described as a “grave concern.”  Yingli, the world’s sixth-largest silicon-based solar
module maker, and Suntech, the world’s largest, declined 12
percent. Prices for solar panels fell 36 percent industrywide in
the past year as demand slowed, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China Southern lost 7.1 percent this week, its worst loss
since June 15. The Guangzhou-based airline’s net income fell 85
percent to 424 million  yuan  ($67 million) under international
accounting standards because of an economic slowdown sapping
 travel demand  and higher fuel costs.  Manufacturing  A preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’ index
released Aug. 23 by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
suggests China’s August manufacturing may be contracting for a
10th month. Chinese Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
Aug. 22 that adjustments to interest rates and lenders’ reserve
requirements are still possible.  Fed Chairman Bernanke, in a speech in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming
said more bond purchases are an option as the central banker
considers further steps to stimulate growth and address U.S.
unemployment of more 8 percent.  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) , China’s third-biggest online games
operator, jumped 6.9 percent to $3.89 to extend its weekly gain
to 17 percent, its best since going public in New York in
September 2009. Shanda Games replaced its chairman and chief
executive on Aug 26 as Qunzhao Tan resigned. The position of CEO
was filled by Chief Operating Officer Xiangdong Zhang.  “Investors appear to like the management changes, and
think that this may even be an opportunity for the company to be
taken private,” Atul Bagga of Lazard Capital Markets said in a
phone interview from San Francisco. Shanda Games dropped 15
percent this year through Aug. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  