-- Solyndra Seeks More Time to Negotiate Reorganization Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-08-31T20:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/solyndra-seeks-more-time-to-negotiate-reorganization-plan.html
Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker
that received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department loan
guarantee before filing for bankruptcy, asked a judge for more
time to negotiate a reorganization plan with creditors.  Nearing the first anniversary of its Chapter 11 filing,
Fremont, California-based Solyndra is seeking to extend its
exclusive right to file a plan to Oct. 30, according to court
documents filed today in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The U.S. Energy Department and the  Internal Revenue Service 
have objected to Solyndra’s plan and disclosure statement, a
description of the proposal, demanding more information on the
tax breaks the owners of Solyndra’s parent would get under a
restructuring plan. The U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice
Department  that monitors bankruptcies, also objected to the
plan, echoing the government’s demand for more information.  The company is seeking an extension “out of an abundance
of caution” and is “continuing to consensually resolve pending
objections to the plan,” Solyndra said in its fourth submission
to lengthen the exclusive period, which was set to expire today.
The company retains exclusivity while the request awaits court
approval.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. It was the first company to receive
a loan guarantee under Obama’s stimulus.  Energy Department  The solar-panel maker filed a reorganization plan in July
under which the U.S. might not receive anything for its $528
million claim from an Energy Department loan guarantee. The
government was projected to recoup at most 17 percent on the
$142.8 million portion of the loan and probably nothing on the
$385 million portion.  Under the plan, Argonaut Ventures LLC and Madrone Partners
LP would benefit from net operating losses that allow them to
avoid potentially “hundreds of millions” in future tax
liabilities at a company completely unrelated to Solyndra, the
government said in court papers. The potential tax breaks could
total more than half a billion dollars, according to the Energy
Department’s objection.  Argonaut Ventures, the investment arm of billionaire and
Obama fundraiser George Kaiser’s charitable organization, holds
almost 39 percent of Solyndra’s parent, 360 Degree Solar
Holdings Inc.  Solyndra listed about $854.1 million in assets and about
$867.1 million in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31. It was
raided by the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation two days
after seeking  bankruptcy protection  Sept. 6.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  