-- South African Minister Attacks Apartheid Law Use on Miner
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-08-31T12:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/south-africa-charges-miners-with-murder-after-police-killings.html
South African Justice Minister  Jeff Radebe  has demanded that the  National Prosecuting Authority  give
him the reasons for using an apartheid-era law to charge 270
striking miners with murder for the deaths of 34 fellow workers
shot by police this month.  Police killed the men at  Lonmin Plc (LON) ’s platinum mine in
Marikana, in North West province, on Aug. 16 as they tried to
disperse them following a six-day standoff in which 10 people,
including two officers, were killed. The workers had been
staging an illegal strike to demand higher pay and police say
they were fired upon by the crowd before they shot.  Prosecutors charged the men under the “common purpose”
law for participating in a demonstration that led to the deaths
of others, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported yesterday.
The law was used by the white minority government that ended in
1994 to crack down on anti-apartheid protesters, Pierre de Vos,
a  University of Cape Town  Law Professor, said in a  blog 
published yesterday.  “The NPA’s decision has induced a sense of shock, panic
and confusion within the members of the community and the
general South African public,” Radebe said in an e-mailed
statement today.  In addition to murder, the miners face charges of attempted
murder, public violence, illegal gathering, possession of
dangerous weapons and possession of firearms and ammunition, the
NPA said in an e-mailed statement today.  ‘Sufficient Evidence’  “The prosecution has evidence that it is confident is
sufficient to sustain the charges that have been brought against
the miners,” the NPA said. “Co-perpetrators may be held liable
for the death of members of their own group or of others where
there was sufficient evidence that they foresaw that death may
result as a consequence of their collective action.”  The NPA’s head of North West province, Johan Smit,
personally approved the charges, the authority said.  Toward the end of white minority rule and under increased
internal and external pressure from opponents, the state relied
more on the provisions of the Riotous Assembly Act of 1956 as
well as the common purpose doctrine in an attempt to criminalize
the actions of all people involved in protest action, according
to De Vos. The law was never struck off the statute books after
democracy in 1994, unlike many similar apartheid laws.  The decision to press murder charges “is bizarre and
shocking and represents a flagrant abuse of the criminal justice
system,” De Vos said.  President  Jacob Zuma  has set up a judicial commission of
inquiry to probe the shootings, the deadliest police action
since the end of apartheid.  The Lonmin mine remains closed with talks between
management and workers due to resume next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 sikonathim@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  