-- Korea Industrial Production Slides as Europe Hits Exports
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-08-31T00:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/south-korea-industrial-production-slides-as-europe-hits-exports.html
South Korea ’s industrial production
fell for a second month in July as a global slowdown undermines
growth in Asia’s fourth-largest economy.  Output fell 1.6 percent from June when it dropped 0.6 
percent, Statistics Korea said today. The median estimate of 12
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.9 percent 
decline. Production rose 0.3 percent from a year earlier.  South Korean manufacturers’  confidence  is near the lowest
level since the global financial crisis as European austerity
measures and a slowdown in China limit exports. HSBC Holdings
Plc says the central bank may cut  interest rates  on Sept. 13
after a surprise reduction in July.  “The contraction in export growth will have weighed on the
country’s manufacturing sector, causing a further slowdown in
industrial production,” Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at HSBC said before the release. The economy may “bottom out in
the third quarter,” Man said.  Lee Yong Sup, an opposition Democratic United Party
lawmaker, said this week that his party will drop a push for an
extra budget to spur growth, because it’s now too late in the
year.  Signs that the economy is cooling include an Aug. 29 report
that the current-account surplus climbed to a record in July
because of declining imports. An index measuring manufacturers’
confidence for September was at 75 from 70 the previous month,
the only readings below 80 since 2009.  Posco Challenge  Posco,  Asia ’s third-biggest steelmaker by output, is among
South Korean companies facing weakness in demand.  The second half “will be worse than expected early this
year because of weak demand from construction and
shipbuilders,” Chief Financial Officer Park Ki Hong told
investors in Seoul last month. “Still, our profitability in the
second half will be better than the first half, driven by
falling raw material prices.”  Asia’s fourth-biggest economy grew 2.4 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in almost
three years, according to a preliminary estimate. Imports fell
5.4 percent in July from a year earlier, as exports also
tumbled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  