-- Southern Expects First Nuclear Milestone After NRC Review
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-08-31T18:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/southern-expects-first-nuclear-milestone-after-nrc-review.html
Southern Co. (SO)  expects to pour the
first “nuclear concrete” for its $14 billion atomic
construction project in October, a milestone it can reach only
if federal regulators condense into two months a license
amendment review that normally takes about a year.  Southern, based in Atlanta, Georgia, told the Georgia
Public Service Commission in a report today that it “has a high
degree of confidence” the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
will approve a change the company sought earlier earlier this
year to its construction license at Plant Vogtle, 26 miles (42
kilometers) southeast of Augusta, Georgia.  “We expect to get the full amendment in time to fully
support the pour of the first concrete,” Joseph “Buzz” Miller, Southern’s executive vice president for nuclear
development, said in a phone interview today.  The license amendment, one of almost three dozen sought by
Southern, would resolve a dispute over some of the nearly 450
tons of steel reinforcing bars Southern has laid in the building
that will house the first of two nuclear reactors to be built at
Vogtle.  Earlier generations of nuclear plants received operating
licenses from federal regulators after they were constructed, a
process that sometimes forced plant owners to rip apart
completed structures. To avoid this, the atomic agency issued
Southern a combined construction and operating license Feb. 9,
the first nuclear construction license in more than 30 years.  Southern told  Georgia  regulators that it expects to bring
Vogtle’s twin reactors online in November 2016 and November
2017, about seven months later than originally planned.  Final Schedule  Those dates may shift after Southern receives a final
construction schedule from the contractors managing the project.
The schedule has been held up as Southern and other plant owners
negotiate with Westinghouse Electric Corp. and Shaw Group Inc.
over responsibility for more than $900 million in costs after
the NRC took six months longer than expected to approve the
reactor’s design and issue the license.  Southern and its construction partners are suing each other
over $29 million in disputed landfill costs and Miller said the
larger cost dispute may also land in court if mediation fails.  “Adjudication is not necessarily a negative thing,”
Miller said. “Claims and litigation, certainly for a project of
this magnitude and tight contract, just is not going to be
unusual.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  