-- Spain to Recapitalize Bankia After 4.5 Billion-Euro Loss
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-01T12:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/spain-to-recapitalize-bankia-after-4-45-billion-euro-loss.html
Spain will inject capital into the
 Bankia (BKIA)  group after the nationalized lender posted a 4.45
billion-euro ($5.6 billion) first-half loss.  The nation’s bank rescue fund, known as FROB, will pump
from 4 billion euros to 5 billion euros into Bankia, Spain’s
third-biggest lender, in the next two weeks, said a person
familiar with the situation who asked not to be identified
because those details aren’t public.  The capital is an advance on money Bankia is due to receive
once a reorganization plan is completed in October and approved
by European authorities in November, FROB said in a statement
yesterday. Bankia’s May request for 19 billion euros in state
aid followed a 4.5 billion-euro bailout in 2010 and came two
weeks after Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said 15 billion
euros would be enough for the whole industry.  “The important thing for Bankia is to clean up the balance
sheet because it’s already known that they’re going to have very
big losses this year,” said Carlos Joaquim Peixoto, an  analyst 
at Banco BPI SA in Porto,  Portugal .  The unraveling of Bankia, with an  asset  base almost a third
the size of the country’s economy, focused investors on the
costs of fixing Spanish lenders and helped push the government
to seek as much as 100 billion euros of European bailout funds
in June to shore up the banking system.  Bad Bank  Spain’s cabinet set out a framework for restructuring the
banking industry yesterday, including a bad bank that will take
soured real estate from rescued lenders and seek to sell the
assets over 10 to 15 years. The European  bailout  requires the
government to spell out procedures for dealing with failed
lenders that limit costs to taxpayers.  Spain is tightening bank regulation against a backdrop of
doubts about the nation’s finances that spurred the government
to call on the  European Central Bank  to buy its bonds to rein in
financing costs. Spanish lenders have about 180 billion euros of
troubled real estate assets, according to the Bank of Spain.  The “gigantic” financial reform announced yesterday will
bring benefits to Spain’s economy over the medium long-term and
the process of cleaning up the banking system is on its way to
completion, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said today in a speech
to party members at  Soutomaior Castle  in Galicia.  In its third reform of the financial system this year, the
government also bolstered the powers of FROB to restructure
troubled banks. The fund will be able to take on debt to a limit
of 120 billion euros in 2012, the economy ministry said.  Santander, Sabadell  Spanish banks rose in Madrid trading after de Guindos
announced details of the bad bank.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s
biggest lender, climbed 6 percent and Banco Sabadell SA jumped
10 percent. Bankia rose 6.3 percent. The company released
earnings after the close of trading.  The Bankia group set aside 6.8 billion euros in the first
half to provision for bad loans and real estate, and a further
6.9 billion euros of charges are expected this year, the bank
said. The group lost 12.8 billion euros of deposits in the first
six months of the year, a 10 percent decline, it said.  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending jumped to 11
percent in June from 7.63 percent in December, while customer
funds plunged 37.6 billion euros, or 18 percent, over that
period, the bank said. Lending shrank 2.9 percent from December
and the group’s core capital ratio under Basel II standards, a
measure of financial strength, dropped to 6.3 percent from 8.3
percent, the bank said.  Capital Injection  Olli Rehn, the EU’s economic and monetary affairs
commissioner, said in a statement that  Spain ’s commitment would
pave the way for the capital injection’s approval in November.  “I am very happy with the declarations by the Spanish and
European authorities because they mean a great support for our
project,” Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, Bankia’s chairman, said
in a statement sent by e-mail. “It means a commitment by these
authorities to Bankia’s future.”  The FROB will first pass funds to the Bankia group parent
Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, which will then in turn
recapitalize the listed Bankia SA unit, the person familiar
said. Other government-controlled banks also reported big losses
yesterday.  Catalunya Banc, another lender nationalized last year,
reported a first-half loss of 1.44 billion euros. De Guindos
said yesterday the bank’s soured real estate would be passed to
the bad bank before it is put on sale. NCG Banco, a Galician
lender also taken over by the government last year, posted a 1.4
billion-euro loss.  Wider Consequences  Bankia’s woes piled pressure on other Spanish banks because
it stress-tested residential mortgages and company loans, as
well as real estate, to calculate the size of its bailout
request to the government. Spain nationalized the group in June
after experts appointed by the country’s bank rescue fund said
its parent company had a negative value of 13.6 billion euros.  Bankia’s travails have also had wider consequences for the
government and its own former management.  The practice by Bankia and other lenders of selling
subordinated debt such as preference shares to retail clients
has come back to haunt the banks as European officials demand
these investors absorb losses under terms of the bailout. The
new regulation passed yesterday enshrines the principle that
holders of subordinated debt at banks receiving state aid should
be made to bear losses.  “This is never going to happen again,” said Rajoy,
referring to the “lamentable” situation facing retail clients
sold subordinated debt. He said the government was working on
ways to ease the impact of the losses facing affected customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  