-- Suntech Cuts Solar Shipment Target as Prices, Margin Fall
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-08-31T20:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/suntech-cuts-solar-shipment-target-as-prices-margin-fall.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
solar panel maker probing what it calls a $699 million
accounting fraud, reduced its forecast for shipments this year
as increasing competition drove down prices for its products.  The Chinese manufacturer expects to ship 1.8 gigawatts to 2
gigawatts of photovoltaic panels, down from its previous
forecast of 2.1 gigawatts to 2.5 gigawatts, according to a
statement today.  The company based in Wuxi, China, said its statement
reflected “preliminary” and “unaudited” results for the
second quarter. The full report will be delayed until after the
company completes an investigation into a fraud involving a
554.2 million euro ($699 million) financing guarantee it
provided to an affiliated company. The July 30 disclosure
sparked concerns about Suntech’s increasing debt burden.  “We are continuing to pursue a number of options to
refinance our 2013 convertible notes and intend to address this
issue in the near future,”  David King , Suntech’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  The report didn’t include net income or debt figures for
the second quarter. Suntech said revenue was $471 million, down
43 percent from $830.7 million a year earlier. Shipments rose 33
percent from the first quarter, more than an earlier forecast of
a 20 percent gain.  Suntech shares fell 2.2 percent to 88 cents at the close in
 New York .  Suntech reported a $76 million inventory provision that
reduced its gross margin to minus 10 percent in the  second
quarter . Operating expenses were $133 million in the quarter,
including a $56 million provision related to the prepayment of a
long-term supply contract that the company is disputing.  “Demand from European markets,  China ,  Japan  and  Australia 
drove sequential shipment growth,” King said. “The global
imbalance between supply and demand and the challenging price
environment continue to impede profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  