-- Swiss Stocks Rise as Bernanke Doesn’t Rule out Stimulus
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-31T15:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/swiss-stocks-rise-as-bernanke-doesn-t-rule-out-stimulus.html
Swiss stocks  rose, rebounding from a
one-month low, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
he would not rule out further bond purchases to boost the
world’s largest economy.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  paced advancing shares,
as both banks climbed more than 1 percent. Roche Holding AG
gained as the drugmaker topped Barclays Plc’s industry list in
Europe. Holcim Ltd. also climbed as Davy Stockbrokers upgraded
the cement maker.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.2 percent to 6,388.01 at the
close in Zurich, leaving the gauge down 1.4 percent this week
and 0.2 percent lower in August. The SMI has still climbed 12
percent from this year’s low on June 4 amid speculation that
central banks will take more measures to bolster growth. The
broader Swiss Performance Index also added 0.2 percent today.  “Markets remain torn between deteriorating fundamentals
and non-stop support from governments and central banks,” said
Lex van Dam, who manages $500 million at Hampstead Capital LLC
in London. “Bernanke and others keep repeating themselves by
saying that they will do everything in their power to support
the markets when the economy weakens.”  Bernanke, speaking at annual forum in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, said additional asset purchases are an option as policy
makers consider further steps to bring down an unemployment rate
exceeding 8 percent that he called a “grave concern.”  Asset Purchases  His speech came two weeks before he leads a meeting of the
FOMC to decide whether an expansion of stimulus is needed. The
Fed has so far undertaken two rounds of large-scale asset
purchases totaling $2.3 trillion.  Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-largest bank, climbed
3.2 percent to 18.44 Swiss francs, snapping a three-day retreat,
while larger rival UBS advanced 1.2 percent to 10.68 francs.  Roche gained 0.8 percent to 173.80 francs as Barclays named
the drugmaker a “top pick” among European pharmaceutical
companies, along with Dublin-based Shire Plc.  Holcim (HOLN)  also climbed 0.8 percent to 58.55 francs as Davy
raised its recommendation for the cement maker to neutral from
underperform, saying the company will deliver “strong” third-
quarter results.  Santhera Pharmaceutical Holding AG (SANN)  declined 1.2 percent to
3.97 francs after the drugmaker posted a first-half net loss and
said it’s in talks to extend financing of its operations.  Mindset Holding AG (MIND)  plunged by a record 84 percent to 34
centimes. The designer of electric sports cars filed for
bankruptcy after failing to secure financing, it said in a
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  