-- Syrian Rebels Threaten Civilian Flights to Halt Weapons
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-09-01T01:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/syrian-rebels-threaten-civilian-flights-to-halt-weapons.html
The rebel Free Syrian Army warned
that it is going to target civilian flights using the airports
in Damascus and Aleppo starting Sept. 3 because it suspects
flights are used by the government to supply weapons from
 Russia , Iraq, Iran and Lebanon.  The warning was posted yesterday on the group’s Facebook
page. The London-based Asharq al-Awsat newspaper reported that
rebel officials said they would direct attacks against the
civilian airports because they are being used to support Syrian
military operations.  Commercial airlines already have curtailed or halted
passenger flights since the  Arab League  late last year imposed
sanctions that included restricting flights and the violence has
increased.  Etihad Airways , the UAE’s national airline, said Aug.
30 it suspended flights between  Abu Dhabi  and Damascus due to
the security situation following a similar decision in July by
 Royal Jordanian Airlines (RJAL)  canceling flights to Damascus and
Aleppo.  Syrian government forces killed at least 112 people
yesterday, including 38 in Damascus and its suburbs, the
opposition Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mailed
statement. More than 23,000 people have died since the uprising
against Assad began in March last year, according to the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights .  In recent days, the rebels have reported downing several
helicopters and at least two government fighter jets involved in
attacks against opposition fighters and civilians. While videos
have been posted online and broadcast, the details have not been
independently verified.  Helicopter Downed  Syrian rebels shot down an army helicopter in the northern
city of Idlib, Al Jazeera television reported yesterday, citing
a spokesman for the Free Syrian Army it didn’t identify.  At least 50 Syrian soldiers were taken prisoners by rebels
who seized the air defense headquarters in Bukmal city in Deir
Ezzour province near Iraq’s border, Al Arabiya television
reported, citing activists. The commander of the city’s air
defense brigade was killed by rebels,  Al Jazeera  reported,
citing activists.  Rebels won control of parts of the Abu Zhuhoor military
airport in the northern province of Idlib, the U.K.-based
Observatory said on its Facebook page yesterday. Rebel forces
also attacked Kwers military airport in Aleppo and destroyed
three war planes, Al Jazeera reported, citing activists.  The rebels haven’t said whether they have captured or
obtained from foreign sources any anti-aircraft weapons. Earlier
this month, NBC News reported that the Free Syrian Army had
obtained about two dozen surface-to-air missiles delivered via
neighboring  Turkey .  Mursi Denounced  Separately, Syrian officials denounced Egyptian President
Mohamed Mursi for backing Syrian rebels in a conference speech
in Tehran that also put him at odds with host nation  Iran .  Mursi’s comments were a “flagrant intervention in Syrian
affairs” that will encourage further bloodshed, Syria’s deputy
foreign minister, Fayssal Mekdad, said in an interview in Tehran
where the 120-nation Non-Aligned Movement is meeting. Prime
Minister Wael al-Halqi said that “no one has the right to speak
about legitimacy in Syria” except the Syrian people, according
to the country’s official news agency, SANA.  The Egyptian president told delegates on Aug. 30 that
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s rule is “oppressive” and
his government has “lost its legitimacy,” prompting a walkout
by the Syrian delegation. The comments underscored how Mursi,
the Muslim Brotherhood politician who came to power after last
year’s popular uprising, is seeking to reclaim  Egypt ’s position
as a regional powerhouse.  ‘Irresponsible Groups’  Relations between Egypt and Iran, which is now the Syrian
regime’s closest ally, have been tense for decades. Mursi, who
was elected in June, is the first Egyptian leader to visit since
the 1979  Islamic Revolution . He has called for joint efforts by
Egypt, Iran, Turkey and  Saudi Arabia  to help end the crisis in
Syria.  Iran’s Supreme Leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , told the
meeting that the violence in Syria was “unacceptable” and
blamed the countries providing arms and money to “irresponsible
groups” of rebels. Saudi Arabia and Qatar are among the
countries that are financing anti-Assad groups, while Turkey is
hosting them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Dubai at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  