-- U.K. Government Vows to Limit Retrospective Tax Legislation
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-08-31T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/u-k-government-vows-to-limit-retrospective-tax-legislation.html
The British government pledged to
limit retrospective tax legislation to “wholly exceptional
circumstances” as it replied to a parliamentary report on the
March budget.  The comments, published by the cross-party House of Commons
Treasury Committee in  London  today, came in response to concerns
raised by lawmakers after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  vowed to act “swiftly, without notice and
retrospectively” if wealthy homebuyers found “inappropriate”
ways around a crackdown on stamp-duty avoidance.  “The government agrees that changes to tax legislation,
where the change is to have effect from a date earlier than the
date of announcement, should be restricted to wholly exceptional
circumstances,” the government said.  The commitment was welcomed by Treasury Committee Chairman
 Andrew Tyrie , a lawmaker from Osborne’s  Conservative Party .  “Retrospection conflicts with the principles that should
underpin  tax policy  as recommended by this committee and as laid
down by the chancellor,” Tyrie said in an e-mailed statement.
“It would also undermine the reputation of the U.K. as a high-
quality place to do business.”  Tyrie attacked the government for arguing that it has
become harder to prevent elements of the annual budget being
leaked because Britain has a coalition government, meaning many
more people see it in advance.  “Coalition government is no excuse for selective
leaking,” he said.  The government denied that media reports of changes to tax
rates and allowances in the week before the March 21 budget were
the result of briefings by Treasury officials, Treasury
ministers or special advisers at the department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson at   a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  