-- U.S. Stocks Fall for 2nd Week as Economy Overshadows Fed
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-09-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/u-s-stocks-fall-for-2nd-week-as-economy-overshadows-fed.html
U.S. stocks  fell for the second
straight week as evidence of a slowing global economic recovery
overshadowed speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may introduce
new stimulus measures.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied on the final day
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said more bond purchases are
an option to lower the jobless rate.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  led
declines among the biggest U.S. corporations with a 4 percent
drop.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  fell 6.7 percent after losing its
place in the S&P 500. Hudson City Bancorp jumped 12 percent
after  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  agreed to acquire the company.  The benchmark gauge for American equities erased 0.3
percent to 1,406.58 after slipping 0.5 percent the previous
week. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  lost 67.13 points, or 0.5
percent, to 13,090.84 in the latest week.  “People began questioning whether the market has gotten a
little ahead of itself,” John De Clue, the Minneapolis-based
global investment strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management,
which oversees $104 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“Europe continues to weaken. In the U.S., we got excited about
gross domestic product being revised to 1.7 percent but, boy,
that’s still a low number.”  Equities slid earlier in the week as data showed economic
confidence in the euro area and retail sales in Japan fell more
than estimated. The  U.S. economy  climbed at a 1.7 percent annual
rate from April through June, up from an initial estimate of 1.5
percent. Separate data showed more Americans than forecast filed
for unemployment benefits, a sign that progress in the labor
market is faltering.  ‘Grave Concern’  Bernanke said in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, that he wouldn’t
rule out more stimulus to combat the stagnation in the labor
market, which he called a “grave concern.” Two rounds of
large-scale asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion have failed
to reduce the  jobless rate  below 8 percent more than three years
into the recovery.  He spoke two weeks before the next meeting of the Federal
Open Market Committee and prior to the Labor Department’s
nonfarm payrolls report on Sept. 7. The European Central Bank
also meets Sept. 6 in Frankfurt, where they may announce their
own bond-buying program to quell the euro-area debt crisis.  “The Fed is showing a high sensitivity to the labor
market,”  Stephen Wood , the New York-based chief market
strategist for  North America  for Russell Investments, said in a
phone interview. His firm oversees $152 billion. “If the job
market continues to soften, then that would be a big data
justification for further quantitative easing.”  Third Month  Benchmark U.S. equity indexes rose in August for the third
straight monthly advance as the U.S. central bank pledged to act
to safeguard the economic recovery if needed and European
leaders worked to tame the region’s debt crisis. The S&P 500 in
August climbed to its highest level on an intraday basis in more
than four years, then failed to close at that milestone. The
index has fluctuated near the 1,400 level for three weeks.  Trading has slowed toward the end of the summer as
investors awaited the Fed’s gathering in Wyoming. Volume on
exchange-listed stocks was below 5 billion shares for five
straight days through Aug. 30, the longest stretch since at
least 2008, excluding Christmas and New Year holidays.  Volatility also diminished in August. Intraday price swings
in the  S&P 500  averaged 0.8 percent in August, the smallest
fluctuation for any August in 17 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are so many negative factors that could potentially
make the situation worse,” Brian Peery, who helps oversee about
$1 billion at Novato, California-based Hennessy Funds, said in
an Aug. 30 phone interview. “It doesn’t take a whole lot to
push the market toward the negative side.”  Most Tied  Investors sold shares of companies most tied to economic
growth during the week.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index (CYC) 
slumped 1.2 percent, while the Dow Jones Transportation Average
dropped 2.2 percent. Out of 10 groups in the S&P 500,
industrial, energy and material companies helped lead losses.  Hewlett-Packard fell 4 percent for the biggest drop in the
Dow, to $16.88, after sliding 9.9 percent in the previous week
when the company posted a record quarterly loss amid slumping
sales for personal computers and services aimed at businesses.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-largest U.S. bank by
assets, lost 2.1 percent to $7.99, while  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the
world’s largest soft-drink maker, sank 2.8 percent to $37.40.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  plunged 19 percent, the most in the S&P
500, to $19.99. The biggest U.S. solar manufacturer halted panel
deliveries to the $1.8 billion Agua Caliente project, which it’s
building in Arizona, because construction is ahead of schedule
and the company must slow down to meet contractual milestones.  Too Few  Sears, the retailer controlled by hedge fund manager  Edward
Lampert , fell 6.7 percent to $52.75 after losing its place in
the S&P 500 to chemical maker LyondellBasell Industries NV. S&P
said  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based Sears has too few shares
available for trading to be representative of companies in the
index.  Ciena Corp. (CIEN) , a maker of communications-network equipment,
tumbled 19 percent to $13.67 after reporting a wider-than-
projected loss and forecasting lower revenue than analysts had
estimated. The economy is taking a toll, and Ciena has been slow
to book revenue on new products, Chief Executive Officer  Gary
Smith  said.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  dropped 7 percent to a record low $18.06 on
concern that businesses are spending less to advertise on the
world’s largest social-networking website. The Menlo Park,
California-based company may post $5.04 billion in sales this
year, EMarketer Inc. estimated, down from the market
researcher’s earlier projection for $6.1 billion.  Biggest Takeover  Hudson City Bancorp rallied 12 percent, the most since
December, to $7.19. M&T Bank agreed to buy Hudson City for about
$3.7 billion in the banking industry’s biggest takeover this
year as it seeks to expand in New Jersey.  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  jumped 5.9 percent to $61.95. The world’s
second-largest luxury jewelry retailer gained after reporting a
drop in worldwide comparable-store sales that was smaller than
some analysts projected.  Consumer discretionary stocks added 0.2 percent for the
biggest advance for the week in the S&P 500 as a report showed
consumer spending climbed in July for the first time in three
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  