-- U.S.’s Long Gets 9th Paralympic Gold; Error Mars Discus Event
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-31T23:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/u-s-s-long-gets-ninth-paralympic-gold-winner-demoted-on-error.html
U.S. swimmer Jessica Long won her
second gold medal at the London  Paralympic Games  and the ninth
of her career. Ukrainian discus thrower Mariia Pomazan had to
hand back a gold medal because of a scoring error.  Chinese athletes won gold in powerlifting, shooting,
swimming, track cycling and track and field -- and only missed
out in judo in yesterday’s events.  China  leads  the medal table  with 13 golds and 34 total
after two days of competition.  Australia  is second with seven
golds among its 19 medals. Ukraine has six golds, Russia five
and Britain and the U.S. four each.  The games run through Sept. 9, with more than 4,000
athletes from 164 teams competing in a series of classes
depending on their impairment.  Long, 20, won by an 18-second margin in the 400-meter
freestyle S8 class to improve her own world record. She won
three golds at age 12 at the 2004 Athens Games and captured four
more in Beijing in four years ago. Australian Jacqueline Freney,
also 20, took her second gold in  London  in the butterfly S7.  Pomazan, 23, was wrongly awarded gold in the F35/36 discus
because of a data error at the Olympic Stadium, games organizer
said in an e-mail. She had to relinquish the title to China’s Wu
Qing and settled for the silver.  Point scoring rather than the longest distance determined
the final standings. China’s Bao Jiongyu was incorrectly awarded
the bronze medal in the same event, and it went to Australia’s
Katherine Proudfoot.  Briton’s Apology  Earlier, in the first track and field event, Serbian
wheelchair athlete Zeljko Dimitrijevic, 41, set a world record
of 26.88 meters (88 feet) with his first throw on the way to
winning the gold medal in the club event.  At the Velodrome, Jody Cundy, defending champion in the 1-
kilometer time trial C4/5, shouted and threw a water bottle
after he was disqualified when he slipped out of the starting
gate,  Agence France-Presse  reported. He later apologized to the
crowd, AFP said.  Spain ’s Alfonso Cabello, 18, went on to win the
event in a world-record time of 1 minute, 05.947 seconds.  In sitting volleyball, Martine Wright, who lost both legs
in the 2005 bombings that killed 52 commuters in London,
received an ovation from the crowd that included Mayor  Boris Johnson  as the 39-year-old competed for Britain, AFP reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  