-- S&P 500 Set for Longest Rally Since March After Bernanke
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-31T15:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-before-bernanke-speech.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose
toward its longest monthly gain since March as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he wouldn’t rule out more steps to
lower a jobless rate he described as a “grave concern.”  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  added at least 1.4 percent to
pace gains among the biggest companies.  Corning Inc. (GLW) , the
world’s largest maker of glass for flat-panel televisions,
climbed 4.5 percent after Oppenheimer & Co. raised its
recommendation on the shares. U.S. Airways Group Inc. jumped 4.7
percent after signing a confidentiality agreement to review the
books of bankrupt takeover target  American Airlines .  The S&P 500 rose 0.9 percent to 1,411.52 at 11:01 a.m. in
New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 140.07 points,
or 1.1 percent, to 13,140.78 today. Trading in  S&P 500  companies
was down 14 percent from the 30-day average at this time of day.  “It’s the strongest language on unemployment I remember
Bernanke using,” said Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than
$20 billion as chief investment strategist at the private-
banking unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland. “That makes the next jobs
report even more critical. If it deviates significantly from
muddling along, they may well be forced to act. If we remain in
this continuing growth, but not as strong as we would like to
see, it will be a much harder choice for them to come with a
significant program.”  Bernanke’s speech comes two weeks before he leads a meeting
of the  Federal Open Market Committee  to decide whether an
expansion of the Fed’s record stimulus is needed to spur growth.
Two rounds of large-scale asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
have so far failed to reduce the jobless rate below 8 percent
more than three years into the recovery.  No Improvement  “We have seen no net improvement in the  unemployment rate 
since January,” Bernanke told central bankers and economists in
the audience, according to a text of his remarks released in
Washington. “Unless the economy begins to grow more quickly
than it has recently, the unemployment rate is likely to remain
far above levels consistent with maximum employment for some
time.”  Data today showed that business activity in the U.S.
expanded at a slower pace in August, indicating companies may
hold the line on production until sales pick up. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment
rose to 74.3 in August from 72.3 the prior month. The gauge was
projected to rise to 73.6.  The S&P 500 is on course for its third straight monthly
advance and, if history is any guide, the index may extend gains
next month, according to a Bespoke Investment Group study. Going
back to 1928, the index has returned an average 0.12 percent in
September when it has been up year-to-date through August, the
data showed. The measure has risen 12 percent so far in 2012.  Confounded Bears  The August rally in stocks confounded bears who predicted
the S&P 500 would repeat last year’s summer slump.  The index tracked its 2011 performance in the first seven
months of the year. The relationship broke down at the end of
July as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to
do whatever it takes to preserve the euro and speculation grew
that the Fed will stimulate the economy.  Albert Edwards , a London-based strategist at Societe
Generale SA, said in a July 25 report that asked “is the S&P
replaying 2011?” that the  U.S. economy  looks to have returned
to recession. The same day,  Bob Janjuah , global head of tactical
asset allocation at Nomura Holdings Inc., predicted a “major
risk-off phase” in the coming four months with global stocks
falling by as much as 20 percent to 25 percent.  ‘Main Role’  “If it hadn’t been for Draghi’s ‘We will do everything’
remark, the S&P 500 would’ve followed the 2011 script,” said
 Manish Singh , the London-based head of investment at Crossbridge
Capital, which has more than $2 billion under management. “The
ECB has played the main role in making this year different.”  The S&P 500 sank 5.7 percent in August 2011, and a further
7.2 percent the following month, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities advanced 2.3 percent
this month though the Aug. 29 close.  “We expected returns to be quite decent in August and
still do going forward,” said Daniel McCormack, a strategist at
Macquarie Securities Ltd. in London. “If you look at the
background coming into the month, valuations were extreme and
when that is the case you don’t need much in the way of good
news to get markets moving.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  