-- U.S. Company Credit-Default Swaps Decline After Bernanke Speech
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-31T20:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/u-s-company-credit-default-swaps-decline-after-bernanke-speech.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk fell the most in two weeks after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  made the case for further monetary
easing.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
eased 1.4 basis points to a mid-price of 101.5 basis points at
4:06 p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest decline since a 1.5 basis-point
decrease on Aug. 17.  The swaps  measure  decreased after Bernanke emphasized that
a new round of bond purchases is an option in a speech to
central bankers and economists at an annual forum in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming . Investors speculated steps to boost the economy
may come as soon as next month. Any move by the U.S. central
bank to purchase more bonds would curb concern that companies
will struggle to make debt repayments amid a slowing economy.  The “Fed is essentially saying they are going to continue
monetary easing for years, and in particular any time there is a
slowdown in the economy,” according to Jon Ruff, a portfolio
manager and director of research in  San Francisco  for a unit of
AllianceBernstein LP. “The market’s response to the Fed
announcement only proves the theory,” as the  U.S. dollar  fell
and commodities and stocks rallied, he said.  The swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, reached a 15-
week low of 98.5 basis points on Aug. 20.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  