-- UEFA Uses Champions League Draw to Warn Soccer Clubs on Spending
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-31T03:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/uefa-uses-champions-league-draw-to-warn-soccer-clubs-on-spending.html
Europe ’s most senior soccer
administrator used the  Champions League  draw to warn teams
they’ll be kicked out of the sport’s biggest club competition if
they flout rules on fiscal discipline.  Delegates from teams including  Manchester City , Chelsea and
Paris Saint-Germain, whose owners have bankrolled more than $1
billion in player trades, were told in  Monaco  yesterday by  UEFA 
General Secretary Gianni Infantino that the governing body’s
Financial Fair Play regulations shouldn’t be taken lightly.  “It’s the most important forum where all clubs are, where
everybody is listening and it’s important that this message gets
heard,” Infantino said last night in an interview.  Nyon, Switzerland-based UEFA is trying to curb club losses
at a time when revenue in the sport has never been higher. In
the 2010 fiscal year, losses by top-level European clubs widened
by 36 percent to 1.6 billion euros ($2 billion), UEFA said.
Sales rose 6.6 percent to 12.8 billion euros during the same
period and costs rose by 1 billion euros to 14.4 billion euros.  Clubs could face the ultimate sanction of being excluded
from the elite Champions League in 2014 if they spend above a
maximum deviation of 45 million euros. That figure must be
invested as equity by owners and not in the form of loans. Teams
that show a positive trend toward meeting break-even targets
will be treated more leniently, according to UEFA’s rules.  Former Belgian Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene has been
hired to investigate club finances. Two judges from the  European
Court  of Justice will join UEFA in October and be responsible
for meting out the penalties.  Manchester United Chief Executive Officer David Gill said
the majority of clubs are in favor of limiting losses.  ‘Sensible Return’  “These aren’t rules that have been forced down on the
clubs,” Gill said in an interview in Monaco. “These are rules
that have been worked on together for the betterment of the
game. In the current world climate with the recession, etcetera,
there’s enough money coming into football to make sure clubs do
make a sensible return.”  England’s Premier League is also discussing whether to
implement UEFA-style regulations of its own. Soccer’s richest
league announced in May that it had agreed on a new domestic
television contract worth 3.02 billion pounds ($4.7 billion), 70
percent more than the current three-year agreement.  “There’s a real opportunity to introduce some sensible
rules that effectively improve and enhance the long-term or
medium-term financial stability,” Gill added. Some of the
league’s 20 teams oppose greater regulation, he said, without
naming specific clubs.  City’s Spending  Manchester City, which won its first Premier League title
in May following a $1 billion outlay by a member of the Abu
Dhabi royal family, had a record $311 million loss for the year
ended May 31, 2011, according to a club filing.  This season, manager  Roberto Mancini  has complained about
not being able to sign the players he wants after club
executives said spending would be pared down once the team was
able to compete for major honors.  Infantino said he’d noticed the difference in City’s
activity in the transfer market.  “There’s quite an important change,” he said. “Let’s not
forget, it’s now where the financial fair play break-even rules
kick in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Monaco at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  