-- Lufthansa Attendants Resume Work After Frankfurt Walkout
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-08-31T12:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/lufthansa-flight-attendants-wall-off-job-in-pay-dispute.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  flight
attendants resumed work after an eight-hour pay strike forced
 Europe ’s second-largest airline to cancel most services at its
main Frankfurt airport hub.  Cabin crew members reported for duty after the walkout
called by the Unabhaengige Flugbegleiter Organisation union
ended at 1 p.m., said  Thomas Jachnow , a Lufthansa spokesman. The
airline canceled at least 207 flights, primarily within Europe
as well as services to and from some U.S. cities,  Tel Aviv  and
Chennai,  India , according to Lufthansa’s  website .  The dispute centers on the pace of pay raises and whether
separate wage scales apply to some groups of  workers  as
Lufthansa implements a 1.5 billion-euro ($1.9 billion) savings
program dubbed Score. The Cologne, Germany-based company has
already announced plans to scrap as many as 4,500 jobs in
administration and catering to reduce its 120,000-employee
global workforce.  “The fear is that this conflict goes on indefinitely
because the negotiation positions seem very far apart,”  Jochen Rothenbacher , an analyst at Equinet Bank AG, said by phone.
“Lufthansa has to cut costs, that is clear because of the
market conditions, and the union is of course opposed to it.”  Rebooking Lines  Lines at check-in counters stretched beyond 100 meters at
Frankfurt as passengers tried to rebook seats. A canceled 9:05
a.m. flight to Sarajevo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, stranded that
country’s national basketball team as it was flying home from a
game in  Latvia  to get ready for another match against the
Netherlands tomorrow.  “We have no idea how we’re going to get back,” said 22-
year-old Nemanja Metrovic, who plays shooting guard and was
traveling with the 20 other members of the Bosnian squad. “It
gives us less time to prepare. Just find us a plane.”  Lufthansa had 360 flights on its normal timetable for today
at  Frankfurt , said Klaus Gorny, a Lufthansa spokesman. The
airline has been “trying as hard as possible to carry out the
existing flight schedule and to book our passengers onto other
flights,” he said.  Additional cancellations are likely today as the strike
left some planes in the wrong location to carry out flights,
spokesman Jachnow said.  90% Participation  Almost 90 percent of UFO members who were scheduled to fly
took part in the strike, Alexander Behrens, a spokesman for the
union, said by phone. He declined to specify the number of
participants.  “We are all delighted with how it went and are happy that
everyone is defending this group of employees together,”
Behrens said. A new strike could be called as early as tomorrow,
he said.  Contract talks between UFO and Lufthansa collapsed on Aug.
28. The union has outlined plans for short-term strikes
initially, with unlimited walkouts possible later. UFO has said
it will give six hours notice of any stoppage.  A full-day halt at Frankfurt would cost Lufthansa at least
6 million euros, Peter Oppitzhauser, a Zurich-based Credit
Agricole analyst, said today by phone. Extending the walkout
across  Germany  would set Lufthansa back 12 million euros a day,
equating to 2 percent of full-year operating profit estimates,
he said.  Union Demands  UFO  said  late yesterday that it’s seeking a 5 percent raise
on a one-year contract backdated to April 1, and reiterated a
contention that Lufthansa’s most recent pay proposal amounts to
a 1.5 percent annual increase that would erode wages by 1,300
euros a month after inflation. Lufthansa said on Aug. 28 that
its raise totals 3.5 percent over time, and all flight
attendants would get higher pay.  The union also opposes Lufthansa’s demand that flight
attendants assigned to its expanding Berlin operations work 9
percent more hours than employees elsewhere for the same wages,
and has objected to its use of temporary workers there. In
addition, the parties were unable to agree on whether to protect
employees after 2013 from being transferred to low-cost
divisions under cheaper pay contracts, according to UFO.  Lufthansa rose as much as 1.4 percent to 9.90 euros and was
trading up 1 percent at 2:54 p.m. in Frankfurt.  Frankfurt was Europe’s third-busiest airport in the 12
months through May, trailing only London and Paris, according to
trade group  Airports Council International . Among carriers in
the region, Lufthansa ranks second to Paris-based  Air France-KLM
Group (AF)  in terms of traffic, or the number of passengers
multiplied by the distance flown.  Deutsche Bahn AG, Germany’s state-owned railway, said today
in a statement that it will operate every available train and
put extra staff on duty to cope with the anticipated higher
numbers of passengers caused by the Lufthansa strike.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  