-- Hurricane Isaac May Cost Insurers $2 Billion, AIR Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-31T13:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/hurricane-isaac-may-cost-insurers-2-billion-air-says.html
Isaac, the storm drenching Arkansas
after making landfall in Louisiana as a hurricane, may cost
insurers as much as $2 billion in the U.S., risk-modeling firm
AIR Worldwide said.  The industry’s claims costs, including wind and storm-surge
damage to residential, commercial and industrial onshore
properties, will be at least $700 million, the Boston-based firm
said today in an e-mailed statement. The estimates are a
fraction of the  $41.1 billion  cost for  Hurricane Katrina , the
2005 storm that struck Louisiana and caused flooding in  New
Orleans . Hurricane Irene, which lashed the U.S. East Coast last
year, cost $4.3 billion.  “As the winds persist, roof fasteners and connections can
become fatigued and overloaded causing additional damage,” Tim
Doggett, AIR’s principal scientist, said in the statement.
“With soils heavily saturated by rain, trees can be downed by
much lower wind speeds than would otherwise be necessary.”  Natural disasters including Irene and tornadoes in Alabama
and Missouri last year pressured results at insurers including
 Travelers Cos. (TRV) ,  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  and  Chubb Corp. (CB)  The industry is
able to withstand claims from Isaac, even as most losses will be
borne by primary carriers rather than reinsurers,  Fitch Ratings 
said in a note on Aug. 28, the day the storm made landfall.  Shares Gain  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, advanced 0.9 percent to $37.50 at 9:40 a.m. in New
York. Warren, New Jersey-based Chubb climbed 0.8 percent to
$74.07 and Travelers gained 1.2 percent.  Offshore oil rigs and gas platforms in the  Gulf of Mexico 
probably didn’t suffer “significant physical damage” from
Isaac, AIR said. Claims also may be lower from the energy
industry because insurers are selling less business-interruption
coverage after losses from Katrina and the explosion on the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in 2010, the modeling firm said.  AIR’s prediction follows rival Eqecat’s Aug. 29 estimate of
insured losses from Isaac of between $500 million and $1.5
billion for onshore property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  