-- US Airways Moves Toward AMR Deal With Pact to Share Books
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-08-31T20:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/us-airways-signs-pact-to-review-amr-books-amid-merger-interest.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  moved closer
to a possible merger with bankrupt  American Airlines  by signing
a pact to swap private financial and operations data, a step
already taken by potential investor British Airways.  The U.S. airlines will work “in close collaboration” with
American’s unsecured creditors committee in the process, the
carriers said in a statement today. The panel has a voice in
major decisions during the bankruptcy, in which American has
sought to restructure while keeping its independence.  Merging airline parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  with US Airways would
catapult the combined company past  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL)  as the world’s largest airline. US Airways Chief Executive
Officer Doug Parker has advocated a deal as the surest way of
creating a broader route network with more hubs capable of
competing with United and No. 2 Delta Air Lines Inc.  “ US Airways  has been going through that agreement and
making sure none of the terms were showstoppers for them,” Fred Lowrance, an Avondale Partners LLC analyst, said in an
interview. “My best guess is they spend the next three to seven
weeks getting the data they need from AMR and putting that
proposal together.”  ‘Good News’  American filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 29 as it headed
toward a fourth straight annual loss, and US Airways began
pursuing a merger in January. The potential suitor has secured
the support of American’s unions and has sought the backing of
the larger airline’s creditors.  “We are pleased to be working directly with American to
study a potential merger and we consider this very good news,”
Parker told US Airways employees in a message. “It does not
mean we are merging -- it simply means we have agreed to work
together to discuss and analyze a potential merger.”  US Airways climbed 2.5 percent to $10.66 at the close in
 New York  trading. The Tempe, Arizona-based company’s shares have
more than doubled this year amid speculation of a merger with
AMR.  AMR’s 6.25 percent convertible notes due in October 2014
rose 2.53 cents to 62.50 cents on the dollar today, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  US Airways isn’t American’s only strategic option. The
airline said it also had signed confidentiality agreements with
companies it didn’t identify.  British Airways  “This will be an objective, thorough, fact-based
process,” the  Fort Worth , Texas-based airline told managers in
a memo today. “As part of the process, other parties have also
signed confidentiality agreements, which permit for the
confidential exchange of information and discussion between
American and those parties.”  British Airways parent  International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG)  is among companies that have signed an agreement, Laura Goodes, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview today.  IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  has previously
said his company would consider buying a stake, she noted. U.S.
law bars foreign ownership of a majority interest in domestic
airlines.  “It probably makes sense to have British Airways at the
table,” said  Bob McAdoo , a Los Angeles-based analyst at
Imperial Capital LLC. “They see that if American comes out a
stronger carrier, that’s clearly in British Airways’ interest
because they are both members of the Oneworld alliance.”  While American CEO  Tom Horton  initially said he wanted to
emerge from bankruptcy on a stand-alone basis before considering
combinations, the carrier agreed with its creditors committee in
May to consider alternatives sooner.  Labor Relations  “American management would not be doing this if they had
any leverage and if the creditors committee wasn’t telling them
what they had to do,” Lowrance said. “This makes it clear that
management is not driving this process. It is being driven by
the terrible labor relations that have gotten the unsecured
creditors committee pushing for alternatives to the stand-alone
plan.”  American will ask its bankruptcy judge Sept. 4 to grant a
revised request to throw out its existing pilots contract and
impose cost cuts as the airline works to reduce industry-leading
labor expenses. The pilots rejected a final labor proposal from
their employer this month, and a union spokesman said the vote
reflected opposition to Horton’s leadership.  ‘Right Direction’  While the carrier had won concessions from its flight
attendants, baggage handlers and other airport ground workers,
pilots are considered a bellwether work group in labor talks
because they are the airline industry’s highest-paid union
employees.  The confidentiality agreement “is a step in the right
direction,” said Tom Hoban, a spokesman for the  Allied Pilots
Association , which has supported a merger along with AMR’s other
unions. “It’s going to allow US Airways to submit a competing
plan of reorganization. There are 55,000 front-line employees
who made it clear this is what they favor, along with a change
in leadership.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  