-- Vale Agrees to Sell 10 Large Ore Carriers for $600 Million
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-08-31T21:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/vale-agrees-to-sell-10-large-ore-carriers-for-600-million-3-.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s  largest  iron-
ore producer, agreed to sell 10 vessels for $600 million and
lease them back from  South Korea ’s Polaris Shipping Co. as it
seeks to raise cash amid declining commodity prices.  The ore carriers with a capacity of about 300,000
deadweight tons each were bought between 2009 and 2010 as Vale
sought to build a maritime fleet to serve its clients, the Rio
de Janeiro-based company said in a regulatory filing today. The
ships were  oil tankers  converted into ore carriers, Vale said.  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira is selling asset in
 Brazil , Colombia and  Europe  as production costs rise and prices
for minerals and metals decline. The vessels sale allays concern
Vale was spending too much on ships at a time freight rates are
falling,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  analysts led by Leonardo Correa said in a
note to clients today.  “Vale’s freight strategy has been a source of concern for
some investors, who questioned the strategy in a world of
overcapacity and depressed freight rates,” the analysts said.  Vale  rose  2.7 percent to 33.18 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo  today, its first increase in seven sessions and paring its
 decline  this year to 12 percent.  The sale of the ships raises the value of assets being sold
by Vale this year to about $1.2 billion. The company also sold a
thermal-coal project in Colombia for $407 million, its
ferromanganese alloy businesses in Europe for $160 million and
exited the kaolin mineral business.  Fleet Spending  Vale is spending more than $8 billion to control a fleet of
35 of the so-called Valemax ore carriers, the world’s largest,
to cut costs on the 35-day voyage to  Asia , the destination of
about 45 percent of the steelmaking commodity from Brazil.
Ferreira said in December that the company planned to sell 19 of
its Valemax vessels.  The price of about $60 million Vale received for each
vessel sold to Polaris is “well above” their market value,
according to Nigel Prentis, director of HSBC Group Plc’s HSBC
Shipping Services Ltd.  The converted ore carriers are worth about $16.1 million
according to VesselsValue.Com, an online valuation service owned
by London-based shipbroker Seasure Shipping Ltd.  ‘Good Move’  “Vale is hardly cash-strapped but with the price of  iron
ore  low and demand wobbling, it may look like a good move for
their shareholders to sell assets they don’t need while they are
still able,” Prentis said in a telephone interview from  London .
“When the markets are down miners tend to exit shipping.”  Vale purchased at least eight of the tankers it converted
to ore carriers from Vela International Marine Ltd., a unit of
Saudi Arabian oil company Saudi Aramco, paying $176.5 million in
total for the ships, according to reports from London-based
shipbroker Galbraith’s Ltd.  Conversion costs of the tankers were estimated at between
$25 million to $30 million for each at shipyards, according to
estimates in 2007 from shipbrokers Mcquilling Services LLC and
Fearnley Consultants AS.  A Chinese government circular in January blocked Vale’s
fleet of its newest and largest vessels, each able to carry
400,000 metric tons of iron ore, citing safety issues, Vale said
in an information book about the ships e-mailed in June. Ports
need permission for ships larger than 300,000 deadweight tons
calling in  China , according to the notice from the Ministry of
Transport.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  