-- Venus Williams Loses at U.S. Open as Roddick Sets Retirement
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-31T05:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/venus-williams-loses-at-u-s-open-as-roddick-sets-retirement.html
Venus Williams is out.  Andy Roddick 
is retiring. And American teenagers Sloane Stephens and Jack
Sock are moving on at the  U.S. Open  tennis championship.  The 32-year-old Williams, a two-time winner of the year’s
final Grand Slam, matched her earliest exit in 14 career
appearances in  New York  with a 2-6, 7-5, 5-7 loss last night
against sixth-seeded Angelique Kerber of Germany. Serena Williams, 30, won in straight sets, as did Stephens, who is into
the third round for the fourth time in her past five majors.  “All I had was fight because I didn’t play well,” Venus
Williams, who let a 4-2 lead slip away in the third set said at
a news conference. “Unfortunately I was fighting her and me. I
didn’t help myself a lot, but I fought hard, I was trying hard.
I was just making errors.”  Roddick, the last American man to win a major title at the
2003 U.S. Open, announced yesterday on his 30th birthday that
he’ll retire after the tournament. His career could end in the
second round tonight against  Bernard Tomic  at the National
Tennis Center.  “It’s time,” Roddick said. “I don’t know that I’m
healthy enough or committed enough to go another year. I’ve
always wanted to, in a perfect world, finish at this event.”  Roddick said he appreciated the opportunity to be the face
of men’s tennis in the U.S. since the retirement of  Andre Agassi , while acknowledging the challenges it posed. Although he
won more than $20 million and 32 tournament titles, the 2003
U.S. Open was his lone Grand Slam.  Not Easy  “It’s not something that’s easy every day, especially when
you get kind of anointed at a young age, 17, 18,” Roddick said.
“It’s something you roll with.”  The void left in American tennis when Roddick steps away
may be filled by a fellow Nebraska native in the 19-year-old
Sock, who cruised into the third round yesterday with a 6-2,
6-2, 6-4 win over Flavio Cipolla of Italy.  “He was a guy I watched growing up a lot, especially when
he was winning this tournament and playing really well,” Sock
said of Roddick. “He was definitely a guy I looked up to and
idolized. It’s going to be a big loss to the tour.”  Five-time champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland, 31,
breezed into round three with a 6-2, 6-3, 6-2 win over Bjorn Phau of Germany. One of Roddick’s contemporaries on the men’s
circuit, Federer said afterward he was sad to hear Roddick is
retiring and that he’d be watching the match tonight.  The defending U.S. Open champions both play in Arthur Ashe
Stadium today, as men’s No. 2 seed Novak Djokovic of Serbia
faces Rogerio Dutra Silva of Brazil and Samantha Stosur of
Australia, seeded seventh on the women’s side, meets No. 31
Varvara Lepchenko of the U.S.  Sharapova Plays  In the other featured day match in Arthur Ashe Stadium,
 Maria Sharapova  of  Russia , the women’s No. 3 seed and 2006
champion, plays American amateur Mallory Burdette for a spot in
the fourth round.  After Roddick takes the court in the first match of the
night session in Ashe, women’s No. 1 seed Victoria Azarenka of
 Belarus  meets 28th-seeded Zheng Jie of  China .  Also today, England’s Laura Robson, who knocked out three-
time champion  Kim Clijsters , faces No. 9 Li Na of China, and No.
5 Petra Kvitova of the  Czech Republic  takes on Pauline Parmentier of  France .  In the men’s draw, No. 9  John Isner  of the U.S. plays
Jarkko Nieminen of Finland, while fourth-seeded  David Ferrer  of
Spain, No. 8 Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia, No. 13 Richard Gasquet
of France, No. 14 Alexandr Dolgopolov of the Ukraine and No. 18
Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland are also in action.  Tsonga Falls  Jo-Wilfried Tsonga became the highest-ranked player ousted
from the men’s draw yesterday, when the fifth-seeded Frenchman
was beaten by Martin Klizan of Slovakia 4-6, 6-1, 1-6, 3-6.  Sixth-seeded Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic won in
straight sets, as did No. 15 Milos Raonic of Canada, No. 17 Kei Nishikori of Japan, No. 27 Sam Querrey of the U.S. and fellow
American  James Blake , who upset 24th-seeded Marcel Granollers of
Spain.  No. 11 Nicolas Almagro of Spain, No. 12 Marin Cilic of
Croatia and No. 23 Mardy Fish of the U.S. won in five sets, with
Fish rallying from two sets down for a 4-6, 6-7 (4-7), 6-2, 6-1,
6-2 victory over two-time U.S. Open semifinalist Nikolay Davydenko of Russia.  Gilles Simon , the No. 16 seed from France,
and No. 25  Fernando Verdasco  of Spain moved into the third round
with four-set wins.  Agnieszka Radwanska, the women’s No. 2 seed from Poland,
dropped a set against Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain before
rallying to reach the third round for the third time in seven
U.S. Open appearances.  Serena Williams , a three-time U.S. Open
champion, eased past Maria Jose Martinez Sanchez 6-2, 6-4 while
Roddick was giving his retirement news conference.  Stephens Advances  Earlier in the day, Stephens, who said she counts Serena
Williams as a close friend and mentor, pulled out a 5-7, 6-4,
6-2 win over German qualifier Tatjana Malek to set up a third-
round meeting against 12th-seeded Ana Ivanovic of Serbia.  “She’s been playing well,” Serena Williams said of
Stephens, 19. “She has so much potential.”  Ivanovic, No. 11 Sara Errani of Italy, No. 13 Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia and No. 14 Maria Kirilenko of Russia all
won in straight sets yesterday to reach the third round.  In a match that ended after midnight,  Venus Williams  had 16
double faults and made 60 unforced errors to 25 for Kerber as
her comeback attempt fell short. Kerber improved to 19-2 in
three-set matches while Williams failed to get past the second
round for her fourth straight major championship.  “Everybody was against me, but it doesn’t matter,” Kerber
said in an on-court interview. “I just tried to focus on me,
play my game plan, fighting every point until the last and I’m
very happy to be in the third round.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  