-- Volkswagen CEO Eschewing Purchases to Focus on Integration
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-08-31T08:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/volkswagen-ceo-eschewing-purchases-to-focus-on-integration-1-.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said he’s not planning additional
purchases as Europe’s largest carmaker focuses on integrating
Porsche, Ducati motorbikes and heavy-truck maker  MAN SE. (MAN)   “We have enough to do at the moment in taking our twelve
brands to where we want to be,” the CEO said in an interview
with German newspaper Handelsblatt. VW confirmed his comments.  Volkswagen earlier this month completed the 4.49 billion-
euro ($5.62 billion) purchase of the remaining 50.1 percent of
Porsche that it didn’t own. The deal added the 12th brand to
VW’s portfolio after buying Ducati in Italy in July and raising
its stake in Munich-based MAN to 75 percent in June. VW is not
currently interested in bidding for Malaysian carmaker Proton,
Winterkorn said today.  “We need to grow in Southeast Asia,” he said. “But that
does not mean that we will buy Malaysia’s Proton, like some are
speculating.”  Volkswagen  advanced  as much as 85 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
139.95 euros and was up 0.4 percent as of 10:30 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading. The stock has climbed 21 percent this year,
valuing the automaker at 62 billion euros.  Winterkorn said he still finds  Fiat SpA (F) ’s  Alfa Romeo  an
attractive brand. At the Paris Motor Show two years ago
 Ferdinand Piech , head of VW’s supervisory board, said he wanted
to acquire Alfa Romeo.  “That I find Alfa Romeo an interesting brand is not a
secret,” Winterkorn said. “But we are currently busy enough
with our brands.”  Integration  Porsche, which is already using parts and technology from
the VW group, still needs to adapt its working processes to
deepen cooperation with VW’s other brands, said Michael Punzet,
analyst at DZ Bank in Frankfurt. VW may seek a domination
agreement to gain greater control at MAN and needs to plan the
cooperation with  Scania AB (SCVB) , which VW also controls, he said.  “If VW gets offered Alfa Romeo or Proton for a cheap
price, they would not decline,” Punzet said. “But at the
moment I guess they are really focusing on integrating Porsche
AG and consolidating the truckmakers MAN and Scania.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  