-- Was Romney’s Speech Supposed to Be Exciting?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-31T08:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/was-romney-s-speech-supposed-to-be-exciting-.html
Are you more excited now than you
were four years ago?  It is an odd question coming from Mitt Romney, who is about
as exciting as the  management consultant  he once was. Yet it was
one of the more interesting arguments in  his speech  last night
accepting the Republican presidential nomination. “Tonight I’d
ask a simple question,” Romney said, addressing Barack Obama’s
2008 supporters. “If you felt that excitement when you voted for
Barack Obama, shouldn’t you feel that way now that he’s
President Obama?”  Romney also had his variation on the usual  challenger’s
challenge  -- “Are you better off now than you were four years
ago?” -- but this  was not  a speech that got into many specifics
about how he would do things differently. There was a five-step
plan to create 12 million new jobs, but it would barely fill out
a PowerPoint slide. Perhaps by the time of the presidential
debates, Romney will have enough details for one of his
trademark  multimedia presentations .  Instead, Romney used his speech to talk about his family,
charmingly so, and to set the stakes for November. With his
selection three weeks ago of U.S. Representative  Paul Ryan  as
his running mate, the  conventional wisdom  was that Romney had
transformed the election from a referendum (on Obama) into a
choice (between Romney and Obama). If so, one of the goals of
the speech seemed to be to turn the election back into a
referendum.  Which leads us to the issue of excitement, though we will
refrain from using an exclamation point. Whichever candidate can
best excite his “base,” so the thinking goes, gains an
advantage; and the vanishingly small cadre of truly undecided
voters must also be motivated to vote.  Except that there are different ways to be excited, and not
all of them are good. “It’s very easy to excite the base with
incendiary comments,”  said  one Republican candidate in last
winter’s presidential primaries. “I’m not willing to light my
hair on fire to try and get support.”  That candidate was  Mitt Romney , of course, who knew then --
and surely does now -- that political passions, once unleashed,
have a way of becoming uncontrollable. There is a plausible
argument that what U.S. politics need right now is  less
excitement , not more. Romney surely also knows that there is a
difference between campaigning (exciting, often) and governing
(not, mostly).  Still, Romney was on to something. A stagnant economy, some
20 million unemployed or underemployed Americans, and a broken
political system will tend to have  a depressing effect ,
economically and psychologically. The U.S. is  far less hopeful 
than it was just after Obama took office, even as its economy is
far less fragile. Can Romney or Obama do anything about it?  Whether Obama can recapture the excitement of his
campaign’s youth is doubtful. And the task for both candidates
is less glamorous than workmanlike.  “What America needs is jobs,” Romney said last night. “Lots
of jobs.” This is akin to saying America needs lots of sunshine
and lollipops. The dispute isn’t over whether the U.S. needs
jobs. It’s about how best to create them.  What America also needs is a respectful,  honest debate 
between the candidates about the U.S.’s economic future. The two
main goals -- increasing spending now to stimulate the economy,
and reducing spending later to control the deficit -- aren’t
really at odds, but they don’t lend themselves to easy
campaigning.  Mitt Romney didn’t add much to this debate yesterday, and
 Barack Obama  probably won’t at next week’s Democratic National
Convention in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . That’s OK: Every four
years, for the two weeks of the party conventions, U.S.
political dialogue becomes more partisan than usual. Too much
excitement, probably. Here’s hoping the homestretch of the
campaign will be exciting enough to keep voters interested, but
substantive enough to keep them thinking.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  U.S. should back
Egypt’s peace plan  for  Syria ; Stephen L. Carter on why he is
 still an NFL fan ; William Pesek on  China’s slowing economy ;
 Amity Shlaes  on how Romney can cut the  mortgage-interest
deduction ; Naomi Schaefer Riley on why  summer college tours are
a waste of time .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  