-- Williams Calls for at Least $600 Billion in Fed Purchases
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 2012-08-31T22:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/williams-calls-for-at-least-600-billion-more-in-fed-purchases.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San
Francisco  President  John Williams  called for additional bond
purchases by the Fed to spur economic growth that would be open-
ended and total at least $600 billion.  High unemployment and inflation below the Fed’s 2 percent
target “would argue for additional accommodation now,”
Williams said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television from
Jackson Hole, Wyoming. “I would like to see something that has
a measurable effect on job growth. That would be arguing for a
pretty large program” that’s “at least as large as QE2,” or
the second round of quantitative easing, he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  made the case for more bond
purchases today as policy makers weigh the need for further
stimulus before their Sept. 12-13 meeting. They said additional
stimulus will be needed “fairly soon” unless the outlook
brightened, according minutes of their July 31-Aug. 1 meeting.  Williams, who votes on the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee , joined Fed presidents  Charles Evans  of Chicago
and Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  in calling for a program that
doesn’t announce a fixed target level of securities the Fed will
buy, unlike previous quantitative easing programs.  “It makes more sense to have a more open-ended approach”
in which the central bank would conduct “a flow of purchases”
of both mortgage-backed securities and longer-term Treasuries,
Williams said in an interview with  Michael McKee  on “Street
Smart.”  Spur Growth  Speaking today at the Kansas City Fed’s annual meeting of
global central bankers and economists, Bernanke defended the
 U.S. central bank ’s unprecedented measures to spur growth and
repeated his readiness to do more as needed.  “The costs of nontraditional policies, when considered
carefully, appear manageable, implying that we should not rule
out the further use of such policies if economic conditions
warrant,” Bernanke said.  U.S. stocks rose today as speculation grew that Bernanke
and his colleagues were nearing a decision to ease policy
further. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,406.58 at the close of trading in New York.  Deleveraging households, a weakening global economy and
cutbacks in government spending all make for headwinds that will
keep growth “relatively modest to moderate,” Williams said
today.  Still,  Glenn Hubbard , adviser to Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney , said bond purchases by the Fed would do
little to shore up the economy.  “I don’t think that another round of quantitative easing
is going to have a material effect on the recovery,” Hubbard
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “Lowering
the 10-year yield by another handful of basis points isn’t going
to move the needle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  