-- Twitter Alerts U.S. Geological Survey to Philippines Quake
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-08-31T21:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/twitter-beats-u-s-geological-survey-to-philippines-quake-news.html
Twitter Inc., the microblogging
service that lets more than 140 million users send short
messages on everything from the mundane to the life-altering,
tipped off the  U.S. Geological Survey  to the 7.6-magnitude
earthquake that hit near the coast of the  Philippines  today.  The Reston, Virginia-based  agency  detected tweets about the
earthquake one minute and seven seconds after the seismic event,
which occurred at about 8:47 p.m. local time,  Paul Earle , a USGS
seismologist, said in a telephone interview.  Social media sites such as San Francisco-based Twitter are
playing a more prominent role in raising awareness of and
coordinating responses to natural disasters, including the 2010
earthquake in  Haiti  and one last year in  Japan  that led to the
failure of the Fukushima nuclear plant. USGS scientists monitor
tweets for mentions of the word “earthquake” and its
equivalents in other languages.  “In some cases, it gives us a heads up that it happened
before it can be detected by a seismic wave,” Earle said.  The system for monitoring Twitter, called the  Tweet
Earthquake Dispatch , is most effective in remote regions, where
the agency does not have as many instruments for measuring
seismic activity as it does in an earthquake-prone area such as
 California , Earle said.  A tsunami alert was canceled after being issued on the
heels of the temblor. The Philippines has been battered by
natural disasters in recent months, killing dozens of people.
President  Benigno Aquino  has drawn criticism for his handling of
the crises. The nation was hit by an earthquake that killed at
least 48 people and triggered landslides that left dozens more
missing in February.  Organizations such as Oxfam International and American Red
Cross post on the site to coordinate relief efforts, while
families can use Twitter to search for missing loved ones.  The USGS occasionally receives false alarms from its
prototype system, such as when Twitter users post messages about
the song “ Earthquake ” by British musician Labrinth.  “It’s not foolproof,” Earle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  