-- WTO to Probe U.S. Duties on Some Indian Steel Products
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-08-31T11:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/wto-to-probe-u-s-duties-on-some-indian-steel-products.html
The  World Trade Organization  agreed
to investigate the legality of U.S. countervailing duties on
certain Indian hot-rolled carbon-steel flat products.  India , which lodged its  complaint  at the Geneva-based WTO
on April 24, is challenging a U.S. finding that Indian steel
producers received an illegal subsidy by paying too little for
 iron ore  from a state-owned producer. The U.S. first imposed the
tariff, which is fixed at 102.7 percent, in December 2001 and
extended it six years later.  Separately, the U.S. today blocked a request by China for
WTO judges to probe American anti-subsidy measures targeting 22
products including solar panels, wood flooring, steel pipes and
citric acid. Also,  Australia  thwarted Ukraine’s call for the
trade arbiter to rule on the legality of an Australian decision
to prohibit trademarks and logos on tobacco products.  China , the world’s biggest steel producer and the dominant
manufacturer of solar panels, and Ukraine can renew their
requests at the Dispute Settlement Body’s next regular meeting.
Under WTO rules, second requests to set up panels are
automatically accepted.  The Chinese case, which involves exports worth $7.3
billion, follows a 2009 complaint against U.S. duties on imports
of circular welded carbon quality steel pipe, light-walled
rectangular pipe and tube, certain pneumatic off-road tires and
laminated woven sacks.  Appellate Ruling  In that case, the WTO’s Appellate Body concluded in March
2011 that the U.S. Commerce Department violated global trade
rules by determining that state-owned suppliers of goods to
Chinese producers targeted by the anti-subsidy duties were
“public bodies” and therefore provided government financial
contributions to manufacturers.  The complaint is one of several between China and the U.S.
at the WTO. The U.S. is also jousting with China over access for
products including poultry, grain-oriented flat-rolled
electrical steel and cars. Along with the European Union and
 Japan , the U.S. filed a WTO complaint in March challenging the
Asian nation’s export limits on rare-earth minerals.  Ukraine in its complaint says the scientific evidence on
which Australia’s ban is based was insufficient and that the
plain-packaging rules on tobacco will unnecessarily curb trade
because Australia’s public-health goal can be met by other
means.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  