-- Myanmar Rape-Murder Sparks Outrage Over Abuse of Muslims
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-08-31T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/myanmar-rape-murder-sparks-outrage-over-abuse-of-muslims.html
Seamstress Thida Htwe was walking
home from her tailoring work on a remote Myanmar road in late
May when attackers took the 27-year-old by knife point to a
forest where they raped her, slit her throat, and took her gold
jewelry before dumping her body in the mangrove trees.  Local Burmese, including Buddhist monks, distributed
incendiary pamphlets about the crime, and allegations quickly
spread among the Buddhist majority in Rakhine state that
Rohingya Muslims were to blame, according to New York-based
 Human Rights Watch . The group based its report on the incident
and its aftermath, which United Nations officials confirmed, on
57 interviews with both Rohingya and Burmese.  Six days later, as three Rohingya suspects sat in jail, a
Buddhist mob stopped a bus in a nearby town and killed 10 Muslim
men on board. Local police and soldiers watched without
intervening, according to Human Rights Watch and UN officials.
Within a week, President  Thein Sein  declared a state of
emergency to quell riots that have killed 88 people and left
villages in ruins.  The ethnic strife is complicating Myanmar’s evolving ties
with the U.S. and Islamic nations such as  Saudi Arabia  and  Iran ,
as authorities struggle with how to treat the Rohingya, a
minority that’s denied citizenship in Myanmar and faces
persecution in  Asia  similar to that of other stateless Muslim
groups such as the Mideast’s Kurds.  ‘Serious Issue’  “It’s a serious issue that will hurt Myanmar’s reputation
in the long term,” said Jim Della-Giacoma, Southeast Asia
project director for the  International Crisis Group , a Brussels-
based policy research organization. “If Myanmar wants to enter
the fold of modern and democratic states, it needs to grapple
with this very fundamental issue to give equal rights to all
ethnic groups, all religious groups.”  The Rohingya’s status leaves them trapped doing unskilled,
poorly paid labor in one of the world’s poorest nations.  While Myanmar has begun to attract companies such as  Visa
Inc. (V)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  after taking steps toward democracy, the
Rohingya’s plight has flummoxed both Thein Sein and opposition
leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Neither openly supports citizenship for
the Rohingya, and Suu Kyi, though a democratic icon, skirted the
issue on a European tour in June when she collected a Nobel
Peace Prize she won during her 15 years under house arrest.  “They are very loath to discuss this issue directly,
publicly and internationally,” Vijay Nambiar, the United
Nations’ top adviser on Myanmar who visited the area immediately
after the unrest broke out, said in an Aug. 6 interview in  New
York . “They see this very firmly as a refugee issue and an
issue that the international community should solve and ‘take
away these people.’”  Three Convictions  The three Rohingya suspects were convicted for the rape and
murder, according to Human Rights Watch. One reportedly
committed suicide in prison, and the other two were sentenced to
death, the rights group said in its report. In contrast, there
have been no convictions in connection with the killing of the
10 Muslim men “despite hundreds of witnesses to the attack,”
according to the report issued last month.  Human Rights Watch says about 800,000 Rohingya live in
Myanmar. The country, formerly known as  Burma , has a population
of about 64 million, according to the  International Monetary
Fund . Many Burmese consider the Rohingya illegal migrants from
what’s now  Bangladesh , according to Human Rights Watch, which
says their presence in modern-day Myanmar predates the start of
British colonial rule in 1824.  ‘Potentially Destabilizing’  Thein Sein said in June that the violence spread because of
“instigations based on religion and racism” and called on all
people to show “a sense of wisdom” and “loving kindness” to
halt the fighting. In July, he urged the UN High Commissioner
for Refugees to accept Rohingya as refugees and resettle them in
third countries -- a suggestion the UNHCR promptly rejected.  Even as the nation undertakes economic and political
reforms, the tension among its more than 100 ethnic groups
“remains a potentially destabilizing factor,” the  Asian
Development Bank  said in an Aug. 20 report, “Myanmar in
Transition.”  Spurred by increased foreign investment and commodity
sales, Myanmar’s  economy  may grow as much as 8 percent a year
over the next decade as inflation remains low and the government
increases trade ties with neighbors China and  India , according
to the bank.  While U.S. President  Barack Obama  last month eased some
sanctions that were placed on Myanmar’s former military regime,
he’s still considering whether to waive an import ban that
Congress voted to extend this month, partly due to concern about
the Rohingya.  ‘Ethnic Cleansing’  The 57-nation  Organisation of Islamic Cooperation  condemned
the “ethnic cleansing perpetrated by the Myanmar government,”
according to a  statement  released in May. The group, which
includes Saudi Arabia, Iran and  Syria , called for the Rohingya
to have citizenship and offered humanitarian assistance for
Rakhine state.  Myanmar has gone on the defensive, forming a 27-member
commission on Aug. 17 that includes Muslim leaders to
investigate the violence. Authorities moved to halt the ethnic
fighting as quickly as possible, the government said in an Aug.
21 statement, saying the clashes occurred “between two
communities within a State of Myanmar following a criminal
act.”  “We will not accept any attempt to politically regionalize
or internationalize this conflict as a religious issue,” the
government said. “Such attempts will not contribute to finding
solutions to the problem, but will only complicate the issue
further.”  Turned Away  Bangladesh, Myanmar’s predominantly Muslim neighbor, has
turned away Rohingya trying to reach safety in makeshift wooden
boats. Human Rights Watch says about 200,000 Rohingya live in
Bangladesh, a nation with a population of about 169 million,
according to the IMF.  In one account chronicled by Human Rights Watch in its 56-
page report this month, a Rohingya mother of six said her five-
year-old daughter died of starvation after Bangladesh
authorities denied entry three times and left her floating under
a hot sun in the  Bay of Bengal  for four days.  “Why should we allow them to enter our country?”
Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed told Al Jazeera
television in a  July 27 interview . “It is not our
responsibility; it is theirs. Bangladesh is already an
overpopulated country.”  Bangladesh had influxes of about 250,000 Rohingya refugees
from Myanmar in 1978 and in the early 1990s, followed by
repatriation efforts “that were not wholly voluntary,” the
UN’s refugee agency said in a December  report .  Rohingya Origins  The U.S. State Department  said  in 2010 that a designated
terrorist organization, Harakat ul-Jihad-i-Islami/Bangladesh,
“had trained and fielded operatives in Burma to fight on behalf
of the Rohingya.” Bangladesh banned the group in 2005,
according to the State Department report.  Historians debate the origins of the Rohingya, who unlike
the Burmese, speak an Indo-European language, according to
 Ethnalogue , which categorizes the world’s languages. In Myanmar,
they’re referred to as “Bengali.”  In more than a century under British rule, migrants from
Bengal, also a colony, swelled the Muslim population along the
borders, according to  colonial records  cited by Aye Chan in a
2005 academic article published by the School of Oriental and
African Studies in  London .  As the British East India Company expanded its reach,
British policy encouraged Bengali residents of nearby areas to
migrate to Arakan, the region now known as Rakhine, as farmers,
and there were no boundaries or restrictions on emigration,
according to the article.  Not Recognized  Ethnic violence against the Muslim minority there can be
traced to the departure of the British after Burmese
independence in 1948, the paper said.  A 1982 citizenship law grants nationality to people in
ethnic groups that were present in the country before the
British conquest. That law excludes the Rohingya, along with
other minorities of Indian and Chinese descent that aren’t on a
list of 135 official ethnic groups.  Myanmar’s recent moves to allow greater Internet freedom
have exposed deep-seated hatred toward the Rohingya on social-
media sites. Burmese bloggers refer to the Muslim minority as
“dogs” or “black,” according to two UN human-rights
officials who declined to be identified because of the
sensitivity of the matter.  ‘Absolute Denial’  When asked about Burmese attitudes toward the Rohingya, the
UN’s Nambiar said, “There is a kind of scare that ‘these’
people from outside are coming over and taking over ‘our’
resources.”  “This has now taken a life of its own,” with “a large
number of Burmese in absolute denial,” he said.  Thein Sein undoubtedly will face questions about the
 Rohingya  when he makes his first appearance as president at the
UN General Assembly in the final week of September, Nambiar
said.  UN officials have told the president, directly and
indirectly, “you have to take this head-on. It is incumbent on
the government to do more to allay the fears, anxieties and
suspicions,” he said.  Suu Kyi may be asked about the issue when she travels to
 Washington  for a scheduled Sept. 19 ceremony in the Capitol
Rotunda to accept the Congressional Gold Medal, which lawmakers
 awarded  in 2008 while she was under house arrest in Myanmar. She
is also scheduled to receive an award from the Atlantic Council
in New York on Sept. 21. It will be her first return to the city
where she worked at the UN Secretariat from 1969 to 1971.  Denied Citizenship  “We have to be very clear about what the laws of
citizenship are and who are entitled to them,” Suu Kyi told
reporters in Geneva on June 14. “All those who are entitled to
citizenship should be treated as full citizens deserving all the
rights that must be given to them.”  For a democracy icon who endured years in detention to
protest an oppressive military regime, Suu Kyi’s equivocation on
the Rohingya has drawn rare criticism.  “There are a lot of theories on why she is silent,” said
John Sifton, director of Asia advocacy at Human Rights Watch.
“The simplest and most plausible is that it does not win you
friends.”  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, John Walcott  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at o
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  