-- Zurich Insurance Will Seek to Expand in China, Indonesia
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-08-31T01:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-31/zurich-insurance-to-seek-expansion-in-china-indonesia-ceo-says.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , the
biggest Swiss insurer, is seeking more licenses to expand in
Chinese cities as part of a strategy to grow in  emerging
markets , chief executive officer Martin Senn said.  Mergers and acquisitions provide an additional channel for
growth, yet the Zurich-based company will not participate in
bidding wars for Asian insurance assets, Senn said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong. In addition to
China, Zurich Insurance seeks to become “a leading insurer” in
Malaysia and is looking to expand in Indonesia, he said.  When there is “an opportunity on the M&A front, we have to
look at it,” Senn said. “We have to be very disciplined.”  Zurich Insurance is targeting emerging markets such as
 Latin America ,  Middle East , Africa and the Asia-Pacific region
to help attain a business operating profit after-tax return on
equity of 16 percent over the long term. The company last year
 bought  51 percent of  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s Latin America
insurance business and Malaysian Assurance Alliance Bhd.  “We are seeing a decline in premium income in Europe and
it is fair to say that growth prospects in Europe are limited,”
the insurer’s Chief Financial Officer Pierre Wauthier said in an
interview in June. “There is less of a need in Latin America
than in certain countries in Asia Pacific, because we already
have a pretty strong position after the Santander transaction.”  ‘Big Shift’  There is a “big shift” in  life insurance  with  emerging
markets  expected to contribute more than 40 percent of new
business value by the end of this year, Wauthier said at the
time. Increasing demand from companies in Asia will help drive
growth in general insurance, he added.  Zurich Insurance earlier this month  reported  a 19 percent
decline in second-quarter profit, after a gain in the year-
earlier period from the sale of a stake in  New China Life
Insurance Co. (1336)  and lower investment income this year.  The environment in the Euro zone will remain challenging
for quite some time and interest rates may stay low, Senn said
today. Zurich Insurance has adjusted its business model and
strategy according to the greater “tail risk”, he added.  It’s too early to put a number on the damages from the
typhoons in Asia this year and Hurricane Isaac in the U.S., Senn
said, adding that he doesn’t expect them to have a material
impact on the insurer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  