-- Austria’s Fringe Parties Set to Gain in Elections
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-09-28T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/austria-s-fringe-parties-set-to-gain-in-elections.html
Austria’s two-party coalition led
by Chancellor Werner Faymann may be poised to win its narrowest
victory since World War II in elections today to the 24th
Nationalrat, or parliament.  While polls suggest that Faymann and Vice Chancellor
Michael Spindelegger are set to lead their parties to first and
second place respectively, they also show both recording their
worst results of the postwar period. That may force them to seek
fresh alliances amid challenges by the anti-immigrant Freedom
Party and new groups backed by billionaire Frank Stronach and
former  Strabag SE (STR)  boss Hans-Peter Haselsteiner.  Austrians enjoy Europe’s lowest unemployment and an economy
that’s growing faster than the European average. Even so,
political frustration has been fed by the costs of euro-area
rescue measures, a string of high-profile corruption cases and
lingering concerns that the nation’s wealth may be slipping. The
polls close at 5 p.m. local time with projected results due
shortly thereafter.  “The grand coalition isn’t a merger of love, or even of
convenience -- it’s a merger of necessity,” said Austrian
political scientist Anton Pelinka of the Central European
University in Budapest. “The opposition parties just have to
wait until the two main parties drown themselves.”  Support for Faymann’s Social Democrats is 27 percent to 23
percent for the People’s Party led by Spindelegger, a poll of
500 voters by Karmasin Motivforschung and published by Profil
magazine on Sept. 23 showed. The anti-immigrant Freedom Party
had 21 percent, while backing for the Greens, an environmental
party that has also campaigned as an anti-corruption group, was
14 percent. No margin of error was given.  Protest Votes  In addition to the established parties, Stronach, an
Austrian-Canadian, and Haselsteiner have thrown themselves
behind new groups aiming for protest votes. Polls put support
for Team Stronach at 7 percent, while the libertarian Neos group
Haselsteiner backs may fail to pass the 4 percent threshold
required to enter parliament.  So-called grand coalitions of socialists and conservatives
have ruled Austria in 42 of the 68 years since the end of World
War II. All other combinations would require three groups to
form a pact to govern, potentially complicating the procedure.  After the election, it’s up to President Heinz Fischer to
give a mandate to form a government to one of the parties. While
there is no formal rule, he usually starts by asking the biggest
group in parliament to seek support for a government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  