-- Bankrupt Stockton Plan Favors Retirees Over Creditors
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-09-28T13:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/bankrupt-stockton-california-unveils-debt-adjustments.html
Stockton, California, unveiled its
plan to exit bankruptcy by raising taxes and paying some
creditors less than they are owed while maintaining its pension
obligations to city employees.  Under the proposed plan of adjustment posted yesterday on
Stockton’s website, bondholder  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  would
have the option of settling with the city or taking control of a
park and two golf courses that were pledged as collateral for
$35.1 million the company is owed. The city says it can only pay
$500,000 of the $2.9 million it owes every year on the bonds.  Stockton has “the outlines of a negotiated settlement”
with creditor Assured Guaranty Corp., which insured
$164.7 million in bonds that the city has said in the past it
cannot fully repay. City officials didn’t disclose what it
offered the bond insurer, saying in a staff report to the
Stockton city council that they wanted to keep the details
confidential until at least Sept. 30, when Assured may present
the proposal to the company’s senior executives.  “This may be a bit more like the throwing down of the
gauntlet by the city,” Dale Ginter, an attorney who has been
following the case, said before the plan was unveiled. Ginter
represented retired city workers in the bankruptcy of Vallejo,
 California , which set legal precedents used in Stockton.  Creditor Cuts  Creditors targeted for cuts won’t be surprised by most of
what they see, Ginter said.  “There have been a lot of negotiations leading up to
this,” he said.  The  proposal  is scheduled to go before the council for a
vote on Oct. 3, city spokeswoman Connie Cochran said. With the
council’s approval, the plan would be submitted to the federal
judge in  Sacramento  overseeing the bankruptcy, Stockton’s lead
bankruptcy attorney, Marc A. Levinson, said in an e-mail.  In addition to cutting some debt, the plan also relies on
voters approving a sales-tax increase in November that would
raise about $28 million annually. If voters reject the increase,
the city would have to cut $11 million from services, according
to the staff report. Before the bankruptcy, Stockton reduced
services and cut employees, including police officers.  Once the plan is in front of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Christopher M. Klein, creditors and the city may continue
negotiating any points they don’t agree on, Ginter said.  Bond Insurers  Since about April, Stockton has been in discussions with a
group of bondholders and bond insurers, including Assured and
Franklin.  By August, creditors had claimed they were owed more than
$1.18 billion, according to a draft of the disclosure statement,
which explains the plan for creditors. The statement was
attached to the city council agenda for Oct. 3.  The city said it will dispute some of those claims.  Although Stockton pledged to keep up all payments to its
employee pensions, retirees will lose a subsidy for their health
insurance under a settlement announced earlier this year. In
June, Stockton said it would give retirees $5.1 million in
exchange for canceling that benefit, or about 1 percent of $538
million that retirees may have been owed.  Holders of all other general unsecured claims would recover
the same percentage, according to the draft plan. The plan
involves claims of about $299 million of publicly held
securities, according to the draft.  Calpers Maintained  Stockton didn’t impose a reduction on what it owes the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers,
which provides pensions to its workers.  “Stockton’s proposed plan of adjustment reflects the
difficult financial decisions the city has had to make in order
to restore its financial health,” Calpers said yesterday in a
statement. “By continuing to fully fund its pension
obligations, Stockton has both acted in accordance with
applicable constitutional and statutory law and acknowledged the
importance of a secure retirement to its current employees and
retirees.”  The pension commitment had been challenged by bondholders
and bond insurers, who tried to have the city thrown out of
bankruptcy.  In denying that request, Klein said the dispute over
whether Calpers should also take a cut could be brought back as
part of a potential court fight over the proposed plan of
adjustment.  Bankruptcy Code  Bondholders may try to convince Klein that the proposal
should be rejected because it doesn’t comply with the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code , which requires that a plan be fair and
equitable and not discriminate against creditors unfairly,
Ginter said.  Stockton, an agricultural center of 296,000 about 80 miles
(130 kilometers) east of  San Francisco , is among at least three
municipalities that have said they will ask creditors including
bondholders to take less than the principal they are owed. The
others are  Detroit  and Jefferson County,  Alabama .  Since filing for bankruptcy last year, Stockton had
revealed the broad outlines of its strategy in court documents,
court hearings and public statements. Elected officials put the
0.75 cent sales-tax increase on the November ballot and
negotiated concessions with current and former city employees.
Before the city filed for bankruptcy, officials asked creditors
to accept less than they are owed.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-bk-32118,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  