-- Cameron Reaches Out to Party With U.K. Marriage Tax Break
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-28T12:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/cameron-reaches-out-to-party-with-u-k-marriage-tax-break.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
plans to give married couples a tax break, he said before the
start of his  Conservative Party ’s annual conference tomorrow.  Cameron’s relationship with Conservative lawmakers this
year has been characterized by a series of unprecedented
defeats, with record numbers refusing to back his legislative
program and then a smaller number voting against his call for
action in  Syria .  The policy made public today by the prime minister has been
regularly called for by some of his critics within the party.
From 2015, a person who doesn’t earn enough to use all of their
10,200-pound ($16,400) tax-free allowance will be able to
transfer 1,000 pounds of it to their spouse. It won’t apply to
couples in which one person pays tax at the 40 percent rate --
likely to be on earnings of more than 42,285 pounds.  “There is something special about marriage: It’s a
declaration of commitment, responsibility and stability that
helps to bind families,” Cameron wrote in today’s Daily Mail
newspaper. “When I ran for the leadership of my party back in
2005, I said that I wanted to do more for marriage in the tax
system. So this week at the Conservative Party’s conference in
Manchester, I’m going to deliver on the promise I made.”  Election Year  The policy, which would also apply to same-sex civil
partnerships, will be worth 200 pounds a year to a couple in
which one partner earns less than 10,200 pounds and the other
between 11,200 and 42,285 pounds. The Conservative Party
estimated the measure would benefit 4 million couples. By
introducing it in the election year of 2015, Cameron will be
able to challenge the opposition  Labour Party , which is against
the policy, over whether they would try to revoke it.  Cameron’s coalition government drew fire from some
Conservatives in its first year in office for announcing plans
to stop people in the 40 percent tax bracket from receiving
child benefit, a payment worth 1,752 pounds a year to a couple
with two children. The Treasury eventually scaled back the plans
to a taper of the payments at a higher threshold.  The Conservatives’ Liberal Democrat coalition partners, who
said they won’t oppose the marriage tax break, compared it to
their own party-conference announcement on Sept. 17 of a
proposal to give free school meals to children age 4 to 7.  Labour’s Treasury spokesman, Rachel Reeves, said the
Conservative proposal showed the party had the wrong priorities.
“ David Cameron ’s so-called marriage tax break won’t even help
two-thirds of married couples, let alone millions of people who
are separated, widowed or divorced,” she said in an e-mailed
statement. “He’s so out of touch he thinks people will get
married for 3.85 pounds a week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  