-- Canadian Dollar Touches Highest Since June on Growth Optimism
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-28T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/canadian-dollar-touches-highest-since-june-on-growth-optimism.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened to
the highest level since June against its U.S. counterpart this
month amid optimism the economy is recovering from a second-quarter slowdown.  The currency traded in its narrowest weekly range since
March during the past five days amid a political standoff in the
U.S. that could cause the government of  Canada ’s largest trading
partner to shut down, harming the surge in exports the  Bank of
Canada  is expecting to drive growth. A report next week will
show gross domestic product expanded 0.5 percent in July, after
contracting the same amount the previous month, according to the
median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists.  “Assuming there is an eleventh hour agreement, I think we
can still look ahead to an improvement in U.S. growth and I
think that will see through into better demand,” Jane Foley,
senior currency strategist at Rabobank International, said by
telephone from  London . “There is now also the anticipation in
the market right now that the Bank of Canada will be one of the
first few G-10 central banks to hike interest rates, and that’s
something which will underpin the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.02 percent this week
to C$1.0306 per  U.S. dollar . One loonie buys 97.03 U.S. cents.
The loonie is up 2.1 percent in September.  The currency touched C$1.0182 per U.S. dollar on Sept. 19,
a three-month high, after the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly
maintained the monetary stimulus its used to lower borrowing
costs, easing concern that higher U.S. interest rates will slow
global growth.  Oil Spread  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  rose, with
yields falling 14 basis points, or 1.4 percentage point, this
week to 2.55 percent. The 1.5 percent bond maturing in June 2023
gained C$1.10 to C$91.03.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export posted their
biggest monthly loss in eight, falling 4.5 percent to $102.81
per barrel.  Lack of pipeline infrastructure connecting to international
markets has meant Canada’s oil has faced a discount compared
with the U.S. benchmark. The  discount  Canada’s benchmark crude
oil-grade, Western Canada Select, faced to West Texas
Intermediate, it’s U.S. peer, was at $31.75 per barrel
yesterday, the most since Jan. 30.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said during a trip
to  New York  Sept. 26 that his government will continue to push
for approval of the Keystone XL pipeline, which would transport
crude from  Alberta  to the  Gulf of Mexico , even if President
 Barack Obama  rejects the project. Oil is Canada’s biggest
export.  Energy Strategy  “The uncertainty regarding Keystone will play a role as
well on that oil differential,” said Clement Gignac, chief
economist at Industrial Alliance Insurance and Financial
Services Inc., by phone from  Quebec City . “A lot of things
influence the Canadian dollar, including the prospect of
economic growth, but including all this discount regarding oil
price and the strategy regarding energy in  North America .”  Canadian economic growth has been stronger than forecast as
of late, with  employment growth  in August coming in three times
greater than the average analyst forecast, building permits for
July rising to a record and retail sales in the same month
exceeding analyst estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Partisan Politics  The loonie traded in a range of 0.34 Canadian cents this
week, the least since the five days ended March 29, with efforts
to pass legislation that would keep the U.S. government funded
past Sept. 30 deadlocked as Republicans insist any new budget
remove funding for PresidentObama’s signature health care law
and Democrats seek to preserve it.  A government shutdown may reduce fourth-quarter economic
growth by as much as 1.4 percentage points in the U.S., Canada’s
largest trading partner, according to Moody’s Analytics Inc.  The Canadian dollar has lost 0.2 percent this month against
nine developed market peers tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has fallen 2 percent while the
Australian currency has gained 2 percent.  “It will tend toward weakness, I think, the Canadian
dollar, if we continue to see this bipartisan fiscal stalemate
in the U.S.,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president at
CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign exchange dealer, said by
phone from Toronto. “All this partisan politics doesn’t go over
well in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  