-- Citigroup Follows JPMorgan as Legal Target, Peabody Says
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-28T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/citigroup-follows-jpmorgan-as-legal-target-peabody-says.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  is poised to be the
next  U.S. bank  to attract legal and regulatory scrutiny as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  looks to settle a host of probes, according
to an analyst at Portales Partners LLC.  Citigroup’s $5 billion estimate of potential legal costs
that weren’t covered by reserves at midyear is second only to
JPMorgan, Charles Peabody of Portales said yesterday in a
Bloomberg Radio interview. That shows Citigroup may be bracing
for more legal challenges, Peabody said.  “It’s very conceivable that Citigroup will be next in the
firing line,” Peabody said. “Their litigation costs have been
accelerating faster than anyone else’s.” Citigroup is the
third-largest U.S. bank by assets and JPMorgan is ranked first.
Both are based in New York.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said earlier this month
that announcements about banks other than JPMorgan would be made
in the coming weeks and months. Citigroup Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Corbat  has seen litigation costs climb to $1.44
billion in the first half of 2013, putting this year on track to
be the most expensive for such costs since the financial crisis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mark Costiglio, a company spokesman, declined to comment.
The lender is facing “legacy issues” tied to mortgage
products, Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said in July.  Citigroup’s estimate for potential legal costs rose from $4
billion a year earlier. JPMorgan raised the upper end of its
estimate to $6.8 billion from $5.3 billion.  Bank of America
Corp.  reduced its figure to $2.8 billion from $4.1 billion after
settling some of its biggest pending cases.  Citigroup’s litigation costs totaled $8.1 billion from 2008
through the end of June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with $21.3 billion at JPMorgan and
$19.1 billion at Bank of America.  Wells Fargo & Co .’s totaled
$2.7 billion.  “You’re going to see a continuation of headlines dealing
with litigation,” Peabody said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  