-- Dollar Falls in Longest Streak Since June as U.S. Shutdown Looms
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-09-28T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/dollar-falls-in-longest-streak-since-june-as-u-s-shutdown-looms.html
The dollar fell in the longest
stretch since June as traders weighed whether the economy is
strong enough to warrant a reduction in monetary stimulus and as
political budget wrangling threatened a government shutdown.  The yen rallied the most against the dollar of its 16 major
peers as comments from Finance Minister Taro Aso damped bets the
government will cut corporate taxes. A basket of emerging-market
currencies fell. The Labor Department may report Oct. 4 that
private payrolls increased by 180,000 this month. Investors are
assessing those figures after the  Federal Reserve  surprised the
markets on Sept. 18 by maintaining its $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases.  The dollar “entered the week on its back foot in response
to the Fed’s surprise move the week before,”  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst in Washington at Western Union Business
Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co., said in a phone
interview. “In addition to mixed data we’ve seen on the
economy, these headwinds on the recovery, investors grew even
more skittish at the specter of a U.S. government shutdown.”  The Bloomberg  U.S. Dollar  Index, which tracks the
performance of a basket of 10 leading global currencies against
the dollar, fell 0.1 percent this week to 1,012.75 in  New York .
It reached 1,006.40 on Sept. 19, the lowest level on a closing
basis since Feb. 20.  The U.S. currency was little changed at $1.3522 per euro.
The greenback gained 1.1 percent to 98.24 yen. Japan’s currency
added 1.1 percent to 132.86 versus Europe’s 17-nation common
tender.  Market Measures  The  New Zealand dollar  has gained 7.1 percent versus the
greenback this month, while the yen has declined 0.1 percent.  This quarter, the kiwi has led all major gainers with a 6.9
percent increase, while the worst-performing South African rand
has slipped 2.1 percent. Denmark’s krone is the best-performing
currency in 2013 and the rand has plunged 16 percent.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators betting on a rise
in the U.S. dollar against currencies traded on the CME Group
Inc. reduced net positions this week to the lowest since April,
according to data from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission compiled by Bloomberg. The cumulative net
speculative dollar longs, in the CME Group’s Japanese yen, euro,
Swiss franc, British pound,  Mexican peso , Australian, New
Zealand and Canadian dollar contracts, fell to 38,471 in the
week ended Sept. 24, the least since April 30.  The yen rallied for a second week as Aso told reporters that
funding sources would be needed if corporate tax rates were to
be reduced. Kyodo News reported yesterday that the government of
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had pledged to begin a study on
cutting the levy.  Japan Policy  “The market is obviously looking at the comments by
minister Aso,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “That, along
with the risk-aversion mentality we’re seeing trading into
quarter-end, partly because of the U.S. shutdown risks, are
keeping dollar-yen relatively subdued and biased to the
downside.”  Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  told the Yorkshire
Post that officials would consider expanding its asset-purchase
target, known as quantitative easing, should the economic
recovery falter.  “Given the recovery has strengthened and broadened, I
don’t see a case for quantitative easing and I have not
supported it,” he said, according to the newspaper.  The pound increased for a fourth-week to $1.6139 after
climbing to $1.6163 on Sept. 18, the highest since Jan. 11.  The dollar has shown surprising strength since the Fed
decided not to trim monthly asset purchases, according to David Woo of Bank of America Corp.  Economic Pickup  “The market is still pricing in a pretty sharp pickup in
growth,” Woo, the global head of rates and currencies in New
York at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in an interview
yesterday on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene 
and Scarlet Fu. “The price action is not sustainable. What it’s
telling me is there’s a lot of complacency out there.”  The  unemployment  rate this month was unchanged at 7.3
percent from August, according the median forecast of 50
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. While the jobless rate
declined last month to the lowest since December 2008, it
happened as workers left the  labor force .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cited Bernanke cited the
declining share of the population in the labor force as a policy
consideration during the last Federal Open Market Committee
meeting, after which they kept their stimulus program unchanged.
The central bank chief also listed the need to protect the
economy from the budget impasse in  Washington  as a reason for
keeping its quantitative easing measures unabated.  Twenty-four of 41 economists surveyed Sept. 18-19 said the
Fed will now wait until December before taking the first step in
slowing its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, according to
a Bloomberg survey.  Congress Votes  The Senate voted yesterday to finance the government
through Nov. 15 after removing language to choke off funding for
the health care law, putting pressure on the House to avoid a
federal shutdown that may start Oct. 1. Treasury Secretary Jacob
J. Lew told Congress that the extraordinary measures being used
to avoid breaching the debt ceiling “will be exhausted no later
than Oct. 17” and that the department will have about $30
billion to pay obligations.  “Elevated uncertainty toward the dollar should keep it
well below its recent highs,” Western Union’s Manimbo said.
“Investors might tread a little carefully with the greenback
ahead of next week’s payrolls number.”  An equally weighted basket of so-called BRICS emerging-market currencies fell, snapping a three week rally. BRICS
refers to  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and  South Africa .  “Most EM currencies have given up all of their post-FOMC
gains,”  Win Thin , the global head of emerging-markets strategy
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, wrote Sept. 27 in
a note. “This fits in with our view that the FOMC decision to
delay tapering will continue to weigh on EM FX.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  