-- Melco Crown Plans to Invest $5 Billion in Japan Casinos
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n ,   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   P a t r i c k   C h u
-- 2013-09-28T15:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/melco-crown-plans-to-invest-5-billion-in-japan-casinos.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  said
it plans to invest more than $5 billion in  Japan  casino resorts
if it receives permission to build in what could be the world’s
second-largest gambling market.  The Hong Kong-based casino operator, the venture between
Macau casino mogul Lawrence Ho and Australian billionaire James Packer, prefers developing resorts in the country’s capital of
Tokyo and Osaka, Ho said in an interview yesterday in Tokyo.  “The potential is huge for integrated resorts in Japan,”
Ho, co-chairman of Melco Crown, said. “If Japan opens up and
allows integrated resorts in Tokyo, Osaka, the market could
easily be in excess of $10 billion to $15 billion or more.”  Melco joins U.S.-based competitors such as  Wynn Resorts
Ltd. (WYNN) , MGM Resorts International and  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  in
seeking expansion opportunities in Japan as Tokyo’s selection to
host the 2020 Olympics boosts confidence the government will
legalize casinos. Wynn and MGM executives have said their
companies would invest several billion dollars in Japan.  Japan’s capital beat Madrid and Istanbul to host the Summer
Games, its second following the 1964 Olympics. Plans to
revitalize the capital city’s infrastructure and build adequate
accommodations for visitors are an additional catalyst for
approving casino resorts, which typically include hotels and
other entertainment venues.  Japan has long been touted as an attractive gaming market
with a large and relatively rich population base. It also enjoys
global appeal as a tourist destination. The country would become
the world’s second-largest casino hub generating $10 billion
revenue a year should it open up the market, Union Gaming Group
LLC estimated.  Government Lobby  The 36-year-old son of Macau gambling tycoon Stanley Ho
said he has been lobbying with multiple cabinet members in Japan
for the legalization of casinos.  The executive sees “significant” non-gaming revenue for
the North Asia country as he doesn’t expect “visitors just come
to Japan and go straight to casinos. There’s so much to do, so
much to see. Japan has a rich culture.”  Wynn Resorts’ investment in a Japan casino “is going to be
way bigger” than the $4 billion it is spending on its current
project in Macau’s Cotai area, Wynn Resorts Development
President and Chief Operating Officer Gamal Aziz said in an
interview earlier this month in Tokyo.  MGM Resorts (MGM)  would invest
“several” billion dollars once the market opens up, President
Bill Hornbuckle said.  Local Partners  Both casino operators said they plan to partner with a
local consortium to build casino resorts while Sands has said it
is “open minded” about the idea. Ho said yesterday the company
also considers working with local groups.  The three U.S. companies are interested in developing
projects in Tokyo and Osaka.  Melco Crown is expanding both at home and overseas. In the
 Philippines , it is partnering with Philippine billionaire Henry Sy’s Belle Corp. to develop and operate a casino resort in
 Manila , which is expected to cost $1 billion.  Lawrence Ho is also investing in two Russian casino resorts
worth $630 million through two companies in which he holds a
stake,  Melco International Development Ltd. (200)  and  Summit Ascent
Holdings Ltd. (102)   Melco Crown is building its Studio City casino resort on
Cotai Strip, Macau’s answer to the Las Vegas Strip.  Casino revenue in Macau, the only place in  China  where
casino gambling is legal, raked in $38 billion last year, more
than six times that of the Las Vegas Strip and two-thirds of
that came from high-stakes gamblers mostly from mainland China.  Lawrence’s father Stanley Ho, 91, nicknamed “the king of
gambling” in Macau by the local press, held a gambling monopoly
through his company  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  in the former Portuguese
colony for four decades until 2002, when the government issued
licenses to six operators based outside the city, such as Sands,
Wynn and MGM Resorts. SJM Holding is Asia’s biggest casino
company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in 東京 at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  