-- Texas Fiscal Strength Earns Top S&P Grade on $14 Billion
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/texas-fiscal-strength-earns-top-s-p-grade-on-14-billion.html
Texas, the second most-populous
U.S. state, won  Standard & Poor’s  top rating on $14 billion of
general-obligation debt because of its ability to maintain deep
reserves after the longest recession since the 1930s.  S&P raised its grade on the state one step to AAA and gave
it a stable outlook, the New York-based company said yesterday
in a statement. Texas now has top scores from S&P, Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, one of a handful of states
ranked at the top by all three.  “The upgrade is reflective of the state’s ability to
manage and maintain its reserves through the Great Recession,”
Horacio Aldrete-Sanchez, an S&P analyst in Dallas, said in a
telephone interview. “For some states the recession led to
reductions in reserves. We expect  Texas  to continue to do better
than other states.”  The recession that began in December 2007 forced many
states to cut spending, raise taxes and reduce reserves as they
dealt with falling revenue even after the slump ended 18 months
later. California amassed deficits exceeding $100 billion,
bringing its budget in balance with a $6 billion tax increase
last year. As revenue rebounds, U.S. states plan to boost
spending this year to the highest levels since the downturn, the
National Governor’s Association said in a June report.  Higher ratings can reduce the cost of borrowing as
investors demand smaller premiums to own bonds deemed less
risky. Texas last month sold $7.2 billion of one-year notes at a
record-low yield of 0.201 percent, to manage its  cash flow ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘No Accident’  Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, said the upgrade “is no
accident, but further proof that the Texas model of conservative
fiscal discipline is a key element of our strong economy.” The
top mark reflects restrained  government spending  and low taxes,
he said in a statement.  Susan Combs, the state comptroller, said it was the first
time Texas has had top scores from all three companies. ``These
bond ratings reflect Wall Street’s confidence in the Texas 
economy, the state’s revenue growth and disciplined cash
management and budgeting,'' she said in a statement.  The Lone Star state’s current $196.9 billion two-year
budget includes $94.6 billion of general-fund appropriations.
Texas this year restored money to schools and health-care
programs after cuts were made in the previous spending plan in
2011, according to S&P. The government in Austin has proposed
using $2 billion from reserves for water projects, which must
win voter approval.  Even with the restored spending, Comptroller Susan Combs, a
Republican, has forecast reserves to reach $7.6 billion by Aug.
31, 2015, the end of the fiscal year, or about 8.1 percent of
general-fund spending, S&P said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  