-- EZchip Jumps 11% as Cisco Concern Wanes: Israel Overnight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-09-28T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/ezchip-jumps-11-as-cisco-concern-wanes-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) ,  Israel ’s
second-largest chipmaker, capped its biggest gain since May last
week as concern eased that  Cisco (CSCO)  Systems Inc.’s new processor
will compete with its products.  Shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based chipmaker rose 11
percent last week to $24.83 in New York, the biggest advance
since May 10. The U.S.-traded share’s premium over the Israel
stock surged to 10 percent, the widest gap in 13 months. The
Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the most-traded Israeli
companies in New York added 1.8 percent and specialty chemicals
maker  Enzymotec Ltd. (ENZY)  rallied 30 percent in its first day of
trading in New York.  EZchip plunged 21 percent on Sept. 12 when Cisco, which
represents 40 percent of its  revenue , said it will start using
an internally developed processor. EZchip jumped the most in 10
months Sept. 24 as San Jose, California-based Cisco said that
the in-home processor will be part of systems that neither
previously used, nor were slated to use EZchip’s product,
according to Feltl & Co.  “EZchip will rebound back to the levels where it was
before the Cisco fears,”  Jay Srivatsa , an analyst at Chardan
Capital Markets LLC in New York, said by phone on Sept. 26.
“The news this week confirmed that the move lower was overdone
and that the stock is undervalued.”  The shekel strengthened 0.2 percent against the dollar on
Sept. 27 as Standard & Poor’s affirmed Israel’s A+ ratings.  Cloudy Outlook  “The product cycle for these types of chips is three to
four years so it is unlikely that Cisco will start to switch to
its own internal processors for a few years” said Srivatsa.
“In 2015 you could start to see a hit to revenue for EZchip
related to Cisco. Investors could start to look ahead in the
middle of 2014 and become worried.”  Sales growth slowed in the past two years for the chipmaker
as key customers such as Juniper Networks Inc. and Huawei
Technologies Co. started to use in-home alternatives to EZchip
products. Sales will increase 29 percent in 2013, rebounding
from a drop of 14 percent in 2012, according to the mean of
seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The stock will
rise 37 percent over the next year based on the average
prediction of seven  analysts .  EZchip led gains on the Bloomberg Israel-US gauge, which
rose to a two-year high last week.  Caesarstone Sdot Yam Ltd. (CSTE) ,
the Israeli maker of granite countertops, rose 9 percent in the
week, reaching a record high of $46.16 on Sept. 25. Elbit
Systems Ltd., a Haifa-based defense developer, added 7.2 percent
to $53.63, the highest since May 2011. It increased its premium
to the shares traded in Israel to 4.2 percent, the widest in 12
years.  Enzymotec Surges  Enzymotec, based in Migdal Ha’Emek, Israel, jumped to
$18.16 after selling 4.4 million shares in an initial public
offering. The company is the second Israeli health care company
to list its IPO in the U.S. this year. In May, Alcobra Ltd., the
developer of an oral medicine to treat attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder, debuted on the Nasdaq.  “The IPO is important because there haven’t been many big
health-care IPOs out of Israel in a while,” Rudy Balseiro,
managing director of equity capital markets at Needham & Co. in
New York, said by phone on Sept. 27. “In the past, you had
companies go public on expectations, but this is a real company
with real performance.”  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , the Israeli maker of cameras that can
be swallowed, climbed 4.2 percent last week to $19.21, the
 highest  since May 2012. The latest version of the company’s
PillCam SB, aimed at detecting and monitoring Crohn’s disease
and other conditions of the small bowel, received approval by
Japanese medical authorities on Sept. 23. The stock closed at a
2.2 percent premium to Israeli shares.  AudioCodes Ltd. (AUDC) , the Israeli company which makes Internet
voice call products, traded at the largest premium among dual-listed companies. The stock rose 14 percent last week in New
York to trade at a 13 percent premium to Tel Aviv shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  