-- Falcone’s Funds Sell Harbinger Group Shares to Leucadia
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/falcone-s-funds-sell-harbinger-group-shares-to-leucadia.html
Philip Falcone ’s  hedge funds  sold
$158 million of  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG)  shares to  Leucadia National
Corp. (LUK)  as the money manager meets redemption requests after
reaching a settlement with U.S. regulators.  Three funds run by Harbinger Capital Partners LLC sold a
combined 18.6 million shares of Harbinger Group, a publicly
traded holding company run by Falcone, for $8.50 a share,
according to a Securities and Exchange Commission  filing 
yesterday. The transaction makes Leucadia the second-largest
holder, with a stake of about 13 percent in the New York-based
company that runs businesses including life insurance and pet
supplies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Falcone, 51, and Harbinger Capital agreed in August to meet
investor redemptions under the supervision of an independent
monitor as part of an $18 million settlement with the SEC. The
accord also includes a five-year ban from the securities
industry and an admission of wrongdoing for improperly borrowing
money from his funds to pay his personal income taxes.  Leucadia agreed last year to  buy  Jefferies Group LLC in a
$3.2 billion deal that put  Richard Handler , who was running the
investment bank, in charge of the combined company when the
transaction was completed in March. New York-based Leucadia also
has investments in industries including beef processing.  The hedge funds sold an additional 5.1 million shares to
other, undisclosed investors, according to the filing.  Harbinger Group rose 0.5 percent yesterday to $10.06 in New
York trading. The shares have climbed 31 percent this year.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Harbinger at RLM Finsbury,
declined to comment on the transaction. Laura Ulbrandt, a
spokeswoman for Leucadia, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  