-- Gay Marriage Patchwork Seen as Courts Wrestle With Ruling
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-09-28T04:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/gay-marriage-patchwork-seen-as-courts-wrestle-with-ruling.html
New Jersey  same-sex couples won a
court ruling recognizing a right to wed while an  Illinois  judge
allowed a challenge to that state’s ban on the practice to move
forward over the objections of a handful of county clerks.  The decisions issued yesterday advance the state-by-state
battle over gay marriage in the wake of a June U.S. Supreme
Court ruling that said the federal government couldn’t
discriminate against gay couples and didn’t address the
constitutionality of state bans on same-sex unions.  “Same-sex couples must be allowed to marry in order to
obtain equal protection of the law under the New Jersey
Constitution,” Superior Court Judge Mary Jacobson in Trenton
said, provisionally making her state the 14th in the U.S. to
grant that right.  Jacobson delayed implementation of her ruling until Oct.
21, allowing the state time to appeal and seek a stay.
Republican Governor  Chris Christie  last year vetoed a same-sex
marriage bill, saying the issue should be decided by voters, and
his office said he’ll appeal yesterday’s ruling.  “Since the legislature refused to allow the people to
decide expeditiously, we will let the Supreme Court make this
constitutional determination,” Christie’s spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , said yesterday in a statement.  ‘Just’ ‘Fair’  “While the governor says he’s going to appeal, that will
just determine whether this happens sooner or later,” Larry
Lustberg, an attorney representing Garden State Equality, said
at a rally last night in Montclair, New Jersey. “We’re going to
win time and time again. That’s what is just and fair.”  Marsha Shapiro, 59, of South Brunswick, and her partner of
24 years, Louise Walpin, 60, were among the couples who filed
the lawsuit.  The two entered into a civil union in 2007. When their 20-year-old son Aaron, Shapiro’s biological child, died of
complications from cerebral palsy as well as lifelong seizure
and cognitive disorders in 2008, they said they had to explain
what a civil union was to the funeral director.  “No one should ever have to lose a child but to have to go
through the indignity of having to explain your relationship
when all you want to do is grieve is just horrible,” Walpin
said. “When you just say you’re married, people understand
it.”  New Jersey and Illinois are two of 17 states where gay
marriage proponents are clashing in court with state governments
and with citizens’ groups whose avowed purpose is to preserve
what they call “traditional” heterosexual marriage.  Law Unsettled  With the high court having left the law unsettled, one or
more of those cases will likely furnish the justices with
another opportunity to decide if gays have a fundamental right
to wed.  “Everybody expects that eventually, the U.S.  Supreme Court 
is going to hear the issue,” said  Camilla Taylor , one of two
lead lawyers in the Illinois case. “The important thing is to
try to prepare the day for that decision.”  While same-sex weddings will now be allowed in 14 states
and the  District of Columbia , 29 have constitutional amendments
prohibiting it and six have made it illegal by law.  The Supreme Court’s June ruling invalidated that part of
the 1996 federal Defense of Marriage Act that said the U.S.
government could only recognize those marriages between one man
and one woman.  That same day, the high court rejected an appeal of a trial
court ruling invalidating a constitutional ban created by voter
referendum in  California .  Minnesota, Pennsylvania  Since then, laws allowing gay couples to marry have also
taken effect in  Minnesota  and Rhode Island, while new lawsuits
were filed in Pennsylvania state court, and in federal court in
Virginia and South Carolina. Cases challenging Nevada and
Hawaii’s bans are before the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San
Francisco.  In denying yesterday a defense motion to dismiss two
lawsuits filed last year, state court Judge Sophia Hall in
 Chicago  said the 25 plaintiff gay couples “presented sufficient
facts to warrant further consideration of the question of
whether their fundamental right to marry in Illinois includes
the right to chose to marry a partner of the same sex.”  In New Mexico, the only state without a law allowing or
prohibiting same-sex marriage, county clerks last month began
issuing marriage licenses to gay couples. On Oct. 23, the
state’s supreme court is set to hear arguments on whether that
can continue.  Political Map  The legal map can largely be traced over the political one.
All 14 states now allowing same-sex marriage were carried by
President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, in the 2012 election. Of the
24 states won by his Republican opponent,  Mitt Romney , 21 have
bans against gay marriage secured in their constitutions and
three bar it by statute. Eight states Obama won also have
constitutional bans.  “The geographic turf war is even more pronounced than the
number of states that have passed same-sex marriage suggests,”
John C. Eastman, chairman of the Washington-based National
Organization for Marriage, said in a phone interview. His group
opposes same-sex marriage.  “The narrative that this is all a one-way street is just
patently false,” Eastman said. “There’s a groundswell of a
political movement that wants to defend traditional marriage.”  The Supreme Court’s ruling changed the climate for
discussion of gay marriage, said William C. Duncan, a lawyer who
leads the Lehi, Utah-based  Marriage Law Foundation . That change,
he said, has come even as the narrow scope of the high court
decision allows state court judges to ignore it.  Patchwork  “Either we have a national policy or we end up with a
patchwork,” Duncan, whose group opposes same-sex marriage, said
in a phone interview.  A  Gallup poll  taken in July found that 52 percent of
Americans, including 70 percent of Democrats, said they would
vote for allowing gays and lesbians to marry. Forty-three
percent said they would vote against it, as did 66 percent of
Republicans surveyed.  The state constitutional amendments were attempts by
opponents of same-sex marriage to cement their view into law
while it was politically dominant, said  Andrew Koppelman , a law
professor at Chicago’s Northwestern University law school.  Repealed Measures  Some of the measures will be repealed by referendum while
others will be struck down by courts, he predicted.  “We’re talking about a patient that has multiple fatal
diseases,” Koppelman said. “I can’t tell you which is going to
get him first.”  As recently as 2003, same-sex marriage wasn’t recognized
anywhere in the U.S. When the Supreme Court that year reversed a
1986 ruling upholding a Georgia law criminalizing consensual
sodomy, 13 states still had laws making it a crime, Taylor said.  Massachusetts, after a 2003 ruling by its highest court,
became the first state to allow  same-sex marriages  in 2004.  “We have moved with lightning speed,” said Taylor, who
leads the national Marriage Project for the New York-based
Lambda Legal Education and Defense Fund Inc., which is suing
Illinois in tandem with the  American Civil Liberties Union .  Roberta Kaplan, the New York attorney who argued and won
the DOMA case for her client, Edith Windsor, called the
inconsistency of state laws “intolerable.”  Tax Bill  Windsor sued over a $363,000 federal tax bill that followed
the 2009 death of her spouse, Thea Spyer, whom she married in
Canada. While their home state of New York recognized the
marriage, under DOMA, the U.S. didn’t, creating the tax
liability.  Kaplan predicted opposition to same-sex marriage will ebb.  States now straddling the issue, including Hawaii and
Colorado, will reform their laws to retain skilled
professionals, and others will follow, she said.  “Some states aren’t going to move,” Kaplan said, probably
in the Deep South, she added. “That’s when the issue will
really be for the court to decide once again.”  Illinois affords same-sex couples some legal benefits
through civil unions.  Patrick Bova, 75, and his partner, 81-year-old U.S. Navy
veteran James C. Darby, are two of the lead plaintiffs suing
Illinois. While some of their gay friends have traveled outside
Illinois to marry, Bova said he and Darby are staying put, at
least for now.  “We are staying here and hoping,” he said in a phone
interview. “We’re not going to Iowa, not going to  Minneapolis ,
although that’s tempting. Not going to New York.”  Concealed Relationship  Bova said he and Darby met 50 years ago and concealed their
relationship until about 20 years ago. He said he enjoys the
growing acceptance of same-sex couples.  “It’s freedom,” Bova said. “It feels wonderful. I don’t
have to worry about that. I don’t have to hide.”  One benefit of being able to marry, Bova said, would be the
right to be buried side by side at the Abraham Lincoln National
Cemetery in Elwood, Illinois, where veterans are interred.  Five county clerks defending the Illinois law are
represented by Paul B. Linton of the Chicago-based Thomas More
Society, a Catholic-oriented public interest law firm. Linton’s
group took up the case after Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan, a Democrat, declined to fight the tandem lawsuits filed
by Lambda and the ACLU.  Illinois Lawmakers  Illinois lawmakers passed the gay-marriage ban to further
responsible procreation and the “ideal” of having children
raised by their biological mothers and fathers, Linton told Hall
at a hearing on Aug. 6. The law was reasonably related to those
state interests, he said.  “They get the law wrong,” Taylor countered in court.
“They reject the notion there is a fundamental right to marry
the person of their choice.”  Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane, a Democrat,
has also said she won’t defend her state’s same-sex marriage
ban.  After then-California Attorney General  Jerry Brown  and his
successor,  Kamala Harris , both Democrats, refused to defend
Proposition 8, the initiative banning gay marriage in that
state, the Scottsdale, Arizona-based  Alliance Defending Freedom 
took the case. The Supreme Court ruled its client, a group that
sponsored the proposition, couldn’t stand in for the state,
because it hadn’t suffered a particular injury.  Supreme Ruling  The Supreme Court’s ruling on DOMA hinged on whether the
federal government could treat gay married couples differently
from heterosexual ones. Writing for the majority, Justice
Anthony M. Kennedy said DOMA’s intent was unconstitutional
discrimination.  The opinion didn’t question states’ traditional role of
regulating marriage.  Justice  Antonin Scalia  called the majority’s deference to
state law a “pretense.”  “No one should be fooled; it is just a matter of listening
and waiting for the other shoe to drop,” Scalia said,
contending the majority was setting the stage for a ruling
granting same-sex marriage rights nationwide.  Eastman, who is also a professor of law at  Chapman
University  in Orange, California, said his group’s goal is to
ensure that shoe does not drop. If Kennedy’s ruling truly turned
on principles of federalism, he said, then differences among the
states will persist.  Republican Strongholds  Twenty of the states with constitutional amendments barring
gay marriage also prohibit any legal recognition of same-sex
couples. Some of those states, including Texas and Florida, have
Republican governors, attorneys general and majorities in their
legislatures.  Gay marriage opponent Linton agrees with proponent Taylor
that the Supreme Court may let the issue play out in the states,
at least for a time, before it takes up the issue again.  “At some point they may have an obligation to take one of
these cases,” Linton said. “They owe it to the country, down
the road, to decide it, because it’s going to continue to be
litigated.”  The New Jersey case is Garden State Equality v. Dow,
L-001729-11, New Jersey Superior Court, Mercer County (Trenton).
The Illinois cases are Darby v. Orr, 12-CH-19718, and Lazaro v.
Orr, 12-CH-19719, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,  Chancery
Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  