-- GE Wins $1 Billion Order on Vietnam Airlines’ 787s: Dung
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-28T07:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/ge-wins-1-billion-order-on-vietnam-airlines-787s-dung.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  will supply
engines for Vietnam Airlines Corp.’s fleet of 787 Dreamliners,
winning the $1 billion order over Rolls Royce Holdings Plc,
Vietnam Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said yesterday.  The deal will be signed next month at the East Asia Summit
in  Brunei , with U.S. President  Barack Obama  present, Dung said
in an interview in  New York  City. Obama requested the signing be
delayed until the summit, Dung said.  “There has been very strong competition between GE and
Rolls Royce but it was transparent and GE has won the bid,”
Dung said. “This is a very good deal.”  Vietnam’s nascent airline industry is vying to compete with
regional carriers as Asia-Pacific passenger growth is forecast
to surpass that in Europe and North America through 2016,
according to the International Air Transport Association.
VietJet Aviation Joint Stock Co., the nation’s only privately
owned carrier, this week signed an agreement valued at $8.6
billion for as many as 92 A320 aircraft from Airbus SAS.  Vietnam  Airlines Chief Executive Officer Pham Ngoc Minh was
not immediately available to comment. Reuters reported yesterday
that the order was awarded to GE.  The national carrier said last year it would receive 19
Boeing Co. 787-9 Dreamliners beginning in 2015. Eleven of the
planes will be leased, it said. Vietnam Air also intends to add
Airbus SAS A320neo and A350 aircraft as it expands to 170 planes
to tap rising domestic and long-haul travel.  Stake Sales  The state-owned airline said this month it plans to select
a strategic investor as early as the fourth quarter to prepare
for a stake sale next year.  Budget carrier VietJet is considering an initial public
offering within the next 18 to 42 months to fund expansion
overseas, Managing Director Luu Duc Khanh said in an interview
last month.  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE earlier this year agreed to
supply engines for 230 Boeing Co. planes ordered by  Indonesia ’s
PT Lion Mentari Airlines.  GE signed a deal in July to supply a steam turbine
generator to Cong Thanh, a private Vietnamese company, for its
660-megawatt thermal power plant in the nation’s  Nghi Son
Economic Zone . The U.S. manufacturer will also work with the
Vietnamese National Power Transmission Corp. to supply
electricity transmission capacitors for a project to increase
energy efficiency and better regulate Vietnam’s national energy
grid.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  