-- Greek Police Arrest Leader of Nationalist Golden Dawn
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-09-28T16:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/greek-police-arrest-head-of-nationalist-golden-dawn-party.html
Greek police arrested Nikolaos Michaloliakos, leader of the nationalist Golden Dawn party, as
part of an investigation into alleged criminal activity by the
political movement.  Fellow Golden Dawn lawmakers Ilias Kasidiaris, Yannis
Lagos, Ilias Panagiotaros, Yiorgos Germenis as well as 13 other
party officials were also arrested today and taken to police
headquarters in  Athens , where they are waiting to appear before
an investigating judge, said a police spokeswoman, who asked not
to be identified in line with department policy. Arrest warrants
have been issued for 20 other party members, she said.  The arrests follow comments from Michaloliakos Sept. 26,
when he threatened to withdraw his lawmakers from parliament
given actions against his party. Such a move may spark a series
of by-elections, creating possible political instability. There
have been only two by-elections in Greece since 1974 because
parties can retain control of the seats of lawmakers who resign
from parliament or are forced out by a court. The elections can
take place if a party decides not to hold onto the seats,
effectively withdrawing from parliamentary politics.  Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told reporters
that Prime Minister Antonis Samaras discussed the crackdown on
Golden Dawn with officials from the so-called troika of the
European Commission, the European Central Bank and the
International Monetary Fund at a meeting earlier today in
Athens.  ‘No Risk’  “There is no risk of political instability, the troika
didn’t raise the issue of early elections and there is no
climate of concern,” Stournaras said.  Golden Dawn called on its supporters to gather outside the
police headquarters to protest “an illegal and unprecedented
decision,” according to a statement on the party’s website.  Authorities have stepped up pressure on the movement since
the death of a 34-year-old man, described by local media as an
anti-fascist rapper. Police said a Golden Dawn supporter
confessed to the Sept. 18 killing, which was followed by police
raids on the group’s offices and a judicial probe into whether
the party can be banned or characterized as a criminal gang to
limit its activities.  The government will submit a draft law to parliament on
Sept. 30 that aims to suspend state funding of parties whose
lawmakers or administrative officials have been prosecuted for
criminal acts, the Public Order Ministry in Athens said today in
an e-mailed statement.  Democratic Institutions  “Democracy has institutions to protect itself and justice
has the means to defend itself and is doing its job,” Simos Kedikoglou, a government spokesman, said in comments televised
live on Skai TV.  Golden Dawn, which denied any involvement in the Sept. 18
killing, has 18 lawmakers in  Greece ’s 300-seat parliament. Polls
suggest that while backing for the anti-immigrant political
movement has fallen since the killing, it is still the country’s
third-most-popular party. Voter support for the group fell to
6.7 percent from 10.8 percent in June, an Alco poll published
today showed.  The party, which includes officials who have expressed
admiration for Adolf Hitler, got 7 percent of the vote in the
June 2012 elections, tapping into a vein of protest and anger
against record unemployment that has accompanied a recession now
in its sixth year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  