-- Guinea Holds Delayed Parliamentary Election in Bid for Stability
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-09-28T10:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/guinea-holds-delayed-parliamentary-election-in-bid-for-stability.html
Guinea is holding its first
legislative elections in 11 years today in a bid to restore
stability in the world’s biggest bauxite exporter amid
opposition complaints that the electoral commission isn’t ready.  Thirty-two political parties are contesting the election
for parliament, which was dissolved after a military coup that
followed the 2008 death of Lansana Conte, who ruled the West
African nation for 24 years. While opposition leader  Alpha Conde 
was elected president in 2010, a planned vote for the National
Assembly’s 114 seats has been delayed almost two years.  The biggest rivals of Conde’s Rally of the Guinean People
are the Union of Republican Forces and the Union of Democratic
Forces of Guinea. The opposition has threatened to stage
protests if it believes people have been left off the electoral
roll and others appear more than once. Polling stations opened
nationwide at 7 a.m. local time, Alpha Yero Conde, communication
manager at the electoral commission, said by telephone from the
capital city Conakry.  “The elections are essential to stabilize and democratize
Guinea,” said Mohamed Camara, a law professor and political
analyst at the Kofi Annan University in the capital Conakry.
“The elections won’t be without criticism.”  Opposition supporters have protested in Conakry several
times over the past few months, prompting the  International
Monetary Fund  to question whether political instability may
prevent Guinea from achieving its 4.5 percent economic growth
forecast.  Mining Licenses  Security Minister Madifing Diane told reporters Sept. 25
that opposition forces were planning a coup.  “Guinea is in danger and those who pull the strings are
abroad,” Diane said, without giving further details.  The government is currently reviewing some mining licenses
as it seeks to improve transparency in the industry. Besides
bauxite, an aluminum ingredient, Guinea has vast reserves of
 iron ore , gold and diamonds.  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and Vale SA are among
mining companies with projects in the country.  “We are voting today because we want the opening of the
country to the world so that investors can arrive,’’ Ousmane
Camara, a 63-year-old former police officer, said in an
interview in a polling station in Gbessia, a Conakry suburb.
“We are going to elect members of parliament who can move
 Guinea  forward”, he said.  Polling stations are scheduled to close at 6 p.m. local
time with results expected within three days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Ougna Camara in Conakry at 
 ocamara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  