-- Indians Lead Rangers, Rays by One Game on Last Day of MLB Season
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-09-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/indians-lead-rays-rangers-by-one-game-entering-mlb-s-final-day.html
The  Cleveland Indians  lead the
Tampa Bay Rays and  Texas Rangers  by one game as the three teams
battle for two playoff spots on the final day of the Major
League Baseball season.  The Pittsburgh Pirates will host a playoff game for the
first time since 1992 after hitting six home runs yesterday en
route to an 8-3 win over the  Cincinnati Reds .  In a game that ended in heavy rain yesterday at the
Ballpark in Arlington, the Rangers beat the Los Angeles Angels
7-4 for their sixth-straight win, raising the club’s record to
90-71.  About an hour later in Toronto, the  Blue Jays  handed the
Rays a 7-2 defeat, leaving Tampa, also 90-71, tied with Texas
with one regular-season game to go.  The Indians then overcame a rain delay and the  Minnesota
Twins , 5-1, for their ninth-straight victory, putting Cleveland
at 91-70, a game ahead of Texas and Tampa.  With wild-card playoff berths given to the top two non-division winning teams in each league, the Indians will take the
top spot with a win this afternoon at Minnesota. A loss by
Cleveland and wins by Tampa and Texas would leave all three
teams tied, setting up a scenario in which the Indians would
host the Rays on Monday to determine the top wild-card spot and
the loser would play at Texas on Tuesday for the second one.  Should Cleveland win today and Tampa and Texas end their
seasons tied, the Rays would visit the Rangers on Monday to
determine the second wild-card spot.  Rangers Win  Texas starter  Derek Holland  pitched 4 2/3 innings
yesterday, allowing four earned runs on eight hits while
striking out four Angels without a walk. Joakim Soria earned the
win for the Rangers with 1 1/3 innings of relief work and  Joe Nathan  notched his 43rd save.  Garrett Richards (7-8) took the loss for the Angels
(78-83), giving up six runs, including three earned, in 4 1/3
innings.  Rays right-hander Chris Archer was pulled during the third
inning at the Rogers Centre in Toronto, having allowed five hits
and an earned run. Tampa’s relief staff gave up six more runs in
their loss to the Blue Jays (74-87).  Ryan Goins and Kevin Pillar each hit homers for Toronto,
while Blue Jays starter J.A. Happ (5-7) pitched into the eighth
inning, allowing one run on five hits.  Indians’ Victory  Following a two-hour, 41-minute rain delay at Target Field
in Minneapolis, Scot Kazmir struck out 11 Twins (66-95) in six
innings while allowing one run as the Indians moved within one
win of clinching the top American League wild-card spot.  Cleveland first baseman  Carlos Santana  opened the scoring
with a fourth-inning two-run homer off Cole De Vries (0-2),
while Indians center fielder  Michael Bourn  went 2-for-4 with a
two-run double.  At the Great American Ballpark in Cincinnati, Pittsburgh
native Neil Walker had the first two-home run game of his career
as the Pirates beat the Reds to lock up a home wild-card playoff
game. The 28-year-old Walker was 7 when the Pirates last played
in the postseason, falling to the Atlanta Braves in the 1992
National League Championship Series.  “It’s a long-awaited time for Pirates fans,” Walker, who
hit his 15th and 16th homers, said in a televised interview on
the MLB Network. “Fortunately today I got a couple on the
barrel and was able to run them out, and I wasn’t alone.”  Walker hit homers in the third and fifth innings, while
Andrew McCutchen, Pedro Alvarez and Marlon Byrd each added home
runs against Reds starter Bronson Arroyo. Pinch-hitter Andrew
Lambo added his first career homer off reliever Andrew Ondrusek.  Phillips Hurt  Arroyo, who lasted 4 2/3 innings, took the loss, falling to
14-12. Charlie Morton went 4 1/3 innings for the Pirates, giving
up three earned runs on five hits while striking out three and
walking five. Reliever Vin Mazzaro (8-2) pitched 2/3 of an
inning and got the win.  The Reds also lost  Brandon Phillips  after the second
baseman hit a fifth-inning pitch off his shin. Phillips singled
before being removed from the game. X-rays were negative though
Phillips said after the game that he couldn’t walk on the leg,
according to MLB Network.  That leaves Phillips’ status uncertain for Tuesday’s one-game wild-card playoff between the NL’s top two non-division
winners, when the Reds (90-71) take on the Pirates (93-68) at
PNC Park in Pittsburgh.  “We were confident whether we were playing here or playing
at home, but obviously it’s much better to know that you’re
going to have that home crowd behind you,” Walker said.  NL Lead  Adam Wainwright raised his record 19-9 in the  St. Louis 
Cardinals’ 6-2 win over the  Chicago Cubs , keeping alive the
Cardinals’ hopes of earning home-field advantage throughout the
NL playoffs. The Cardinals are 96-65, a game ahead of the
 Atlanta Braves  (95-66), who fell 5-4 to the  Philadelphia
Phillies . Atlanta won its season series against St. Louis,
giving the Braves the tiebreaker for home-field advantage if the
teams finish the season with the same record.  With the AL having won July’s All-Star Game to gain home
field in the  World Series , the Boston Red Sox yesterday wrapped
up the advantage throughout their playoff run when the  Oakland
Athletics  lost 7-5 at the  Seattle Mariners . The defeat dropped
Oakland to 95-66, while Boston (97-64) went on to a 6-5 loss to
the Orioles in Baltimore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  