-- Italy’s Coalition Teeters as Berlusconi Allies Walk Out
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-09-29T13:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/italy-coalition-teeters-as-berlusconi-allies-walk-out.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s government teetered on the verge of collapse after
allies of former leader Silvio Berlusconi, led by Deputy Premier
Angelino Alfano, said they planned to quit the cabinet.  The nation’s leaders stopped short of dissolving the five-month-old administration, invoking procedure and scheduling a
meeting between Letta and President Giorgio Napolitano today for
about 6 p.m. in  Rome .  Berlusconi, 77, said he will push for snap elections, while
Letta plans a confidence vote in parliament on Oct. 1 or 2 to
seek a new majority. Napolitano, 88, said dissolving parliament
would be a last resort, Ansa reported.  Letta’s government has been torn apart by legal troubles
facing Berlusconi, whose criminal tax-fraud conviction subjects
him to expulsion proceedings in parliament. Letta needs 24 votes
in the Senate to secure a new majority without Berlusconi,
Corriere Della Sera reported. To do so, the premier must win
over opposition lawmakers or convince members of Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party to abandon their leader.  “Everything suggests that the coalition is compromised,”
Federico Santi, an analyst with Eurasia Group, said in an e-mail. “The most likely outcome is early elections, but the
timing would be uncertain.”  Snap Elections  Snap elections would have to be called by Napolitano, who
was cited today by Ansa as saying in Naples he would first seek
a solution that allows the legislature to continue. Parliament
was split into four main blocs by inconclusive elections in
February and was reduced to nearly two months of gridlock until
Letta and Berlusconi set aside their rivalries to form their
makeshift alliance.  Letta is scheduled to speak at a charity event in Rome
today at about 5 p.m. and may appear on a news program on state-broadcaster RAI after his meeting with Napolitano, a government
spokeswoman said.  Political turmoil has plagued Italy, the world’s third-biggest debtor after the U.S. and  Japan , throughout the euro
financial crisis. Markets have calmed since European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi’s July 2012 promise to protect the
single currency.  Berlusconi, forced out as prime minister in 2011, brought
down his successor, Mario Monti, in December 2012. The
fragmented parliament elected in February has been incapable of
enacting a program to pull Italy from its two-year recession.  Bond Yields  Italian 10-year bond yields have fallen 1.65 percentage
points to 4.41 percent since Draghi’s commitment. The country’s
economy, which has contracted since the third quarter of 2011,
showed signs of continued weakness as industrial production
unexpectedly fell in July.  Berlusconi, a three-time ex-premier, precipitated the
instability late yesterday by saying he had lost faith in the
government and asking the five ministers from People of Liberty,
or PDL, to step down. Minutes later, Alfano responded with a
statement of his own saying the resignations were en route.  “All the polls tell us we’ll win” the next election,
Berlusconi said today in comments broadcast by SkyTG24.  The disintegration of Letta’s parliamentary alliance would
put  Italy ’s economy and its bonds at increased risk. Letta has
sought spending cuts to bring the budget deficit this year
within the European Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product. He was also pushing for cuts to eliminate a planned 1
percentage point increase in the value-added tax scheduled to
take place Oct. 1.  VAT Increase  Berlusconi said he was pulling his ministers from the
Cabinet because the government wasn’t doing enough to avoid the
VAT increase. Letta disputed that assertion.  “Berlusconi is trying to justify his foolish and
irresponsible move,” Letta said in a statement. “Italians will
see through such an enormous lie and such an attempt to totally
overturn reality.”  Berlusconi, now a senator, may be ousted from parliament as
soon as next month. He is scheduled to present his defense in an
Oct. 4 meeting of the Senate’s parliamentary immunities
committee. If the panel recommends his expulsion, his fate will
be decided in a vote of the full chamber. Letta’s Democratic
Party has said his removal is required by a 2012 anti-corruption
law.  Limited Mandate  Should Letta fail to secure a new majority, the alternative
would be a government with a limited mandate and a tight time
line to pass crucial reforms such as the election law and the
budget stability law before a new vote, Il Messaggero reported.  “Needless to say, the ongoing political scenario is now
expected to weigh on Italian BTPs,” whose yields and spreads
versus other European countries’ debt showed “a great deal of
nervousness over the past few weeks,” Annalisa Piazza, an
analyst at Newedge Group in  London , said in a note to clients
today.  Italy’s 10-year yield climbed 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, this week to 4.42 percent at 5 p.m. London
time Sept. 27, the biggest increase since the period ended Aug.
23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  