-- Kim Seeks to Improve World Bank’s Technical Advice to Members
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-09-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/kim-seeks-to-improve-world-bank-s-technical-advice-to-members.html
The  World Bank  will assemble its
technical experts into 14 groups to improve the advice it gives
member-states on topics from the environment to education,
according to an internal memo from President Jim Yong Kim.  The bank’s experts will join so-called global practices,
with focuses that include finance and markets, poverty and
energy, the memo showed. Until now, staff with similar skills
belonged to separate regional centers, making it harder for
knowledge to be shared within the bank. The change takes effect
next July.  “Our ultimate goal is to deploy the best skills and
expertise to our clients at the right time,” Kim, 53, wrote in
the e-mail sent to the Washington-based bank’s staff and
obtained by  Bloomberg News . “By bringing all technical staff
into global practices, we will nurture talent and create
opportunities for greater professional growth.”  Kim, a doctor by training and the former president of
 Dartmouth College , is trying to refocus the bank on ending
poverty while maintaining demand for its loans and expertise
from nations that increasingly are able to tap financial
markets.  “Building these global practices will better equip the
World Bank Group to achieve our goals of ending extreme poverty
by 2030 and building shared prosperity,” bank spokesman David
Theis said in an e-mail. “This is a key building block in our
strategic change process -- the most ambitious in a
generation.”  Kim, who took the helm 15 months ago, shook up the bank’s
management ranks in July, when he said two senior executives
would leave and others would get new responsibilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  