-- Norwegian Air Grounds Dreamliner for ‘Reliability’ Tests
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-09-28T18:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/norwegian-air-grounds-dreamliner-for-reliability-testing-1-.html
Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  is taking
one of its Boeing 787 Dreamliner planes out of service for
repairs and will lease an Airbus A340 to ensure all scheduled
fights keep running between  Sweden  and the U.S. and  Thailand .  The Dreamliner, Norwegian Air’s second, will be taken “out
of operation for maintenance work and testing so it can give us
the reliability we expect,” Lasse Sandaker-Nielsen, a spokesman
for Norwegian Air, said by telephone today. The plane is
stranded in Bangkok after a hydraulic pump broke and will be
returned to Stockholm later today or tomorrow.  Norwegian Air is grappling with technical glitches on the
Dreamliner, from cockpit oxygen supply issues that delayed a
flight to  New York  from Oslo on Sept. 22, to brake difficulties
that affected the second 787 in Sweden this month. The global
fleet of Dreamliners was grounded earlier this year after some
batteries on planes operated by Japanese carriers caught fire.  “Boeing is dispatching a repair team and the necessary
parts via chartered aircraft from the main maintenance base in
Stockholm for Norwegian’s 787s,” Doug Alder, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. The airliner is
expected be out of service for “a matter of days,” the
statement said.  In consultation with the airline, Boeing said a number of
enhancements will be made to improve the airplane’s in-service
reliability, following its return to  Stockholm .  Technical Difficulties  The Norwegian company said Sept. 23 it planned to confront
Boeing about the technical difficulties and that “something
must happen, fast.”  Norwegian Air, which last year ordered 222 Boeing and
Airbus airliners valued at 127 billion kroner ($21.2 billion),
is flying new routes and opening bases outside the Nordic region
as it steps up competition with state-backed SAS Group AB.  Boeing’s flagship airliner made its commercial debut in
2011. The plane, distinctive for its composite fuselage and
electrical architecture, has come under scrutiny for a series of
setbacks.  The global fleet was grounded for three months this year to
fix lithium-ion battery meltdowns in two 787s’ power systems in
January. Boeing and its suppliers redesigned the batteries and
containment system.  Boeing had requested in July that customers look for a
possible wiring fault on an emergency locator transmitter, which
regulators indicated may have sparked a July fire on a parked
787 in  London .  Last month, Boeing asked airlines to inspect their 787s to
ensure proper configuration of fire-extinguishing bottles, after
uncovering a defect it said stemmed from an error that occurred
at a supplier.  Also last month, a 787 Dreamliner operated by Japan
Airlines Co. returned to  Tokyo ’s Narita airport while en route
to the U.S. after getting an onboard maintenance alert related
to its wings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  