-- Obamacare Exchanges to Start as Questions Persist: Q&A
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-09-28T17:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/obamacare-exchanges-to-start-as-questions-persist-q-a.html
The countdown to the Oct. 1 debut
of the Obamacare insurance exchanges has looked a lot like a
political race, with dueling TV ads, door-knocking volunteers
and a focus on swing-state targets.  Just don’t expect the usual ending to a campaign: a clear
winner at the end of the day.  While the exchanges are expected to open on time, that
milestone is unlikely to settle the 3 1/2-year grudge match over
the  Affordable Care Act . Technical limits and a long enrollment
period mean it may be as late as April before it’s clear how
many uninsured Americans sign up under the law.  “Is it going to be a train wreck, a complete failure? The
answer is no,” said Dan Schuyler, a director at Leavitt
Partners, a Salt Lake City-based health-care consultant. “Is it
going to be completely seamless and instantaneous? No. It is
going to be somewhere in between.”  The exchanges are at the heart of the law’s efforts to
cover more of the 48 million uninsured Americans. About  7
million people  will use the system to buy subsidized insurance
by the end of the first open enrollment period on March 31,
according to congressional projections.  Republicans will spotlight any problem as proof the law is
a disaster. Democrats say they’ll overcome technical glitches
and the law will sell itself as the uninsured gain benefits.
Polls show most Americans side with the skeptics.  The Breakdown  Here’s a primer on what to look for, based on interviews
with consultants, insurers, analysts and state and federal
officials:  Q: Who runs the exchanges?  Fourteen states have their own online exchanges, with the
rest run in whole or part by the U.S. government.  Q: Who will use them?  A: The exchanges are open to people who buy coverage on
their own and employees of businesses with 50 or fewer workers,
as well as those currently shut out of insurance because of cost
or a medical condition.Subsidies are available, on a sliding
scale, to those making as much as four times the poverty level,
which is $11,500 for a single person and $24,000 for a family of
four. Those making less than 138 percent of poverty will be
eligible for Medicaid if they live in one of the 26 states set
to expand the program.  Q: What happens if the federal government shuts down?  A: The exchanges will march on. That’s because the 2010 law
relies primarily on  mandatory spending , which congressional
inaction can’t stop. It’s the budget category used for benefits
such as Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the elderly and
disabled, and  Social Security .  Going Online  Q: How do you access the exchanges?  A: If all goes as planned, those not covered through work
will be able to go online or dial a call-in center, learn if
they’re eligible for tax credits and choose from a menu of
private plans. The exchanges can be found at  www.healthcare.gov .  Q: Who won’t use them?  A: Most of us. People who have insurance through their
jobs, about 55 percent of Americans, aren’t directly affected by
the law and are automatically in compliance with its mandate
that everyone be insured. So are older Americans covered through
Medicare.  Q: Do I have to buy insurance?  A: Yes, or pay a fine. The law requires that most Americans
be insured starting Jan. 1. That can be through work, a
government program like Medicare or Medicaid, or by buying on
the exchanges. Those who opt out face a penalty starting next
year at $95 or 1 percent of  household income , whichever is
higher. By 2016, it rises to $695 per individual or 2.5 percent
of household income, whichever is greater.  Technological Challenge  Q: Is the technology for the exchanges in place?  A: Building the exchanges has been a massive technical
lift, requiring computer systems with real-time connections
among dozens of state and U.S. agencies and private carriers.
The administration says the system is ready to go, albeit with
delays and reduced capabilities in some cases. In  Oregon , for
instance, people won’t be able to buy a plan the first two weeks
unless they go through a broker or designated nonprofit.  Glitches are inevitable; the question is how serious they
may be and how long it takes to fix them.  Q: Has anything else been delayed?  A: The law requires that large companies offer benefits to
anyone working more than 30 hours a week. In July, that rule was
postponed until 2015 to ease the burden of compliance.  This past week, officials said a Spanish-language version
of the federal website won’t be ready until mid-October and an
exchange for small business workers won’t take enrollments until
November. Nevada and  California  also won’t transmit names of new
customers to insurers for about a month, Schuyler said.  Enrollment Pace  Q: How many people will sign up early on?  A: Call it lowering expectations or a realistic assessment:
either way, supporters say they don’t expect a flood of
enrollees this week. Insurance buyers have to pay their first
month’s premium within 30 days of choosing a plan and the
policies don’t take effect until Jan. 1. As a result, the Obama
administration says most people will wait until late November or
December. Another surge may come in March as the end of the
enrollment period nears.  Q: Will the coverage be affordable?  A: It depends on who you are and  where you live . Six in 10
uninsured people will find insurance for less than $100 a month
because of subsidies and expansions to Medicaid, the
administration said last week. Those who make too much for
assistance may be in for sticker shock: the same report said
even bare-bones coverage, known as a bronze plan, will average
almost $3,000 a year for individuals.  Family Plans  For families, the cost of mid-level coverage, a silver
plan, ranges from $559 a month to $1,216 a month in 36 states
where the federal government controls the exchanges. Tax credits
will reduce the cost for many: a family earning $50,000 a year
may find the price of a bronze plan cut to zero in some states.  Q: How will insurers cover the costs for all those added
sick people?  A: By signing up the young and healthy. The administration
said it needs about 40 percent of new enrollees to be in this
group to help balance costs from older, sicker customers and
keep premiums stable.  Q: Do Americans understand what they’re getting into?  A: No. The polls indicate consistent confusion. Three in
five say the law will raise medical costs, and more say they’ll
be worse off under it than better, according to a Bloomberg
National Poll conducted Sept. 20-23. Half also said Republicans
should back off on demands to defund the law, a schizophrenic
view that’s persisted for months.  Finding Support  Q: So does anybody like this law?  A: Yes. Sixty-one percent of Hispanics and 91 percent of
blacks, according to a September poll by the  Pew Research Center 
and  USA Today . That could make the sales pitch easier because
those two groups comprise the bulk of the uninsured in the U.S.
--  47 percent  of the total, according to an analysis by the
 Kaiser Family Foundation . The law also is designed to benefit
people with pre-existing medical conditions: insurers will no
longer be able to deny them coverage.  Q: What’s happening in the big states?  A: Supporters have focused on states such as  Texas ,
 Florida ,  Ohio  and  New Jersey , where many uninsured live and
Republican governors refuse to help in enrollment. California,
which has the most uninsured, is spending $100 million to
promote its exchange while New York plans to spend $27 million
to train community groups and brokers to assist consumers.  Navigating Choices  Q: How much help do consumers get?  A: The administration is spending $67 million to train
health workers, hospitals and other groups, called navigators,
to help people enroll. Grants didn’t arrive until August,
though, and many began a two-week training course this month. If
they’re not up to the task, enrollment may suffer.  “You’re going to have tens of thousands if not hundreds of
thousands of individuals who have never been exposed to health
insurance before -- don’t know what a premium is, what a
deductible is,” said Schuyler, the consultant.  Q: Do Democrats think the law needs to change?  A: Some have called for changes: Families of workers whose
company plan doesn’t include dependents can’t get subsidies. A
tax credit for small businesses has been criticized as
ineffective. And there are bipartisan bills in Congress to
change a provision that may encourage businesses to cut workers’
hours to avoid insuring them. A quick fix seems unlikely:
Republicans say they won’t tinker with a law they consider
fundamentally flawed.  Medicaid Expansion  Q: What’s happening with Medicaid?  A: While the government health program for low-income
Americans is expanding under the law, about half the states have
opted out. The Obama administration just days ago agreed to let
 Arkansas  use the money to help poor citizens buy private
insurance on its exchange. The deal could entice other states
where Republicans have opposed the expansion.  Q: Is Obamacare making health-care more expensive?  A: Time will tell.  Medical costs have moderated in the U.S. the past three
years, offering some relief to the public and private sectors
alike. Prices for medical care rose 1 percent in July compared
with a year earlier, the lowest growth rate since the 1960s,
according to U.S. Commerce Department data. There’s a debate
among economists about how much credit to give the health law
compared with a weak economy and employer moves to curtail
benefits. Obamacare supporters say at least some of the slowdown
is thanks to regulations and pilot programs in the act aimed at
reducing waste in the medical system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  