-- Hong Kong’s First Poverty Line Puts One-Fifth of People in Need
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-09-28T03:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/hong-kong-s-first-poverty-line-puts-one-fifth-of-people-in-need.html
A fifth of  Hong Kong ’s population
is living in poverty, underscoring the challenge Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying faces in seeking to narrow a record wealth gap.  About 1.3 million, or 19.6 percent of the city’s 7 million
people, were below the poverty line last year if excluding
impact from  government aid , Chief Secretary Carrie Lam said
today at the Commission on Poverty Summit, broadcast by Cable
TV. Including benefits, the  poverty rate  falls to 15.2 percent,
or 1 million people. The benchmark, determined for the first
time, was set at half of the city’s median household income, she
said.  The report, commissioned by Leung, may give him the backing
needed to ask for more spending and overcome objections to
further increases to the city’s minimum wage. Tens of thousands
of people protested on July 1, the anniversary of Hong Kong’s
return to  China , demanding the government address the inequality
between the rich and the poor, which has been exacerbated by the
doubling of  home prices  since early 2009.  “Having an official indicator will help the government
define its social welfare policies and will also raise public
expectations for something to be done,” Chung Kim-wah, an
assistant professor at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,
said by phone yesterday. “It’ll put a certain pressure on the
administration.”  Hong Kong’s Gini coefficient, a measure of  income
inequality , rose to 0.537 in 2011 from 0.525 in 2001, the
government said last June. The score, a high for the city since
records began in 1971, is above the 0.4 level used by analysts
as a gauge of the potential for social unrest.  “To alleviate poverty, the government must promote
balanced economic development,” Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying
also said at the summit today. “Poverty is not only an issue of
the low-income population’s hardship, but it also affects Hong
Kong’s harmony and stability, thus affecting its long-term
competitiveness,” he said.  Labor Unrest  Labor unrest and protests have increased in Hong Kong in
the past two years as inflation and  home prices  soared.  The average gross household income of the poorest 10
percent of the population fell 16 percent to HK$2,170 a month in
2011, from 10 years earlier, according to a government  report .
The comparable income for the richest 10 percent jumped to
HK$137,480 a month, a 12 percent increase.  Leung increased welfare spending by about a third in his
first budget delivered in February, boosting recurrent spending
by 31 percent to HK$56 billion ($7.2 billion) in the fiscal year
starting April 1. He handed out allowances to more than 400,000
elderly residents and pumped $2 billion into a poverty
alleviation fund.  Hong Kong’s wealth inequality may increase as the
population ages. The proportion of people aged 65 and older
reached 14 percent last year and is expected to account for 30
percent by 2041, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said in
February.  Expensive Homes  Home prices in the city are the highest among major global
cities, according to London-based property broker  Savills Plc. (SVS) 
The government has imposed measures, including extra taxes on
foreign property buyers and higher mortgage down payment
requirements, as it seeks to reduce the risk of an asset bubble.  Leung this year restarted the sale of subsidized public
housing, a program that was halted in 2004 by his predecessor. A
government committee studying the city’s long-term housing plan
has recommended building 470,000 new homes over the next decade,
of which 60 percent should be public housing, Anthony Cheung,
secretary for transport and housing, told reporters this month.  Hong Kong increased the minimum wage 7.1 percent to HK$30
an hour on May 1. The raise will bolster the salaries of about
327,200 employees, or 10 percent of the city’s workers,
according to a report by a government commission before the new
ruling.  Poverty Line  The city has a wealth gap wider than  Singapore ,  Australia ,
and the U.K., though its  unemployment rate  for the three months
ended August was just 3.3 percent.  Singapore doesn’t have a poverty line and an estimated 6
percent to 8 percent of working households can be called
“working poor,” the  Straits Times  reported Sept. 25, citing a
report.  Europe  uses an  at-risk-of-poverty indicator  set at 60
percent of national median disposable income after accounting
for social benefits.  Labor unrest in Hong Kong has been increasing.  Workers at docks operated by billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s
Hongkong International Terminals Ltd. went on strike for more
than a month earlier this year, demanding higher wages and
better working conditions. The 40-day dispute ended in May after
the workers accepted a 9.8 percent wage increase, compared with
their original demand of 23 percent raise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  