-- Arsenal Climbs to Top of Premier League as Manchester Clubs Lose
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-28T18:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/tottenham-climbs-top-of-premier-league-as-manchester-clubs-lose.html
Arsenal defeated Swansea 2-1 to
move into first place in English soccer’s Premier League, as
Manchester United and Manchester City both lost.  Serge Gnabry and Aaron Ramsey scored as Arsenal won its
fifth straight in the league. The Gunners have 15 points, two
more than Tottenham, which drew 1-1 at home with Chelsea.  West Brom beat hosts Manchester United 2-1 for its first
win at Old Trafford in 35 years while Aston Villa scored twice
in the final 17 minutes to defeat Manchester City 3-2.  Southampton beat Crystal Palace 2-0, Hull defeated West Ham
1-0 and Cardiff won 2-1 at Fulham in the day’s other matches.  After a scoreless first half in  Wales , Arsenal broke
through in the 56th minute as Gnabry took a pass from Ramsey and
sent a shot into the bottom corner for his first goal with the
club.  Ramsey made it 2-0 six minutes later as he finished off a
series of passes from  Jack Wilshere  and Olivier Giroud with his
eighth goal in nine games this season. Swansea’s Ben Davies
scored in the 81st minute, but Arsenal held on for its 12th
straight away win in all competitions.  Morgan Amalfitano and Saido Berahino scored to give West
Brom its first-ever win in 15 Premier League matches against
Manchester United, with Wayne Rooney scoring for the defending
champion.  West Brom took the lead in the 54th minute when Amalfitano
beat several defenders on a run from midfield to chip the ball
over goalkeeper David De Gea. Rooney drew United even three
minutes later with a curling free kick past keeper Boaz Myhill.  1978  Berahino, who replaced the injured Scott Sinclair in the
13th minute, then drilled a shot into the bottom corner from the
edge of the area midway through the second half to give the
Baggies the lead. United’s Marouane Fellaini looked to have tied
the game with five minutes left but was ruled offside as West
Brom scored its first victory at Old Trafford since December
1978.  The loss follows a 4-1 league defeat at Manchester City
last week and leaves United with seven points, its fewest ever
after six games in a Premier League season.  Villa twice came from behind to beat Manchester City for
just the second time in eight league meetings.  Yaya Toure scored for City just before halftime at Villa
Park, and Karim El Ahmadi drew the home side even six minutes
into the second half. Edin Dzeko headed City back in front in
the 56th minute, but goals from Leandro Bacuna and Andreas
Weimann two minutes apart gave Villa the victory.  Gylfi Sigurdsson gave hosts Tottenham the lead in the first
half at White Hart Lane in north  London , with John Terry
equalizing for Chelsea in the 65th minute.  Yellow Card  Chelsea finished with 10 men after Fernando Torres received
his second yellow card in the 81st minute for elbowing Jan Vertonghen, though television replays appeared to show no
contact between the two.  It was the first meeting between Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas and his former mentor, Chelsea coach Jose Mourinho.
Villas-Boas served as an assistant to Mourinho at Porto, Chelsea
and Inter Milan.  Southampton’s home win over Crystal Palace gave it 11
points to tie Chelsea for third place. Daniel Osvaldo scored in
the 47th minute and Rickie Lambert added a goal two minutes
later as the Saints sent Palace to its third consecutive 2-0
defeat.  Robbie Brady scored with a 12th-minute penalty kick as Hull
beat West Ham. The victory gives the promoted Tigers 10 points
and ties them with Manchester City and Liverpool.  Jordan Mutch’s goal in stoppage time gave Cardiff the win
at Fulham. Steven Caulker also scored for Cardiff and Bryan Ruiz
had the goal for Fulham, which extended its home winless run to
seven games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 