-- House Passes Bill That Would Add Scrutiny to Drug Makers
-- B y   S t e v e   W a l s h
-- 2013-09-28T18:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/house-passes-bill-that-would-add-scrutiny-to-drug-makers.html
The U.S. House passed legislation
that would give the government its first uniform rules to help
identify stolen or counterfeit drugs and would put manufacturers
under greater regulatory scrutiny.  The voice vote on H.R. 3204, which was written in response
to dozens of deaths linked to contaminated medicines, sends the
measure to the Senate.  “Bad actors concerned more with profit than public health
will not be able to operate with impunity again,” said
Representative Gene Green, a Texas Democrat.  The bill would let the  Food and Drug Administration  collect
and spend fees to cover costs of inspections and licensing,
impose handling and record-keeping requirements, and create
notification rules for drugs that are potentially unsuitable for
distribution.  The legislation was introduced in response to regulatory
gaps revealed by investigations into meningitis-related deaths
last year that resulted from tainted medications linked to a
compounding pharmacy. Its provisions would replace a patchwork
of state laws governing distribution of drugs through about 4
billion prescriptions a year filled by compounding and
traditional pharmacies, the  Senate Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions  and  House Energy and Commerce  committees said in
approving the measure Sept. 26.  “How we got here is a tragedy,” said Representative
Timothy Murphy, a Republican from  Pennsylvania , said during
today’s debate.  Deadly Outbreak  The FDA came under criticism from Congress for failing to
close New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc. before the
Framingham, Massachusetts-based company shipped fungus-tainted
medications to customers across the U.S. in last year’s
meningitis outbreak. The company subsequently filed for
bankruptcy.  The FDA told lawmakers that its legal authority over
compounding pharmacies needed to be clarified, which the
lawmakers said would happen if this bill becomes law.  The FDA  reported  last year that it had discovered
counterfeit versions of  Roche Holding AG (RHHBY) ’s cancer medicine
Avastin -- containing no active ingredient -- in boxes
identifying the contents as Altuzan, the version of the drug
that is sold in Turkey and hasn’t been approved for use in the
U.S. In 2008 the FDA recalled  Baxter International Inc. (BAX) ’s blood
thinner heparin due to contamination of an ingredient imported
from China; during the crisis, neither the FDA nor Baxter was
able to re-create the supply chain, taking weeks to get close to
the source, according to a report last year by the  Institute of
Medicine , part of the Washington-based National Academies of
Sciences.  Distribution Chain  Under the legislation, manufacturers, repackagers,
wholesale distributors and dispensers would, within seven years,
be maintaining and sharing records of key information about each
drug’s distribution history.  The measure would let larger drug compounders that produce
pharmaceuticals by the batch, rather than one prescription at a
time, register as outsourcing facilities subject to FDA
oversight. That would enable the FDA to identify providers and
products, get reports on adverse reactions and make risk-based
inspections.  Compounding pharmacies prepare personalized prescriptions
and are regulated by state health authorities. Some companies
also produce larger amounts of blended medicines.  Visible Contamination  A Senate committee staff report released in May found that
in the eight months after last year’s meningitis outbreak caused
by contaminated compounded drugs, at least 48 compounding
companies were found to be producing and selling drugs
contaminated or created in unsafe conditions. In at least three
cases, visible contamination was spotted in widely distributed
sterile compound drugs.  The report also found that according to FDA documents
between 2001 and 2011, at least 25 deaths and 36 serious
injuries, including hospitalizations, were linked to large-scale
drug compounding companies, including 13 deaths in 2011. The
figures may understate the actual number of adverse events
because current law doesn’t require reporting of those events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Walsh  in Washington at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  