-- Philippines’ Deadliest Defense Crisis in South Under Aquino Ends
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-09-28T08:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/philippines-deadliest-defense-crisis-in-south-under-aquino-ends.html
The Philippines said it rescued the
last of almost 200 civilians seized by members of a Muslim rebel
group almost three weeks ago in Mindanao, prompting the
government to declare that the most-devastating security crisis
against President  Benigno Aquino ’s administration is over.  “So far, the security crisis is over and now we go to
post-conflict phase,” Defense Secretary Voltaire Gazmin said in
a mobile-phone message today.  Fighting that started Sept. 9, when more than 600 members
of the Moro National Liberation Front loyal to Nur Misuari
stormed coastal villages of Zamboanga City and took hostages,
killed at least 202 people including 12 civilians and 23 state
forces personnel, according to today’s data from the police.  Four decades of insurgency in Mindanao has killed as many
as 200,000 people and stifled development of the resource-rich
southern island. Ending one of  Southeast Asia ’s most entrenched
conflicts could help bring investors to Mindanao and unlock
mineral deposits worth an estimated $300 billion. The government
has said it faces time limits to complete a peace pact this year
with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, another rebel group.  “What happened in Zamboanga is simply an indication of the
defects in the  peace process  that has left out some groups,”
Benito Lim, a political science professor at the Ateneo de
Manila University, said by phone. “This is temporary,” he said,
referring to Gazmin’s declaration, adding it’s a “good
opportunity for the government to see the weaknesses in the
peace plan; or there will be other clashes.”  Taking Refuge  More than 100,000 residents of Zamboanga were forced to
flee their homes, most of them taking refuge in the city’s
sports stadium as rebels fired mortar rounds and torched more
than  10,000 homes , according to the nation’s risk-reduction
agency. The government is assessing whether the evacuees can now
return to their houses, Defense Undersecretary Eduardo del
Rosario said in a mobile-phone message.  One-hundred thirty six MNLF members have been charged with
rebellion and violation of the International Humanitarian Law
for the Zamboanga attacks, Senior Superintendent Edgar Danao, an
investigator with the Mindanao police, said by phone today.  Habier Malik, the MNLF commander who’s still at large, was
among those charged and evidence is being gathered to pin
Misuari down, Danao said.  The government will make 3.9 billion pesos ($90 million)
available to reconstruct Zamboanga City, Aquino said Sept. 19.
The Zamboanga peninsula, which contributed 2.1 percent to the
economy last year, expanded 12.4 percent, the fastest among the
nation’s 17 regions, the data show.  ‘Sardine Capital’  Known as the  Philippines ’ sardine capital, Zamboanga’s
fishing and canning companies employ as many as 40,000 people,
Teresita Uy-Sebastian, vice-chairman of the Mindanao Business
Council, said this month.  Mindanao  accounted for 14.4 percent of Philippine output in
2012, according to government data. It’s also home to many of
the country’s Muslim population, which accounts for about 5
percent of the Philippines’ more than 100 million people,
according to  estimates  by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency.  Misuari and his followers will be held accountable for the
devastation they caused in Zamboanga, Aquino said in the city
Sept. 22 before flying back to Manila after overseeing military
and relief operations for more than a week.  Misuari founded the MNLF more than 40 years ago to lobby
for an independent Muslim state, signed a peace agreement with
the government in 1996 and became governor of the Autonomous
Region of Muslim Mindanao. The Moro Islamic, which is in peace
negotiations with Aquino’s administration, broke away from MNLF
because of policy differences.  The government’s peace deal with Moro Islamic will include
all Muslims, presidential peace adviser Teresita Deles said this
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in  Manila  at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net 
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ; 