-- Treasuries in Longest Win Stretch Since April on Budget Turmoil
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-09-28T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/treasuries-in-longest-win-stretch-since-april-on-budget-turmoil.html
Treasuries rose for a third week,
the longest winning streak since April, as demand for the safest
assets increased amid speculation political deadlock over the
U.S. budget may lead to a government shutdown.  Benchmark  10-year note  yields touched a six-week low as the
Senate approved a stopgap spending bill yesterday, three days
before funding for the government runs out. The measure needs
House approval, and Congress still must vote on raising the
federal debt ceiling. Treasuries’ gains in September amid
political turmoil and the Federal Reserve’s decision to refrain
from reducing bond purchases have pared a loss for the quarter.  “We have the non-trivial risk of a government shutdown
looming and the greater risk of coming to a reasonable
negotiation on the debt ceiling that ultimately threatens growth
and is supporting Treasuries,” said Christopher Sullivan, who
oversees $2.1 billion as chief investment officer at United
Nations Federal Credit Union in New York. “The risks to
economic growth may keep the Fed not tapering into 2014.”  Ten-year (USGG10YR)  note yields dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 2.62 percent this week in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 2.60
percent, the lowest level since Aug. 12. The price of the 2.5
percent note maturing in August 2023 rose 30/32, or $9.38 per
$1,000 face amount, to 98 29/32.  The benchmark yields climbed to a two-year high of 3.01
percent Sept. 6 amid bets the Fed would trim its bond-buying
program. They fell after policy makers on Sept. 18 unexpectedly
maintained their $85 billion in monthly bond-buying, saying they
need more evidence of lasting improvement in the economy.  Bond Index  The Bloomberg U.S.  Treasury Bond Index (BUSY)  dropped 2.5 percent
this year as of Sept. 26. It has returned 0.8 percent this
month, leaving the quarter’s performance little changed. The
Bloomberg  Global Developed Sovereign (BGSV)  Bond Index has gained 1.4
percent this month while losing 3.9 percent in 2013.  Treasury yields fell yesterday as the Senate voted 54-44 to
finance the government through Nov. 15, putting pressure on the
House to avoid a federal shutdown starting Oct. 1. The chamber
stripped language to de-fund President  Barack Obama ’s signature
health-care law. House Republicans insist the bill include
limits on the law, a demand Democrats say they won’t accept.  “Until we get a resolution from Congress, we will see the
safe-haven bid continue,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said
yesterday.  Treasury Bills  U.S. bill rates declined amid the turmoil over the debt
limit. The Treasury said it will sell $25 billion in three-month
bills at its weekly auction Sept. 30, $5 billion less than the
previous sale and the first drop in issuance since April.  “The Treasury cutting the size of the three-month auction
is a signal that the debt ceiling is starting to have an impact
on supply, inspiring demand from investors who are trying to get
out in front of the possibility of a shrinking pie,” said
Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in New York at
Jefferies LLC, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the
Fed. “We could see a further supply squeeze if the fiscal
issues don’t get resolved.”  Rates on  three-month  Treasury bills touched negative 0.0101
percent yesterday, the lowest level this year, versus the 2013
average of 0.0482 percent. Rates on Treasury bills that mature
Oct. 24 reached negative 0.010 yesterday, down from 0.035
percent Sept. 26, before ending the day at 0.0200.  Two years ago, one-month bills jumped to 0.18 percent on
July 29, 2011, the highest since 2009, as Congress pushed to the
Aug. 2, 2011, deadline set by Treasury to avoid a default.  Auction Demand  The Treasury auctioned $97 billion in two-, five- and
seven-year notes this week. Demand at the five- and seven-year
sales bounced back from the lowest levels in four years amid the
Washington standoff and as investors bet the Fed will keep
buying bonds to push down borrowing rates and spur growth.  “The Washington story gaining traction and the lack of
taper have given the market strength,” said Carlos Pro, an
interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York,
which as a primary dealer is obligated to bid at U.S. debt
sales. “The uncertainty that has been introduced as far as the
outlook for monetary and fiscal policy has been a big driver in
the return of demand for Treasuries, and that combo should keep
us lower in yield.”  The Fed refrained after a meeting last week from slowing
its purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds. Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said he was concerned that market interest rates,
driven higher by his own suggestion earlier this year that he
would scale back so-called quantitative easing, would curb
growth. He also told reporters “conditions in the job market
today are still far from what all of us would like to see.”  Jobs Report  U.S. employers added 180,000 jobs in September, economists
in a Bloomberg survey forecast before the Labor Department
reports the data on Oct. 4. August’s increase of 169,000 fell
short of forecasts, and previous gains were revised lower than
first calculated.  The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation showed slowing
last month, according to data released yesterday. The personal
consumption expenditure deflator rose 1.2 percent in August from
a year earlier, compared with a revised 1.3 percent increase in
July, the Commerce Department said.  “They want inflation of 2 percent before they taper,”
Michael Franzese, senior vice president of fixed-income trading
at ED&F Man Capital Markets in New York, said yesterday. “They
are worried about deflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  