-- Rice Says Iran’s Nuclear Pledge May Lead to Normalized Relations
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-09-28T18:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/rice-says-iran-s-nuclear-pledge-may-lead-to-normalized-relations.html
National Security Adviser Susan Rice said U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s phone call yesterday
with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani could begin the process of
normalizing diplomatic relations.  Iran must first follow through on its pledge to seek
nuclear power only for peaceful purposes and stop supporting
terrorists, she said. Negotiations “will begin in earnest”
next month when diplomats gather in Geneva, Rice said on CNN’s
“Fareed Zakaria GPS” program, scheduled for broadcast
tomorrow.  “It’s way too soon to presume either the prospect of an
agreement on the nuclear program, which we hope to be able to
achieve, but we’re quite sober about the potential for that,”
Rice said. “If we could have a peaceful resolution of the
nuclear program and an end to  Iran ’s support for terrorism and
other behavior that has concerned us over many years, then we
could begin a serious discussion about the future.”  Rice was the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations from
2009 until June, when Obama named her as his national security
adviser. During her UN tenure former Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad delivered anti-Western and anti-Semitic diatribes to
the world body. Rouhani, who took over last month, was elected
on a pledge to ease Iran’s global isolation.  Obama said after the phone call with the Iranian leader
that there may be the “basis for a resolution” on the nuclear
program and that Rouhani “indicated that Iran will never
develop nuclear weapons.” The conversation was the highest-level U.S.-Iranian encounter since before Iran’s Islamic
revolution of 1979.  Sanctions on Iran will remain in effect until it satisfies
its obligations under UN Security Council resolutions and
commits in the planned negotiations to only seek nuclear power
for peaceful purposes, Rice told  CNN .  ‘Be Skeptical’  “We and others in the international community have every
reason to be skeptical of that and we need to test it, and any
agreement must be fully verifiable and enforceable,” Rice said.  The two heads of state spoke in advance of a Sept. 30
meeting at the White House between Obama and Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has expressed deep skepticism
about the motives behind Rouhani’s outreach and suggested Iran
is trying to buy time to develop the capability to make a
nuclear weapon.  Rice said U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and
counterparts from five other world powers had a “constructive
discussion” last week with Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, who proposed reaching an accord within a year.  Iran’s pursuit of nuclear technology has led Obama and his
allies in Europe to tighten economic sanctions and the U.S. and
 Israel  to threaten military action to prevent the Islamic
republic from obtaining nuclear weapons. Iran denies that it’s
seeking to do so.  Striking Syria  On  Syria , Rice said the U.S. reserves the option to take
unilateral military action if President Bashar al-Assad’s
government doesn’t comply with the UN resolution requiring it to
surrender its chemical weapons.  “It’s very significant that this strong and binding
resolution, which holds Syria to the obligation that the United
States and  Russia  negotiated in Geneva, will in fact envision
very explicitly further consequences in the case of non-compliance,” Rice said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  