-- Springboks Keep Rugby Championship Alive as All Blacks Get Bonus
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-29T02:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/south-africa-sends-rugby-championship-title-chase-to-final-week.html
South Africa  beat  Australia  28-8 to
set up a Rugby Championship title decider against  New Zealand ,
which takes a five-point lead into the competition’s final round
after scoring four tries in a 33-15 win against  Argentina .  Adriaan Strauss, Zane Kirchner and Willie Le Roux touched
down as the Springboks outscored the Wallabies three tries to
one yesterday in Cape Town. Fly-half Morne Steyn kicked three
penalties and two conversions in his 50th Test for South Africa.  Winger  Ben Smith  ran in two tries for the All Blacks in  La
Plata , including a last-minute solo effort to secure the bonus
point for scoring at least four tries. The Springboks will need
to win with a bonus point in Johannesburg on Oct. 5 to have any
chance of securing the southern hemisphere championship.  “They’re going to have to play now,” All Blacks coach
 Steve Hansen  said in a televised interview. “They’ve got to get
four tries and five points and that’ll suit us as much as it’ll
suit them. We’ve just got to recover well from this game.”  New Zealand tops the standings with 23 points going into
the final match ahead of South Africa, which has a superior
points differential, on 18.  The All Blacks secured all five competition points in the
final minute after they were awarded a penalty on the Argentina
22-meter line and kicked for the corner. New Zealand controlled
the lineout ball and replacement scrum-half Tawera Kerr-Barlow
passed to Smith, who beat the tackles of  Felipe Contepomi  and
Nicolas Sanchez to score under the posts.  Breakaway Try  New Zealand led 11-9 at half time on Julian Savea’s 60-meter breakaway try and two penalties from Aaron Cruden. Sanchez
booted three penalties to keep the home team close.  Marcelo Bosch’s 52-meter penalty put the Pumas a point
ahead in the 43rd minute before Cruden kicked his third penalty.
Openside flanker Sam Cane and Smith then scored tries four
minutes apart as the All Blacks upped the pace to take a 26-12
lead and set themselves up to chase the bonus point.  “That could be crucial,” All Blacks captain Kieran Read
said of Smith’s bonus-point try. “We worked hard for that and
were lucky to get there right at the end. It’s going to be a big
match next week. We’ve got to recover well.”  In  Cape Town , South Africa took control by scoring 23
unanswered points after Christian Leali’ifano’s penalty put
Australia ahead. Hooker Strauss went over from close range for
the opening try and full-back Kirchner finished off a long-range
attack two minutes later. Steyn converted both tries and booted
three penalties to make it 23-3 at half time.  Winger Le Roux went over in the corner in the 71st minute
before Chris Feauai-Sautia scored a consolation try for
Australia in his Test debut. The Wallabies’ fourth loss in their
first tournament under new head coach Ewen McKenzie leaves them
with four points, two more than winless Argentina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  