-- Syria Chemical Weapons Inspections to Start Amid Hurdles
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-09-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/syria-chemical-weapons-inspections-to-start-amid-hurdles.html
International inspectors are due to
get their first look at  Syria ’s chemical weapons stockpiles
within days, implementing a United Nations-backed plan to secure
and destroy the deadly arsenal amid a civil war.  The Organization for the Prevention of Chemical Weapons
plans to have inspections begin by Oct. 1 on a fast-tracked
schedule to deny Syrian President Bashar al-Assad the use of his
mustard gas and nerve agents. It envisions eliminating all
Syria’s chemical weapons and related materials by mid-2014.  It’s the first time the Netherlands-based organization has
undertaken such a task in a war zone. In addition to security,
the plan faces hurdles that include U.S. and other countries’
doubts about Assad’s intentions and questions of where and how
the weapons and related materials will be destroyed.  “Rightly, people have been concerned about whether Syria
will follow through on the commitments that have been laid
forth,” U.S. President  Barack Obama  told reporters yesterday at
the White House. “And I think there are legitimate concerns as
to how, technically, we’re going to be getting those chemical
weapons out while there’s still fighting going on.”  Assad will quickly be tested by inspections, and the
chemical weapons organization’s 41-nation Executive Council
agreed to meet within 24 hours after any Syrian violations to
consider referring the matter to the UN Security Council.  Destruction Milestones  It’s unclear where and how Syria’s weapons and precursor
chemicals will be destroyed. The executive council, which
yesterday approved a directive on Syria, didn’t provide details.
The council plans to set “destruction milestones” no later
than Nov. 15, after a first wave of inspections.  “I think the council wants a better picture of Syria’s
arsenal and stockpile locations before establishing a time line
that it might need to walk back at a future date,” said James
Lewis, communications director at the Center for Arms Control
and Non-Proliferation, a Washington research group.  The OPCW is seeking contributions from member nations to
help the organization and the Syrian government cover the
“significant” costs, Director-General Ahmet Uzumcu said in a
 statement  yesterday. “Never before has the OPCW faced a task of
this magnitude and importance.”  While “no one underestimates the obstacles,” the
timetable seems achievable, particularly given Russia’s backing
and broad international support, said Joseph Cirincione, an
arms-control analyst who’s president of the Ploughshares Fund, a
San Francisco-based security foundation.  War Zone  “The very good news is that it looks like much of this
arsenal can be quickly destroyed,” he said in an interview.  The OPCW is breaking with past actions by sending
inspectors into a war zone. The group suspended activities in
Libya when the civil war there broke out in February 2011.  “Because Syria is in the midst of civil war, there are
many risk factors that have not been present in past cases of
chemical weapons destruction such as in Libya or  Iraq ,”
according to a Sept. 12 report by the Congressional Research
Service.  The U.S. blames the Assad regime for an Aug. 21 attack
using sarin gas, citing more than 1,400 deaths, a quarter of
them children. Assad denies responsibility and, echoed by
Russia, blames “terrorist” rebels despite evidence from a UN
team implicating regime forces. Obama threatened military
strikes before backing off once U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov reached a deal
Sept. 14 in Geneva to eliminate Assad’s chemical weapons.  Large Arsenal  Assad agreed to join the Chemical Weapons Convention and
give up his arsenal. It was the first time that Syria
acknowledged it has chemical munitions, providing an initial
inventory as required to the OPCW, the international body that
implements the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention banning such
munitions.  Syria is believed to have one of the world’s largest such
arsenals, including mustard gas, which had horrific consequences
during trench warfare in World War I, and more advanced sarin
and VX nerve agents, lethal offshoots of insecticides. Its
program is “large, complex, and geographically dispersed,”
according to the U.S. intelligence community’s  2013 Worldwide
Threat Assessment.  The U.S. has attempted to monitor Syria’s chemical weapons
during the civil war by focusing surveillance on suspected
stockpile sites and movements, according to U.S. officials who
weren’t authorized to discuss intelligence matters.  1,000 Metric Tons  The lack of firm knowledge about Assad’s weapons -- which a
UN official has said are under the control of elite military
units led by his brother Maher -- was reflected in the Geneva
negotiations: Kerry and Lavrov could do no better than agree on
an estimate of 1,000 metric tons of chemical weapons and
precursor chemicals.  Syria has “thousands of munitions” that can be used to
deliver chemical weapons, the White House said in an Aug. 30
statement. Those range from bombs and artillery rockets to Scud
missiles.  Syria is “determined to go forward” in giving up chemical
weapons, Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem told Al
Jazeera television yesterday at the United Nations.  The OPCW Executive Council said Syria must provide a more
detailed inventory by Oct. 4. Among other things, that
accounting will show whether the regime has munitions that match
those used in the Aug. 21 attack.  ‘Unfettered’ Inspections  The OPCW will attempt to verify that the information Syria
provides is accurate and that Assad isn’t copying the late Iraqi
leader Saddam Hussein, who played hide-and-seek with UN weapons
inspectors during the 1990s before he eliminated his chemical
and biological weapons.  The OPCW directed inspectors to visit all of Syria’s
declared chemical weapons facilities in the next 30 days. Beyond
those, the OPCW demands that the secretive Assad regime permit
“immediate and unfettered” inspections at “any and all
sites,” including those based on information provided by other
nations such as the U.S.  Syria must provide access “to any and all sites and any
and all people” sought by inspectors, Kerry said at the UN
Security Council yesterday, as the council voted unanimously to
back the OPCW plan.  To prevent delay and obstruction by Assad, the OPCW
executive council said that only the group’s director-general
can block an inspection, in effect preventing Syria from using
the time-consuming challenge process permitted other nations.  November Target  As called for in the Sept. 14 Geneva agreement by Kerry and
Lavrov, the OPCW set a November target date for completing the
destruction of all chemical weapons production and mixing or
filling equipment, effectively capping nerve gas stocks.  The Kerry-Lavrov accord called for the the removal of the
“largest amounts of weapons feasible, under OPCW supervision,
and their destruction outside Syria.” The possibility that
 Russia  would transfer the chemicals to its destruction
facilities was ruled out Sept. 26 by Deputy Foreign Minister
Sergey Ryabkov, according to Russian  state broadcaster RT .  “There’s no doubt, we won’t do it,” Ryabkov said, adding
that the materials and equipment should be destroyed in Syria.  Chemical weapons can be destroyed by neutralization or
incineration, which generally requires building special
facilities to reduce the risk of accidental contamination and
danger to nearby populations.  About a third of Syria’s weapons are thought to be mustard
gas, which can be chemically neutralized, and the nerve-agent
precursor chemicals don’t post a threat until they’re mixed,
said Cirincione. Destroying stocks of VX and sarin by
incineration is the most difficult.  Short Timetable  By putting the weapons under monitoring, destroying mixing
equipment and removing precursor chemicals, “you’ve effectively
destroyed the chemical arsenal, even if some of it takes a
little longer” to eliminate, said Cirincione.  The OPCW’s timetable for Syria is a very short compared to
others. Both the U.S. and Russia have stockpiles not yet
destroyed. Albania got attention in 2007 when it completed the
destruction of about 16 metric tons of Cold War-vintage chemical
arms, 10 years after it joined the Chemical Weapons Convention.  Under the convention, countries are responsible for paying
destruction costs. Assad, in a Sept. 18 Fox News interview, said
he’s been told that it may take about a year and cost as much as
$1 billion to destroy the chemical arsenal, indicating others
would need to help cover the costs.  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague yesterday said his
country will make an initial contribution of $3 million to the
OPCW trust fund and urged other countries to donate to the Syria
effort, which will be expensive.  The OPCW council, without providing a cost estimate,
appealed for financial contributions from nations “in a
position to do so,” and authorized hiring an unspecified number
of inspectors, technical experts and other personnel to meet new
staffing needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  