-- Syria Chemical-Arms Resolution Passes UN Security Council
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-28/un-security-council-approves-syria-chemical-arms-measure.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
unanimously approved a breakthrough agreement to eliminate all
of  Syria ’s chemical weapons.  The council voted 15-0 last night to adopt a resolution
drafted by the U.S., the U.K. and  France  in response to an Aug.
21 poison gas attack near Damascus that killed more than
1,400 people. The resolution lacks immediate consequences if
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad fails to comply and it doesn’t
assign blame for the attack, which U.S., U.K. and French
officials attribute to Assad’s regime.  Russia , a Syrian ally, has said rebels were responsible for
the attack and blocked tougher wording in the resolution.
Russian vetoes of previous UN attempts to sanction Assad made
last night’s vote the first diplomatic breakthrough at the UN
since Syria’s civil war began 2 1/2 years ago.  “For many months, I have said that the confirmed use of
chemical weapons in Syria required a firm, united and decisive
response,” UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told reporters
after the session. “Tonight, the international community has
delivered.”  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said Syria must “give
unfettered access” to its chemical-weapons stockpile and will
face repercussions if it fails to comply. Those responsible for
the use of such munitions will be punished, he said.  ‘Heinous Act’  “This resolution makes clear that those responsible for
this heinous act must be held accountable,” Kerry told the
Security Council after the vote. “We are here because actions
have consequences and now, should the regime fail to act, there
will be consequences.”  As a next step, Ban said the UN will seek to convene peace
talks by mid-November between Assad’s government and opposition
representatives.  U.K. Foreign Minister  William Hague  said Syria also must
provide “unfettered access” to humanitarian relief efforts
seeking to aid civilians suffering from the impact of war.  Bashar Jaafari, Syria’s UN ambassador, told reporters after
the vote that his government is “on board” and committed to
helping chemical-weapons inspectors and ensuring their safety.
Syria is “fully committed” to peace talks, Jaafari said.  Destruction Accord  The  Security Council  voted after the Executive Council of
the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the
world body in The Hague that monitors compliance with a global
treaty banning the munitions, adopted a blueprint to verify,
remove, and destroy Assad’s arsenal of sarin and other chemical
weapons by mid-2014.  The chemical weapons organization’s 41-nation executive
council spent almost two weeks in closed-door discussions as the
U.S., its allies and Russia debated the text of the UN
resolution. A U.S. official who spoke on condition of not being
identified said it was crucial for the Netherlands-based group’s
plan to be complete before the Security Council vote because the
two documents complement each other.  The organization in The Hague said its executive council
agreed on an “accelerated program” for the elimination of
Syria’s chemical weapons and related material and will begin
inspections in Syria by Oct. 1.  “This decision sends an unmistakable message that the
international community is coming together to work for peace in
Syria, beginning with the elimination of chemical weapons in
that country,” OPCW Director-General Ahmet Uzumcu said in a
statement.  Taking Custody  One complication emerged even before last night’s vote,
when Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov announced
on Sept. 26 that while Moscow is willing to help guard chemical-weapons sites in Syria, it won’t take custody of Syria’s
munitions, the state-run RIA news agency reported.  Only Russia and the U.S. have the industrial-scale capacity
to store and incinerate chemical weapons safely. Since the U.S.
bans importing and transporting such munitions, Russia’s
announcement means the inspectors will have to work inside Syria
amid the civil war there.  “It is hard to imagine chemical-weapons inspectors,
protected by Russian or other troops, engaging in the
complicated task of destroying the stockpiles of chemical
weapons in the midst of a civil war,” William Keylor, who
teaches international relations at  Boston University , said by e-mail. “If the inspectors or their protectors come under fire
from either side, what will the response of the international
community be?”  ‘First Step’  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said Syria’s
cooperation “must be unconditional and fully transparent.”  “This resolution is not our final goal, but only a first
step,” Fabius said, according to an English translation of his
remarks to the Security Council. “We must now implement it. One
cannot trust a regime, which, until recently, denied possessing
such weapons.”  In Congress, lawmakers expressed skepticism about Syria’s
and Russia’s commitment to the deal.  Republican Senators  John McCain  of  Arizona  and Lindsay Graham of  South Carolina  said the UN accord doesn’t change the
reality on the ground and fails to include a credible threat of
force.  “This resolution is another triumph of hope over
reality,” McCain and Graham said in a statement. “It contains
no meaningful or immediate enforcement mechanisms, let alone a
threat of the use of force for the Assad regime’s noncompliance.
The whole question of enforcement has been deferred.”  ‘Wanton Violence’  Senator  Robert Menendez , the New Jersey Democrat who leads
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, expressed concern before
the vote that the focus has shifted from ending “the barbarism
and wanton violence of the Assad regime” to removing one method
it uses to attack its own people.  “A red light for one form of weapons does not mean a green
light for others,” Ban said. This is not a license to kill with
conventional weapons. All the violence must stop. All the guns
must fall silent.”  At a news briefing in  New York  earlier yesterday, Ahmad al-Jarba, a Syrian opposition leader, said the chemical-weapons
accord won’t end the suffering in Syria.  The UN action follows two weeks of whirlwind diplomacy
after Russia and the U.S. reached an agreement in Geneva to
avert an American military strike against Syria if Assad agreed
to relinquish his poison-gas arsenal.  Accomplishing More  “Our original objective was to degrade and deter Syria’s
chemical-weapons capability,” and a U.S. attack “could have
achieved that,” Kerry said. “Tonight’s resolution accomplishes
even more,” by moving to eliminate “one of the largest
chemical-weapons stockpiles on earth.”  The UN resolution states that Syria “shall not use,
develop, produce, otherwise acquire, stockpile or retain
chemical weapons, or transfer, directly or indirectly, chemical
weapons to other states or non-state actors.”  If Syria doesn’t comply or participates in “unauthorized
transfer of chemical weapons,” or if there is “any use of
chemical weapons by anyone in the Syrian Arab Republic,” the
Security Council can move to “impose measures under  Chapter 7 
of the United Nations Charter.”  The Security Council then would discuss alleged violations,
with individual members able to present their own intelligence
on the event. Permanent members, such as Russia, can veto any
final decision.  Using Force  The charter’s Chapter 7 allows the UN to take action,
including the use of force, in response to acts of aggression or
threats against peace.  “The language of the resolution is less important than
Russia’s willingness to make Assad comply,”  Richard Gowan ,
associate director of New York University’s Center on
International Cooperation, said by e-mail. “The whole deal
still pivots on Moscow’s commitment to making it work.”  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said the resolution
“does not allow for any automatic use of force or measures of
enforcement” for compliance failures by Syria. He said the
Security Council would have to “carefully” consider any
decisions on enforcement.  U.S. officials say that President  Barack Obama  reserves the
right to conduct a strike without UN approval.  Even if the deal born in Geneva succeeds in eliminating
Assad’s chemical-weapons stockpile on the stated timetable,
which is unlikely given the practical hurdles, it wouldn’t tip
the balance of power against the Syrian leader, said a second
U.S. official, who follows the Syrian conflict closely.  Adequate Weapons  The official, who spoke on the condition of not being
identified in discussing intelligence reports, said that Assad’s
arsenal of conventional weapons, especially artillery and air
power, has accounted for more than 98 percent of the casualties
the regime has inflicted in the war.  That has created anger among opposition groups that think
the West hasn’t supplied them with the arms they need to fight
back, said Benjamin Weinthal, a fellow with the Foundation for
the Defense of Democracies in  Washington  who is doing research
inside Syria on the opposition.  “There’s not just anger at the West,” Weinthal said by
telephone from the Syrian-Turkey border, “but real fury at how
Russia, Hezbollah,  Iran ,  China  have betrayed them” with their
support for the regime.  Syria’s military has been resupplied by Iran, the U.S.
official said. Assad’s forces remain strong and united enough to
overcome divided and scattered rebel groups and maintain their
hold on the capital, the Alawite heartland on the Mediterranean
coast and a corridor between the two, the official said.  Even if the chemical-weapons accord holds, the official
said that Assad may have gotten a good deal by agreeing to give
up his nerve gas and other such munitions and thus avoid a U.S.
military strike that could have damaged his conventional arsenal
and scattered and demoralized his troops.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  