-- L&T Infrastructure Slows Coal Project Loans on Water Risk
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-08-23T01:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/l-t-infrastructure-slows-coal-project-loans-on-water-risk.html
The infrastructure finance unit of
 Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s largest engineering company, is
slowing its lending to coal power projects due to concerns that
future water shortages may cause shutdowns.  “We are very, very selective on coal projects,” Suneet K. Maheshwari, chief executive officer of L&T Infrastructure
Finance Co., said in an interview in Mumbai. Projects must show
ample water and be able to source and transport fuel reliably.
“There are very few that have all of these boxes ticked.”  Coal plants need water to produce steam that powers
turbines. India, the third-biggest coal consumer after  China  and
the U.S., faces a water crisis as industry, farmers and a 1.2-billion populace vie for shrinking supplies, the United Nations
says.  India  plans to build  at least 500 gigawatts , a third of
the new coal-fired capacity proposed globally, to address
chronic power shortages, according to the World Resources
Institute.  It’s not enough for project developers to obtain water
rights from local authorities because the government may
backtrack on that commitment if there’s a shortage, Maheshwari
said. The lender, which helps fund energy, telecommunications,
road and port projects in India, instead is boosting lending to
less water-intensive clean-energy projects.  Water-Shortage Risks  Miners, utilities and lenders in India are increasingly
taking steps to protect themselves against the risk of water
shortages with industrial demand set to surge by 57 percent by
2025, according to HSBC Holdings Plc, which says India is the
most vulnerable of the Group of 20 nations to water stress.  Disputes with farmers over irrigation rights have stalled
about $80 billion of investment by companies, including mining
projects by Posco and  ArcelorMittal. (MT)   CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) ’s India
unit passed on an opportunity last year to build a new coal
plant in Odisha state.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , India’s biggest maker of
the alloy, is setting annual targets to cut water usage,
Managing Director H.M. Nerurkar said in April.  “Water is a fundamental right. The primacy of water is
first that drinking water should be available and that farmers
should get water,” Maheshwari said. “Nowhere in the world can
any government guarantee supplies at the cost of drinking water
or farm water. So I don’t expect it to be different here.”  A coal power plant developer has to do its own assessment
of whether there will be enough water available before L&T
Infrastructure will consider financing it, he said. “Do they
have the means and capability to do that? Yes. Do they do that
well? No.”  Renewables Appeal  Water is growing in importance as a criterion for assessing
the viability of energy projects, the International Energy
Agency said in its World Energy Outlook last year. Renewable
technologies like wind and solar photovoltaic, which use
negligible amounts of water, are better-suited for a future
that’s more carbon- and water-constrained, it said.  L&T Infrastructure Finance is optimistic about clean-energy
projects, especially small hydroelectric plants, Maheshwari
said. “We still are quite happy to look at any projects in that
space.”  Hydropower, wind and solar projects accounted for 22
percent of its portfolio of 142 billion rupees as of July 31.
The company has financed 2,322 megawatts of clean-energy
capacity and is the largest financier of non-recourse loans to
solar plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  