-- ABN Amro Profit Drops on Loan Losses Amid Dutch Economic Slump
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-08-23T08:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/abn-amro-profit-drops-on-loan-losses-amid-dutch-economic-slump.html
ABN Amro Group NV, the third-biggest
Dutch lender, said first-half profit fell 2.7 percent on higher
loan-loss provisions related to the Netherlands’ economic slump.  Net income at the state-owned bank fell to 817 million
euros ($1.09 billion) from 840 million euros a year earlier, the
Amsterdam-based company  said  in a statement today.  The decline in earnings was cushioned by the release of
provisions previously set aside for ABN’s Greek holdings and the
Bernard Madoff fraud. Leaving aside those items, profit tumbled
36 percent to 510 million euros, as provisions on loans to small
and medium-size companies and mortgages increased.  ABN Amro gets 83 percent of operating income from the
Netherlands, leaving it vulnerable to an economy which is in its
third recession since the start of the financial crisis in 2008.
Consumer spending has dropped almost every month in the last two
years, the central statistics agency said yesterday. Companies
that have weathered a slump in sales are reaching the end of
their reserves, ABN Amro said, leading to higher loan-loss
provisions.  Impairments fell to 216 million euros in the first half
from 554 million euros, helped by a 297 million-euro release of
provisions on Greek government-backed corporate loans and a 253
million-euro release on loans to funds affected by Madoff’s
fraud revealed in 2008. ABN Amro in June sold collateral on part
of the holdings, which had been fully impaired, it said today.  Shrinking Economy  Excluding those gains, impairment charges rose 38 percent
to 766 million euros, the company said. About a fifth of
outstanding loans to small and medium-size companies is managed
by the bank’s so-called financial restructuring and recovery
department, it said. Loss provisions on home loans rose by 13
million euros in the second quarter, as house prices continued
to fall while unemployment increased.  The Dutch economy has contracted in eight of the last nine
quarters and isn’t expected to return to growth until next year,
according to the central planning bureau CPB. Gross domestic
product in the euro area’s fifth-largest economy will shrink
1.25 percent this year and grow 0.75 percent in 2014, the CPB
forecasts.  ABN Amro seeks to lower its reliance on the Netherlands by
expanding its international operations, in areas including
private banking and energy and commodities finance, to 20
percent to 25 percent of revenue by 2017, it said in March. It
also wants to reduce risks from concentration, Chairman Gerrit Zalm said at that time, adding that half the bank’s loan book
consists of Dutch mortgages.  The bank’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of its ability to
absorb losses, rose to 13.3 percent from 12.1 percent at the end
of last year, helped by profit retention. The increase was
partially offset by a reservation for a possible 2013 dividend
payment, reducing core Tier 1 capital by 300 million euros.  Part of that could be paid to the Dutch state, ABN Amro’s
owner, as an interim dividend after the third quarter, the
lender said. Last year, the company abandoned a goal to pay a
dividend of 40 percent of net income and returned 250 million
euros, unchanged from 2011. ABN Amro in March said it plans to
gradually return to that level of dividends by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  