-- Lagarde Calls for More Global Coordination as QE Exits
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-08-23T20:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/lagarde-calls-for-more-global-coordination-as-qe-exit-plans-loom.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director Christine Lagarde urged policy makers to work more
closely together as they plan eventual exits from unconventional
monetary policies, endorsing swap arrangements between central
banks as an instrument to weather instability.  While there’s no agreement about the impact of measures
taken by central banks such as the Federal Reserve or the Bank
of  Japan , officials need to better understand the potential
spillovers, Lagarde said in prepared remarks for an annual Fed
conference in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming . If the scaling back of
stimulus creates renewed financial turmoil, some countries may
not be able to withstand it on their own, she said.  “We need further lines of defense -- lines of defense that
reflect our interdependence, our common purpose, and our mutual
responsibility for the global economy,” Lagarde said at the
event sponsored by the Kansas City Fed. “Swap lines -- along
the lines provided by major central banks early in the crisis --
can help,” and the IMF stands “ready to provide policy advice
and financial support,” she said.  The effects of the Fed’s potential tapering of its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases are showing in global markets.
Emerging economies have seen an exodus of cash, with their 20
most-traded currencies  falling  about 4.4 percent in the past
three months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Recovery Path  “We are all globally on a path to recovery, still fragile,
not yet strong enough, and with this very strong support from
the unconventional monetary policy,” Lagarde said in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Sara Eisen.  Lagarde said that “clarity of when things will happen, how
things will happen” is needed as the Federal Reserve considers
unwinding its bond buying program in order to minimize the
impacts on financial markets and the effect on  emerging markets .  “The signaling effect matters almost more than the actual
implementation,” she said.  As the global economy recovers, Lagarde said she thinks the
IMF may shift to a role in which emerging economies use the
fund’s precautionary instruments to insure their economies.  “The IMF will continue to be prominent if it really
focuses on its members’ needs,” according to the IMF chief.  Currency Intervention  For countries that haven’t deployed unconventional monetary
policies, exchange-rate flexibility “will help, but not at all
costs,” Lagarde said in her prepared remarks. “Some market
intervention may help moderate exchange-rate volatility or
short-term liquidity pressures.”  Advanced and developing economies have done a good job
managing the implications of unconventional monetary policies,
she said, using a phrase that often describes asset purchases by
a central bank to support growth. More needs to be done to
enable a smooth exit later, Lagarde said.  “Policies and policy coordination are not yet where they
need to be,” Lagarde said. “Failing to act at the global
level, with each country playing its part, could put the global
recovery at risk.”  Needed measures include repairing the banking system in the
euro region in order to unblock credits to companies, she said.
For central banks preparing for exit, it means communicating
clearly about all the factors that will influence their
decisions, including financial stability, she said.  Countries that don’t have such unconventional policies need
to take all the measures they can to strengthen their economies,
Lagarde said. When facing instability, they have used measures
to slow excess such as “frothy credit growth,” Lagarde said.  “Yet even with the best of efforts, the dam might leak,”
she said, supporting swap lines similar to the liquidity that
the Fed agreed to provide during the global financial crisis to
countries including South Korea and  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  