-- AIG to Get $905 Million From Brookfield to End Rate-Swap Dispute
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-08-24T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/aig-to-get-905-million-from-brookfield-in-rate-swap-dispute-1-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that repaid a U.S. rescue last year, agreed to
accept $905 million from  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM)  to
resolve a dispute tied to  interest-rate swaps .  Brookfield, Canada’s largest alternative-asset manager,
said the payment will terminate the swaps and bring the
dismissal of litigation in federal court in  New York , according
to a statement issued yesterday. Toronto-based Brookfield had
booked a liability of about $1.4 billion on the contracts as of
June 30, according to the statement.  Brookfield sued New York-based AIG in 2009, saying that the
insurer’s collapse the prior year had triggered default
provisions in two 25-year interest-rate swaps from 1990. AIG,
which was bailed out by U.S. taxpayers in 2008, had said
Brookfield was seeking to avoid its obligations.  “It is our position that no termination event has occurred
and that the swap agreement remains in effect,” AIG said in a
regulatory filing this month.  AIG gained less than 1 percent to $47.39 yesterday in New
York, and has advanced 34 percent this year. Brookfield fell 0.5
percent to C$36.80 in Toronto and has climbed 4 percent in 2013.  The two companies reached a settlement after negotiating
outside of court, Andrew Willis, a spokesman for Brookfield,
said in a phone interview following the statement’s release. Jon Diat, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment.  Resolving Disputes  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , who took over
in 2009, has been resolving legal disputes as he seeks to
rebuild the insurer. The company has faced suits from investors,
rivals, counterparties and former executives tied to events
before Benmosche’s arrival.  An interest-rate swap is an exchange between two parties of
interest-rate exposures from floating to fixed rate or vice
versa. Each thereby gains indirect access to the fixed or
floating capital markets.  The case is  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  v. AIG
Financial Products Corp., 09-cv-08285, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  