-- Alibaba Said to Seek HKEx Approval for Partners to Control Board
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-23T15:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/alibaba-said-to-ask-h-k-exchange-to-let-partners-nominate-board.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. has asked
 Hong Kong ’s stock exchange to let its partners nominate a
majority of the e-commerce giant’s board, said a person with
knowledge of the matter, a move that would keep executives in
control if the company lists in the city.  Alibaba, which may undertake the largest initial public
offering since Facebook Inc., has more than 20 partners --
including billionaire Chairman Jack Ma, co-founder Joseph Tsai
and Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Lu. Hong Kong doesn’t allow
dual-class structures that give some shareholders voting rights
that are larger than their stake, so the proposal suggests Ma
would prefer to take his company public in the city if top
executives can retain some control.  Ma, a former English teacher who founded Alibaba in 1999,
owns about 7 percent of the company’s shares. It isn’t clear if
the group of partners includes Alibaba’s larger shareholders
 SoftBank Corp. (9984)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , or how many partners there are.  Under Alibaba’s plan, the nominees would still be approved
by shareholders, and the partners may nominate an alternative
director if a candidate is rejected, the person said, asking not
to be identified because the discussions are private.  The company could raise about HK$100 billion ($12.9
billion) in an IPO, Ernst & Young LLP said in June. That would
make it the world’s biggest sale since Facebook raised $16
billion in May of last year, and Hong Kong’s largest since AIA
Group Ltd.’s $20 billion sale in October 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hong Kong has been home to only four IPOs larger than $10
billion, the data show.  Shareholder Rights  The proposal wouldn’t change any shareholder rights, the
person said. Connected-party transactions, major expenditures
and compensation for senior executives would be voted on by all
shareholders, according to the plan. The  Hong Kong Economic
Times  reported some details of the partnership proposal.  “I don’t think putting that in the company’s articles of
association is going to work,”  David Webb , founder of local
governance watchdog  Webb-site.com  said yesterday. “That would
be unprecedented.”  Florence Shih, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Alibaba,
declined to comment yesterday, as did Henry Law, a spokesman for
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  Swire Pacific Ltd. has two classes of  shares  on the Hong
Kong exchange, both of which were listed before rules banned the
practice.  Investment banks have valued Alibaba at as much as $120
billion amid surging demand for services connecting businesses
and consumers in the world’s most-populous nation.  Profit Tripled  In a July 17 report, Evercore Group LLC estimated an
Alibaba IPO could value the company at $120 billion, based on a
forecast that operating profit could reach $7.1 billion in 2014.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on July 22 put Alibaba’s value at about
$105 billion.  The IPO of  Mark Zuckerberg ’s Facebook valued the company at
$104 billion, and the shares lost as much as half their value in
the first few months of trading before starting to recover.  Alibaba’s profit in the latest quarter more than tripled
from a year earlier to $669 million, Yahoo said in July. The
Chinese company’s net income margin is double that of Apple Inc.  Alibaba doesn’t sell merchandise itself. Instead, it runs
platforms including Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com that
connect retail brands with consumers, a cross between Amazon.com
Inc. and EBay Inc. It makes most of its sales from commissions
and advertising.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  