-- Amazon Is Said to Have Tested a Wireless Network
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-08-23T18:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/amazon-is-said-to-have-tested-a-wireless-network.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  has tested a new
wireless network that would allow customers to connect its
devices to the Internet, according to people with knowledge of
the matter.  The wireless network, which was tested in Cupertino,
 California , used spectrum controlled by satellite communications
company  Globalstar Inc. (GSAT) , said the people who asked not to be
identified because the test was private.  The trial underlines how Amazon, the world’s largest e-commerce company, is moving beyond being a Web destination and
hardware maker and digging deeper into the underlying technology
for how people connect to the Internet. That would let Amazon
create a more comprehensive user experience, encompassing how
consumers get online, what device they use to connect to the Web
and what they do on the Internet.  Leslie Letts, a spokeswoman for Amazon, didn’t respond to a
request for comment. Katherine LeBlanc, a spokeswoman for
Globalstar, declined to comment. Globalstar shares rose 9.6
percent to 66 cents at 2:02 p.m. in  New York . The company trades
over the counter, which means buying and selling isn’t done
through an exchange.  Amazon isn’t the only  Internet company  that has tested
technology allowing it to be a Web gateway.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has
secured its own communications capabilities by bidding for
wireless spectrum and building high-speed, fiber-based broadband
networks in  17 cities , including Austin, Texas and  Kansas City ,
 Kansas . It also operates a Wi-Fi network in  Mountain View ,
California, and recently agreed to provide  wireless connectivity 
at  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ’s coffee shops.  Always Trying  Amazon continually tries various technologies, and it’s
unclear if the wireless network testing is still taking place,
said the people. The trial was in the vicinity of Amazon’s
Lab126 research facilities in Cupertino, the people said. Lab126
designs and engineers Kindle devices.  “Given that Amazon’s becoming a big player in video, they
could look into investing into forms of connectivity,”
independent wireless analyst Chetan Sharma said in an interview.  Amazon has moved deeper into wireless services for several
years, as it competes with tablet makers like  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
with Google, which runs a rival application store. Amazon’s
Kindle tablets and e-book readers have built-in wireless
connectivity, and the company sells apps for mobile devices.
Amazon had also worked on its own smartphone, Bloomberg reported
last year.  Wireless Access  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is aiming to make Amazon
a one-stop shop for consumers online, a strategy that spurred a
27 percent increase in sales to $61.1 billion last year. It’s an
approach investors have bought into, shown in Amazon’s stock
price, which has more than doubled in the past three years. The
company’s Kindle devices have always been able to connect to the
Internet. Some e-readers have a wireless delivery system called
 Amazon Whispernet , which uses the same nationwide data network
as mobile phones, or can access via Wi-Fi.  Globalstar is seeking regulatory approval to convert about
80 percent of its spectrum to terrestrial use. The Milpitas,
California-based company applied to the Federal Communications
Commission for permission to convert its satellite spectrum to
provide Wi-Fi-like services in November 2012.  Globalstar met with FCC Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn in June,
and a decision on whether the company can convert the spectrum
could come within months. A company technical adviser conducted
tests that showed the spectrum may be able to accommodate more
traffic and offer faster speeds than traditional public Wi-Fi
networks.  Spectrum Leasing  “We are now well positioned in the ongoing process with
the FCC as we seek terrestrial authority for our spectrum,”
Globalstar CEO James Monroe said during the company’s last
earnings call.  Neil Grace, a spokesman for the FCC, declined to comment.  If granted FCC approval, Globalstar is considering leasing
its spectrum, sharing service revenues with partners, and other
business models, one of the people said. With wireless spectrum
scarce, Globalstar’s converted spectrum could be of interest to
carriers and cable companies, seeking to offload ballooning
mobile traffic, as well as to technology companies.  The FCC issued the permit to trial wireless equipment using
Globalstar’s spectrum to the satellite service provider’s
technical adviser, Jarvinian Wireless Innovation Fund. In a
 letter  to the FCC dated July 1, Jarvinian managing director John Dooley said his company is helping “a major technology company
assess the significant performance benefits” of Globalstar’s
spectrum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  