-- Apple, Samsung Win Ruling to Keep Financial Data Secret
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-08-23T16:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/apple-samsung-win-appeals-ruling-to-keep-financial-data-secret.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  don’t have to reveal confidential data including financial
information, source code, business plans and market research
reports to the public, a U.S. appeals court ruled today.  A federal judge shouldn’t have ordered the world’s largest
smartphone makers to reveal “exceptionally sensitive
information” from their patent dispute that has remained under
seal since the trial last year in  California , the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington   ruled .  Apple won a $1 billion verdict, though the judge later
ordered a retrial on some of the damages. It’s scheduled to
begin in November.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose, California, who
presided over the trial, ordered the two sides to make public
all exhibits used during the trial and in Apple’s unsuccessful
request for an order that would halt sales of Samsung products.
She declined requests by Apple and Samsung to redact information
from the evidence, though her orders were on hold pending the
appeal to the Washington court.  “We recognize the importance of protecting the public’s
interest in judicial proceedings and of facilitating its
understanding of those proceedings,” Circuit Judge Sharon Prost
wrote for the three-judge panel. “That interest, however, does
not extend to mere curiosity about the parties’ confidential
information where that information is not central to a decision
on the merits.”  Unusual Interest  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, said the company had no comment.  Adam Yates , a
spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  News organizations including the Los Angeles Times,
 Associated Press , Wired.com,  Bloomberg News  and the  New York
Times (NYT)  argued to make the information public. The trial was
unusual for a patent case in that it generated intense public
interest, with regular news stories on “the case’s strategic
impact on the companies, including financial risks for
shareholders,” according to the opinion.  The Federal Circuit, which hears all patent appeals, said
courts generally should make documents public. The exception, it
said, was when the release will cause competitive harm to a
business.  Apple sought to keep portions of 14 documents sealed and
Samsung wanted parts of 12 filings kept confidential. The
companies said the information was kept secret even from most of
their employees.  ‘Competitive Disadvantage’  “It seems clear that if Apple’s and Samsung’s suppliers
have access to their profit, cost, and margin data, it could
give the suppliers an advantage in contract negotiations, which
they could use to extract price increases for components,” the
panel ruled. “This would put Apple and Samsung at a competitive
disadvantage compared to their current position.”  The three-judge panel that ruled today is considering
Apple’s separate appeal to overturn Koh’s order that allows
Samsung continue selling products that the jury said infringed
Apple patents. Arguments in that appeal were heard Aug. 9.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-1600,
12-1606 and 13-1146, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Apple Inc. v.
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 