-- Apple E-Books Injunction Proposal Revised by U.S.
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-08-23T18:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/apple-e-books-injunction-proposal-revised-by-u-s-.html
Apple Inc. and the U.S.  Justice
Department  filed dueling proposals for a court order that will
cover the company’s conduct in e-book sales after a judge found
the government’s original recommendations were too harsh.  Under the department’s revised proposal filed today, an
injunction against Apple for its role in fixing e-book prices
would expire in five years instead of 10 as in the original
plan. The U.S. still seeks a court-appointed external antitrust
monitor, a measure Apple objects to.  “This is unreasonable and unjustified and exceeds the
bounds of even criminal price-fixing cases,”  Orin Snyder , a
lawyer for Apple, said in a letter today to U.S. District Judge
Denise Cote in  Manhattan .  Cote ruled after a non-jury trial in July that Apple, the
maker of the iPhone and iPad, had conspired with five book
publishers to fix e-book prices. At an Aug. 9 hearing on the
government’s initial proposal, Cote said she didn’t want to
over-regulate Apple’s businesses. She told the parties to
discuss new remedies and return for another hearing on Aug. 27.  The judge suggested that Cupertino, California-based Apple
be required to hold staggered negotiations with book publishers
so it wouldn’t be in talks with more than one publisher at a
time. Apple and the U.S. have included staggered-term plans in
their revised proposals.  ‘Competitive Problems’  “The purpose of the remedy is to fix the competitive
problems, restore competition to the marketplace and to prevent
the illegal behavior from continuing in the future,”  Gina Talamona , a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said in an
e-mail. “We have revised the proposed remedy taking into
account the court’s comments and this fast-changing industry.”  Apple also objected to government proposals to regulate how
it uses electronic applications for the sale of e-books. The
U.S. is seeking to force Apple to allow other e-book retailers
to provide hyperlinks on iPads and other devices to their own
websites or e-book sites without any compensation to Apple if a
book is sold.  The U.S. sued Apple and five publishers in April 2012,
claiming that Apple forced them to sign agreements that would
allow it to sell digital copies of their books under a model
that raised prices.  Conspiracy’s Aim  The conspiracy was designed to force  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the
largest e-book seller, to change its pricing model, the U.S.
said. At the time, Amazon was selling electronic versions of
best-selling books for $9.99, which was often below cost. Apple
reached agreements with the publishers to sell e-books under the
agency model, by which the publishers set the prices and Apple
takes a 30 percent commission.  The publishers, Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s
Macmillan unit,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s
Hachette Book Group,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and News Corp.’s
HarperCollins, settled with the government before the trial for
a total of at least $164 million.  A second trial will be held to determine monetary damages
against Apple, which lawyers have said may amount to hundreds of
millions of dollars.  The case is U.S. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at ‘  mhytha
@bloomberg.net 