-- Aquino to Scrap Lawmaker Budgets as Public Protests Threatened
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-08-23T09:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/aquino-to-scrap-lawmaker-budgets-as-public-protests-threatened.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
said he would abolish discretionary budgets for lawmakers after
a government audit uncovered abuse and civil-society groups
threatened to stage anti-corruption protests in the capital.  “We need to make those who abused the system
accountable,” Aquino said in an unscheduled speech broadcast on
television and radio today, referring to the misuse of funds
used to finance social and public works projects in lawmakers’
local districts. “We are talking here of public funds that
should benefit the people, and not the greedy few.”  Aquino pledged to stamp out so-called pork-barrel budgets
after thousands of people turned to social media to criticize
the system and threatened to attend a  million-people march  to
Luneta Park in the capital on Aug. 26, a national holiday.  “If more information comes out -- that his allies are
involved and he’s not doing anything about it, public
condemnation gets strong and that will put his leadership into
question,” Prospero de Vera, a political science professor from
the University of the  Philippines , said by phone. “There is so
much greed involved and it shocks people.”  Revelations of the misuse of public money are “shocking,”
Aquino said. Senators and congressmen had access to 24.8 billion
pesos ($561 million) this year through the  Priority Development
Assistance Fund .  Aquino’s comments come a week after the Commission on Audit
 found  that discretionary funds from 2007 to 2009 were spent on
dubious projects, some lawmakers exceeded their allocations and
some groups listed as recipients of the money couldn’t be found.  Whistle-Blower  Courts froze the bank accounts of businesswoman Janet Lim-Napoles and issued a warrant for her arrest as part of an
investigation into a pork-barrel case, Justice Secretary Leila de Lima said last week. Napoles and her brother are wanted over
allegations they illegally detained a whistle-blower.  Presidents have traditionally used pork-barrel funds to
retain the support of lawmakers,  Ramon Casiple ,  executive
director  at the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform in
Manila, said by phone. “When the legislature is given that
discretionary power, there’s always a temptation for misuse.”  Aquino said funding for local district projects will come
from the national budget beginning next year.  “Every line, peso and project will be scrutinized, just
like all the other programs of your government,” he said.  Aquino ordered the release of this year’s discretionary
funds to be put on hold until an official investigation is
finished, Budget Secretary Butch Abad said yesterday. Two weeks
earlier, Abad said the president thought legislators who use
their allocations prudently shouldn’t be punished.  The pork-barrel probe won’t be limited to Napoles, Aquino
told reporters after the speech.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in  Manila  at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  