-- Argentina Loses U.S. Appeal of Defaulted Bonds Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-08-23T20:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/argentina-loses-u-s-appeal-of-defaulted-bonds-case.html
Argentina  lost its appeal of a
ruling that would force it to pay in full holders of
$1.5 billion in its defaulted bonds when it makes a payment to
investors who took discounted restructured debt.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  said it would delay
the effect of its ruling until the U.S. Supreme Court decides
whether to review the case.  A three-judge appeals court panel, referring to the nation
as “a uniquely recalcitrant debtor,” rejected Argentina’s
arguments that a ruling in favor of the defaulted debt-holders,
led by billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer ’s NML Capital
Ltd. and Aurelius Capital Management, would violate its
sovereignty and expose it to a fresh financial crisis by
threatening a default of the new bonds.  Argentina has vowed never to pay holders of its defaulted
bonds, whom the country’s leaders have called “vultures,” and
its legislature passed a law in 2005 barring payment of the
defaulted bonds. Today’s ruling leaves Argentina with the
unlikely prospect of persuading the appeals court to overrule
itself or the  Supreme Court  to consider the case.  “What the consequences predicted by Argentina have in
common is that they are speculative, hyperbolic and almost
entirely of the republic’s own making,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Barrington Parker wrote in today’s opinion.  Deep Discount  Argentina in 2001 defaulted on a record $95 billion of
foreign debt. Holders of about 91 percent of the bonds agreed to
take new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at a deep discount.  Argentina’s restructured dollar bonds due in 2033 fell 2
cents to 61.72 cents on the dollar at 3 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on the
securities fell 0.47 percentage point to 14.69 percent. The
extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds over U.S.
Treasuries rose 0.43 percentage point to 10.66 points, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  The court today also disagreed with Argentina’s arguments
that a ruling against it would hamper future efforts by
overwhelmed debtor nations to restructure their debt.  Holders of the defaulted bonds have won U.S. court rulings
recognizing their right to be paid. They asked the appeals court
to uphold rulings by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in
 Manhattan  that they said give them the ability to collect the
$1.5 billion they said they’re owed.  Court Order  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the indenture trustee for
restructured bonds, argued that it shouldn’t be forced to halt
payments to holders of those bonds if Argentina refuses to
comply with a court order to pay the defaulted bonds. The court
today agreed with Griesa’s ruling that Bank of New York and
other institutions involved in the restructured bond payments
can’t act in concert with Argentina to violate his orders.  “Our decision affirms a proposition essential to the
integrity of the  capital markets : borrowers and lenders may,
under New York law, negotiate mutually agreeable terms for their
transactions, but they will be held to those terms,” Parker
said in his opinion.  Argentina has spent the past decade opposing claims brought
in U.S. courts by holders of the defaulted bonds.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals heard
arguments in the case from both sides in February.  The judges on the appeals panel are Rosemary Pooler,
appointed by President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat; Reena Raggi and
Parker, both named to the court by  George W. Bush , a Republican.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New York at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  