-- Argentina Loss Brings End of Defaulted Bond Fight Closer
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-08-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/argentina-loss-brings-end-of-defaulted-bond-fight-closer.html
Argentina  lost its appeal of a
ruling that would force it to pay in full holders of $1.5
billion in its defaulted debt when it makes a payment to
investors who took discounted restructured bonds, leaving the
unlikely prospect of a Supreme Court appeal as its last hope.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York  said it would delay
the effect of its ruling until the high court decides whether to
review the case. Argentina’s restructured bonds fell after the
ruling was released.  A three-judge appeals court panel, referring to the nation
as “a uniquely recalcitrant debtor,” rejected Argentina’s
arguments that a ruling in favor of the defaulted debt-holders,
led by billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer ’s Elliott
Management Corp. and Aurelius Capital Management LP, would
violate its sovereignty and expose it to a fresh financial
crisis by threatening a default of the new bonds.  Argentina has vowed never to pay holders of its defaulted
bonds, whom the country’s leaders have called “vultures,” and
its legislature passed a law in 2005 barring payment of the
defaulted bonds. Yesterday’s ruling leaves Argentina with the
unlikely prospect of persuading the appeals court to overrule
itself or the Supreme Court to consider the case.  Norma Madeo, spokeswoman for Argentina’s Economy Ministry,
didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on the ruling.  Glossing Over  “Today’s opinion unfortunately glosses over the
inequitable impact of the injunction on the exchange
bondholders’ constitutionally protected property rights,” Sean
O’Shea, a lawyer for holders of the restructured bonds said
yesterday in a statement. “We look forward to the opportunity
to present the exchange bondholders’ position to the  Supreme
Court .”  Argentina in 2001 defaulted on a record $95 billion of
foreign debt. Holders of about 91 percent of the bonds agreed to
take new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at a deep discount.  A group of holdout investors had asked the appeals court to
uphold rulings by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan 
that they said give them the ability to collect the $1.5 billion
they said they’re owed.  In ruling for the holdouts, the court yesterday rejected
Argentina’s predictions of economic disaster.  “What the consequences predicted by Argentina have in
common is that they are speculative, hyperbolic and almost
entirely of the republic’s own making,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Barrington Parker wrote in yesterday’s opinion.  Deep Discount  Argentina’s restructured dollar bonds due in 2033 fell 1.64
cents to 59.66 cents on the dollar yesterday in New York after
earlier rising to 62.03 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on the securities climbed 0.41 percentage
point to 15.07 percent. The extra yield investors demand to own
Argentine bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose 0.49 percentage point
to 10.72 points, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  data.  “I don’t think there’s any good news in this for
Argentina,” said Bruce Wolfson, a lawyer with the firm Bingham
McCutchen LLP who has been following the litigation. “The court
apparently went down the line and affirmed all of Judge Griesa’s
rulings.”  Wolfson said the odds are “very long” that the Supreme
Court will agree to hear the case.  The court yesterday rejected Argentina’s arguments that a
ruling against it would hamper future efforts by overwhelmed
debtor nations to restructure their debt. Parker said Griesa was
justified in tying payment of the defaulted bonds to the
restructured debt payments because Argentina had made clear
“its intention to defy any money judgment issued by this
court.”  ‘Persistent Violation’  Yesterday’s ruling “appropriately condemns Argentina’s
persistent violation of its obligations and its extraordinary
defiance of the laws of the  United States  and the orders of U.S.
courts,”  Theodore Olson , a lawyer for Elliott, said in an e-mailed statement.  “It confirms that Argentina is not above the
law.”  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the indenture trustee for
Argentina’s restructured bonds, argued in the appeal that it
shouldn’t be forced to halt payments to holders of the bonds if
Argentina refuses to obey Griesa. The court yesterday agreed
with Griesa’s ruling that BNY Mellon and other institutions
involved in the restructured bond payments can’t act in concert
with Argentina to violate his orders.  Argentina has spent the past decade opposing claims brought
in U.S. courts by holders of the defaulted bonds.  Clinton, Bush  The case was argued before the appeals court in February.
The judges on the appeals panel were Rosemary Pooler, appointed
by President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat; Reena Raggi and Parker,
both named to the court by  George W. Bush , a Republican.  Many holders of the defaulted Argentina bonds have won U.S.
court rulings requiring the country to pay them. Despite those
rulings, courts have generally prevented them from moving to
seize the country’s assets, citing the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act.  That law limits the ability of plaintiffs to sue foreign
countries in U.S. courts. Argentina has asked the U.S. Supreme
Court to review the case based in part on that law.  On Oct. 26, the appeals court upheld a ruling by Griesa
that could allow Elliott Management’s NML Capital and other
bondholders to collect, indirectly, by blocking the nation from
paying the restructured debt without also paying the defaulted
bonds.  Equal Treatment  The appeals court in October affirmed Griesa’s ruling that
an equal treatment, or pari passu, clause in the original bond
agreements prevents Argentina from treating defaulted
bondholders less favorably than exchange bondholders. The
appellate court upheld an injunction issued by Griesa that
barred Argentina from paying the exchange bondholders without
also paying holders of defaulted debt.  In the October ruling, the appeals court asked Griesa to
explain how his orders affected third parties, including banks
and payment intermediaries. It also asked Griesa to clarify the
formula that would be applied to calculate payments to the
holders of defaulted bonds.  “Our decision affirms a proposition essential to the
integrity of the  capital markets : borrowers and lenders may,
under New York law, negotiate mutually agreeable terms for their
transactions, but they will be held to those terms,” Parker
said in his opinion yesterday.  “We believe that the interest -- one widely shared in the
financial community -- in maintaining New York’s status as one
of the foremost commercial centers is advanced by requiring
debtors, including foreign debtors, to pay their debts,” he
said.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (New
York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in in federal court in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  