-- Harvard’s Feldstein Says Fed Should Slow Bond Buying Amid Risks
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-08-23T16:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/harvard-s-feldstein-says-fed-should-slow-bond-buying-amid-risks.html
Martin Feldstein , a past president
of the National Bureau of Economic Research, said the  Federal
Reserve  should start slowing the pace of its $85 billion in
monthly bond buying because the risks outweigh benefits.  Low interest rates should be allowed to increase because
they “are driving people into very risky behavior and banks
into risky loans,” Feldstein said in a Bloomberg Radio
interview with  Kathleen Hays  and Vonnie Quinn.  “It’s adding to the risks in the economy,” Feldstein said
from the Kansas City Fed’s annual conference in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming. “The pluses are very small and the risks are very
big.”  Some central bank officials have voiced concern this year
that four years of record-low  interest rates  are overheating
markets for assets from farmland to junk bonds. The Fed has kept
the main  interest rate  near zero since December 2008.  Feldstein, a Harvard University professor and a top
economic adviser in the Reagan administration, said the world’s
largest economy is “limping along” and “we’re not moving at
all.” He projected that gross domestic product will expand by
about 2 percent this year “if we’re lucky.”  Minutes  of the July 30-31 Federal Open Market Committee
meeting released this week showed policy makers were “broadly
comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to taper
purchases this year if the economy strengthens, with a few
saying a reduction may be needed soon.  Feldstein, 73, became a Harvard economics professor in
 1969 . He was chairman of President  Ronald Reagan ’s Council of
Economic Advisers from 1982 to 1984. He led the NBER, whose
Business Cycle Dating Committee determines when U.S. recessions
begin and end, from 1977 to 1982 and from 1984 to 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  