-- Asian Stock Fall This Week by Most in Two Months on Fed
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-08-23T23:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/asian-stock-fall-this-week-by-most-in-two-months-on-fed.html
Asian  stocks  fell this week by the
most since June amid concern that the U.S. will soon cut its
record stimulus and that capital outflows from emerging markets
will accelerate.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , the Japanese carmaker that gets 30
percent of its revenue in North America, fell 4.3 percent.  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co. tumbled 21 percent as radiation-contaminated
water continued to spill from its damaged Fukushima nuclear
facility. Emerging markets dominated the biggest drops on the
regional index, with animal-feed producer PT Charoen Pokphand
 Indonesia  plunging 28 percent. Everbright Securities Co. fell 19
percent in  Shanghai  after its erroneous buy orders roiled
Chinese stock markets last week.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 2.2 percent this week, the
steepest drop since the five days ended June 21, to 131.39 as
Federal Reserve minutes showed policy makers support the
reduction of $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. The regional
gauge rose 1.4 percent yesterday, for its only gain this week,
as reports from Europe, the U.S. and China boosted confidence in
the economic recovery. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slumped
2.7 percent.  “It seems there’s obviously unanimous, broader support for
tapering and it seems the prospect of tapering sooner rather
than later is a good excuse for markets to have a correction,”
Don Williams, chief investment officer at Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. in Sydney, which manages about $1.2 billion,
said in an Aug. 22 interview. “The market is correcting and
that might continue for some time.”  Stocks on Asia’s benchmark index were valued at 12.8 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with multiples of about
15.1 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.9 for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regional Markets  Japan ’s  Topix index  slid 0.1 percent this week. Tokyo
Electric led declines, tumbling 21 percent to 508 yen as a spill
of contaminated water escalated into the biggest crisis at its
Fukushima plant since the facility was smashed by a tsunami in
March 2011.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 2.9 percent this week.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.5 percent as Everbright
Securities tumbled 19 percent to 9.84  yuan  after its president
resigned following erroneous buy orders which the company
estimates caused a loss of 194 million yuan ($31.7 million).  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 2.6 percent, while  Taiwan ’s
Taiex Index dropped 0.7 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
gained 0.2 percent.  Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO) , a producer of the ore,
slumped 17 percent to 80.5 Australian cents after its full-year
profit missed analyst estimates.  Fed Minutes  Minutes released this week from the Federal Open Market
Committee’s July meeting showed officials were “broadly
comfortable” with Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s plan to start
reducing bond buying this year if the economy improves, with a
few saying tapering might be needed soon.  U.S. policy makers will probably pare $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases at the FOMC’s Sept. 17-18 meeting,
according to 65 percent of economists surveyed this month by
Bloomberg.  Mazda slumped 4.3 percent to 404 yen in Tokyo this week,
while  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s largest bank, which received a
fifth of its revenue from North America last year, slid 2.8
percent in Hong Kong.  PT Charoen Pokphand dropped 28 percent and property
developer PT Lippo Karawaci Tbk declined 23 percent this week in
Jakarta as emerging markets slumped. More than $1.5 trillion was
wiped off the value of emerging equities since a peak on May 8
through Aug. 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some investors are seeing opportunities amid the sell-off.
South Korean and Chinese shares are the most attractive for Bill
Maldonado, who directs stock investments for HSBC Global Asset
Management Ltd.  ‘We Are’  “It seems almost foolhardy in the face of the current
volatility to be that positive but in reality, we are,”
Maldonado, Asia-Pacific chief investment officer for the unit of
the London-based bank, which manages $413 billion, said in an
Aug. 21 interview. “The two big outliers today, which look both
very cheap and very profitable, are  China  and Korea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  