-- Asian Stocks Rise, Paring Weekly Slide, on Economic Data
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-23T10:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/asian-stocks-rise-paring-weekly-slide-on-economic-data.html
Asian  stocks  rose, paring the
benchmark equity gauge’s biggest weekly decline in two months,
after reports from  Europe  to the U.S. boosted confidence in the
economic recovery and the yen weakened against the dollar.  Asia ’s largest carmaker  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which gets
about 75 percent of its sales outside  Japan , climbed 2.8 percent
as the yen touched the lowest level in nearly three weeks
against the dollar. Henderson Land Development Co. advanced 2.6
percent in Hong Kong after the homebuilder controlled by
billionaire Lee Shau-kee posted higher sales. Amada Co., a
Japanese maker of metal-cutting machines, jumped 5.3 percent
after a report operating profits will surge 150 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 1.1 percent to 131.09
as of 6:28 p.m. in Hong Kong as nine of the 10 industry groups
on the gauge climbed. About five shares rose for every two that
fell. The measure dropped 2.4 percent this week amid concern
emerging-market economies are slowing and that the  Federal
Reserve  will reduce its unprecedented stimulus program, known as
quantitative easing.  “The fact that the U.S. and European recoveries are
improving, albeit fractionally, is a good foundation for global
markets,” Matthew Sherwood, head of investment markets research
in Sydney at Perpetual Investments, which manages about $25
billion, said in an e-mail. “Markets are clearly in a
transitional phase. Investors firstly have to get through the
removal of the price distortions that quantitative easing
created.”  Factory output in the euro area is improving more than
economists estimated and the fewest U.S. workers in more than
five years applied for jobless benefits, reports yesterday
showed.  Regional Gauges  Japan’s  Topix index  surged 2 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index jumped 0.9 percent and South Korea’s Kospi index
advanced 1.1 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index was little
changed and Taiwan’s Taiex index increased 0.8 percent.  Hong
Kong ’s Hang Seng Index slipped 0.2 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index lost 0.1 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index sank 0.5 percent as  China ’s
benchmark money-market rate headed for its biggest weekly gain
in a month on concern cash supply will tighten as banks cover
month-end obligations.  Gains Erased  The Asia-Pacific gauge has erased almost all this year’s
gains,  lagging  a 16 percent surge in the S&P 500 Index as growth
slows in China and speculation that the Fed will curb stimulus
spurred investors to sell assets across Asia and  emerging
markets .  The MSCI Asia Pacific index traded at 12.6 times estimated
earnings yesterday compared with 15 for the S&P 500 Index and
13.9 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia’s  Jakarta Stock Index (JCI)  led declines among Asian
developing markets this week, losing 8.7 percent after worse-than-estimated economic data and a report showing the nation’s
current-account deficit widened to a record in the second
quarter. The gauge was little changed today.  U.S. jobless claims in the month ended Aug. 17 declined to
330,500 a week on average, the least since November 2007, Labor
Department figures showed yesterday.  Europe Manufacturing  In the euro area, a manufacturing gauge indicated expansion
for a second month in August, rising to 51.3 from 50.3., London-based Markit Economics said yesterday.  Japanese stocks have led gains among developed markets this
year amid optimism that record stimulus by the  Bank of Japan  and
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic reforms will boost growth.
The Topix index has dropped 11 percent from its May 22 close,
which was the highest since 2008.  Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda is among speakers
tomorrow at the Fed’s annual monetary conference in Jackson
Hole,  Wyoming , which comes as the U.S. central bank debates the
timing of reductions to its record bond buying and other global
regulators pump up accommodation. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
won’t attend.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  were little
changed. The measure gained 0.9 percent yesterday as data showed
improvement in global manufacturing and the American labor
market. The Nasdaq Composite Index increased 1.1 percent
following a three-hour trading halt on the Nasdaq Stock Market
after a computer error.  Yen Weakens  Japanese exporters advanced as the yen fell as low as 99.14
to the dollar. Toyota Motor added 2.8 percent to 6,220 yen.
Nissan Motor Co. gained 3.4 percent to 1,028 yen.  Amada gained 5.3 percent to 769 yen in  Tokyo . The Nikkei
newspaper reported the machinery maker will post operating
profit of 4.5 billion yen in the six months through September,
more than the 3.5 billion the company has forecast.  Henderson Land  advanced 2.6 percent to HK$47.40. Revenue
from home sales in Hong Kong and mainland China rose 16 percent
to HK$4.97 billion ($641 million) in the first half, while
rental income from offices and malls gained 12 percent to
HK$2.46 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  