-- AT&T Accused of Wrongfully Canceling Al Jazeera’s Channel
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-08-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/at-t-accused-of-wrongfully-canceling-al-jazeera-s-channel.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  “acted in bad faith”
when it pulled the plug on  Al Jazeera ’s new U.S. channel,
lawyers for the Qatar-based broadcaster said in court filings.  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, came up with a
“pretextual scheme” to justify dropping  Al Jazeera  America
from its  U-verse pay-TV service  just before the channel started
broadcasting earlier this week, Al Jazeera’s lawyers said in an
unsealed lawsuit.  The move gave Dallas-based AT&T an opportunity to “simply
pocket millions of dollars to which it was not entitled,” the
network’s lawyers said in the suit, which has been heavily
redacted to protect the agreement’s confidential information.  AT&T’s  U-verse pay-TV service  said Aug. 19 it wouldn’t
carry Al Jazeera America because of a contract dispute. U-verse
began in 2006 and has 5 million video customers in states such
as Texas and California. The network, controlled by the Qatari
royal family, paid $500 million for  Al Gore ’s money-losing
Current TV in January and rebranded it.  “Al Jazeera has mischaracterized the facts,”  Brad Burns ,
an AT&T spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Due to
certain breaches by Al Jazeera, AT&T terminated the agreement
and will no longer carry Current TV on U-Verse.”  Soccer Leagues  Buying Current TV gave Al Jazeera America access to about
43 million homes nationwide, less than half of all pay-TV homes.
The Qatari company also has deals with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  DirecTV (DTV) 
and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  for BeIN Sport, a group of channels it
owns in France, the U.S. and  Canada  that have rights to European
soccer leagues.  U-verse is the second TV provider to drop Al Jazeera’s
channel since it acquired Current TV.  Time Warner Cable (TWC) , which
has 12 million customers, dropped the channel from its lineup in
January.  Al Jazeera officials said they were in “full compliance”
with the agreement covering AT&T’s broadcasting of the Current
TV channel and “AT&T’s excuse for terminating is a bad-faith
pretext,” according to the unsealed suit.  Attorneys for the network also said in the suit AT&T’s U-verse has a large subscriber base in “Texas and other
conservative states in the South and Southwest.”  The channel’s executives must find a way to an American
audience that remembers Al Jazeera as the forum for Osama bin Laden’s video messages after the terrorist attacks on the U.S.
on Sept. 11, 2001.  Damages Sought  Former President  George W. Bush  considered the network
sympathetic to terrorists, and the U.S. government was angered
when Al Jazeera broadcast images of civilian casualties during a
2003 battle in the Iraqi City of Fallujah. That same year, the
U.S. military mistakenly bombed Al Jazeera’s Baghdad office,
 killing  some of its journalists.  Al Jazeera wants Chancery Judge Sam Glasscock to order AT&T
to honor the agreement and allow Al Jazeera’s U.S. channel to be
broadcast on U-verse or to force the communications company to
pay compensatory damages, according to the suit.  The case is Al Jazeera LLC v. AT&T Services Inc., 8823,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  