-- Australian Olympic Swimmers Escape Further Sanction From AOC
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-23T05:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/australian-olympic-swimmers-escape-further-sanction-from-aoc.html
The Australian Olympic Committee
said it won’t impose further sanctions on the men’s freestyle
relay swimming squad for misbehavior including the misuse of
 prescription drugs  in the leadup to last year’s London Games.  AOC President  John Coates  said today that his organization
accepted the findings of a report by Senior Counsel Bret Walker
that the penalties already handed down to the six athletes by
Swimming  Australia  were “proportionate and sufficient.”  James Magnussen, Tommaso D’Orsogna, Cameron McEvoy, Eamon Sullivan and Matt Targett were given undisclosed fines and
deferred suspensions in April after they admitted to taking the
sedative Stilnox, which was banned by the AOC, as part of a
bonding exercise. James Roberts said he didn’t take the drug,
though had joined in with pranks that disturbed teammates.  The AOC conducted a separate investigation into the 400-meter relay squad’s behavior and had a range of penalties
available to it, including withdrawing future funding from the
swimmers. Coates said any further conduct that brings them or
swimming into disrepute, or prejudices the image or values of
the AOC, would “likely render them ineligible” for the 2016
Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.  “They’re on a very serious three-year good behavior
bond,” Coates said in a news conference in Sydney. “This is
the yellow card. I hope they learn from it.”  Walker concluded in his report that their conduct at a pre-Olympics training camp in Manchester,  England , involved behavior
toward some female swimmers that was “boorish, selfish,
obnoxious and disrespectful.”  While their behavior did not have an effect on the
performance of the squad or the female swimmers at the London
Games, it affected morale, Walker found.  Australia’s swimmers had their worst Olympics in two
decades last year, winning one gold medal, six silver and three
bronze. Two subsequent reviews criticized the culture and
leadership of the team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  