-- Mayor’s Resignation to Test San Diego’s New Progressivism
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-23T09:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/mayor-s-resignation-to-test-san-diego-s-new-progressivism.html
In San Diego, where the local
newspaper last year called  Barack Obama  the  worst  president ever
and voters  stripped  new city workers of traditional pensions,
the election of a Democrat as mayor promised to be a watershed.  Now, as Mayor Bob Filner faces resigning to end a sexual-harassment lawsuit against the city by a former spokeswoman, the
durability of San Diego’s Democratic turn may be tested in one
of the last big California cities where Republicans ruled.  Democrats have a 3-to-2 edge in voter  registrations  in the
state’s second-largest city, according to San Diego data. Yet
before Filner, whose victory last year was fueled by public-employee unions upset with the pension changes, voters chose
Republican mayors in six straight elections over two decades.  “If Bob Filner leaves, there’s nothing to say a Democrat
won’t take his place -- in fact that’s very likely,” Carl Luna,
who teaches politics at San Diego Mesa College, said by
telephone. “Bob Filner’s politics were popular, just not his
personality,” he said about the 70-year-old mayor.  The City Council will reportedly consider accepting a
proposed settlement of the lawsuit that will force Filner to
resign, while providing him with a taxpayer-financed shield
against legal claims. City Attorney Jan Goldsmith has said the
tentative deal will be laid out in a closed-door meeting today.  Military Presence  San Diego, the nation’s eighth-largest city, is home to
naval and Marine Corps bases and defense contractors that
provide a quarter of the region’s jobs,  according  to the
nonprofit San Diego Military Advisory Council. While that
presence, along with a large retiree population and a close-knit
business community, has given the city a Republican tilt,
Democrats overcame that traditional balance in 2012, Luna said.  Filner’s win came as a Democratic tide swept through Los
Angeles all the way to the Mexican border, encircling Orange
County, the region that propelled Ronald Reagan to the
governor’s office and later the White House. Yet by last month,
even Democratic National Committee leader Debbie Wasserman Schultz was calling for the mayor’s resignation.  A congressman for two decades, Filner claimed city hall in
November with 52 percent of the  vote . He beat City Councilman
Carl DeMaio, a Republican who championed a  proposal  to cap
pension benefits and offer most new workers only 401(k)-style
savings plans. Filner, in a televised campaign  interview , called
the measure a “fraud.” It  passed  with 66 percent of the vote
in June 2012, yet major components don’t kick in until 2018.  Labor’s Ascendance  Unions  rallied  behind Filner’s mayoral bid as a result, and
partly because they feared DeMaio, said Steve Erie, who teaches
politics at the University of California at San Diego. Filner’s
win marked the ascendancy of labor over the city’s traditional
power centers of the military and downtown business interests,
Erie said by telephone.  Labor organizers were able to drive turnout in blue-collar
areas south of Interstate 8, the highway traditionally dividing
the city’s political and social geography, Erie said. Unions
“have the field operation, particularly south of 8,” to help
Democrats win in local elections, he said.  The U-T San Diego newspaper under owner Douglas “Papa Doug” Manchester, a hotel developer, has inveighed against the
mayor in editorials. In an interview during last year’s
campaign, Filner said the newspaper was biased. In July 2012,
the newspaper declared Obama the worst president in history.  Congressional Period  However, the paper and other local media said nothing last
year about the candidate’s behavior toward women while he served
in Congress as a representative from the area. Some of the 18
women who have since come forward to accuse Filner of making
unwanted advances or other inappropriate behavior have said it
occurred during that period of his career.  Filner had resisted pressure to step down after more than a
dozen women, including a retired rear admiral, a university dean
and a great-grandmother, made accusations that included groping,
headlocks and inappropriate comments. He took a two-week hiatus
for counseling this month, returning to city hall Aug. 21.  He has apologized for offending women, though he said that
his behavior fell short of sexual harassment.  The reluctance of labor leaders to denounce Filner after so
many women came forward with their accusations may erode their
influence, said  Tony Krvaric , chairman of the San Diego County
Republican Party. He said the unions are a “powerhouse” in
local politics.  ‘Brute Force’  Filner’s November win resulted from “a pure Obama wave,
low-information voters and brute force by labor unions,”
Krvaric said. He may also have benefited from Hispanic voters,
who overwhelmingly backed Obama last year, according to exit
polls. The city’s Latino population swelled to 29 percent in
2010 from 25 percent in 2000, U.S. Census Bureau figures show.  Should Filner step down, City Council President Todd Gloria, a Democrat, would become acting mayor and a special
election would be scheduled within 90 days to pick a permanent
replacement. That vote may put a Republican back in the corner
office because of a backlash against union leaders and because
of the party’s voting strength in nonpresidential elections,
Krvaric said.  Serving Business  Richard Barrera, secretary-treasurer of the San Diego
County Labor Council, said a Filner resignation wouldn’t
necessarily harm the Democrats’ prospects as voters remain
frustrated with business-dominated political leadership.  Filner’s election last year shows “that San Diego is
changing as a community,” Barrera said. “There are a lot of
people in San Diego who believe that the kind of politics we’ve
had in the past 20 years have been serving the interests of the
downtown business establishment.”  Barrera called the harassment allegations against Filner
“incredibly serious,” in a July 18  statement , without
demanding the mayor’s resignation.  Representatives of the San Diego Municipal Employees
Association, the Service Employees International Union and the
San Diego Police Officers Association, all of which backed
Filner last year, didn’t respond to inquiries seeking comment.  No Handouts  Gloria Allred, a lawyer for Irene McCormack Jackson, the
former Filner communications director who has sued the city and
the mayor, urged the council to reject any settlement that
commits taxpayer dollars to his defense. McCormack Jackson
claims that Filner held her in a headlock and suggested that she
work without panties.  “His parting gift should be ‘good riddance’ instead of a
handout,” Allred said yesterday in a news briefing.  Goldsmith, the city’s lawyer, didn’t say whether the deal
requires Filner to resign in  briefing  reporters about the
proposal. The Los Angeles Times and local television stations
KNSD and KGTV  reported  that the settlement will require Filner
to step down if it’s approved by the council. Goldsmith’s
spokesman, Michael Giorgino, declined to confirm the reports, as
did Katie Keach, a spokeswoman for Gloria, the council
president.  Filner aides didn’t respond to telephone calls or e-mail
messages yesterday. James L. Payne, one of his lawyers, said the
mayor and the city reached a “tentative agreement” after three
days of mediation before Lawrence Irving, a retired judge. He
said he couldn’t make statements about the confidential deal.  Gloria, 35, also opposed the pension changes that voters
passed last year, Keach said by telephone. The council president
“respects the will of the voters” and hasn’t attempted to
water down the measure’s provisions, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  