-- Haywood Hires Zakresky; Canaccord Adds Lobb, Dennis, Vlaad Says
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-08-23T18:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/haywood-hires-zakresky-canaccord-adds-lobb-dennis-vlaad-says.html
Michael Carew joined Haywood
Securities Inc. in Vancouver as a mining analyst from BHP
Billiton Ltd., according to Vlaad & Co., a Toronto-based
financial services recruiting firm.  Other moves noted in the “Bill’s Buzz” weekly  newsletter 
include:  * Chad Zakresky joined Haywood’s Calgary team as an investment
banking associate from GMP Securities LP.  * Canaccord Financial Inc. added Steve Lobb as head of its U.S.
fixed-income sales team from Societe Generale SA. It also hired
Barry Dennis to lead the U.S. structured products group as
senior managing director while Dean Larson and William Ludington
have joined as managing directors. All will be based in  New
York .  * Royal Bank of Canada hired Mayur Nallamala as head of Asian
equities for its asset-management group. Nallamala was most
recently with JPMorgan Chase & Co.  * David Dean rejoined Cormark Securities Inc. as a health-care
director and research analyst from Cantor Fitzgerald LP where he
was in institutional sales.  * Salman Partners Inc. hired Scott Proctor as an institutional
trader from Global Securities Corp.  * PNC Bank NA added Mark Richter as vice president of
origination from Deloitte LLP where he was a vice president and
director in their capital advisory group.  * Michael Gort joined the Bank of Montreal as a vice president
in its financial institutions group. Gort was previously at UBS
AG in the U.K.  * Paulina Arent joined the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
as a senior analyst in public market investments from Bank of
Montreal where she was an investment-banking associate.  * Stifel Financial Corp. is shutting down its Canadian
operations today.  * In  Vancouver , Alex Tong joined Hootsuite Media Inc. as a
corporate development manager from Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce where he was a leveraged finance associate.  * Recent Ivey MBA Graduate Max Rosenfeld was hired by Crestpoint
Real Estate Investments Ltd. as an acquisitions and assets
manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  