-- Baidu Agrees to Buy Majority Stake in Nuomi for $160 Million
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-23T10:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/baidu-said-to-buy-majority-stake-in-nuomi-com-for-160-million.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of  China ’s largest
search engine, agreed to buy a majority stake in the e-commerce
website operator Nuomi Holdings Inc. for about $160 million.  Beijing-based Baidu will buy about 59 percent of the
operator of Nuomi.com from  Renren Inc. (RENN) , according to a PR
Newswire statement. Nuomi had general merchandise sales of about
$120 million in the second quarter, the companies said.  Baidu, which agreed to buy third-party app store 91
Wireless last month, is seeking acquisitions to tap growth in
China’s online market, Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Li said
July 25. The $1.85 billion deal, Baidu’s biggest announced
purchase, may help capture more of the nation’s 464 million
users who access the Internet from mobile devices.  “Buying Nuomi can help diversify Baidu’s revenue model,”
said Ricky Lai, an analyst at Guotai Junan International
Holdings Ltd. in  Hong Kong  by phone. “Adding e-commerce can
complement Baidu’s advertisement business.”  The acquisition is expected to close in the fourth quarter,
according to the statement.  Nuomi had 3.8 million active paying users, the companies
said. About 30 percent of its sales in the second quarter were
derived from smartphones, it said.  Baidu is trying to navigate a shift from desktop computing,
where it manages 82 percent of the nation’s searches, to mobile
devices. Yesterday the company said it is expanding with mobile
applications that don’t need to be downloaded as it competes
with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  for users in the world’s biggest
smartphone market.  ‘Lite Apps’  Mobile users can access so called “lite apps” for
transportation, travel and entertainment information through
Baidu’s search program on smartphones, Li Mingyuan, a vice
president, said in Beijing yesterday. Baidu is also offering
mobile payment services for developers to commercialize their
applications, he said.  Mobile users can shop on Nuomi’s e-commerce platform, said
Billy Leung, an analyst at RHB Research Institute Sdn. in Hong
Kong by phone. The website, which offers daily-deals based on
geography, also allows Baidu to leverage its location-based
service, he said.  Baidu reported  net income  of 2.64 billion yuan ($431
million) in the second quarter, beating analyst estimates.
Revenue rose 39 percent to 7.56 billion  yuan .  The company boosted its workforce by 2,100 people to 24,000
by the end of June through new hires and the purchase of
PPStream Inc. for $370 million in the June quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  