-- Bats Said in Talks With Direct Edge Amid Four-Year Volume Slide
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-08-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/bats-said-in-talks-to-merge-with-exchange-competitor-direct-edge.html
Bats Global Markets Inc. and Direct
Edge Holdings LLC, formed to provide  Wall Street  firms with
alternatives for trading, have seen their own options shrink.  The third- and fourth-largest equity exchange owners are in
merger discussions, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the talks. The discussions are progressing and may
come to nothing, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the negotiations are private.  Formed with the help of some of the fastest traders on Wall
Street, the closely held companies have watched as volume dried
up in the U.S., cutting profits at the proprietary trading firms
they cater to. Shares  changing hands  on all U.S. exchanges have
fallen 36 percent since 2009 to 6.3 billion shares a day in 2013
and profits for high-frequency traders slipped 80 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Rosenblatt
Securities Inc.  “Conceptually, this consolidation play makes sense, but
the real question could be what happens after that,” Sang Lee,
managing partner and co-founder of Boston-based Aite Group LLC,
said by phone. “Assuming they have 10 percent each in market
share and they are combined to get around 20 percent, then what?
From a transaction business perspective you really haven’t
acquired a new revenue source.”  Jim Gorman, a spokesman for Direct Edge, declined to
comment, as did Suzanne O’Halloran at Bats.  Better Alternative  Bats, an acronym for Better Alternative Trading System,
started trading in 2006, aiming to match the incumbent exchanges
on speed and beat them on prices. Seven years later, the firm’s
daily average U.S. equity market share is about 10 percent,
according to data from Tabb Group LLC. That compares to averages
of 23 percent at NYSE Euronext and 18 percent at  Nasdaq  OMX
Group Inc. Direct Edge has about 11 percent, Tabb said.  The discussions come as  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
prepares to complete the acquisition of NYSE Euronext, which
owns the New York Stock Exchange, the oldest U.S. bourse.
Combining Bats, based in Lenexa,  Kansas , and  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based Direct Edge would make them the second-biggest
market by volume.  Failed IPO  Bats, which tried and failed to go public last year, was
founded in 2005 by high-frequency trader  Dave Cummings  of
Tradebot Systems Inc. and, along with Direct Edge, helped
dismantle the duopoly on American stocks that was enjoyed by the
New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market.  “When Cummings set up Bats, it was really in response to
the New York and Nasdaq having a dominant stranglehold on the
equity trading market,”  Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of
the Tabb Group in New York, said in a phone interview. “But
time moves on, order flows declined, it’s gotten much more
competitive.”  This year’s acquisition of market-making firm Knight
Capital Group Inc. by Getco LLC, the Chicago-based high-frequency trader, may have made a merger more likely, Tabb said.
Both are shareholders in Bats. Knight, now KCG Holdings Inc.,
also owns a stake in Direct Edge.  Electronic platforms have seen their reputations dim over
the last week after a connectivity issue caused Nasdaq to halt
trading in all its listed shares for three hours yesterday and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bombarded markets with mistaken options
orders. Bats shut its main market for almost an hour on Aug. 6
when a computer system malfunctioned.  Multiple Platforms  Bats, run with about 160 employees from a two-story office
complex in a Kansas City suburb, operates two stock exchanges
and an options market in the U.S. as well as Bats Chi-X  Europe ,
the largest pan-European stock exchange.  William O’Brien , Direct Edge’s chief executive officer,
said in September 2012 that he was focused on expanding as an
independent company following a report in the Wall Street
Journal his firm was in merger discussions with the owner of the
Toronto exchange.  Speculation over a Direct Edge sale dates to December 2011,
when the U.S. Justice Department made the divestiture of
Deutsche Boerse AG’s 31.5 percent stake in the company, held
through its International Securities Exchange unit, a condition
of its proposed merger with NYSE Euronext. European regulators
blocked the trans-Atlantic union two months later and the
Frankfurt-based exchange never made a deal.  Both companies count trading firms and banks among their
owners, and Bats gained two new shareholders this month.
Private-equity firms Spectrum Equity Investors LP and TA
Associates Management LP bought all of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s estate when it exited its investment, according to a
statement from Bats and the investors.  Bats lists Getco as its largest owner with a 15.4 percent
voting interest. Other owners include Morgan Stanley, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Nomura Holdings Inc. and Citigroup Inc. KCG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citadel all have a 19.9 percent
stake in Direct Edge. An additional 8.8 percent belongs to a
group of five brokers, including New York-based JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  “I think it makes sense,” Paul Gulberg, an analyst at
Portales Partners LLC, said in a phone interview. “A combined
company is probably more efficient to run.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  