-- Belgian Business Confidence Jumps to Highest Since February 2012
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2013-08-23T14:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/belgian-business-confidence-jumps-to-highest-since-february-2012.html
Belgian business confidence climbed
more than economists forecast in August to the highest in 1 ½
years, led by gains in the manufacturing and business-related
services industries.  The confidence indicator rose to minus 8.6 this month from
minus 12 in July, the Brussels-based National Bank of  Belgium 
said today in a statement. Economists had predicted an increase
to minus 11.3, according to the median of 13 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The euro-area economy returned to growth in the second
quarter after six consecutive quarters of contraction. The
recovery has been led by  Germany , Europe’s largest economy and
one of Belgium’s biggest trading partners. German business
confidence is forecast to rise for a fourth month in August.  The Ifo institute’s business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, is projected to increase to 107 this
month from 106.2 in July, according to a separate Bloomberg News
survey of economists. Ifo releases the August report at 10 a.m.
in Munich on Aug. 27.  In Belgium, “the second improvement in a row in the
manufacturing industry can be attributed to a more favorable
assessment of total order books and a more positive sentiment
regarding demand and employment,” the central bank said in the
statement.  The 3.4-point increase was the biggest jump since November
2010 as order-book assessments in manufacturing improved and
executives became less pessimistic about demand and employment,
according to the bank. Assessment of activity in business-related services also increased, as did employment and demand
expectations in trade.  Economic Expansion  Gross domestic product in Belgium rose 0.1 percent in the
second quarter from the prior period, marking the first quarter-on-quarter economic expansion since the first three months of
2012, according to an initial estimate from the central bank
last month.  The manufacturing industry gauge increased 4 points to
minus 9.8, while the trade curve climbed 3 points to minus 14.1.
The index for business-related services advanced 4 points to
minus 1.1, and that for the nation’s building industry added 0.3
point to minus 8.6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  