-- Bieber Booking Helps T4F Beat Batista’s Cirque: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-08-23T16:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/bieber-booking-helps-t4f-beat-batista-s-cirque-corporate-brazil.html
T4F Entretenimento SA (SHOW3) , rebounding
from the loss of Cirque du Soleil, is poised to become  Brazil ’s
leading show promoter as rivals including Eike Batista’s IMX
wane and their assets become acquisition targets.  Time 4 Fun’s bookings include Black Sabbath and Justin Bieber, along with winning the Sao Paulo edition of the
Lollapalooza music festival on Aug. 5 as an industry bidding war
ends. That’s positioning the company to recover from what will
be a weak 2013, according to Guilherme Ferreira, who manages 250
million reais ($102.7 million) as chief executive officer of
Teorema Gestao de Ativos Ltda.  “This is a growth industry, we’ll see explosive growth in
the mid-term,” said Ferreira, whose firm held 2.7 percent of
the stock as of July 31, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.
“The company can plan for the future, it’s looking ahead five
years from now.”  Time 4 Fun scooped up Lollapalooza from Geo Eventos, of the
Organizacoes Globo media group, which ran the event this year
and declined to bid on it again as a strengthening  U.S. dollar 
against the real made international acts more expensive. IMX,
which helped send Time 4 Fun’s  shares  reeling by wooing away
Cirque du Soleil in 2012 with a 20-year contract, has now
stopped searching for new business, CEO  Alan Adler  said in a
telephone interview on Aug. 15.  Entertainment Boom  Time 4 Fun, based in Sao Paulo, fell 59 percent in the past
year through yesterday to trade at 13 times estimated 2013
 earnings , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compared
with a 13 percent decline for Brazil’s  Ibovespa index  over the
same period. The company’s largest peer in the U.S.,  Madison
Square Garden Co. (MSG) , gained 50 percent in the last year to trade
at 33 times projected earnings, the data show.  Time 4 Fun has 6 buy ratings and 1 one sell recommendation
among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The  shares rose  1.4
percent to an intraday high of 7.26 reais at 1:27 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo .  Entertainment demand rose last year as the Brazilian real
strengthened against the U.S. dollar and the middle class
expanded, spurring competition for bookings by performers
including Madonna and Lady Gaga.  Time 4 Fun won the rights for those two shows and then lost
money after failing to sell out the events and generate enough
sponsorship revenue, Bahema’s Ferreira said in an interview from
Sao Paulo. A spokesman for Time 4 Fun declined to comment.  Profit Drops  Losses were worse for the competition, all closely held
companies, said Bruno Piacentini, a partner at Fama
Investimentos, which manages 1.3 billion reais and  holds  5
percent of Time 4 Fun. Geo, XYZ Live and Time 4 Fun combined had
losses before interest and other items of 68 million reais last
year, according to Nau Securities Ltd.  A spokeswoman for Geo declined to comment about the
company’s performance, as did a spokeswoman from Engaje!
Comunicacao Inteligente on behalf of XYZ Live.  Net income for Time 4 Fun’s latest quarter fell 19 percent
to 10.9 million reais, according to a  regulatory filing .  “If you look at Time 4 Fun, which is bigger than its
competitors, its results were bad, but compared to the rest, it
was much better,” Piacentini said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo.  IMX has yet to announce its Cirque du Soleil schedule and
Geo is reducing its activities, Piacentini said. Analysts at Nau
Securities said XYZ Live is reported to be looking for long-term
funding and is expected to outsell Time 4 Fun this year.  “T4F is taking advantage of the fact that the sector has
been hurt and it wasn’t as badly hurt,” Piacentini said.  New Business  Cirque du Soleil will announce shows for 2014 and 2015
within 60 days, IMX’S Adler said. IMX is a joint venture between
IMG Worldwide Inc. and EBX Group Co., the holding company of
former billionaire  Eike Batista , who is restructuring his
holdings after failing to produce results. IMX has never been
for sale and has no intention of selling assets, contrary to
press reports, Adler said.  IMX doesn’t intend to go after new business, Adler said.  “Today we’re in a phase that instead of trying to get new
business we are focused on operations and profitability,” Adler
said.  Time 4 Fun would be interested in buying IMX’s 50 percent
share in Rock in Rio, and Cirque du Soleil “will come back, but
under different conditions,” Ferreira said.  Renee-Claude Menard, a spokeswoman for Cirque du Soleil in
 Montreal , didn’t immediately respond to a voice mail message
seeking comment yesterday.  Competitors Disappear  Competitors will largely disappear as Time 4 Fun becomes
the industry leader and buys rivals’ most attractive assets,
Ferreira said. The weakening real against the dollar will limit
the number of international acts as it becomes more expensive to
bring them to Brazil, he said. The currency impact won’t be
immediate as Time 4 Fun has hedged for the next 18 months.  Sponsorship of shows, which has fallen 55 percent in the
most recent quarter, is a risk factor, Ferreira said. Brazil’s
economy grew at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the first
quarter of 2013, and sponsors are looking to the 2014  World Cup 
and the 2016  Olympic Games  in Rio de Janeiro.  “Everyone is holding back their cash because of the
economy,” Piacentini said. “But it looks like the deceleration
is not coming in the magnitude people had expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  