-- Bo Xilai Disputes His Guilt as Court Microblogs His Trial
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-23T02:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/bo-xilai-disputes-his-guilt-as-court-microblogs-his-trial.html
Former Chinese Politburo member Bo Xilai denied guilt in his bribery and abuse-of-power trial,
sparring with the judge in a hearing that broke with precedent
as court officials released live updates on the Internet.  On the first day of his trial yesterday, Bo rejected
charges that he took bribes worth more than 21 million yuan
($3.4 million) and dismissed his  wife’s testimony  that he kept a
safe stocked with cash for her and their son to spend in the
U.K. Responding to one witness’s testimony, Bo said he’d just
seen “the ugly performance of someone who had sold his soul.”  “I’m not a perfect person, or one with a strong mind, and
I’m willing to take responsibility for that,” Bo said,
according to remarks posted on the Internet by the Intermediate
People’s Court in the city of Jinan. “But I won’t be silent
about the basic truth on whether I’m guilty or not.”  Bo’s combativeness showed he will not submit to the charges
against him in a case that roiled  China ’s once-a-decade
leadership transition last year, after the Communist Party
expelled him following the death of a British businessman. The
party remains in control of the trial process, and the only
question is whether Bo will be sentenced to death or a long
prison term, according to law professor Lin Zhe from the party’s
Central Party School.  “I’ve dealt with him before -- if you want to impose
something on him, he won’t acquiesce,” Lin said. “Bo Xilai is
an official with a strong character so I’m not surprised that he
would behave like this. If he didn’t, it wouldn’t be like him.”  ‘Real Socialist’  Bo’s trial began under tight security, with police herding
reporters into a pen near the white-colonnaded courthouse in
Jinan. Supporters of the former commerce minister, once
considered a candidate for the Politburo’s all-powerful Standing
Committee, gathered nearby to wave banners and portraits of
Chairman  Mao Zedong .  “Bo Xilai goes along with the real socialist road,” said
a 42-year-old protester who only gave his last name, Shao. “He
did everything for the common people, not for the very few rich
people.”  The bribery charge against Bo dates back to his time as
mayor of Dalian in the 1990s. The trial resumed today and Bo was
expected to face an abuse-of-power charge linked to the murder
of British businessman Neil Heywood in Chongqing in 2011, when
he was party secretary there.  Briton’s Poisoning  Bo’s wife Gu Kailai was convicted of murder and given a
suspended death sentence last year over Heywood’s death. His
former police chief in Chongqing, Wang Lijun, was sentenced to
15 years behind bars on charges related to the cover-up of
Heywood’s poisoning at a hotel in the megacity.  During yesterday’s hearing, the court heard that Bo took
bribes worth 21.8 million  yuan , some via his wife and his son Bo
Guagua, according to the indictment released on the court’s
microblog. He denied he had committed bribery.  In testimony submitted to the court, Gu described how she
periodically withdrew tens of thousands of dollars from a safe
shared with Bo for her and Bo Guagua’s expenses in the U.K., the
court said  on its microblog . Bo also rejected that claim.  “I think Gu Kailai’s testimony is very funny, very
laughable,” he said, according to the court. “The safe we
shared had more than $50,000 or $80,000 in it. There were also
hundreds of thousands of yuan in the safe. How does she know I
was the one who put in all the cash she took out?”  Blank Mind  Bo said he had acted “against his will” when he admitted
to Communist Party discipline officials that he took bribes.
“Everything was blank in my mind,” he said.  When a businessman named Tang Xiaolin claimed he had paid
Bo $80,000 to help secure support to construct a building, Bo
responded: “He wants to win favor and reduce his sentence, and
in reality he is biting like a crazy dog.”  Later in the proceedings, the judge asked Bo to maintain
his composure and “pull yourself together.”  “OK, no problem,” Bo replied, according to the court
transcript. “I feel that the judge’s control has given me a
feeling of fair justice. Thank you!”  A report from the official Xinhua News Agency made no
mention of Bo’s remarks, saying only that he denied the bribery
charge. “The court approved all applications by Bo, who was
emotionally stable and physically healthy during the trial, to
express his views,” Xinhua said.  Officials released two pictures from inside the court that
showed Bo, dressed in a white shirt and dark pants, his hair cut
short, between two policemen wearing light-blue shirts and white
gloves.  Live Blog  Bo’s decision to defy the court wasn’t new for a former top
official, according to the Central Party School’s Lin. She said
former National People’s Congress Vice Chairman Cheng Kejie,
executed for bribery in 2000, disputed the charges against him,
as did former Anhui Vice Governor Wang Huaizhong, who was
convicted of bribery and executed in 2004.  “Bo’s uncooperative behaviors are not a surprise for the
government,” said Lin Yan, an  associate professor  at Shanghai
Jiao Tong University’s  KoGuan Law School. “To what extent that
the government will be able to move the trial to the desired
direction is another story.”  The difference this time was the court’s move to live-blog
the trial and publicize Bo’s remarks. That may reflect a bid for
greater transparency and legitimacy even as authorities ensure
the outcome, according to Eva Pils, an associate law professor
at the  Chinese University of Hong Kong .  “They perhaps decided, ‘We will look really bad if we do
the ordinary show and everyone says it’s just another one of
these scripted trials,’” Pils said. “What is essential is that
the authorities clearly remain in control of the trial. Bo Xilai
is not able to mount a genuine defense.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Hu Shen in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  