-- Boehner Tells Caucus House Will Keep Fighting Health Law
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-08-23T16:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/boehner-tells-caucus-house-will-keep-fighting-health-law.html
House Speaker John Boehner assured
his Republican caucus last night that the House will continue
its bid to stop implementation of President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law, while not addressing a push from some in his
party to simply not fund the measure.  Boehner also told lawmakers on a telephone conference call
that across-the-board government spending cuts, known as
sequestration, will stay in place until Obama proposes a
replacement package, according to a person who was on the line
and wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about it.  Congressional Republicans and the Obama administration are
gearing up for battles starting in early September over federal
spending, the health-care law and the nation’s debt limit --
with the risk of a government shutdown and a downgrade of the
U.S. credit rating hanging over the debates.  The health-care law “remains broadly unpopular across
America,” 80 Republicans out of 233 in the chamber wrote in a
letter to their leaders. “Most Americans still believe that
health-care should be controlled by patients and doctors, not by
the government.”  They’re seeking to withhold money for the health-care law -
- Obama’s signature domestic policy achievement in his first
term -- from the must-pass stopgap spending measure to keep the
government running after Oct. 1.  Spending Cuts  Boehner, of  Ohio , and his lieutenants have made no final
decisions on whether to support the defunding as part of the
stopgap funding measure or through another means, such as the
debt-limit debate. Their decision will affect deliberations on
government funding, as well as the need to increase the debt
limit later this fall.  Boehner portrayed Obama as desperate to replace the
automatic spending cuts known as sequestration, according to the
person on the call.  Republicans have consistently opposed Obama’s push for tax
increases to replace parts of the roughly $1 trillion in
automatic cuts that started March 1 and are to continue over the
next decade. Obama and Congress agreed to sequestration in 2011
to resolve that year’s dispute over raising the  debt  limit, and
Treasury Department officials say the next increase in U.S.
borrowing authority will be needed during the fall.  Senators’ Group  A group of Republican senators who’ve been meeting
periodically with Obama since March to discuss a possible budget
compromise planned to gather at the White House during the five-week congressional recess that began in August, Tennessee
Republican Bob Corker told reporters late last month. The
meeting hasn’t occurred, and could be scheduled for as soon as
next week.  When lawmakers return to Washington on Sept. 9, their first
task will be to negotiate a 60-to-90-day measure to fund the
government for the start of the fiscal year on Oct. 1. The
legislation is expected to continue this year’s funding level of
$988 billion -- a move that would gain enough bipartisan votes
to pass both the House and Senate.  On the call, Boehner told lawmakers that he wanted the
House to move quickly to pass the funding measure and confirmed
that it would continue the current spending levels.  On health care, Boehner said the House will hold votes
aimed at chipping away at the support from Democrats that is
helping the president keep the 2010 law in place.  Individual Mandate  In bills that passed the House in July to delay two of the
law’s main provisions, 35 Democrats voted with the Republican
majority to delay the so-called employer mandate and 22 voted to
postpone the so-called individual mandate. Democrats who control
the Senate have declined to bring up either bill.  The White House announced July 3 that it would postpone for
a year the requirement that companies with 50 or more workers
provide health insurance to employees. The administration is
moving ahead with the individual mandate requiring most
Americans to carry health insurance.  The administration in the past has said it would veto
legislation that would withhold money for carrying out the
measure, raising the specter of a government shutdown if
congressional Republicans attached it to a measure funding
government operations.  Congressional Republicans are divided over the political
wisdom of risking a government shutdown. North Carolina’s
Republican Senator Richard Burr has called it “the dumbest idea
I’ve ever heard of.”  Since Republicans took control of the House in 2011, the
chamber has voted 40 times to repeal, defund or delay the
health-care law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  