-- Bond Says Republican Voter-ID Laws Roll Back Rights Gains
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-08-24T04:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/bond-says-republican-voter-id-laws-roll-back-rights-gains.html
Civil rights leader Julian Bond, who
participated in the March on Washington 50 years ago, said
Republican-enacted voter-identification laws are rolling back
voting rights for blacks and other minorities that the late
Reverend Dr.  Martin Luther King Jr . fought so hard to achieve.  “You can’t imagine that they’re targeted at anybody
else,” Bond said of the laws in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend. Bond, now 73, was 23 when he stood on the  Lincoln
Memorial  steps on Aug. 28, 1963, and heard King deliver his “I
Have a Dream”  speech , which President  Barack Obama  and others
will commemorate next week.  “Black voters, Hispanic voters, elderly voters, the people
least likely to have voter ID, those are the targets for the
laws” Republicans are pushing onto the books, said Bond, who
served 20 years in the Georgia legislature and is chairman
emeritus of the  NAACP .  Proponents of voter-ID laws say they’re needed to combat
voter fraud, which Bond said “no one can see, no one knows
anything about.”  Bond singled out  North Carolina  for criticism over its new
rules for voters.  “North Carolina has become the new  Mississippi ,” Bond
said, in a reference to one of the southern states where civil
rights workers in the 1960s faced significant violence.  “They’ve just taken an enormous step backward in  voting
rights  and a series of things because of the domination of
Republicans in the House and the Senate and in the governor’s
chair,” he said.  Mississippi ‘Better’  North Carolina, which hosted the 2012 Democratic National
Convention, recently enacted a voter-ID law that curbs early
voting, ends same-day registration and makes it harder for young
people to register. “Mississippi is doing better,” Bond said.  Out of the 6.9 million votes cast in North Carolina last
year, 121 ballots were forwarded to local prosecutors to see if
there was anything fraudulent, according to the  Pew Charitable
Trusts . The  Justice Department  under President  George W. Bush 
spent five years looking for people impersonating other voters,
the fraud that would be curbed by voter-ID laws, and failed to
secure a single conviction, according to  New York  University’s
 Brennan Center for Justice .  Powell Criticism  Bond was the second prominent African-American to criticize
the North Carolina law this week. Former Secretary of State
 Colin Powell  told the state’s annual forum of chief executives
that the voter-ID law “immediately turns off a voting bloc the
Republican Party needs.”  The state acted after the  Supreme Court ’s five-member
Republican-appointed majority voted to overturn a provision of
the 1965 Voting Rights Act that prevented several states and
localities, mostly in the South, from changing voting laws
without first getting federal approval.  Bond praised Obama, acknowledging that the first black U.S.
president has been stymied by Congress. He said King himself
would feel that, “I love what he’s doing; I wish he’d do
more.”  Bond said he would like to see Obama speak out more about
racial issues, though he’s under some constraints.  “You have to talk about it, talk about it in an effective
way, as he does very well,” Bond said. “But I think he’s
fearful of just saying it over and over and over again.  He
thinks that part of the people who elected him president don’t
like that.”  Unfinished Work  Bond said he’d like Obama to say, in his Aug. 28 speech
from the Lincoln Memorial honoring the March on  Washington , that
the job that King started  isn’t finished .  He said Obama should say, “We ought to be proud of those
things, but we ought to realize what’s not been done, and we
ought to be on guard about the curtailment of our rights, which
we can see in these voting rights laws that are being passed
across the country to prohibit people from voting.”  As for the original King speech, Bond said that 50 years
ago he had “some inkling this was going to be a big deal.”  He also recollected that U.S. armed forces were on alert to
prevent expected rioting or other disturbances at the march,
which never occurred.  What King achieved was telling the entire country what the
civil rights movement was all about, Bond said.  “It was the first time they had heard a black person give
a rationale for why the civil rights movement existed, why we
march, why we protest, why we picket,” Bond said. “It said to
the nation: This is why these people are doing this thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  