-- Braun Formally Apologizes, Says He Deserved 65-Game MLB Drug Ban
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-08-23T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/braun-formally-apologizes-says-he-deserved-65-game-mlb-drug-ban.html
Ryan Braun, the former Most Valuable
Player, formally apologized yesterday and acknowledged he
“deserved to be suspended” by Major League Baseball for the
final 65 games of this season for drug violations.  The Milwaukee Brewers outfielder said in a statement
released by the team that he “turned to products for a short
period of time that I shouldn’t have used” to help recover from
an injury.  “The products were a cream and a lozenge, which I was told
could help expedite my rehabilitation,” he said. “It was a
huge mistake for which I am deeply ashamed and I compounded the
situation by not admitting my mistakes immediately.”  Braun, 29, a five-time All-Star and the National League’s
MVP in 2011, specifically apologized for failing to share
information with MLB officials during his arbitration hearing
for a previous drug suspension that was overturned on appeal.  He also said he regrets some of his comments at a news
conference after the arbitrator’s decision in February 2012.  “For a long time, I was in denial and convinced myself
that I had not done anything wrong,” he said in the statement.
“A combination of feeling self righteous and having a lot of
unjustified anger led me to react the way I did.”  Braun repeatedly denied using drugs after failing a test
during the 2011 postseason. His 50-game suspension for elevated
testosterone levels was overturned after he argued his urine
sample had been mishandled by test collector Dino Laurenzi, Jr.,
whom he apologized to in yesterday’s statement.  Braun’s statement made no reference to the Biogenesis of
America LLC clinic in Coral Gables,  Florida .  Rodriguez Appeal  MLB suspended 13 players this month for their involvement
with Biogenesis, which baseball has sued for allegedly helping
players obtain performance-enhancing drugs. Twelve of those
players accepted 50-game bans, while  New York  Yankees third
baseman Alex Rodriguez is playing while appealing a 211-game ban
-- the longest doping suspension in MLB history.  The CBS television program “60 Minutes” reported last
week that representatives of Rodriguez leaked Biogenesis
documents that implicated Braun. Rodriguez said the report was
“not true at all.”  Braun, who had acknowledged making mistakes when he
accepted his season-ending suspension on July 22, said in
yesterday’s statement that he was “beyond embarrassed” for
publicly denying he had used banned substances.  “I said what I thought I needed to say to defend my
clouded vision of reality,” he said in the statement. “I am
just starting the process of trying to understand why I
responded the way I did, which I continue to regret.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  