-- Brazil Wind Developers Win Contracts for 1.5 Gigawatts
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-08-23T17:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/brazil-wind-developers-win-contracts-for-1-5-gigawatts.html
Developers of wind farms in  Brazil 
agreed to build 1.5 gigawatts of  power plants  for a 25.6 percent
higher price compared to the last offer in a government-organized auction for contracts to sell power from new
facilities.  The 66 projects will sell electricity at an average rate of
110.51 reais ($46.57) a megawatt-hour and must go into operation
by Sept. 1, 2015, the country’s electricity trading board Camara
de Comercializacao de Energia Eletrica said today on its
 website .  “This result is marvelous, as we usually add 2 gigawatts
per year in wind power and we got almost that in one single
auction,” Elbia Melo, president of the Sao Paulo based trade
group Associacao Brasileira de Energia Eolica, said in a phone
interview. “And we have more auctions this year.”  Wind developers in Brazil’s last auction, in December, won
contracts to build 281.9 megawatts of capacity, or 49 percent of
the contracts for sale, the country’s energy agency Empresa de
Pesquisa Energetica said on its  website . The average price for
electricity from the plants was 87.94 reais a megawatt hour, 26
percent less than the average price agreed upon today. Two
hydroelectric projects won the remaining contracts.  “The market is clearly placing  wind energy  power prices at
a new level now,” Melo said. “This auction shows that wind
energy has an increasingly part in Brazil’s power supply.”  In Brazil’s energy auctions, developers bid down from a
preset ceiling price the rate they’re willing to sell
electricity. The lowest bidders win contracts to sell power to
distributors and move forward with their planned projects. The
ceiling price for this auction was 117 reais.  Brazil will hold another energy auction Aug. 29 for
developers planning power projects that run on biomass, coal and
natural gas.  The country gets 81 percent of its power from hydro plants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  