-- Burwell Rejects 1-Year Delay in Obama Health Law (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-08-23T22:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/burwell-rejects-1-year-delay-in-obama-health-law-transcript-.html
White House Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell, speaking in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend, rejected delaying the health-care law as a way to get a
budget deal with Congress and voiced optimism that talks with
lawmakers would avoid a government shutdown.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with one of the truly
influential people in  Washington , the head of the Office of
Management and Budget, Sylvia Mathews Burwell. Sylvia, thank you
for being with us.  SYLVIA BURWELL: Thank you. Happy to be here.  HUNT: Let’s talk about what’s ahead. You’re in constant
conversations with Congress. This week, 80  House Republicans 
said, in essence, let’s shut down the government. So did  Jim
DeMint . I know you don’t want to do that. What do you think of
the probabilities that you avoid any kind of crisis like that in
the fall?  BURWELL: I think we’re very hopeful that we can avoid -  HUNT: Hopeful, but do you think you will?  BURWELL: - a shutdown. You know, I think right now what we
need to do is work towards a solution. One of the things - I’m
not sure why the conversations are about things like a shutdown
-  HUNT: Right.  BURWELL: - when the conversation should actually be about
the substance of trying to get something done.  HUNT: Try to find common ground.  BURWELL: That’s where we should go.  HUNT: Well, the Republicans at one point were saying you
have to defund, you have to kill the Affordable Care Act. That
hasn’t - that’s fizzled. That’s not going to happen. But their
backup position now is, OK, let’s delay funding for a year.
You’ve done that with some things anyway. So is that a grounds
for negotiation?  BURWELL: You know, on the question of the Affordable Care
Act and its implementation, it is a law that has been passed, it
is a law that has been upheld by the  Supreme Court . And right
now, I think what we should be having a conversation about is
whether or not you want to take those young people who are up to
26, who are already receiving their health care, off of that,
whether or not you want to prevent the many people who, starting
in October, can sign up for exchanges, getting on health care,
and whether or not you want to turn us off the path that we are
currently on which reduced health care costs.  HUNT: So not - not interested in delaying for a year?  BURWELL: Not interested at all in delaying what we believe
is bringing people onto health care and continuing a path of
reducing costs.  HUNT: Let’s talk about the sequester that’s going to cut
deeper in the second year than it did the first year. It’s going
to cut particularly deep in defense, as much as $20 billion
more. Is it - is it your position that anything that you do for
defense you also have to do for non-defense?  BURWELL: That is correct.  The president has been clear on
that point.  HUNT: So, therefore, if the Republican hawks, as we call
them, come in and say, look, let’s do away with sequester for
defense and a little bit for non-defense, that’s unacceptable?  BURWELL: What we need to do is fix both parts. And
actually, when one thinks about issues like education and that
type of issue, they are part of our national security, as well.
But what we believe we should be focused on is the economy of
this country, as well as our own national security, and fixing
both pieces are what’s appropriate and proper.  HUNT: And you’d like to see a replacement for sequester, as
a lot of people would, but it’s kind of hard to get there from
here. But tell me, if you’ve come up - are you going to propose
a specific replacement for sequester now, in time for the
September talks? And just on a - not on a 10-year basis, because
it seems that won’t fly, but is there a possibility of a one -
or two-year replacement? And what would be the major components?  BURWELL: So I think it is actually starting, though, back
with the larger proposal, because when the president’s budget
came out, there was a proposal and a proposal that would both
replace sequester, have additional  deficit reduction  in the out-years and in the long term, as well as make investments in
things like infrastructure for the nation that we believe are
both important short-term and long-term investments for the
economy. That is the starting point; that is where we started.  With regard to where - we have put that out. We have had -
tried to have conversations about that. We’re looking for
someone to counter that proposal and have not had that yet. But
what we do believe is we’re willing and open to have
conversations on how others see us move the conversation
forward.  HUNT: Well, are you interested - if you could get it - in a
one- or two-year sequester replacement? And if you could get
Senate Republicans to buy off on that, would the administration
- we know the details matter, but is that at least an approach
that you’re interested in looking at?  BURWELL: I think what we are interested in is any approach
that can help us move the economy forward and keep us one the
current trajectory of economic growth. And when one thinks about
how we can do that, we can do that across a wide range of
things.  We’ve proposed the way we think we should do that. But
we are open to conversations about how to do that.  BURWELL: I think there are any number of ways one can think
about that movement forward, but I do think it is about the
question of we set out principles about, we do want something
that moves the economy forward, in terms of thinking about the
short-term growth we need.  HUNT: And to do that fix, even one or two years, it has to
have, what, revenues and we’d have entitlements in it, also?  BURWELL: What we have said all along is, when one is going
to take care of these issues, a balanced approach - and that’s
what you see in that larger plan that we had, and we believe one
needs to continue on the path of a balanced approach.  HUNT: Am I hyping, Madam Director, when I say I think
you’re amenable to a one- or two-year deal?  BURWELL: I think the question is whether we - I think right
now, if there is something that was brought before us that could
help us move forward in these conversations, we’d like to see
the substance of that, and we would welcome seeing an
understanding how people think that could be achieved.  HUNT: But you haven’t seen it yet?  BURWELL: At this point, no one has presented us with that.  HUNT: You said sequester cut into economic growth this
year. Next year, you project economic growth of about 3.1
percent. Does that assume sequester will be replaced? And if
it’s not replaced, how would it affect that 3.1 percent growth
you project?  BURWELL: In the current OMB projections, we do not assume
that sequester is - we assume that our budget - what we do is
make the assumptions of our budget, and those assumptions
include changing and buying out the sequester with longer-term
changes.  HUNT: But if you didn’t do that, how much would that affect
that growth?  BURWELL: Right now, what we see is estimates from CBO that
are sticking along the lines of a 750,000 in terms of the
employment numbers, and those are translating around 0.5 -  HUNT: Deficits are dropping. You see them going to under 3
percent of GDP by the year 2017. That’s lower than the 30-year
average. First of all, is that good or bad for the economy? And,
secondly, are we at the stage now where we can say deficits are
not the prime concern, that they really may be a long-term
problem, but really we’re much more concerned with economic
growth?  BURWELL: I think we should be glad about the progress we
have made on deficit reduction, in part. The part of that
deficit reduction that is occurring in a way that we think is
harmful to the economy, the across-the-board cuts that are the
sequester, is something that we have not embraced and don’t
embrace.  With regard to the question of what our core focus should
be, as we think about these fiscal issues, I think right now
thinking about the economic growth and employment is where our
core focus should be. That doesn’t mean that one is not looking
to the future and making sure you keep your eye.  HUNT: But the priority right now is jobs and growth?  BURWELL: The priority is jobs and growth. At the same time,
we believe you can do both, and that’s what the president’s
budget did. But, yes.  HUNT: Let me give a softball to the Harvard-Oxford girl
from  West Virginia . In 40 seconds, tell us what you’re achieving
in the M, or the Management part, of your job.  BURWELL: Thanks so much. Right now, we have - thank you for
bringing out the M part, which is actually very important to
these budget issues, as well. Right now, we’re working on the
development of a second-term management agenda for the
administration and the president that will build on some of the
successes, such as cutting our real estate - our commercial
property bill by $8 billion. When we focus on this, we’re going
to focus on three things, one, effectiveness, how the United
States government delivers to its customers, the American people
and American business, small and large, in the cities and states
we work with.  No. 2, how do we make this government more efficient, those
dollars get spent better?  And the third is how to use
management to help government be a part of stimulating the
economy, faster permitting, getting open data out there, where
we get small businesses and entrepreneurs to use that data to
create apps and everything else.  HUNT: OK. Sylvia Burwell, thank you so much for being with
us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 