-- Cablevision Clock Ticking as Paulson Sees Sale: Real M&A
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-08-23T20:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/cablevision-clock-ticking-as-paulson-sees-sale-real-m-a.html
Time may be running out for
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  to find a buyer.  With its highest valuation in two years, the $4.8 billion
cable operator founded four decades ago by Charles Dolan should
take advantage of a surge in cable matchmaking to sell,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd. Bethpage, New York-based
Cablevision  jumped  42 percent in just eight weeks as speculation
heated up about deals in the industry and shareholders Paulson &
Co. and Gamco Investors Inc. said a sale is likely.  Cablevision, which tried and failed to take itself private
in 2005 and 2007, is dwarfed by larger peers including  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)  That puts the
company at an even bigger disadvantage if it misses out on a
wave of consolidation as cable operators seek more bargaining
power with channel owners. Charter, backed by billionaire  John Malone , is considering combining with Time Warner Cable or Cox
Communications Inc., people familiar with the matter have said.  “It’s the perfect setup to sell the company,” Amy Yong,
an analyst at Macquarie in  New York , said of Cablevision. “But
they’ve got to act now because there are definitely other assets
in the mix. So if they want to be considered, they should raise
their hand.”  Charter, Google  Cablevision may make an attractive target for Charter or
Time Warner Cable, Gamco said, as video distributors look to
gain leverage against TV networks that are demanding annual fee
increases of 10 percent or more. Google Inc. may also have
interest if it wants to expand its TV and broadband business
beyond  Google (GOOG)  Fiber, said Sabina Nyckowski, an analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC.  While Cablevision has shown little interest in being
acquired in the past, the company’s tone shifted this month.  “You never say never,” Chief Executive Officer Jim Dolan,
Charles’s son, said during Cablevision’s earnings conference
call this month about potentially merging or selling the
company. “Our plans are to continue to proceed in terms of
operating the company in the best interest of the company and
its shareholders.”  Charles Schueler, a Cablevision spokesman, declined to
comment on the possibility of a sale. Time Warner Cable’s Justin Venech, Charter’s Alex Dudley and Leslie Miller at Google
declined to comment on potential interest in Cablevision.  Deal Wave  Shares of Cablevision, which focuses on providing cable
service around New York,  reached  a two-year high of $19.79 on
Aug. 12 after a two-month surge fueled by takeover speculation.
The rally pushed its enterprise value to 9.3 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the
highest since 2011,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. Today, the
shares fell 1 cent to $17.78.  Cablevision’s value is rising amid more U.S. cable and
satellite industry takeovers. In 2013, $21 billion in
transactions have been announced, which would be the highest
full-year total since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  John Paulson , the billionaire owner of hedge fund Paulson &
Co., told CNBC on July 17 that Cablevision is likely to be
acquired. Gamco’s  Chris Marangi  said in an interview that the
Dolan family, which controls 73 percent of Cablevision’s voting
rights, should part with the company now to maximize returns.
Paulson & Co. and Gamco together own almost 20 percent of
Cablevision’s Class A shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Best Time’  For Cablevision’s stock, “it’s difficult to see meaningful
near-term appreciation from here absent” a takeover of the
company, said Marangi, a Rye, New York-based money manager at
Gamco, which oversees about $41 billion.  Cablevision’s video customers have fallen for four straight
quarters. The company’s  net income  fell to $234 million in 2012
from $292 million in 2011 as it recovered from Superstorm Sandy
and increased capital expenditures to improve its broadband
speeds and Wi-Fi service.  Cablevision should consider selling itself now while it can
fetch an attractive takeover valuation, said Scott Goginsky, a
research analyst and money manager at Milford, Pennsylvania-based Biondo Investment Advisors LLC. Biondo oversees $400
million and owns Cablevision shares.  “The stock has done pretty well,” Goginsky said in a
phone interview. “With all the consolidation taking place and
all the talk of it, it’s probably the best time for them to sell
as far as being able to get a premium multiple.”  ‘Acquisition Machine’  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  Chairman Malone says he wants Charter,
the fourth-largest U.S. cable company, to be a “horizontal
acquisition machine.” Liberty acquired a 27 percent stake in
Charter earlier this year.  Malone’s premise is based on the idea that larger cable
providers have more power to resist demands for higher fees from
the channel owners such as  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , Comcast Corp.’s NBC
Universal and Viacom Inc.  The desire to get bigger has driven Liberty’s conversations
to combine Charter with Time Warner Cable or Cox, the third-largest U.S. cable provider, people familiar with the matter
said in June and August, respectively. Cablevision, the fifth-biggest operator, should put itself on the block or risk being
left out when consolidation occurs, said Macquarie’s Yong, who
rates the stock “neutral.”  Cablevision has taken several recent steps that make itself
more digestible for an acquirer. Since June, Cablevision closed
its digital publication Newsday Westchester; shuttered OMGFAST,
a wireless broadband service in  Florida ; and significantly
reduced its annual investment in MSG Varsity, a high school
sports TV network. It also sold Clearview Cinemas, spun off AMC
Networks Inc. in 2011 and  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG)  in 2010.  Google Fiber  “They’re down to the core business now,” Goginsky of
Biondo said.  If Cablevision can’t find a suitor in the cable industry,
technology companies including Google could be interested,
Guggenheim’s Nyckowski said. Google has already rolled out its
own TV and Internet distribution service, Google Fiber, in
several U.S. markets.  “Non-traditional companies that want to get into the
online video space like Google should be looking at
Cablevision,” she said.  While cable assets may be appealing, Cablevision may be
left without a dance partner because its growth potential is
likely stunted, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Moffett
Research LLC in New York who has a “sell” rating on shares.  Cablevision ‘Bubble’  After selling Optimum West, Cablevision’s video customers
have probably topped out at about 2.9 million amid competition
with DirecTV,  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and Verizon Communications
Inc.’s FiOS, he said.  “Cablevision is very likely going to lose market share,”
Moffett said. “They can’t raise prices at the rate of the rest
of the industry because of the competitive overlap with FiOS. If
Cablevision doesn’t get acquired, and I think the odds are very
low, then Cablevision stock is a bubble waiting to pop.”  The pressure to do a deal is mounting for cable companies
of Cablevision’s size, as evidenced by Time Warner Cable’s
blackout of  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s channels for the past three weeks, said
 Todd Lowenstein , a Los Angeles-based fund manager at HighMark
Capital Management Inc., which oversees $19 billion. The only
ways to combat increasing costs for programming are blackouts or
getting bigger, he said.  “We’re at an inflection point,” Lowenstein said in a
phone interview. “We’ve hit the upper limit of consumers’
willingness and ability to pay for cable. To get the upper hand,
cable needs to scale up and get bigger -- and fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  