-- Canada Dollar Loses Most in Week Since June as CPI Trails Target
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-23T21:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/canadian-dollar-falls-to-six-week-low-as-inflation-below-target.html
Canada’s dollar had the biggest
weekly loss in more than two months as the  consumer price index 
rose less than the central bank’s inflation target for a 15th
month, adding to evidence economic growth is slowing.  The currency, called the loonie for the image of the bird
on the C$1 coin, erased a decline to a six-week low today versus
the  U.S. dollar  after American new-home sales slid more than
forecast. The loonie sank against most major peers amid bets the
 Federal Reserve  will slow stimulus. Canadian retail sales
dropped in June, a report showed yesterday, and data on Aug. 30
may say growth in gross domestic product slowed.  “The lower Canadian dollar is a reflection of the theme
we’ve seen throughout the week, which is weaker data across the
board,”  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank’s TD Securities unit, said by phone from Toronto. “We’re
looking ahead to GDP data next week and keeping an eye on what
comes out of the Fed in terms of tapering.”  Canada’s currency rose 0.2 percent to C$1.0496 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after depreciating earlier as much
as 0.5 percent to C$1.0568, the weakest since July 9. It lost
1.5 percent this week, the most since the five days ended June
21. One Canadian dollar buys 95.27 U.S. cents.  Futures traders increased for the first time in six weeks
their bets the Canadian dollar will fall against its U.S. peer,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge
funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the loonie
versus those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 9,544 on
Aug. 20, compared with net shorts of 9,081 a week earlier.  Bonds Gain  Canadian  government bonds  rose for a second day, pushing
the yield on the benchmark  10-year (GCAN10YR)  security down five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.69 percent. It touched a
two-year high of 2.78 percent yesterday. The price of the 1.5
percent debt due in June 2023 added 41 cents to C$89.85.  The nation’s consumer prices increased 1.3 percent in July
from a year earlier, less than the 1.4 percent gain  forecast  in
a Bloomberg survey. The CPI rose 1.2 percent the previous month.
The central bank’s inflation target is 2 percent. The price
report followed declines in Canadian wholesale and manufacturing
sales in June and a surprise loss of jobs last month.  “July’s subdued inflation figures are consistent with an
economy growing below potential, which will only reinforce the
Bank of  Canada ’s reluctance to raise rates anytime soon,” David Madani, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd., wrote in a note
to clients.  The central bank has kept its benchmark  interest-rate 
target at 1 percent since September 2010 to support the economy.  GDP Report  Canada’s  economic output  contracted 0.4 percent in June,
helping to pare second-quarter growth to an annualized 1.5
percent, economists in a Bloomberg survey projected before the
data. The economy expanded 2.5 percent in the first quarter.  The loonie erased today’s losses after U.S. Commerce
Department data showed sales of newly built  U.S. homes  declined
13.4 percent last month to a 394,000 annualized pace, the
weakest since October, following a 455,000 rate in the prior
period that was lower than previously estimated. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey for July was for a decrease to
487,000. The decline was the biggest since May 2010.  Oil, Canada’s biggest export, climbed amid speculation the
Fed will defer plans to slow monetary stimulus. Futures rose 1.2
percent to $106.31 a barrel in  New York .  Fed Tapering  The loonie slid on Aug. 21 after minutes of the U.S.
central bank’s last meeting showed most policy makers were
“broadly comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to
start reducing its $85 billion in monthly bond buying under
quantitative easing this year if the economy improves.  The Fed’s asset purchases, which have fueled growth in
riskier assets, have raised concern they’ll lead to inflation
and debase the U.S. dollar. Investors are betting slower bond
buying will cause the greenback to strengthen against its
Canadian peer.  Options traders were the most bearish on the Canadian
dollar in almost eight weeks. The three-month so-called 25-delta
risk reversal rate, which measures the premium charged for the
right to buy the U.S. dollar against its Canadian counterpart
versus contracts to sell, rose to 1.64 percent, the highest
level on a closing basis since July 2. The 2013 average is 1.24
percent.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart increased to 7.8 percent, the
highest since July 16. Implied volatility is used to set option
prices and gauge the expected pace of currency swings. The
average for this year is 6.8 percent.  The loonie fell 1.7 percent in the past month against nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index.  Australia ’s dollar lost 2.7 percent
and the  New Zealand dollar  dropped 2.2 percent, while the U.S.
dollar gained 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  