-- Canada Inflation Advances 1.3% in July on Gasoline
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-08-23T14:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/canada-inflation-advances-1-3-in-july-on-gasoline.html
Canadian  consumer prices  advanced
1.3 percent in July from a year earlier on gains in gasoline and
shelter, remaining below the central bank’s target for a 15th
month.  Inflation quickened from June’s 1.2 percent pace,
 Statistics Canada  said today from Ottawa, while lagging the 1.4
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists.
The  core  rate, which excludes eight volatile products, advanced
1.4 percent after June’s 1.3 percent, also trailing forecasts
for 1.5 percent inflation.  Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz has said the world’s
11th largest economy is recovering gradually from a global
recession, with spare production capacity and muted demand
helping to hold down consumer prices. The central bank predicted
in July that inflation will remain below its 2 percent target
until mid-2015.  “It was pretty much in the wheelhouse for the Bank of
Canada,” said  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income strategy at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto. “Broader trends still
underscore a lack of price pressures.”  The Canadian dollar depreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0534 per
 U.S. dollar  at 10:15 a.m. in Toronto. It touched C$1.0568, the
weakest intraday level since July 9.  Government bonds  rose, with
the benchmark 10-year security yielding 2.73 percent after
climbing yesterday to a two-year high of 2.78 percent.  Gasoline prices rose 6.1 percent in July from a year
earlier, quickening from a June pace of 4.6 percent, Statistics
Canada said. Shelter costs rose 1.3 percent while clothing and
footwear advanced 1.5 percent.  Food Prices  Those gains were curbed by a 0.4 percent decline in health
and personal care products, the fourth straight decline, and a
0.8 percent increase in food costs that was the slowest since
June 2010.  “Top line growth is obviously a challenge in the current
environment with no inflation in our basket, competitors adding
square footage at a rapid pace, and consumers shopping around
more than ever,” Eric La Fleche, chief executive officer of
Montreal-based grocery chain Metro Inc., said on an Aug. 14
earnings call.  Other reports this week have shown declines in retail and
wholesale sales. Economists forecast the second quarter ended
with a contraction in economic output in June that will limit
the quarterly growth rate to 1.6 percent.  On a monthly basis,  inflation  rose 0.1 percent in July and
the core price index was unchanged.  Below Forecasts  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted that overall
monthly prices would rise 0.2 percent and the core rate would
increase 0.1 percent.  Seasonally adjusted inflation rose 0.2 percent in July and
the adjusted core rate advanced 0.1 percent.  “The big picture for Canadian inflation is that it is now
gradually climbing from the depths of earlier this year, but it
remains non-threatening,” said  Doug Porter , chief economist at
BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  The 12-month inflation rate for July was the fastest in a
year after it had moderated to 0.4 percent in April, which was
the slowest since late 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  