-- Canada’s NDP Seeks Industry Committee Hearing on Spectrum
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-08-23T18:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/canada-s-ndp-seeks-industry-committee-hearing-on-spectrum.html
Canada ’s biggest opposition party is
triggering parliamentary hearings on the government’s planned
wireless spectrum auction.  New Democratic Party lawmaker Chris Charlton said she  wrote 
the Conservative chairman of the House of Commons industry
committee asking for the panel to study the auction. When the
proposal was rejected, the NDP used a procedural tactic to force
emergency hearings, Charlton said today in a telephone
interview.  The hearings must begin by Aug. 27 under the rules of the
country’s legislature, she said.  “The overarching point for us is to make sure regular
Canadians aren’t left out of the debate and aren’t forgotten in
this controversy,” Charlton, the party’s spokeswoman on
industry matters, said from Hamilton, Ontario.  The country’s three biggest wireless providers are pressing
the Canadian government to change the rules for the January
auction, which they say favor foreign carriers such as  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  The government has rejected the calls,
saying it wants to promote competition and lower prices.  Charlton said she hopes the committee completes its study
before the Sept. 17 deadline for companies to apply to bid in
the auction.  The NDP is concerned that service for rural residents may
be threatened, and wants to ensure privacy safeguards and
support employment in the wireless industry, she said. The party
would like to call Industry Minister  James Moore  as a witness,
as well as Canadian phone companies, Verizon and consumer
groups.  “Committees set their own agenda,” Jessica Fletcher, a
spokeswoman for Moore, said in an e-mail when asked for a
comment about the NDP move. “Our position is clear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  