-- Carstens Urges Fed to Clarify Plan for Asset Purchases
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-08-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/carstens-calls-for-policy-coordination-among-advanced-nations.html
Mexico ’s central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens called on the  Federal Reserve  to clarify plans
for tapering its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, saying
emerging economies face their “most pressing challenge” from
advanced economies exiting stimulus.  Unconventional accommodation has “undesirable side
effects” in  emerging markets  even while helping stabilize the
global economy, Carstens said yesterday during a panel
discussion at the Fed’s annual  policy symposium  at Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming . International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , in a speech at the same conference, urged policy makers
to cooperate more in planning the withdrawal of stimulus.  “What would have the most impact right now would be to
have a much better, clearer implementation of the tapering,”
Carstens, 55, told central bankers. “If you keep pampering the
markets, the inflow of capital can be such that more stability
risks can be accumulated in emerging-market economies.”  Data compiled by Bloomberg show emerging-market stocks have
lost more than $1 trillion in market value since May, when
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke testified to Congress that the Fed
“could take a step down” in its bond purchases. Such buying
helped channel $3.9 trillion in capital flows to developing
nations in the past four years.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has fallen 12 percent this
year,  compared with  a 13 percent gain for MSCI’s gauge of shares
in advanced economies.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex and  Indonesia ’s
 Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  both tumbled to 11-month lows this week.  Lira Slumped  The 20 most-traded currencies among emerging economies have
fallen  about 4.3 percent  in the past three months, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Turkey ’s lira this week slumped to a record
low versus the dollar.  Indonesian policy makers said yesterday they will increase
foreign-currency supply to stem a sliding rupiah. Peru’s central
bank sold a record $600 million in the local foreign-exchange
market on Aug. 21 to support the sol after it touched a three-year low.  After falling to a four-year low this week,  Brazil ’s real
gained the most in a year as the central bank announced a $60
billion intervention program involving foreign-exchange swaps
and loans.  Adapting to advanced countries’ exit strategies is “the
most pressing challenge for emerging economies,” Carstens said,
noting the “turbulence in financial markets around the world
once the tapering talk started.”  Spur Hiring  The Fed’s quantitative easing includes monthly purchases of
$45 billion of Treasuries and $40 billion in mortgage-backed
securities to fuel economic growth and spur hiring. The
unprecedented easing has inflated the central bank’s balance
sheet to $3.65 trillion.  “Speaking with one voice would be very, very important,”
Carstens, 55, said to central bankers and economists at the
gathering.  “It would be desirable to have a  monetary policy 
coordination,” he said. “To have the central banks of advanced
economies to go in different directions, can become a source of
instability.”  Lagarde told the conference that officials need to better
understand the potential spillovers from  monetary policy .  “We need further lines of defense -- lines of defense that
reflect our interdependence, our common purpose, and our mutual
responsibility for the global economy,” she said at the event
sponsored by the Kansas City Fed.  “Swap lines -- along the lines provided by major central
banks early in the crisis --can help,” and the IMF stands
“ready to provide policy advice and financial support,” she
said at the symposium entitled, “Global Dimensions of
Unconventional Monetary Policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  