-- CFTC Said Near Releasing Plans for Regulating High-Speed Trading
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-08-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/cftc-said-near-releasing-plans-for-regulating-high-speed-trading.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator
is poised to announce a range of potential methods for
overseeing automated and high-frequency trading, according to
four people with knowledge of the matter.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s four members are
within days of approving the concept release, according to the
people who spoke on condition of anonymity because the document
isn’t yet public. Approval of the release, a step prior to
proposing new rules, would trigger a public-comment period.  The agency, along with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, has scrutinized high-frequency and algorithmic
trading since May 6, 2010, when $862 billion in equity value was
erased in 20 minutes before share prices recovered. The CFTC’s
release, which has been debated for more than a year, would seek
comment on new testing, supervision and risk controls for
automated trading, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in April.  A number of recent computer malfunctions have raised
questions about the reliability of electronic markets. The
latest occurred yesterday, when malfunctioning software that
feeds data between exchanges prompted the Nasdaq Stock Market to
halt trading in thousands of stocks and options.  Dennis Holden, a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
concept release. The CFTC has scheduled a technology advisory
committee meeting on Sept. 12 to discuss the automated trading
concept release as well as swap-trading and record-keeping.  Futures Trades  The agency is also preparing to vote on regulations that
would restrict large trades in the futures market. The agency is
circulating draft rules that would set restrictions on how large
trades, known as blocks, are conducted on exchanges operated by
 CME Group Inc. (CME)  and  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , according to
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
measures have not been released to the public..  Meanwhile, the agency is working to complete rules to
increase oversight of customer funds following the 2011 collapse
of MF Global Holdings Ltd., and publish a new proposal for
limits on speculation in oil, natural gas and other commodities.  The pending rules are some of the first the agency is
considering as it moves beyond rules required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which seeks to reduce risk and increase transparency
in the swaps market. Largely unregulated swaps helped fuel the
2008 credit crisis that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and a U.S. rescue of New York-based American
International Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  