-- China Copper Output Seen Lower by Antaike on Tight Scrap Supply
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-23T02:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/china-copper-output-seen-lower-by-antaike-on-tight-scrap-supply.html
Copper output in  China , the largest
producer, may grow at a slower pace than expected this year on
tightening supplies of imported scrap metal, according to
Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  Production may be about six million metric tons versus the
November forecast of 6.1 million tons, said Yang Changhua, a
Beijing-based analyst at the researcher. Output last year was
5.6 million tons, Antaike estimates.  Premiums for imported copper remained near an all-time high
in China as the domestic output slumped on tight supplies of
scrap metal and smelter maintenance. Copper imports by the
world’s biggest consumer rose for a third month in July,
touching a 10-month high.  “The tightness of scrap copper restrains smelters from
raising production further this year,” Yang, who has studied
the market in China for 15 years, said yesterday in a phone
interview.  Output fell to a five-month low of 534,600 tons in July,
according to SMM Information & Technology Co. Production may
pick up in the fourth quarter after a drop in July and August,
Yang said.  Copper fell 7.6 percent this year on concern that supply
would exceed demand. Metal for delivery in three months on the
 London  Metal Exchange was little changed at $7,326.75 a ton at
9:16 a.m. in  Shanghai . The contract for delivery in December was
at 52,710  yuan  a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.  China’s metals demand will remain steady this year even as
growth slows, Antaike said last month. Prices in Shanghai were
about $25 a ton more expensive than in London on average in June
and July, calculations by Bloomberg show.  Scrap copper imports dropped 19 percent to 349,405 tons in
July, while arrivals of concentrates jumped to a record 938,503
tons, according to data from the General Administration of
Customs and Bloomberg calculation.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  