-- China Money Rate Climbs This Week as Month-End Cash Demand Rises
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-08-23T03:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/china-money-rate-climbs-this-week-as-month-end-cash-demand-rises.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
headed for its biggest weekly gain in a month on concern cash
supply will tighten as banks cover month-end obligations.  The seven-day repurchase rate rose even after the People’s
Bank of China added a  net  72 billion  yuan  ($11.8 billion) to the
financial system this week, compared with 48 billion yuan in the
period to Aug. 16, data compiled by Bloomberg show. PBOC
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said Aug. 19 that policy makers will
maintain prudent monetary policy in the second half with
possible fine-tuning.  “Liquidity tends to tighten toward month-end as banks try
to meet financial ratios,” said Albert Leung, a strategist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Hong Kong . “There’s also some
talk of continuous interest-rate liberalization. That may
increase the overall cost of funding.”  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the banking system, increased 34 basis points, or 0.34
percentage point, to 4.16 percent this week as of 11:29 a.m. in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It reached 4.51 percent on
Aug. 20, the highest level since Aug. 2.  Five Chinese banks are seeking approval from the PBOC to
issue non-negotiable certificates of deposit, Reuters reported
yesterday, citing unidentified people. Each lender is planning
to sell 10 billion yuan, the  news agency  said.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose five basis points
during the week to 4.11 percent, adding to an 18 basis point
increase last week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Growth in foreign direct investment accelerated in July,
rising 24 percent from a year earlier, the most since March 2011,
the Ministry of Commerce reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  