-- Chinese Ports Rally on Free-Trade Zone: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-23T10:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/chinese-ports-hotels-rally-on-free-trade-zone-shanghai-mover.html
(Corrects date when Shanghai free-trade zone was approved
in third paragraph.)  Shanghai International Port (Group)
Co. (600018)  led a rally for companies based in the nation’s commercial
hub on speculation a free-trade zone will spur trade and boost
service industries including logistics and tourism.  Shanghai Port, the operator of the city’s harbor, jumped 10
percent to 2.81  yuan  at the close.  Shanghai Jinjiang
International Hotels Development Co. (600754) , the nation’s largest hotel
operator, surged 4.5 percent to 12.68 yuan. Shanghai Haibo Co.,
which provides taxi services, climbed 7.5 percent to 5.73 yuan.  The State Council approved a free-trade zone for Shanghai
July 3, according a  statement  posted on the website of the
Ministry of Commerce yesterday. The free-trade zone will cover
four bonded areas ranging from Waigaoqiao to the Pudong airport
with a total area of 28.8 square kilometers, it said.  “Construction of the free-trade zone will lure foreign
companies and boost the number of overseas travelers entering
the city,” Jiang Ya and Zhao Xueqin, analysts at Citic
Securities Co., wrote in a report today. They recommended retail
and tourism companies including  China  International Travel
Service Corp. and Shanghai Friendship Group Co.  The State Council has submitted to the legislature a
proposal to alter some laws and administrative approvals
regarding foreign investment, according to the commerce ministry
statement.  The move “adapts to the new global trade trend and is a
significant measure to adopt the more active opening-up
strategy,” the statement said. “The main task is to explore
new ways and models for China’s opening-up, accelerate the
change of the government’s role, promote the transformation of
economic growth and optimize the structure of the economy.”  The government may start a trial of yuan convertibility
under the capital account and lower corporate tax rates in the
Shanghai free-trade zone, Citic Securities said in the report.  Shanghai has introduced 42 measures to develop the
financial industry to support economic growth,  Eastday.com 
reported yesterday. The city is trying to start innovative
trials such as allowing private capital to set up banks, finance
leasing and consumer finance companies, according to the report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  