-- China’s Stocks Fall on Tighter Liquidity Concerns as Banks Slump
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-08-23T07:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/china-stock-index-futures-rise-after-petrochina-haitong-profit.html
China’s  stocks  fell, capping the
benchmark index’s first weekly loss in five weeks, as financial
companies slumped on concern liquidity is tightening before the
end of the month.  China Merchants Bank Co. slid 3.2 percent after saying it
plans to raise 34.8 billion  yuan  ($5.7 billion) in the world’s
second-largest share sale this year. Ping An Bank Co. tumbled 3
percent as benchmark money-market rates headed for their biggest
weekly gain in a month. The  Securities Times  reported some banks
had suspended new mortgage loans after approaching their monthly
limit. Everbright Securities Co. fell 1.4 percent for a four-day
loss of 19 percent after its president resigned.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.5 percent to 2,057.46
at the close. The index dropped as much as 1.8 percent in the
last hour of trading from a gain of as much as 0.6 percent.
Exactly a week ago the nation’s shares were roiled by a trading
error at Everbright Securities that spurred a 53 percent surge
in volumes and sent the  Shanghai  Composite to its biggest
intraday gain since March 2009.  “Investors are oversensitive right now to any bad news
after the recent market disruption,” said Gerry Alfonso, a
Shanghai-based trader at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. The
China Merchants share sale was also a drag on the market, he
said.  Share Sale  The Shanghai index has declined 9.3 percent this year,
dragging down its projected 12-month profit to 8.3 times,
compared with the three-year average of 10.4. Trading volumes in
the index were 13 percent above the 30-day average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Merchants Bank  dropped 3.2 percent to 10.56 yuan. The
lender will offer a total of 3.75 billion Shanghai and Hong
Kong-traded shares at 9.29 yuan or HK$11.68 each, it said in
 regulatory filings  yesterday. That represents a 15 percent
discount to yesterday’s closing price in Shanghai, or an 18
percent discount to the Hong Kong shares.  Chinese lenders have announced plans this year to raise as
much as 290 billion yuan from bond and equity offerings as the
regulator tightens capital rules and policy makers crack down on
short-term financing.  Ping An Bank slid 3 percent to 10.62 yuan. Industrial Bank
Co. declined 2 percent to 10.39 yuan. Some Chinese banks in
Shenzhen city suspended new  mortgage loans  after approaching the
monthly limit, the Securities Times reported, citing banks’
employees. The banks included Ping An Bank and China Minsheng
Banking Corp., the report said.  Credit Crunch  The benchmark money-market rate headed for its biggest
weekly gain in a month on concern cash supply will tighten as
banks cover month-end obligations. The seven-day repurchase rate
rose even after the People’s Bank of China added a  net  72
billion yuan ($11.8 billion) to the financial system this week,
compared with 48 billion yuan in the period to Aug. 16, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There’s speculation the drop could be due to tight
liquidity concerns,” Mao Sheng, an analyst for Huaxi Securities
Co. in Chengdu. “We have been worried there will be a repeat of
the credit crunch, similar to the one we had in June.”  A crackdown in June 2013 on off-balance-sheet lending and
 other credit  outside the banking system, known as shadow
banking, helped drive  money-market rates  to a record, cutting
off smaller banks’ borrowing on the  interbank market .  Everbright Securities  Everbright Securities dropped 1.4 percent to 9.84 yuan.
Chairman Yuan Changqing replaced Xu Haoming as president as the
company seeks to allay investors’ concern after it made 23.4
billion yuan ($3.8 billion) of erroneous buy orders on Aug. 16.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission plans to adopt
new measures to improve supervision systems to prevent trading
errors, the China Securities Journal reported, citing an
unidentified person.  Shanghai International Port (Group) Co.  jumped  10 percent
to 2.81 yuan after Guotai Junan Securities Co. said logistics
companies will benefit from a Shanghai free-trade zone that was
approved by the State Council yesterday. The construction of the
free-trade zone will lure foreign companies and boost the number
of tourists from overseas, analysts Jiang Ya and Zhao Xueqin at
Citic Securities Co. wrote in a report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  