-- China’s Sly Exercise in Image Control
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-08-23T18:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/china-s-sly-exercise-in-image-control.html
The second day of what should be
 China’s trial of the century  opened at 8:40 a.m. on Friday with
a tweet: “The presiding judge has called the court into
session.” The source was the Jinan Intermediate People’s Court
by way of its account on Sina Weibo, China’s most popular
microblogging service, and the court’s 400,000 followers.  It shouldn’t have gone viral. But it did.  Within 10 minutes, this unremarkable post had been
retweeted more than 2,000 times. Such numbers, and such speed,
are usually reserved for tweets with a little more verbal
panache, or celebrities posting selfies. So why the sudden
interest in when a court convened?  The answer is supply and demand. Interest in the trial of
 Bo , a fallen Communist Party prince, is exceptionally high. But
sources of news are limited. In fact, there’s only one: the
Jinan Intermediate Court’s  microblogging account . Purported
 transcripts of the trial , as well as procedural notices, are
tweeted from there. There is no other live, much less original
reporting on the trial. If anyone, reporter or otherwise, wants
to know what’s happening in the courtroom, the court’s tweets
are the only source of information (occasionally supplemented by
 brief video , with the proceedings muted, broadcast on state-owned television). Thus, those tweets tend to be retweeted
extensively.  Bo Xilai’s trial was always going to be a social-media
event in China (so long as it wasn’t censored). During his term
as party secretary of Chongqing, Bo’s charisma and hunger for
publicity earned him a reputation as a populist. Even after his
fall -- precipitated by a  murder committed  by his wife -- Bo
retained his populist credentials, in part due to longstanding
multigenerational ties with some of  China ’s most prominent
Communist families. At the same time, those ties mean that Bo
would never be guaranteed a fair trial: His partisans would
negotiate his verdict and sentence outside of a courtroom. Their
decision, then, would be ratified in a courtroom, probably via a
show trial.  However, during the 1 1/2-year  run-up to Bo’s trial , there
was considerable doubt as to how and whether the Communist Party
would allow the proceedings to be covered by the media. The
precedents for openness weren’t good: Last year’s trials of Bo’s
wife and a police chief involved in the case were tightly
controlled affairs, with photos and video released only after
the fact. Indeed, if China’s leaders could operate without
regard to public opinion, they likely would have held Bo’s trial
in a concrete bunker and released only the verdict and sentence.  But those same leaders are working on  a judicial reform
package  designed to placate a populace convinced that China’s
courts guarantee justice only to the rich, the well-connected
and Party members. Under such circumstances, Bo’s trial had to
have the appearance of being fair and open as a means of
assuring other Chinese that -- if the time ever came -- they too
could have fair and open trials.  The problem in staging such an event would be persuading Bo
to play along. He’s a stubborn showman, and if given the
opportunity to testify in front of a Chinese public with whom he
still enjoys reservoirs of support, he would likely turn in a
stirring performance capable of embarrassing and undermining his
prosecutors.  Some of the transcripts posted during the trial suggest
that he’s been showboating, off-script, in the courtroom,
anyway. For example, on Thursday he  implied  that he had been so
badly mistreated that he confessed to things that he hadn’t
done, while accusing witnesses of lying.  All of this information was tweeted within hours or minutes
(nobody knows) of the testimony taking place. Yet, although
there’s considerable interest in the trial from all quarters in
China, other state-owned media outlets are restricted to
reporting the trial as tweeted by the Jinan Intermediate Court.  Obviously, restricting information to tweets is an
excellent means of control. With no television or newspaper
reporters offering original reports, the trial can be portrayed
the way the authorities want. If that depiction includes Bo
calling his wife “ insane ,” as he did Friday, or implying he
had been tortured, all the better: The proceedings look more
legitimate. Better yet, because those statements occur on paper
-- and not in videos that can be examined for facial expression
or body language -- there’s limited opportunity to doubt their
legitimacy.  Equally critical, the slow drip of information from a
microblog lets the court build a public case against Bo without
having to worry about its own coverage being scrutinized. Thus,
late Friday afternoon the court tweeted unflattering transcripts
claiming that the Bo family had  traveled around the world 
courtesy of a billionaire benefactor, and had even enjoyed
feasting on “ rare” African animals . Collectively, these
allegations are unlikely to endear Bo or his family to a Chinese
public hostile to official privilege, especially when obtained
by corrupt means.  But the more important reason for restricting reports to
Weibo has to do with symbolism. For the better part of a half-decade, Sina Weibo and other Chinese microblogs have become
important incubators of Chinese civil society, as well as
hothouses for the expression of discontent with the Chinese
government, the Communist Party and social ills. China’s
propaganda authorities have made several efforts to corral this
effort, with varying degrees of success. Microblogs -- and Sina
Weibo, in particular -- retain a certain cache as forums where
real-time transparency trumps the packaged news and commentary
prepared for the masses by China’s state-owned media.  By transmitting news of Bo’s trial only via microblog, the
court is, in effect, co-opting and perverting one of Sina
Weibo’s most treasured characteristics: its ability to
crowdsource real-time reporting that might otherwise be
manipulated by China’s propaganda authorities. It is, in effect,
a cynical and even contemptuous reminder that the Communist
Party, jealous as ever of its monopoly on public opinion, won’t
be loosening up any time soon.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Adam Minter at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at  jgreiff@bloomberg.net  