-- CIMB May Miss Break-Even Target on RBS Banking Units Buy
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-08-23T04:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/cimb-may-miss-break-even-target-on-rbs-banking-unit-acquisitions.html
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , Malaysia’s
second-largest bank by assets, may not break even as planned by
the end of this year on its 2012 purchase of most of  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s Asia-Pacific  investment banking  assets.  As stocks and currencies slide, “I don’t know” if the
businesses will cover costs associated with the acquisition,
Chief Executive Officer  Nazir Razak  said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV’s Haslinda Amin yesterday.  CIMB bought most of RBS’s Asia-Pacific cash equities and
investment banking units last year for 88.4 million pounds ($138
million) to extend its regional reach. The Malaysian lender and
larger rival  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  have been expanding abroad as
the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  further opens the
region’s markets to create an economic zone modeled after the
European Union by 2015.  “Investment banking business is a function of markets,”
said Nazir, speaking in Singapore. “If the markets are
effectively much slower than what we forecast, it might not meet
the original target.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.8 percent yesterday,
extending its six-day slump to 4.7 percent as the prospect of
reduced U.S. monetary stimulus and Asia’s faltering growth
outlook fueled a sell-off. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index
tumbled 6 percent, the most in two months, as trading resumed
after a three-day closure.  Indonesia’s (JCI)  benchmark fell 1.1
percent, dropping 20 percent from a record three months ago.  Currency Slide  Thailand’s baht and the Malaysian ringgit slumped to three-year lows against the dollar yesterday and the Indonesian rupiah
sank to the lowest since 2009.  “Currencies have depreciated significantly,  interest rates 
are about to rise, and where borrowers and companies haven’t
quite factored this situation in or didn’t quite believe it
would come so soon, some would have to feel some pain,” the
bank’s chief executive said.  Investment banking contributes 5 percent of CIMB’s annual
profits and any delay in breaking even on the RBS acquisition is
“not going to rock the boat,” said Nazir, the younger brother
of Malaysia’s Prime Minister Najib Razak.  Shares of CIMB fell 0.1 percent at 7.57 ringgit in  Kuala
Lumpur  as of 12:25 p.m. today, compared with a 0.4 percent gain
for the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index. The stock has
declined 0.9 percent this year.  Southeast Asia  On June 10, CIMB said it won approval from Bursa Malaysia
Securities Bhd. to sell shares on the Stock Exchange of
Thailand. Subsidiary  CIMB Thai Bank Pcl (CIMBT) , which has 150 branches
in the country is “very small,” Nazir said.  “Banking is a business of size” and the listing will
allow customers to perceive CIMB as “a much bigger bank” in
the country, he said.  In other Southeast Asian countries such as Cambodia and
Vietnam, the bank will seek to start fresh operations, he said.  In the Philippines, where CIMB in June had to scrap a plan
to buy 60 percent of Bank of Commerce from San Miguel and other
shareholders for 12.2 billion pesos ($276 million), it will
pursue acquisitions. “We will revisit Philippines and try and
find other opportunities,” said Nazir.  CIMB’s April 2012 purchase included RBS’s cash equities
units in Australia, China,  Hong Kong , Taiwan, the U.S. and the
U.K., and  equity capital markets  and mergers and acquisitions
divisions in Australia, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia,
Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand.  CIMB retained more than half of the 600 staff employed by
RBS in the region, Nazir said in an interview in June 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  