-- Clayton Dubilier Said to Raise $3 Billion for Buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2013-08-23T17:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/clayton-dubilier-said-to-raise-3-billion-for-buyout-fund.html
Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC, one of
the industry’s oldest private-equity firms, has gathered almost
$3 billion in the first phase of fundraising for its ninth
investment pool, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The amount collected so far includes a $250 million
commitment from New York-based Clayton Dubilier, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the fundraising
is private. Clayton Dubilier & Rice Fund IX LP started raising
money in March with a target of $5 billion.  Clayton Dubilier, which specializes in buying unwanted or
underperforming divisions of larger corporations, is vying for
capital in a competitive fundraising market. About 1,958
private-equity funds are seeking a total of $770 billion,
according to London-based research provider Preqin Ltd.  Tom Franco, a spokesman for Clayton Dubilier, declined to
comment on the fundraising.  Clayton Dubilier generally invests in distribution or
services-related businesses with enterprise values of $1 billion
to $15 billion, according to the firm’s website. The firm is
staffed with a team of operating partners who typically work as
chairman of the board at each of the companies that the private-equity firm invests in.  Prior Fund  The firm’s new fund would be the same size as the prior
vehicle that was closed in December 2009. That fund, Clayton
Dubilier & Rice Fund VIII LP, raised less than the $7.5 billion
it originally sought amid the financial crisis, while surpassing
the size of the firm’s 2006 pool by 25 percent. The predecessor
fund is 80 percent invested and was generating a more than 20
percent net internal rate of return with a 1.7 times multiple of
invested capital as of June 30, according to the person.  Portfolio company  HD Supply Holdings Inc. (HDS)  went public in
June. This month, Clayton Dubilier took  Envision Healthcare
Holdings Inc. (EVHC)  public.  Clayton Dubilier’s chairman and co-founder Joseph Rice III,
80, who helped start the firm in 1978, retired last year. The
firm is led by Donald Gogel, who has worked at Clayton Dubilier
for 23 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net  