-- Coal Gets No Relief as Aussie Slide Deepens Glut: Energy Markets
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-08-23T19:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/coal-gets-no-relief-as-aussie-slide-deepens-glut-energy-markets.html
Coal miners are taking advantage of
the tumbling Australian dollar, boosting production even as a
glut of the power-station  fuel  drives prices to the lowest in
almost four years.  While the cost of shipments from the port of Newcastle,
which are priced in U.S. currency, has dropped as much as 16
percent this year to $76.10 a metric ton, the lowest since 2009,
prices fell only 5 percent in Australian dollar  terms , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s helping buoy revenue for
producers, encouraging them to increase supply, according to
 CIMB Group Holdings Bhd (CIMB)  and  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)   Rising exports from the world’s biggest producers have
created a coal surplus of as much as 20 million tons, or about
2.5 percent of global trade in 2012, according to UBS AG.
Australia, the second-largest shipper, is increasing output even
as miners such as Glencore Xstrata Plc and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) 
fire workers to reduce costs. Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. have cut forecasts because of the glut.  “The falling Australian dollar is likely to be a negative
for thermal coal prices,” said Daniel Hynes, the head of
commodity strategy at CIMB in Sydney. The currency drop is
“reducing costs even further and holding back any production
cutbacks that the market needs,” he said.  Peabody Costs  The Aussie fell as low as 88.48 U.S. cents on Aug. 5, the
weakest since August 2010, as the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled
it may taper economic stimulus and the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
cut  interest rates  to bolster the slowing domestic economy. The
currency, trading at about 90.03 cents today, is projected to
end the year at 89 cents, according to the median of 49 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Output from Peabody Energy, the largest U.S. producer, rose
5 percent at its Australian thermal and metallurgical coal mines
in the second quarter of this year as the weakening currency
helped reduce costs by 6 percent from 2012 levels, Michael C. Crews, the chief financial officer of the St. Louis-based
company, said last month.  “For the first time in a number of years, we would note
that the Australia dollar is also providing some relief to our
cost position,” he said on a July 23 second-quarter earnings
conference call, according to a transcript.  Australia  is looking
increasingly competitive given its improving cost structure,
proximity to the best markets and favorable currency movements,
Gregory H. Boyce, the chief executive officer and chairman, said
on the call.  Metallurgical coal is used in the process to make steel.
Thermal coal is used to generate power.  Record Shipments  Coal shipments from Australia have increased 13.5 percent
year-on-year to 88.2 million tons, according to an Aug. 13
research report from Macquarie Group Ltd. June exports of 17.6
million were a monthly record, it said.  Port Waratah Coal Services, the operator of two of the
three export terminals at Newcastle in Australia’s New South
Wales, shipped a record 10.3 million tons in July, the company
said an Aug. 2 statement.  Output reductions from Australia are unlikely while
Newcastle prices remain above $75 a ton, according to Macquarie.
U.S. production cuts aren’t enough to provide greater balance to
the market, the bank said.  Coal at Newcastle slid 10 percent in June to $77.75 a ton,
the biggest monthly drop since February 2009, according to IHS
McCloskey, a Petersfield, England-based data provider. Prices
gained $1.15 to $77.25 in the week ended Aug. 16 after averaging
$76.63 in July, the lowest monthly mean since October 2009. They
 slumped  19 percent in 2012.  ‘Swimming in Coal’  Goldman Sachs lowered its 2013 price forecast by 7.6
percent last month, while Citigroup reduced its estimate by 6.7
percent. The power-station fuel at Newcastle may average $85 a
ton this year, according to the median estimate of five banks in
a Bloomberg News survey. Prices have averaged $85.87 to date,
according to McCloskey.  “We’re swimming in coal and the situation in the short
term looks to persist,” said Daniel Morgan, an analyst at UBS
in Sydney. “Real production cuts, what we haven’t seen yet,
must be looming.”  Sustained demand for coal is being offset by rising supply,
 Yancoal Australia Ltd. (YAL) , a unit of  China ’s Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co., said in its half-year results Aug 19. Many producers are
increasing output to reduce operating costs through the benefit
of scale, Yancoal said.  Exports from Australia are projected to increase by 7
percent to 183 million tons this year, according to a June
 report  from Australia’s Bureau of Resources and Energy in
Canberra.  Indonesia , the world’s biggest exporter, may sell 6
percent more, the report showed.  Take or Pay  The drop in the Aussie dollar is “certainly easing the
pressure on Australian producers to cut” production, Colin Hamilton, the head of global commodities research at Macquarie
Group in  London , said in an e-mail.  Producers in Australia are also locked into long-term rail
freight and port deals, which are required to finance the export
infrastructure. Under the so-called take-or-pay agreements,
suppliers must pay a fee regardless of whether tons are shipped.  “It’s only been in the last couple of months that some
relief from the stubbornly high Aussie dollar has arrived,”
Greg Sullivan, the deputy chief executive of the Australian Coal
Association, said at the Coaltrans conference in Brisbane on
Aug. 12, predicting about 11,000 jobs have been lost in the coal
sector. “The dollar accounted for about 30 percent of cost
increases over the past four years.”  ‘Survival Mode’  Producers are in “survival mode” and more cost cutting is
inevitable,  Michael Roche , the chief executive of the Queensland
Resources Council, said at the conference. About 8,000 jobs have
been lost in the state since last year, he said.  Projects valued at more than $29 billion have been shelved
as producers and port operators rein in spending amid escalating
costs, Wayne Calder, the deputy executive director at the Bureau
of Resources and Energy said at Coaltrans.  “The Aussie dollar is going to be a key player in
profitability and competitiveness in the industry going
forward,” Gordon Sparrow, the head of trade sales at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) , said at the conference on Aug. 13. “The outlook
for the demand side of the equation is very positive.”  Australian miners have managed to cut their cost base by 15
percent, according to an Aug. 13 presentation at conference by
Bede Boyle, the chairman of AustCoal Consulting Alliance. They
will need to cut by 20 percent by 2017 to put themselves in a
competitive position, he said. The group provides advice on
mergers, acquisitions and the development of mines and
infrastructure to the coal industry.  “The drop in the Aussie would be helping lower costs,”
said  Mark Pervan , the head of commodity research at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Melbourne  who reduced his 2013
Newcastle price projection by 5.7 percent to $85 a ton last
month. Cutting production is a “last mover advantage, nobody
wants to go first,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  