-- Company Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline; High-Grade Bond Sales Slow
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-08-23T22:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/company-credit-swaps-in-u-s-decline-high-grade-bond-sales-slow.html
The cost to protect against losses
on corporate bonds declined for a second day as a report showed
sales of new U.S. homes plunged the most in more than three
years. The pace of issuance of high-grade bonds declined.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.9 basis points to a mid-price of 78.7 basis points, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Weaker housing data may reduce concern that the  Federal
Reserve  will cut its monthly bond purchases and other programs
that have supported credit markets for years. Sales of newly
built homes fell 13.4 percent to a 394,000 annualized pace, the
weakest since October, Commerce Department figures showed today
in  Washington .  “This is a warning sign,” Peter Tchir, founder of hedge-fund adviser TF Market Advisors, wrote in a note to clients
today. “We continue to look for slower growth in September.”  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves, has declined 2.8 basis points this week, the biggest
drop since the period ended July 19.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Slowing Sales  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, declined 10.9 basis points to 387.8, Bloomberg prices
show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries narrowed 1.6 basis point to 129
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt climbed 10.7 to 578.2.  Sales of corporate bonds in the U.S. fell to $4.45 billion
this week, the slowest period in more than a month. Offerings
fell from  $19.3 billion  last week and were the least since $1.3
billion in the five days ended July 5.  Sales of investment-grade notes, which account for the
entire portion of bonds sold this week, compare with $14.6
billion last week and a 2013 weekly average of  $22.2 billion ,
Bloomberg data show.  Credit-default swaps tied to  Argentina ’s debt jumped after
a U.S. appeals court upheld a decision forcing the nation to pay
holders of defaulted bonds in full. The contracts increased 2.6
percentage points to 48.1 percent upfront at 5:30 p.m. in New
York. The nation’s sovereign debt is the most expensive to
protect in the world.  Three judges unanimously rejected Argentina’s appeal of a
ruling that would force it to pay $1.33 billion to holders of
defaulted bonds, led by hedge fund Elliott Management Corp.,
when it makes payments on its restructured debt. Argentina has
vowed never to repay holders of defaulted bonds in full.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  