-- Comptuer Glitches Hurt Sept. 11 Terror Case, Lawyers Say
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-08-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/comptuer-glitches-hurt-sept-11-terror-case-lawyers-say.html
Lawyers for Khalid Sheikh Mohammed
and four other accused plotters of the terrorist attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon told a military judge that
faulty government computers are damaging their defense.  “We’ve lost files,” said Cheryl Bormann, a lawyer
representing Walid bin Attash, a Yemeni alleged to have helped
pick and train the hijackers of the Sept. 11 attacks.  As many as 55 investigative files have gone missing for
about five months because of defective computer systems, Bormann
said yesterday. “Now my e-mails don’t always get to me,” she
said. “It’s mind-boggling how difficult this job has become.”  As a week of pretrial hearings wrapped up yesterday,
defense lawyers asked to postpone future hearings until computer
issues are resolved.  Army Major Jason Wright, who represents Mohammed, the
alleged mastermind behind the attacks, said computer defects
that he called “a hot mess” prevent defense attorneys from
using the computers “for any constructive purpose.”  Clayton Trivett, a prosecuting attorney, said the defense
lawyers have filed so many motions that it’s evident they can do
their jobs effectively.  The judge, Army Colonel James Pohl, said he will hold
hearings next month to get more details before deciding whether
to grant a delay.  The computer predicament is just one of myriad procedural
and logistical challenges that have slowed proceedings in the
biggest terrorism case in U.S. history.  Terrorism Trial  Mohammed and four others are accused of plotting the Sept.
11 attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes to kill almost
3,000 people at the World Trade Center in  Manhattan  and the
Pentagon in  Virginia , as well as aboard a plane that crashed in
a field in rural  Pennsylvania .  The defendants are charged with conspiring to finance,
train and direct the 19 hijackers who seized the four planes, as
well as terrorism, hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in
violation of the laws of war and attacking civilians. A trial is
at least a year away.  Reporters who didn’t attend the court sessions in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, watched a closed-circuit video feed of the
hearing at Fort Meade in  Maryland , near  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Fort Meade, Maryland, at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  