-- Copper Climbs Amid Shrinking Inventories, Wagers on Fed Stimulus
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-08-23T17:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/copper-climbs-on-rebound-indications-and-shrinking-inventories.html
Copper futures rose for a second day
in  New York  on a drop in inventories and speculation that the
 Federal Reserve  may hold off on curbing U.S. stimulus in
September.  Stockpiles tracked by the  London  Metal Exchange fell 3.4
percent this week, the most since September. Purchases of new
U.S. homes plunged in July by the most in more than three years,
government data today showed. Signs of a slowdown may prompt the
Fed to delay cutting $85 billion in monthly asset purchases
aimed at spurring economic growth.  “Inventories have been falling, and that’s giving some
support to copper,” Carlos Perez-Santalla, a New York-based
broker at Marex North America LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “With the weak new-home-sales figures, there’s now
some doubt in the market that tapering will happen next month.”  Copper futures for delivery in December rose 0.6 percent to
settle at $3.356 a pound at 1:11 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
The metal fell 0.3 percent this week. On the LME, the metal for
delivery in three months added 0.5 percent to $7,360 a metric
ton ($3.34 a pound).  LME copper inventories slid for a 28th session, the longest
stretch since February 2012, to 564,225 tons.  Gains in copper futures may be limited amid concern that
liquidity is tightening in  China , the world’s largest user of
the metal. The nation’s benchmark money-market rate posted its
largest weekly gain in a month on concern the cash supply will
tighten as banks cover month-end obligations.  “The underlying data in China is not bad, but it doesn’t
suggest surging demand,”  David Wilson , an analyst at Citigroup
Inc. in London, said by telephone.  Aluminum, lead, nickel and zinc advanced in London. Tin
declined.  -_With assistance from Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London.
Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  