-- Court Finding of Domestic Spying Risks Obama Credibility
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-08-23T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/court-finding-of-domestic-spying-risks-obama-credibility.html
President  Barack Obama  turned
serious in an interview with late-night television host  Jay Leno 
three weeks ago and sought to reassure the nation about top-secret U.S. electronic surveillance programs.  “There is no spying on Americans,” Obama insisted to
Leno. “We don’t have a domestic spying program.”  A classified court opinion released Aug. 21 showed that the
National Security Agency intercepted as many as 56,000 e-mails a
year of Americans who weren’t suspected of having ties to
terrorism -- another in a steady drip of revelations testing
Obama’s credibility on surveillance issues among voters.  This week’s news also emboldened members of Congress on
both sides of the aisle to intensify their calls for greater NSA
oversight, not just of the telephone-records collection program
revealed earlier but of the e-mail gathering as well.  “Most people are concerned that NSA is willy-nilly getting
content or doing searches,” Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a
Maryland Democrat, said on CNN’s “State of the Nation” on Aug.
18. “Obviously, we need more oversight.”  Obama’s standing took a hit after the government confirmed
June 6 that the NSA was secretly collecting telephone records
and Internet communications, with the biggest dips in his poll
numbers coming among younger voters who polls showed strongly
backed him in the 2008 and 2012 presidential elections.  The portion of Americans who said Obama is “honest and
trustworthy” in a June 11-13 CNN/ORC International poll fell
nine percentage points from a month earlier, to 49 percent.
Among Americans under 35, the portion declined 18 percentage
points in a month, also to 49 percent. The poll hasn’t asked the
question since.  Credibility Questioned  The  New York  Times editorial page, which often backs the
Obama administration, said in an editorial published June 6
after the surveillance program was exposed that the president
“has now lost all credibility on this issue.”  Joe Trippi, a Democratic media consultant who worked on
Howard Dean’s 2004 presidential bid and California Governor
 Jerry Brown ’s 2010 campaign, said the issue isn’t likely to
translate into a decline in support among the young for the main
tenets of Obama’s second-term agenda.  “They may be disappointed with the president,” Trippi
said. “Disappointment doesn’t mean that they’re not going to
support him on immigration, the budget, fiscal cliff, any number
of things.”  Fresh revelations about NSA surveillance nonetheless are
opening schisms in both the Democratic and Republican parties
over civil liberties that are likely to widen in 2016
presidential primaries, Trippi said.  2016 Impact  Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky  and New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , both potential Republican presidential candidates,
already have sparred publicly over the issue.  “If somebody’s looking at how this will really impact
politically, I think it’s in 2016 and probably in both
parties,” Trippi said.  The NSA surveillance programs were exposed more than two
months ago by former U.S. intelligence contractor Edward Snowden, who leaked classified documents to the Washington Post
and U.K.-based Guardian newspapers. U.S. authorities have filed
espionage and theft charges against Snowden, who’s now in  Russia 
under temporary asylum.  In response to the disclosures, the Obama administration
has been declassifying and releasing court orders, policy papers
and descriptions of surveillance efforts to quell momentum in
Congress to restrict funding for or use of the programs.  Lawmakers’ Review  The moves are coming as lawmakers expand their review of
the NSA’s activities to include whether the agency is improperly
scooping up e-mails and other electronic communications. A 2008
law requires the NSA to obtain a warrant to collect
communications of Americans.  The Senate Intelligence and Judiciary committees, as well
as the House Judiciary Committee, plan to hold hearings when
Congress returns from a recess next month on legislative changes
to the NSA’s Internet monitoring program.  Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , the ranking Republican on
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, wrote Obama on Aug. 21
requesting a briefing for all senators by NSA Director Keith
Alexander by Sept. 13.  “Given the scope and scale of the disclosures to date and
the significant likelihood of more to come, it is now all the
more important that the administration come to Congress and
provide a full accounting of the totality of these efforts,”
Corker said.  Law Reconsidered  Although the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court
that oversees NSA spying required more privacy safeguards to be
built into the program, the agency continues to collect “wholly
domestic American communications each year,” Senator  Ron Wyden ,
an Oregon Democrat, said in a statement.  “This poses a significant concern for Americans’ civil
liberties because the law itself is so broad that this
collection can extend far beyond anyone even remotely connected
to terrorism and into legitimate communications with
foreigners,” said Wyden, a member of the Senate Intelligence
Committee who has been at the forefront of demanding more
transparency from the Obama administration.  The Senate Intelligence Committee will consider changes
related to NSA authority to monitor Internet communications and
collect telephone records of Americans, said a committee aide
who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record and asked not to be
identified.  Court Changes  Changes could include requiring the NSA and FISA court to
publicly disclose more about the spy programs, altering the
composition of the court to give it more ideological diversity,
and requiring it to hear from a privacy advocate when making
decisions, the aide said in a phone interview.  The NSA had previously informed Senate Intelligence
Committee Chairman  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat,
about the violations described in the declassified legal
opinions, the aide said.  Last month, the Republican-controlled House rejected by
seven votes a measure by Republican Representative Justin Amash
of  Michigan  that would have denied the NSA funding to collect
telephone records on millions of Americans.  “We’re very confident that this fall the House Judiciary
committee will move legislation to rein in NSA surveillance of
telephone records,” Will Adams, spokesman for Amash, said in a
phone interview.  Lawmakers are seeking more information about the NSA’s
surveillance of Internet communications, which U.S. intelligence
officials say has contributed to stopping terrorist attacks,
Adams said.  ‘Come Clean’  “The first move by Congress on the surveillance of
Internet communications will likely be to demand that NSA come
clean on what’s it’s doing,” Adams said. “Once we have more
information we can intelligently write bills that will address
that issue.”  The House Intelligence Committee is working on “proposals
to improve transparency and strengthen privacy protections to
further build the confidence of the American public in our
nation’s counterterrorism programs,” spokeswoman Susan Phalen
said in a statement.  The panel’s Republican chairman, Representative Mike Rogers
of Michigan, was “fully aware that there had been a few
isolated instances where the NSA had, through technical errors,
erroneously collected e-mails of Americans,” Phalen said.  Rogers had said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” television
program on July 28 that there were “zero privacy violations”
in the agency’s collection of phone records. Phalen said Aug. 16
in a statement that Rogers was “referring to willful and
intentional violations of law” and “the disclosed documents
demonstrate that there were no intentional and willful
violations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 