-- Covered Bond Issuance Tops $7 Billion in Busiest Week Since June
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-23T12:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/covered-bond-issuance-tops-7-billion-in-busiest-week-since-june.html
Global covered bond sales rose this
week to the most in almost three months with issuers from
 Europe ’s core and peripheral countries selling the debt.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Scandinavia’s largest bank, and Milan-based
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  led 5.68 billion euros ($7.6 billion) of issuance,
up from 872 million euros last week and the highest weekly total
since the period ending June 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Covered bonds, which are backed by mortgages and public
sector loans and typically get top credit ratings, are being
issued this year at the slowest rate since 2002, according to
Bloomberg data, as central banks flood the financial system with
cheap funds. The average yield on the securities rose to 1.9
percent, the highest since July 30, Bloomberg  bond index  data
show.  “We were well overdue some issuance,” said Jozef Prokes,
a London-based member of the Euro fixed income team BlackRock
Inc. “It’s easier at the moment to place covered bonds as
investor demand is there and banks will want to get issues away
before September arrives when there will be more deals competing
for investor attention.”  Stockholm-based Nordea sold 1.5 billion euros of five-year
1.375 percent bonds through Nordea Bank Finland Plc, in the
biggest issue of the week, Bloomberg data show. The notes were
priced to yield 59.1 basis points more than government debt.
UniCredit, which agreed to a spread of 142.7 basis points for
its 1 billion euros of seven-year notes, was the second-biggest
issuer.  Net Supply  Sales of covered bonds slumped to 135.1 billion euros this
year, down 39 percent from the 221.2 billion euros of issuance
in the same period last year, Bloomberg data show.  The euro benchmark covered bond market will end the year
with negative net supply of more than 50 billion euros, Bernd Volk, head of European covered bond and agency research at
Deutsche Bank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a telephone interview
today.  “Issuers are thinking it is better to come to market
sooner rather than later as there are plenty of things to worry
about in the coming months, such as emerging market weakness and
German elections,” said Richard Kemmish, head of covered bond
origination at Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  