-- Croda Climbs After Deutsche Bank Recommends Buying: London Mover
-- B y   R a c h e l   S a v a g e
-- 2013-08-23T09:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/croda-climbs-after-deutsche-bank-recommends-buying-london-mover.html
Croda International Plc (CRDA) , the world’s
second-largest maker of cosmetics ingredients,  rose  to the
highest price in more than three months after Deutsche Bank AG
recommended buying the shares.  The company’s earnings are supported by innovation, strong
pricing power, acquisitions and exposure to  emerging markets ,
Deutsche Bank analysts wrote in an Aug. 22 note, raising the
recommendation on the stock to buy from hold.  The  stock  rose as much as 4.4 percent to 2,679 pence, the
highest intraday price since May 17. Deutsche Bank increased the
price target for the Snaith, England-based company’s stock to
2,850 pence from 2,400 pence.  “Top-line growth has slowed over the past year,” Martin Dunwoodie, a Deutsche Bank analyst, said in the note. “We view
this slowdown as cyclical rather than structural and expect
sales growth to accelerate driven by a resumption of growth in
crop care and personal care.”  Croda’s increasing focus on speciality products is driving
an improvement in profit margins, Dunwoodie said. The chemical
company bought a majority stake in Sichuan Sipo Chemical Co. of
 China  for 38.2 million pounds ($60 million) this month to tap
growing demand for car lubricant additives.  Croda was up 4.3 percent at 2,677 pence as of 10:54 a.m.,
taking its advance to 13 percent this year and giving the
company a market value of 3.6 billion pounds. It was the biggest
gain on the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  today.  Sipo will become part of Croda’s Performance Technologies
division, which has come to the fore amid competition and a
slowdown in growth in the cosmetic-ingredients business that was
the main growth driver.  Of analysts who monitor Croda and share their research with
Bloomberg, eight recommend buying the stock, seven advocate
holding and three advise selling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Savage in London at 
 rsavage10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  