-- Detroit Retirees, Union Officials on Bankruptcy Panel
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-08-23T23:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/detroit-retirees-union-officials-on-bankruptcy-panel.html
Detroit ’s retired public workers
will be represented by nine people, including at least two union
officials, on a panel that may negotiate with the city during
its record $18 billion municipal bankruptcy.  The U.S. Trustee monitoring the bankruptcy for the  Justice
Department  released the names of the committee members today in
a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Detroit. Steven Rhodes, the
federal judge overseeing the case, had urged the U.S. Trustee to
name a committee quickly so it could participate in talks with
the city as well as weigh in on legal issues.  Some retirees had lobbied to keep any active city workers
or union officials off the committee.  “The unions will face a conflict of interest,” two groups
that represent retired city workers said in a court filing last
month. Current employees and union members may try to preserve
current working conditions and their future benefits at the
expense of the vested benefits of retirees, the groups said.  Maria D. Giannirakis, an attorney with the U.S. Trustee’s
office, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail requesting
comment on the makeup of the panel.  Detroit’s emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, said in an
interview last month that a retiree committee is needed because,
unlike union members or bond investors, the pensioners don’t
have a strong organization backing them.  Today, unions representing current and retired city workers
filed requests for documents from and depositions of Michigan
Governor  Rick Snyder  and other state officials about the city’s
bankruptcy, according to court filings.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  