-- Dutch Government Seeks $20 Billion in ABN Amro Share Sale
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-08-23T16:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/dutch-government-seeks-20-billion-in-abn-amro-share-sale.html
ABN Amro Group NV, the Dutch bank
formed after the collapse of Fortis in 2008, will be sold to the
public for as much as 15 billion euros ($20 billion), said
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem.  The bank will get about a year to prepare for the sale,
Dijsselbloem said in a statement on the government’s website
today. The Netherlands will then evaluate whether conditions are
met and may sell the shares in three tranches, he said.  The government created ABN Amro Group, the country’s third-biggest bank, after seizing the Dutch banking and insurance
units of Fortis, which had joined a 71.9 billion-euro ($96
billion) purchase of ABN with  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in 2007. The state spent 21.7 billion
euros so far, Dijsselbloem said in today’s statement, meaning he
may have to explain a loss to taxpayers already subject to tax
increases and budget cuts.  “If Parliament agrees, the first opportunity for an IPO
would be the first half of 2015,” Chairman Gerrit Zalm said in
an e-mailed statement. “The Minister’s plans are the first step
towards entering the private market.”  Exit Strategies  Governments across  Europe  are considering how to exit banks
they bailed out during the financial crisis and subsequent
 European debt crisis . The U.K. is preparing to reduce its share
in  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , while saying privatizing RBS is
still some way off.  “High quality banks in countries perceived as less risky
have performed very well in the last 12 months, showing investor
interest in the industry has returned,” Cor Kluis, an Utrecht,
Netherlands-based analyst at Rabobank International, said by
telephone yesterday. “Earnings multiples have recovered and the
markets look at through-the-cycle profits, so there’s no reason
to wait much longer if you’ve made a decision in principle for
an IPO.”  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch financial-services company,
climbed 51 percent in the last 12 months, and closed at 8.78
euros in Amsterdam.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest bank, rose
45 percent in the period, while  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advanced 50
percent.  “We need to take into consideration that the investment in
2008 won’t be recovered in full,” Dijsselbloem told reporters
today. “The investment at that time wasn’t under the best
circumstances, it had to happen.”  Rescue Costs  The finance industry in the Netherlands measures more than
four times the economy, even after the splintering of ABN and
the global credit crisis reduced it in size and importance. The
government initially spent 16.8 billion euros buying Fortis’s
Dutch banking and insurance units, including parts of the former
ABN Amro Holding NV, after Fortis ran out of funding. Subsequent
aid added to the costs of the bailout.  The country provided more than 95 billion euros for rescues
of financial companies since 2008, including guarantees and
capital injections. In February, it spent 3.7 billion euros to
nationalize SNS Reaal NV, the fourth-biggest bank, after real
estate losses brought it to the brink of collapse. The price
paid for the financial stability created by the Fortis bailout
was high and bore no relation to the economic value, a
parliamentary commission probing the rescue said last year.  ASR Nederland NV, the Dutch insurance assets of Fortis,
will be divested in an IPO or in a private sale, Dijsselbloem
said today. The company, based in the Dutch city of Utrecht, has
an estimated value of as much as 2.3 billion euros, the
government said. As the Dutch insurance market is shrinking, ASR
could “play a role in consolidation” in the industry,
Dijsselbloem said.  For SNS, the government will await a European Union
decision on the firm’s restructuring, Dijsselbloem said. In a
plan submitted on Aug. 19, the Netherlands has proposed to split
the company’s banking and insurance arms. The latter could,
similar to ASR, be sold to a competitor.  “With the sale of ABN and ASR we will make a step toward a
normalization of the financial sector,” Dijsselbloem said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  