-- Economists in Jackson Hole Say QE Less Potent Than Fed Believes
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-08-23T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/economists-in-jackson-hole-say-qe-less-potent-than-fed-believes.html
The U.S. central bank’s bond buying
is a less potent tool for stimulating growth than policy makers
believe, two economists said in a paper released today at a
Federal Reserve conference.  The paper scrutinizes the stance of some Fed officials that
so-called quantitative easing works through a “portfolio-balance channel” in which Fed asset  purchases  induce investors
to rebalance their investments to boost a wide range of
financial assets. The research was presented at an annual Kansas
City Fed symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “The portfolio balance channel of QE works largely through
narrow channels that affect the prices of purchased assets, with
spillovers depending on particulars of the assets and economic
conditions,” Northwestern University finance professor Arvind Krishnamurthy and University of California-Berkeley professor
Annette Vissing-Jorgensen wrote in the paper. “It does not, as
the Fed proposes, work through broad channels such as affecting
the term premium on all long-term bonds.”  The work of Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen has
influenced the debate at the Fed before, with a previous paper
of theirs cited by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in his speech
last year in Jackson Hole that made the case for a third round
of bond purchases, known as QE3.  Fed officials are debating when to wind down their bond
purchases. Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July
30-31 meeting, released Aug. 21 in  Washington , showed that Fed
policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with Bernanke’s plan
to slow the pace of purchases later this year and end them in
mid-2014 if the economy performs as the Fed forecasts.  Boosting Housing  Despite working through narrower channels, the Fed’s buying
of mortgage-backed securities in QE3 has been more effective at
boosting the economy through its effect on  mortgage rates ,
according to the paper.  “The Fed’s cessation of MBS purchases or sale of MBS are
likely to be more economically important for the private sector
than a sale of Treasury bonds, which by itself will affect
mainly government borrowing costs,” according to the paper.
“There is little evidence for the operation of a broad channel
through which large-scale asset purchases lower the yield on all
long-term bonds.”  The authors also argued that the Fed should rethink its
current “exit strategy” to return its record $3.65 trillion
balance sheet to normal.  A Fed exit strategy outlined in June 2011 said that after
ending purchases the Fed would first allow maturing assets to
roll off its balance sheet, then raise  interest rates , and then
sell its holdings of mortgage-backed securities. In June this
year, Bernanke said officials no longer expect to sell their
holdings of MBS.  Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen propose that the Fed
should first cease buying Treasury bonds and then sell down its
holdings of government debt. Then, the Fed should sell mortgage-backed securities with high coupons.  “The last step in this sequence is that the Fed should
cease its purchases of current-coupon MBS as this tool is
currently the most beneficial source of economic stimulus,” the
authors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  