-- Emerging Stocks Rally as Brazil to India Signal Support
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-08-23T21:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/emerging-stocks-trim-worst-weekly-rout-in-two-months-on-economy.html
Emerging-market stocks rallied,
paring the biggest weekly drop in two months, as countries from
Brazil to India signaled they would act to support financial
markets. Samsung Electronics Co. drove technology shares higher.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index increased 1.1 percent to
932.76, trimming its weekly decline to 2.6 percent. Samsung
Electronics, the world’s largest smartphone maker, jumped 3.2
percent in South Korea.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , owner of Jaguar Land
Rover, climbed 3.1 percent in Mumbai. India’s rupee rebounded
from a record low, while the Brazilian real increased the most
in almost two years. Homebuilders paced gains in Sao Paulo,
driving the Ibovespa to a third weekly advance.  All  10 groups  in the benchmark measure for emerging markets
gained today, led by technology and industrial companies.
Brazil’s central bank stepped up efforts to arrest the world’s
worst currency decline, announcing a $60 billion intervention
program involving currency swaps and loans. The  Reserve Bank  of
India said yesterday that the nation’s economic and monetary
policies must focus on preserving financial stability.  Central bank actions to curb currency depreciation are a
“good first stage,”  Michael Strauss , who helps oversee about
$25 billion of assets as chief investment strategist at
Commonfund Group in Wilton, Connecticut, said in a telephone
interview today. “They can temper it.”  The  gauge  of developing nations is trading at 9.9 times
estimated earnings, below the valuation of developed markets of
13.7. The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund added 1.2 percent at $38.65. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 5.6 percent to 23.24.  Dollar Loans  Brazil’s real climbed the most since September 2011. The
central bank will auction $1 billion of dollar loans every
Friday starting today and offer the equivalent of $500 million
worth of foreign-exchange swaps each day Monday through
Thursday. The program will run through Dec. 31. The  Ibovespa (IBOV) 
jumped the most among major emerging-market indexes as Rossi
Residencial SA led homebuilders higher, offsetting declines
among exporters.  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index tumbled to the lowest
level since October, extending its weekly drop to 8.5 percent.
The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid 0.3 percent, trimming its gain for the week
to 0.9 percent. Benchmark stock gauges in Poland and Hungary
also dropped today.  India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  gained 1.1 percent as Tata Motors
extended a two-day rally to 6.2 percent. Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd., the largest power-equipment maker, soared the
most since May 2009. The rupee, which fell to a record 65.56 per
dollar yesterday, climbed 2.1 percent.  Stock Sale  China’s stocks fell, capping the benchmark index’s first
weekly loss in five weeks, as financial companies slumped on
concern liquidity is tightening before the end of the month.
 China Merchants Bank Co. (600036)  slid 3.2 percent after saying it plans
to raise 34.8 billion  yuan  ($5.7 billion) in the world’s second-largest share sale this year. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  added
1.1 percent as Samsung snapped a five-day slump.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose 0.04 percentage point to 345 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Carmen Reinhart , a Harvard University economist and co-author of a history of debt crises, said emerging markets are
deteriorating as the U.S. recovers and may worsen as global
 interest rates  begin to increase.  “It could get very ugly,” Reinhart said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Sara Eisen from the Federal
Reserve’s annual conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. “Emerging
markets had a capital flow bonanza lasting several years, the
golden boom years, and the probability of a banking crisis, the
probability of a currency crash, the probability of a default,
all increase afterward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  