-- Emerging-Market Currencies Fall to Lowest Since 2010 on Fed
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-08-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/emerging-market-currencies-fall-to-lowest-since-2010-on-fed.html
India ’s rupee led declines among the
currencies of the biggest emerging-market economies as the
 Federal Reserve  signaled a reduction in stimulus is still on
track, spurring a wave of cash to flow back into larger nations.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index rose for a second week and
touched its highest level since Aug. 2. An equally weighted
basket of currencies of Brazil, Russia, India, China and  South
Africa  touched its lowest level versus the dollar since June
2010 on concern a paring of stimulus under the Fed’s
quantitative-easing strategy would intensify outflows from the
currencies. The Commerce Department may report Aug. 30 that U.S.
 consumer spending  increased 0.3 percent in July.  “What we’ve been seeing is this clear-out of emerging-market positioning and back into the Group of 10,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, said
in a telephone interview. “The core -- the U.S., U.K. and euro
zone -- seem to be the largest beneficiaries of that.”  The dollar rose 1.2 percent to 97.72 yen this week in  New
York . The U.S. currency fell 0.4 percent to $1.3383 per euro.
Europe’s 17-nation common currency rallied 1.6 percent to 130.10
yen.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major peers, climbed 0.4 percent to 1,026.15.  ‘Broadly Comfortable’  Minutes of the July 30-31 Federal Open Market Committee
meeting released this week showed policy makers were “broadly
comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to taper
purchases this year if the economy strengthens, with a few
saying a reduction may be needed soon.  Consumer spending may have risen 0.3 percent from the
previous month, according to median forecast of 42 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The measure increased 0.5 percent in
June.  Speculation that the Fed may reduce its purchases of U.S.
government bonds has sparked an increased in borrowing costs.
 Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year Treasuries touched 2.93 percent on Aug. 22,
the highest since July 2011.  Yields on similar-maturity Brazil bonds increased 25 basis
points to 4.79 percent, while those on Indonesian debt jumped 77
basis points to 5.90 percent.  “Unfortunately, I think we might not be done with a U.S.
Treasury selloff,” said Richard Cochinos, head of Americas G-10
FX Strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “Because of that,
you could see additional flow out of  emerging markets .”  Rupee, Rupiah  The  Reserve Bank  of India said the nation’s economic and
monetary policies must focus on preserving financial stability
as the U.S. prepares to cut stimulus.  Weakness in the local currency, which tumbled 1x percent
this year, could fuel already “high” consumer-price inflation,
the central bank said in its annual report released in Mumbai
this week. Asia’s No. 3 economy also faces risks from a current-account deficit that’s not sustainable, slowing growth, a budget
gap and rising bad loans at banks, it said.  The  rupee  declined 2.7 this week, touching a record low of
65.5600 per dollar,  Indonesia’s rupiah lost 3.8 percent this week, the most of
the dollar’s 24 emerging-market counterparts, amid a record
current-account deficit in the second quarter and worse-than-estimated economic growth. The government is in talks to update
so-called trigger points that would enable it easier access to a
standby loan of about $5 billion from the  World Bank , Deputy
Finance Minister Mahendra Siregar said.  Indonesia’s tender fell to 10,780 per dollar and touched
its lowest level since 2009.  ‘Very Ugly’  Carmen Reinhart , a Harvard University economist and co-author of a history of debt crises, said emerging markets are
deteriorating as the U.S. recovers and may worsen as global
 interest rates  begin to increase.  “It could get very ugly,” Reinhart said yesterday in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Sara Eisen from the Fed’s
annual conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. “Emerging markets
had a capital flow bonanza lasting several years, the golden
boom years, and the probability of a banking crisis, the
probability of a currency crash, the probability of a default,
all increase afterward.”  Bernanke No-Show  Bernanke, 59, isn’t attending the gathering in Jackson
Hole, the first Fed chairman to pass it up since 1988. His
second term expires in January, and President  Barack Obama  is
considering candidates to succeed him, including Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen  and former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers .  Yellen will moderate a panel today that includes  Bank of
Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and Bank of England Deputy
Governor  Charles Bean . The BOJ doubled its monthly bond
purchases to more than 7 trillion yen ($71 billion) in April to
stoke 2 percent inflation in two years.  Kuroda backed a planned sale-tax increase aimed at reducing
the nation’s debt. If a higher levy or changing conditions
overseas heightened the risk of a slowdown, the central bank
“won’t hesitate” to add to its unprecedented easing policy,
Mainichi newspaper reported on Aug. 21, citing an interview.  The yen has tumbled 20 percent in the past 12 months, the
worst performer among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked
by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar
strengthened 2.9 percent and the euro gained 10 percent.  “There’s a broad understand that the Bank of Japan
probably will have to look at more policy easing sooner rather
than later,” Citigroup’s Cochinos said.  Traders reduced bets the yen will weaken, according to data
from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The difference in
the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators
on a decline in the currency compared with those on a gain --
so-called  net shorts  -- was 71,721 on Aug. 20, compared with
74,462 a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  