-- England Trails Australia by 245 After Day Three of Ashes Cricket
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-08-23T18:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/england-trails-australia-by-245-after-day-three-of-ashes-cricket.html
Half-centuries for Joe Root and
 Kevin Pietersen  pushed England within 245 runs of Australia’s
first-innings total on day three of the final Ashes cricket Test
at the Oval in London.  England will resume tomorrow on 247-4, scored off 116
overs.  Ian Bell , the scorer of three centuries this series, is
unbeaten on 29, and newcomer  Chris Woakes  is 15 not out.  While Australia seeks its first Test victory of the series,
a draw is the most likely result according to bookmakers on
 oddschecker.com . The weather could increase that likelihood with
a forecast of rain threatening to interrupt tomorrow’s play.  “Australia bowled pretty well,” Root told  Sky Sports .
“It’s quite slow and hard to time out there. We’re going to
have to dig deep tomorrow.”  Root and captain  Alastair Cook , England’s opening pair,
resumed on 32-0 on a sunny morning. The two advanced cautiously
before Cook edged a wide Ryan Harris delivery to wicketkeeper
 Brad Haddin  for 25. The partnership of 68 was the duo’s highest
of the five-match series.  Root and Jonathan Trott added another 50 before Root top-edged a sweep after the lunch break and was caught off the
bowling of spinner Nathan Lyon for 68.  The incoming Pietersen struggled to score freely, but he
and Trott took the score to 176 before Trott was caught leg-before-wicket for 40 by fast-bowler Mitchell Starc with the
first delivery of the second new ball. England scored just 84
runs off 38 overs in the afternoon session.  Starc claimed another victim soon after tea, tempting
Pietersen into nicking a wide delivery to  Shane Watson  at slip.
Pietersen’s score of 50 was his slowest-ever half-century in an
Ashes Tests, coming off 127 balls.  Woakes joined Bell at the crease and drove his first-ever
ball in Test cricket through the covers for four -- a rare
highlight on a dull day.  England has already won the Ashes urn, cricket’s oldest
trophy, holding an unassailable 3-0 lead in the series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  