-- England Reaches 97-1, Trails Australia by 395 in Ashes Cricket
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-08-23T12:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/england-reaches-97-1-trails-australia-by-395-in-ashes-cricket.html
England  progressed to a first-innings score of 97-1 to trail  Australia  by 395 runs at lunch
on day three of the final Ashes cricket Test.  Seeking an unprecedented 4-0 series win against its oldest
rival, England scored a little more than two runs an over after
resuming on 32-0 at The Oval in  London .  Openers Alastair Cook and Joe Root benefited from sunny
weather and a flat pitch to push the score to 68 before Cook,
the England captain, edged a wide Ryan Harris delivery to
wicketkeeper  Brad Haddin  for 25. It was the pair’s highest
partnership of the five-match series.  Trott faced 32 deliveries for his 10 not out and Root is
unbeaten on 52, only the second time in the series that he’s
scored more than 30. The 22-year-old reached his 50 off 145
balls.  An extra eight overs is scheduled today, and on the final
two days, making up for some of the play lost yesterday to rain.  Australia coach Darren Lehmann was last night fined 20
percent of his match fee for publicly criticizing and making
inappropriate comments about England’s  Stuart Broad , the
 International Cricket Council  said.  Lehmann accused Broad of “blatant cheating” in an
interview with an Australian radio station on the eve of the
match after the fast bowler defended his actions in not walking
in the Ashes series opener when he edged a ball for a catch.  “I hope the Australian public give it to him right from
the word go for the whole summer” during the return series in
Australia starting in November, Lehmann said of Broad in the
interview. “I hope he cries and he goes home.”  The Dubai-based ICC said in a statement the sanctions
available to it for a Level 1 offense ranged from a warning or
reprimand and/or a fine of up to 50 percent of the match fee.
Lehmann, who replaced the fired Mickey Arthur as Australia coach
16 days before the Ashes series started, accepted the proposed
fine from match referee Roshan Mahanama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celster@bloomberg.net . 