-- Faulty Tank at Fukushima Had Been Dismantled, Moved, Tepco Says
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   J a s o n   R o g e r s
-- 2013-08-25T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/tepco-told-to-improve-fukushima-water-storage-after-nuclear-leak.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  said a tank
that leaked highly radioactive water at its damaged Fukushima
nuclear plant is one of three that had been dismantled and
moved, adding it has yet to determine if that caused the
seepage.  The tanks, which were relocated because of ground
subsidence at their initial site, were filled and tested for
leaks after being reassembled, Noriyuki Imaizumi, an official at 
the utility who briefed reporters, said in  Tokyo  on Aug. 24.  Last week’s spillage escalated into the biggest crisis at
the wrecked plant since the March 2011 disaster. The alarm was
raised after at least 300 metric tons of water leaked, prompting
the government to demand strengthening of tanks storing more
than 300,000 tons of irradiated water -- a volume growing by 400
tons a day as the tanks are filled with water pumped from under
the plant’s damaged reactors.  Tepco, as the utility is known, is “going from crisis to
crisis,” Michael Friedlander, who has 13 years of experience
running nuclear  power plants  in the U.S., said Aug. 23 in an
interview in  Hong Kong  with Bloomberg TV. “Two years on,
managing water should be given more priority.”  Tepco has increased the rate of its inspections and has
said that no further leaks of contaminated water have been
found. The inspection of about 300 tanks similar in design to
the unit that leaked did reveal two separate radiation hot-spots
on the seams of two tanks, which the company can’t explain, it
said.  ‘We Don’t Know’  “At the moment, we don’t know why radiation was
detected,” spokesman Hiroki Kawamata said. No water was found
at the hot-spots and water levels in the tanks hadn’t dropped
noticeably, he said.  “Investigation will be needed to determine whether or not
the detection of radiation means water leaked,” Hirofumi
Shibata, an official at the trade ministry’s nuclear accident
response office, said on Aug. 23. “Tanks will need to be
strengthened.”  Japan ’s Nuclear Regulation Authority instructed Tepco to
identify the cause of the leak, which was reported on Aug. 20,
and present measures to prevent leaks from other tanks, Hideka
Morimoto, deputy secretary general at the agency, said last
week. It also wants to know how Tepco will remove contaminated
soil.  Tepco was careless in its monitoring of the  storage tanks 
and failed to keep records of its inspections, NRA Commissioner
Toyoshi Fuketa said after a visit to the plant on Aug. 23,
Reuters reported. Fuketa also expressed concern that pipes
connecting the tanks may leak,  Kyodo News  reported.  Stage 3  The regulator rates the accident as a 3 on the 7-stage
International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale or INES,
denoting a “serious incident.” The tank has been pumped dry
and the water stored.  NRA Chairman Shunichi Tanaka called the possibility of
other leaky tanks “the biggest concern” at a press conference
on Aug. 21.  Tepco stores about 400 tons of water a day at the plant
after using it to cool the reactors that melted down as a result
of the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. The more than 1,000
tanks on-site can hold 390,000 tons of water, according to Kaoru
Suzuki, a Tepco spokeswoman. About 330,000 tons of that capacity
had been used as of Aug. 13.  The Fukushima station has become “a massive tank farm,”
Friedlander said. “That can’t be. It’s subject to earthquakes,
it’s subject to natural disasters, it’s subject to leaks. That
represents a very clear and present danger to the plant site and
to the people working there.” 