-- European Stocks Post Weekly Drop on Fed Tapering Concerns
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-08-23T16:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/european-stocks-post-weekly-drop-on-fed-tapering-concerns.html
European stocks  posted their biggest
weekly loss in two months amid concern that the  Federal Reserve 
will reduce the pace of its monthly bond purchases next month.  Heineken NV dropped 5.2 percent after the world’s third-largest brewer said that profit before some items will not grow
in 2013. Deutsche Wohnen AG sank after it offered to buy
Berlin’s biggest publicly traded residential landlord in an all-share transaction.  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  slid 5.3 percent as the
energy company posted first-half profit that missed estimates.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.5 percent to 304.71 this
week. The gauge dropped 1.9 percent in the three days through
Aug. 21 as the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index plunged 3.5 percent
and speculation mounted that the minutes from the Fed’s last
meeting would give more details of how the central bank will
slow its quantitative-easing program. The equity benchmark  has
still rallied 11 percent  from this year’s low on June 24 as the
 European Central Bank  said that its  interest rates  will remain
low for an extended period of time.  “The weakness in the first three days really was led by
emerging markets,” said  David Moss , who helps manage $144
billion as director of European equities at F&C Investments in
London. “European markets have been pretty strong of late and
the weakness we saw in the emerging markets has been used as a
bit of an excuse for profit taking.”  Fed Minutes  The Fed published  the minutes  from its July 30-31 meeting
on Aug. 21. They showed that almost all the participants agreed
with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to start reducing its $85
billion of monthly bond purchases if the economy continues to
improve in line with forecasts.  Policy makers will probably decide to buy fewer assets next
month, according to 65 percent of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg on Aug. 9-13. The  Federal Open Market Committee  holds
its next two-day meeting on Sept. 17-18.  “The FOMC minutes didn’t tell us anything we didn’t know,
but certainly the advent of tapering, whenever that may be, is
at the front of people’s minds,” Moss said.  In Europe, a measure of  German manufacturing  compiled by
 Markit Economics  climbed to 52 in August from 50.7 in July. The
median economist estimate in a Bloomberg survey had called for a
reading of 51.1. The company’s  gauge of services  advanced to
52.4, beating the median estimate of 51.7. Readings greater than
50 mean that activity increased.  Chinese Manufacturing  In  China , a purchasing managers’ index of manufacturing in
the world’s second-largest economy rose to 50.1 in August from
47.7 in July. Economists had predicted the PMI compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit would climb to 48.2.  National benchmark indexes declined in 13 of the 18
western-European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped
0.1 percent and France’s CAC 40 lost 1.3 percent.  Germany ’s DAX
Index added 0.3 percent.  Heineken (HEIA)  sank 5.2 percent this week. The Amsterdam-based
company reported adjusted earnings before interest and taxes of
1.33 billion euros ($1.8 billion) for the first half, missing
the average analyst estimate of 1.34 billion euros. The brewer
also said that the poor weather in Europe in the spring will
affect its full-year earnings.  Bankia SA and Banco de Sabadell SA led lenders lower,
falling 9.7 percent and 8.3 percent, respectively. A gauge of
banks slid 2.3 percent, posting the  worst performance  among the
19 industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Holcim, Lafarge  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  declined 5.4 percent. UBS AG downgraded the
world’s largest cement maker to neutral from buy. The brokerage
lowered its estimates for the company’s earnings in 2013 and
2014 because of increased costs from currency fluctuations and
downward pressure on its profit margins.  Lafarge SA, the second-biggest maker of cement, decreased
1.8 percent. HeidelbergCement AG, the  third-largest maker  of the
building material, lost 5.8 percent.  Deutsche Wohnen retreated 5.6 percent. The company, which
owns 90,000 properties across Germany, offered 51 new shares for
every 20 GSW shares. The combined entity would own 150,000
apartments valued at 8.5 billion euros. GSW said in a statement
that it would evaluate the bid.  Premier Oil slumped 5.3 percent. The oil-and-gas explorer
reported first-half net income of $161 million, falling short of
the average analyst estimate of $180 million.  John Wood Group Plc fell 6.9 percent after the U.K. oil-services provider active in  Africa  and the  Middle East  lowered
the profit outlook for its engineering division. Earnings at the
subsidiary will probably grow 10 percent to 15 percent this
year, the Aberdeen, Scotland-based company said. It had forecast
growth of about 15 percent. Project delays and a weakening
business in  Canada  will affect earnings, it said.  Veolia Advances  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  jumped 5.3 percent. Morgan Stanley
added Europe’s biggest water company to its best-ideas list.  “Veolia is the most attractive turnaround story in the
sector, moving towards becoming a smaller and leaner company,
and still with leadership positions in promising water and waste
businesses globally,” analyst Emmanuel Turpin wrote.  Wolseley Plc (WOS)  added 6.2 percent. UBS raised its
recommendation on the world’s largest distributor of plumbing
and heating products to buy from neutral. The brokerage cited
accelerating growth in the U.S., improving momentum in the U.K.
and stabilization in  Europe . The bank also added Wolseley to its
most preferred list of stocks.  FLSmidth & Co. A/S rallied 11 percent after the maker of
cement production lines announced it will cut 1,100 jobs and
close down more than 20 locations in an effort to reduce costs,
after second-quarter earnings trailed analysts’ projections.  “The cost-cutting programme is more aggressive than we
expected,” Nordea Bank AB analyst Patrik Setterberg wrote in a
report to clients  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  