-- Euro-Area Consumer Confidence Rises More Than Estimated
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-08-23T14:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/euro-area-consumer-confidence-rises-more-than-estimated.html
Euro-area  consumer confidence 
increased more than economists estimated in August, as the
economy of the 17-nation currency bloc gathers strength after a
 record-long recession .  An index of household confidence in the euro zone improved
for a ninth month to minus 15.6, the highest level since July
2011, from minus 17.4 in the previous month, the European
Commission in Brussels said in a preliminary report today.
Economists had forecast an increase to minus 16.5, according to
the median of 26 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Gross domestic product in the euro region rose 0.3 percent
in the three months through June after  six quarterly
contractions . Adding to the indications of recovery, services
and manufacturing output expanded more than economists forecast
in August, according to a  report  yesterday from London-based
Markit Economics.  The euro erased losses against the dollar after the data
were released, rising by as much as 0.2 percent, and was trading
at $1.3368 at 4:04 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.1 percent on the day.  Dick Boer , chief executive officer of Zaandam, Netherlands-based Royal Ahold NV, said yesterday that the company
“continued to perform well, both in Europe and the United
States.” Ahold, which owns U.S. grocery chain Stop & Shop,
posted second-quarter earnings that beat estimates.  Economic Expansion  Yet in “the current economic environment,” which includes
 record unemployment  in the euro area, “we remain cautious in
our outlook for the balance of the year, as we expect customers
to be focused on value and volumes to remain under pressure,”
 Boer said .  While the euro zone’s second-quarter economic expansion was
led by the region’s two biggest economies, Germany and  France ,
at least  four euro countries remain in recessions , including
Italy and Spain.  Retail sales  fell 0.5 percent in June from a
month earlier.  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-biggest brewer, said this
week that poor spring weather in Europe led to weak second-quarter revenue and predicted that earnings this year won’t grow
as consumers in the region curb spending.  “For the remainder of the year, economic uncertainty and
ongoing weak consumer sentiment is expected to persist across
many key markets,” Heineken said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  