-- Evonik Refinances as German Companies Get Lower Rates on Loans
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-08-23T09:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/evonik-refinances-as-german-companies-get-lower-rates-on-loans.html
Evonik Industries AG (EVK)  completed
syndication of a 1.75 billion-euro ($2.3 billion) loan as German
companies replace credit lines with ones with lower interest
rates.  Evonik, a maker of chemicals used in tire additives and
ingredients for cosmetics and animal feed, plans to sign the
facility in early September, people with knowledge of the matter
said, who asked not to be named because the agreement is
private. The loan for the Essen, Germany-based company includes
portions with three- and five-year maturities paying margins
more than benchmark rates of 35 and 40 basis points, or 0.35 to
0.40 percentage points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  German companies with investment-grade ratings have raised
$14.8 billion of revolving credit facilities this year, compared
with $11.4 billion in all of 2012, the data show. BASF SE, rated
A+ by Standard & Poor’s, obtained a 3 billion-euro credit line
in March at an interest rate of 25 basis points, down from 27.5
basis points paid on its previous loan.  “German companies are cash rich, richer than their French
counterparts. They have made a lot of money and only invested it
moderately,” said  Sylvain Broyer , Natixis’s Frankfurt-based
chief euro-region economist. “I see this trend of low pricing
continuing because this is a very competitive market for banks,
so corporates that show good balance sheets will benefit.”  Evonik’s new credit pact will replace a 1.5 billion-euro
loan from 2011, which included portions paying interest margins
from 60 basis to 75 basis points, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Bank Competition  Rewe Group, a retail and tourism company which carries
Standard & Poor’s lowest investment grade rating of BBB-, is
seeking a five-year 1.75 billion-euro loan to replace a revolver
it obtained in 2007, people familiar with the matter said.  GEA
Group AG (G1A)  is also raising a 650 million-euro revolver to replace
bank debt due in June 2015.  Competition among banks provides an opportunity for top-rated companies to borrow at cheaper rates, said David Owens,
head of bank loans sales EMEA at RBS Markets, a part of Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “Borrowers are naturally price-sensitive and are therefore
taking advantage of the opportunities to refinance deals at
reduced pricing at a time when lenders are considered under
lent,” Owens said.  UniCredit AG has arranged the most loans in  Germany  this
year, taking a 12.5 percent market share with more than 5
billion euros committed, Bloomberg data show. German lenders
Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank AG came in second and third
with 10 percent and 9 percent.  Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA, UniCredit SpA are
coordinating Evonik’s facility, the data show. In revolving
credit facilities money repaid can be borrowed again.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 