-- Ex-Barrick CEO’s Firm Said to Mull Bid for Glencore Mine
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-08-23T14:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/ex-barrick-ceo-s-firm-said-to-mull-bid-for-glencore-mine.html
Magris Resources Inc., the
investment company founded by former  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  Chief
Executive Officer Aaron Regent, is considering a bid for
Glencore Xstrata Plc’s Las Bambas copper-mining project in  Peru ,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Las Bambas is among mining assets that Toronto-based Magris
is evaluating, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the information hasn’t been made public.  Jiangxi Copper Co.,  China ’s largest producer of the metal,
said today it’s interested in Las Bambas.  MMG Ltd. (1208) , a unit of
state-controlled commodity trader China Minmetals Corp., and
Chinalco Mining Corp. International are considering bidding,
people with knowledge of the matter said earlier this month.  Las Bambas could fetch more than $6 billion for Glencore,
Liberum Capital Ltd. analyst Ash Lazenby said in a note this
week. If Magris bids and is successful, it could be the Toronto-based firm’s first acquisition. Regent, 47, was fired in June
2012 by Barrick after the board said it was disappointed with
the gold company’s share-price performance. Before Barrick, he
was a senior managing partner of  Brookfield Asset Management
Inc. (BAM/A) , which he joined after being CEO of nickel miner
Falconbridge Ltd.  Magris is seeking mining assets mainly in the Americas with
backing from institutional and private-equity investors, a
person familiar with the situation said in May.  2015 Start  The sale of Las Bambas, which is under construction in the
Andes, was a condition set by Chinese regulators in their
approval of Glencore’s $29 billion takeover of Xstrata Plc, a
deal that was completed in May. Glencore hopes to close the Las
Bambas sale by the year-end, Chief Executive Officer Ivan
Glasenberg said on an Aug. 20 conference call. BMO Capital
Markets and Credit Suisse Group AG are advising Glencore on the
sale.  Las Bambas is scheduled to produce 400,000 metric tons of
copper a year starting in 2015 for at least the first five years
of operation and will cost $5.2 billion to build, Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  