-- Blasts Hit Sunni Mosques in Lebanon, Killing at Least 29
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-08-23T15:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/explosions-hit-sunni-mosques-in-lebanon-killing-12-wounding-25.html
Explosions near two Sunni Muslim
mosques in Lebanon’s northern city of Tripoli during Friday
prayers killed at least 29 people and wounded more than 500, the
official National News Agency said.  One blast targeted Al Taqwa Mosque where radical Sunni
cleric Sheikh Salem al-Rafei leads prayers. He wasn’t harmed,
NNA said. The second hit near the entrance of the Salam mosque,
not far from the house of caretaker Prime Minister Najib Miqati,
who wasn’t in Tripoli at the time, according to NNA.  The explosion at Salam Mosque resulted from a car bomb
laden with 100 kilograms of explosives, Interior Minister Marwan Charbel told New TV.  The Salam Mosque blast went off as worshipers were bent in
prayer, listening to a sermon by Sheikh Bilal Baroudi, according
to footage shown on LBC TV. Worshipers ran out of the mosque
amid a thick cloud of dust.  The bombings occurred at a time of heightened tensions
between Sunni and Shiite communities as the sectarian war in
 Syria  spills into Lebanon. Tripoli has seen frequent clashes
between supporters and opponents of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The two mosques hit today are led by clerics who have
been supportive of the mostly Sunni rebels seeking to topple
Assad, who is Alawite, an offshoot of Shiite Islam. Al-Rafei has
called for a holy war to help oust Assad.  Avoid Civil War  Officials called for calm, urging people not to let their
emotions draw Lebanon into a civil war.  “We should avoid strife,” said caretaker Defense Minister
Fayez Ghosn, according to NNA. Caretaker Finance Minister
Mohammad Safadi said the attackers were seeking to ignite
“strife between Sunnis and Shiites” in Lebanon, in an e-mailed
statement.  The blasts are “mostly likely a response from a pro-Syrian
or Shiite-affiliated group seeking reprisal for what has
happened in the past month following explosions in Shiite
neighborhoods in  Beirut ,” Michael Stephens, a researcher at the
 Royal United Services Institute  in Doha, Qatar said by phone.  The blasts were the third and fourth to hit Lebanon since
July. The previous two occurred in the Shiite militant Hezbollah
stronghold in Beirut’s southern suburb. The first wounded more
than 50, while the second killed at least 27 people.  Hezbollah called today’s attacks a “terrorist” act aiming
at “dragging” the Lebanese into civil war, according to an e-mailed statement. “Hezbollah expresses extreme pain” for the
loss of life in Tripoli,’’ it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  