-- Fed’s Bullard Urges No Rate Hikes With Inflation Below 1.5%
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-08-23T14:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/fed-s-bullard-urges-no-rate-hikes-with-inflation-below-1-5-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard , who has supported record Fed stimulus,
said the central bank should pledge not to raise the benchmark
interest rate as long as inflation is below 1.5 percent.  “It would signal we are serious about defending the
inflation target from the downside,” Bullard said today in a
Bloomberg Radio interview from  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, with
 Kathleen Hays  and Vonnie Quinn.  The Federal Open Market Committee has pledged that  interest
rates  will stay exceptionally low “at least as long” as the
jobless rate exceeds 6.5 percent and if inflation “between one
and two years ahead” is projected to be no more than 2.5
percent.  The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation showed prices rising
1.3 percent in the 12 months ended June, well below the central
bank’s 2 percent target. The Fed cut the main interest rate to
zero in December 2008 to spur economic growth and combat
unemployment.  “One thing I’ve suggested as a possible way to go is to
have a lower threshold for inflation, 1.5 percent,” Bullard
said. “It would complement the fact that we have a 2.5 percent
upside on the inflation rate.”  Bullard, who calls himself the “ North Pole  of inflation
hawks,” has been viewed as a bellwether for investors because
his views have sometimes foreshadowed policy changes. He
published a paper in 2010 entitled “Seven Faces of the Peril,”
which called on the central bank to avert deflation by
purchasing Treasury notes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  