-- Fed’s Williams Says Taper Speculation Has Cut Bond Market Froth
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-08-23T14:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/fed-s-williams-says-taper-speculation-has-cut-bond-market-froth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  said speculation over tapering
of quantitative easing that drove Treasury yields higher may
have helped eliminate some “froth” in the  bond market .  Some investors “were thinking the Fed was going to keep
buying forever, QE infinity,” Williams said today in a CNBC
television interview from  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . “We had always
communicated that that’s not what our plan was.”  “Some of the adjustment in the bond market probably was
kind of bringing people back to reality that this was a program
that wasn’t going to continue forever,” he said. “And I think
that, maybe, eliminates some of the froth in the bond market.”  Treasury 10-year yields touched a two-year high of 2.93
percent earlier this week on speculation the  Federal Open Market
Committee  will slow its large-scale asset purchases next month.
Policy makers are weighing when to begin reducing $85 billion in
monthly bond buying, which they have pledged to maintain until
the job market improves substantially.  Williams, who has never dissented from a policy decision,
said whether tapering takes place later this year depends on
economic conditions.  “The decision when and if to taper later this year will
depend on the data, and specifically are we still seeing signs
of positive momentum,” Williams said. “I’m not going to speak
about what meeting or not, but I do think that if the data
continue to progress as we’ve seen, then I do agree that we
should edge down or taper our purchases later this year.”  Fed Minutes  Minutes of the last FOMC meeting released this week show
policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to taper purchases this year if the economy
strengthens, with a few saying a reduction may be needed soon.  “Almost all committee members agreed that a change in the
purchase program was not yet appropriate,” and a few said “it
might soon be time to slow somewhat the pace of purchases as
outlined in that plan,” minutes of the July 30-31 meeting show.  The FOMC will probably vote at its Sept. 17-18 meeting to
taper the unprecedented stimulus program, according to 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13. The first
step may be to scale back monthly purchases by $10 billion to a
$75 billion pace, according to the median estimate in the survey
of 48 economists. They said buying will probably end by
mid-2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  