-- Fed’s Lockhart Backs QE Taper Next Month as Peers Say No Hurry
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-08-23T16:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/fed-s-lockhart-backs-qe-taper-next-month-as-peers-say-no-hurry.html
Three Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents differed over the timing for reducing the Fed’s $85
billion in monthly bond buying, with one backing a tapering next
month if the economy remains strong and two others saying policy
makers should take time to assess economic data.  “We can take our time” on slowing purchases, St. Louis
Fed President James Bullard, who holds a vote on policy this
year, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview from Jackson Hole,
Wyoming. San Francisco’s John Williams told CNBC he wants to
“taper our purchases later this year” if the economy doesn’t
flag, while Atlanta’s Dennis Lockhart said he “would be
supportive” of slowing purchases next month if the expansion
holds up.  Williams didn’t rule out a tapering next month. Debate
among policy makers over whether to start tapering unprecedented
bond purchases in September has roiled financial markets since
May, pushing U.S.  mortgage rates  to a record gain and driving
down developing-nation stocks and currencies. Lockhart and
Williams won’t vote on policy until 2015.  Emerging-market stocks worldwide have slumped about $1
trillion since May, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index has declined 12 percent
this year,  compared with  a 13 percent gain for the MSCI World
Index of companies in advanced economies.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex
and  Indonesia ’s  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  both fell to 11-month
lows this week, while  Turkey ’s lira fell to a record low versus
the dollar.  Treasury 10-year yields touched a two-year high of  2.93
percent (USGG10YR)  yesterday on speculation the Federal Open Market
Committee will slow its large-scale asset purchases next month.
The yield was 2.84 percent at 10:40 a.m. in  New York  trading.  Junk Bonds  Fed policy makers have pledged to maintain $85 billion in
monthly buying until the job market improves substantially. Some
Fed officials have said the purchases, while aiding the job
market, have stoked excessive risk taking in assets from junk
bonds to farmland.  The interest rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage rose to
a two-year high of  4.58 percent  this week, according to data
compiled by Freddie Mac. It soared a record 35 percent in the 10
weeks ended July 11.  “I’m looking at the data as whether they are denying or
undermining the outlook I have in my head” for a continuation
of modest growth and some improvement, Lockhart said in an
interview from the Fed’s annual monetary conference in Jackson
Hole,  Wyoming . “On that basis, you can get to a point where you
can take a cautious first step, which is the way I’m thinking
about what we conceivably might do, and justify that, so I don’t
rule out September.”  ‘Broadly Comfortable’  Minutes  of the last FOMC meeting released this week show
policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s plan to taper purchases this year if the economy
strengthens, with a few saying a reduction may be needed soon.  “Almost all committee members agreed that a change in the
purchase program was not yet appropriate,” and a few said “it
might soon be time to slow somewhat the pace of purchases as
outlined in that plan,” minutes of the July 30-31 meeting show.  The FOMC will probably taper the unprecedented stimulus
program at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13. The first step may
be to taper monthly purchases by $10 billion to a $75 billion
pace, according to the median estimate in the survey of 48
economists. They said buying will probably end by mid-2014.  “Inflation is running low so for that reason I’ve been
arguing that we don’t have to be in a hurry” to dial down bond
purchases, Bullard said.  Prices Rising  The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation showed prices rising
1.3 percent in the 12 months ended June, well below the central
bank’s 2 percent target. The Fed cut the main interest rate to
zero in December 2008 to spur economic growth and combat
unemployment.  “The decision when and if to taper later this year will
depend on the data, and specifically are we still seeing signs
of positive momentum,” Williams said.  “I’m not going to speak about what meeting or not, but I
do think that if the data continue to progress as we’ve seen,
then I do agree that we should edge down or taper our purchases
later this year,” he said.  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.7 percent annualized
rate in the second quarter, after a 1.1 percent gain in the
first, Commerce Department data show.  Payroll growth over the past six months has averaged almost
200,000, compared with a 141,000 average in the six months
before September, when the FOMC announced a third round of bond
buying. Also, jobless claims fell to  320,000 (INJCJC)  in the week ended
Aug. 10, the least since October 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  