-- Fischer Says Bernanke ‘One of Great’ Fed Chairmen in History
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-08-23T17:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/fischer-says-bernanke-one-of-the-great-fed-chairmen-in-history.html
Ben S. Bernanke  will be “one of the
great chairmen” in the Federal Reserve’s 100-year history,
former Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer said, adding that
winding down asset purchases could be difficult.  “It is a pretty tough thing getting out of quantitative
easing,” Fischer said. “We will see how it goes. We are not
sure it’s going to go ahead with it in September. It doesn’t
matter hugely except to a few people who have positions they are
holding.”  Fischer spoke in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
Sara Eisen from the Fed’s annual monetary conference in  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming, where he will moderate a discussion. Fischer, 69,
was Bernanke’s thesis adviser at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , where the Fed chairman obtained his Ph.D. in 1979.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  next meets Sept. 17 and
18. Some 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg this
month expect the U.S. central bank to begin trimming its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases at that meeting.  The FOMC’s first step may be small, with monthly purchases
tapered by $10 billion to a $75 billion pace, according to the
median estimate in the survey of 48 economists conducted Aug.
9-13. The Fed will probably end the buying by mid-2014, the
survey showed.  Shifting Funds  Fischer said the rush of money into  emerging markets  by
investors seeking higher yields is just as much of a problem as
the outflow caused by a move up in U.S. interest rates. The MSCI
Emerging Markets stock index is down about 12 percent this year.  “Dealing with those inflows of capital is a real problem
because it can cause the  exchange rate  to appreciate,” Fischer
said. “A lot of countries, after a period of transition, will
be very happy with the shift” to more normal capital flows.  Fischer added that Europe “is not out of the woods,”
despite a quarter of growth, while crediting European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi , another former student, for his
“bold” defense of the euro.  “Mario has been doing it extremely well,” Fischer said.
“He did make that one very brave, bold statement: We are not
going to let the euro collapse.”  Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and Bank of Mexico
Governor Agustin Carstens are among the speakers at the three-day symposium held by the Kansas City Fed that began yesterday.
The conference is titled: “Global Dimensions of Unconventional
Monetary Policy.”  Not Attending  Bernanke, 59, isn’t attending the conference this year, the
first Fed chairman to pass up the meeting since 1988.  Bernanke’s second term as chairman expires in January, and
President  Barack Obama  is considering candidates to succeed him,
including Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and former Treasury
Secretary  Lawrence Summers . Yellen will moderate tomorrow’s
discussions.  “There have been a lot of calls for the president to make
the decision and let the markets and the public know who it’s
going to be and what that means,” Fischer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  