-- Fonterra Suspends Sri Lanka Operations Amid Tainted Milk Protest
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-23T05:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/fonterra-suspends-sri-lanka-operations-amid-tainted-milk-protest.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s biggest dairy exporter, suspended operations in  Sri
Lanka  after protests outside its local office sparked by
allegations some milk powder products were tainted.  The company closed its office and local plants and asked
its 755 local workers to stay at home, Auckland-based Fonterra
today said in a statement. A court order issued this week
prevents it from selling products, advertising or making public
statements in Sri Lanka, the company said.  Fonterra, which has provided product safety assurances to
the government, sees Sri Lanka as a key growth market for milk
products, and in April the company started a plan to help local
dairy farmers which featured a visit by All Blacks captain
Richie McCaw. About 200 protesters yesterday shouted slogans and
displayed banners that read “Ban all tainted milk” outside the
Fonterra local office on the outskirts of  Colombo , the
 Associated Press  reported. They also brought a coffin with
posters of Fonterra brands and laid it before the building.  “Recent events have made it difficult to maintain day-to-day operations and we need to get them resolved,” Chief
Executive Officer Theo Spierings said in the statement. The
plant closures are a “precautionary measure to ensure our
people working there are safe,” he said.  The company is seeking to restore its reputation since
China, its largest milk powder customer, banned some products
after the discovery of batches of whey protein with a
contamination that could cause botulism. Foreign Affairs
Minister Murray McCully visited Beijing earlier this month.  Botulism Scare  Shares in the Fonterra Shareholders’ Fund, which tracks the
dividend and earnings of the cooperative, fell 1 cent to NZ$6.90
at 4:40 p.m. in Wellington. The shares have dropped 3.1 percent
since the botulism scare was identified on Aug. 3.  Dairy is New Zealand’s largest foreign exchange earner,
accounting for 28 percent of overseas sales in an economy where
exports make up about a third of output.  China , which overtook
 Australia  as the nation’s largest trade partner this year,
bought NZ$7.7 billion ($6 billion) of New Zealand’s goods in the
year through June, NZ$3 billion of which was dairy. Earlier this
month, Sri Lanka’s Health Ministry said tests performed by the
government agency Industrial Technology Institute confirmed that
two batches of two Fonterra milk products showed traces of the
agricultural chemical dicyandiamide, or DCD, and ordered a
recall, the AP reported. Fonterra earlier said it had recalled
the two batches, it said.  Independent Testing  Independent testing had found no traces of DCD in any
Fonterra-branded products in Sri Lanka, the company said in a
Aug. 18 statement. Legal action is under way to resolve the
court order, Fonterra said today.  Sri Lanka’s latest tests on  New Zealand  milk powder imports
showed they were free of DCD, government officials said
yesterday. The New Zealand government had provided an assurance
that future deliveries will be DCD-free, Technology Minister
Champika Ranawaka said at a news conference.  New Zealand’s troubles began Aug. 3, when Fonterra said a
dirty pipe at a processing plant may have tainted whey protein
used in dairy formula with bacteria that can cause botulism, a
rare illness that may lead to paralysis. China then stopped
imports of whey protein and a dairy base powder from Fonterra.  The announcement also prompted companies ranging from
infant-formula producers  Danone SA (BN)  and Abbott Laboratories to
beverage maker Coca-Cola Co., which used Fonterra’s contaminated
ingredients or its production lines, to issue precautionary
recalls on the Chinese mainland and in  Hong Kong . Gary Romano,
managing director of New Zealand  Milk Products , also stepped
down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  