-- Gap Second-Quarter Profit Rises 25% as Denim Boosts Sales
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-08-23T20:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/gap-second-quarter-profit-rises-25-as-denim-boosts-sales.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S.
specialty-apparel retailer, posted a 25 percent increase in
second-quarter profit as new denim and athletic products boosted
sales at its namesake and Old Navy chains.  Net income for the quarter ended Aug. 3 rose to $303
million, or 64 cents a share, from $243 million, or 49 cents, a
year earlier, the San Francisco-based company said in a
statement yesterday. That matched the average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net sales for the quarter rose
8.2 percent to $3.87 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy  has worked to improve
product selections, drawing customers in with denim lines, new
athletic wear and low prices. For the full year ending in
January, Gap raised its profit forecast to as much as $2.65 a
share from a previous maximum of $2.60, contrasting its
prospects with other retailers, including  Macy’s Inc. (M) , which
last week cut its full-year earnings forecast.  “For them not to have lowered guidance is a good thing
because everyone else did,” Poonam Goyal, a retail analyst with
Bloomberg Industries, said in a phone interview. “Overall, they
bucked the trend everyone is seeing. The retailers that stand
out are the ones with a combination of pricing, marketing and
product.”  Gap slipped 0.1 percent to $41.97 at the close in New York.
The shares have  gained  35 percent this year, the best
performance for an apparel company in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Retailing Index.  CEO Sale  Gap said in a filing yesterday that Murphy, on Aug. 20,
exercised options over 200,000 shares and sold the stock under
the terms of his trading plan with the company. The options were
exercised at $16.44 each and the shares sold at $43 apiece,
giving Murphy proceeds of $5.3 million.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 5 percent in the
quarter, Gap said. That includes 6 percent gains at both the Gap
and Old Navy brands and a 1 percent decline at  Banana Republic .  While traffic fell in the first and second quarters, the
company benefited from having multiple brands serving different
customer profiles, Murphy said on a conference call.  “Given how fragmented the apparel business is, coming to
the market with different brands and unique brands and multiple
brands into different channels and into different geographies is
paying off, as evidenced by this quarter,” Murphy said.  Consumer Environment  Other retailers are experiencing challenges getting
consumers to spend on clothing.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  plunged
in New York trading yesterday after forecasting profit for the
current quarter that was less than analysts estimated amid
declining traffic at its stores.  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) 
on Aug. 21 said earnings in its second quarter were hurt by a
weak consumer environment and missteps in its women’s clothing
offerings.  Gap also said yesterday that it would boost its annual
dividend to 80 cents a share, from 60 cents, starting in the
third quarter.  “They obviously have had momentum in the business,” Anna Andreeva, a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said in
an interview before the results were released. She has the
equivalent of a hold rating on the shares. “They’ve executed
well from the product standpoint.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  