-- Geely to Develop Vehicles With Volvo for Delivery in 2015
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-23T10:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/geely-to-offer-vehicles-jointly-developed-with-volvo-in-2015-1-.html
Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) ,
whose Chinese parent bought Volvo Cars in 2010, will start
selling vehicles jointly developed with the Swedish company in
2015 as it competes with foreign brands at home.  “We have entered into actual research and development
stage and I believe we can see the new product in the year after
next,” Geely Chief Executive Officer Gui Sheng Yue told
reporters yesterday at a briefing in Hong Kong, without
elaborating on the new model.  The joint development with Volvo, which built a reputation
around safety and reliability, may help burnish Geely’s image as
the Chinese carmaker seeks to become the country’s largest auto
exporter. Geely yesterday also reported first-half net income
rose 37 percent to 1.4 billion  yuan  ($229 million), beating
analysts’ estimates. Gothenburg-based Volvo Cars said separately
today that Chinese authorities granted clearance to set up two
joint-venture factories with Geely in the country.  “Management believes a Geely and Volvo collaboration would
benefit both through sharing R&D, procurement and manufacturing
platforms,” Paul Gong, a Hong Kong-based analyst for Citigroup
Inc., wrote in a note today. “While we note there might be some
execution risk, we cannot ignore this opportunity for Geely.”  Geely rose 3.9 percent to HK$4.01 at the close in Hong
Kong, the highest price since May 20. The stock has gained 9.3
percent this year, in contrast to a 3.5 percent decline in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   ‘Challenging’ Conditions  Geely’s deliveries increased 19 percent to 263,544 units in
the first six months, the Hong Kong-based company said,
maintaining its full-year target at 560,000 vehicles. The
automaker is also preparing to introduce a range of new-energy
vehicles in the coming year to cater to an expected increase in
demand, it said in a statement.  “The economic environment in most of our major markets is
expected to become more difficult in the second half of 2013,
meaning that our operating environment should remain challenging
in the remainder of the year,” the company said. “Competitive
pressure on domestic brands in the  China  market should increase
considerably in the coming years as most major international
brands are strengthening their presence.”  Factory Approvals  Chinese regulators approved projects by Volvo Cars to build
a vehicle-assembly plant in Daqing that will be fully
operational in 2014, and an engine factory in Zhangjiakou that
will begin supplying a Volvo auto plant in Chengdu late this
year as well as the Daqing site, the manufacturer said in a
 statement . The ventures will be 70 percent-owned by units of
Geely and 30 percent by Volvo, it said.  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., which bought Volvo from
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  for $1.8 billion in the biggest overseas purchase
by a Chinese automaker, signed a memorandum with the Swedish
company in March 2012 to “leverage its full access” to
technology to develop vehicles. Volvo said in February that it
will establish a joint research and development center in
Gothenburg with Geely.  Volvo has begun test runs at the Chengdu factory, its first
in China, as the carmaker targets a doubling of global sales to
800,000 vehicles by the end of the decade.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  