-- German Stocks Advance as Euro-Area Confidence Improves
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-08-23T15:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/german-stocks-little-changed-before-euro-confidence-data.html
German stocks  advanced as a report
showed euro-area  consumer confidence  increased more in August
than estimated, outweighing worse-than-forecast U.S. home sales.  Commerzbank AG gained for a third day on speculation the
German government may sell its 17 percent stake in the lender.
 GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  slipped 0.9 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc
downgraded its rating on Berlin’s largest residential landlord.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  added 0.2 percent to 8,416.99 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, for a weekly gain of 0.3 percent. The
benchmark index has traded within a 2.3 percent range since July
17 as volumes fell and investors awaited more economic reports
to assess the strength of the economy. The broader HDAX Index
rose 0.3 percent today.  “We are buyers of European equities because they were
oversold,” said London-based Nick Lyster, who helps oversee
$292 billion as chief executive officer in Europe for Principal
Global Investors. “While we are not expecting any fireworks,
the economy in Europe is a lot better than it was.”  The DAX has  rallied 9.4 percent  from its low on June 24 as
the European Central Bank said that interest rates will remain
low for an extended period and manufacturing and gross domestic
product data in the country beat estimates.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 24 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Euro-area  consumer confidence  increased more in August than
economists estimated. An index of household confidence improved
for a ninth month to minus 15.6, the highest level since July
2011, from minus 17.4 in the previous month, the European
Commission said in a preliminary report. Economists had forecast
an increase to minus 16.5, according to the median of 26
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  U.S. Homes  Purchases of  new U.S. homes  plunged in July by the most in
more than three years and previous months were revised down.
Sales of newly built homes declined 13.4 percent to a 394,000
annualized pace, the weakest since October, following a 455,000
rate in the prior period that was lower than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median estimate of 74 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a decrease to 487,000.  German  gross domestic product  climbed 0.7 percent in the
second quarter, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said
today, confirming an Aug. 14 estimate. The economy grew 0.5
percent from a year earlier when adjusted for working days.  Commerzbank Gains  Commerzbank advanced 2.6 percent to 8.83 euros as analysts
said the German government may be preparing to dispose of its
stake in the country’s second-largest lender.  “We think that it is true that the German government is
considering various options to sell its Commerzbank stake,”
Equinet AG wrote in a report today. “In our view, CBK’s core
bank would be clearly interesting for foreign banks that are
interested in entering the German market.”  Lanxess AG rose 1.1 percent to 48.94 euros and BASF AG
added 1.1 percent to 69.03 euros. A gauge of chemical-related
companies advanced on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  GSW slipped 0.9 percent to 33.13 euros. HSBC cut the shares
to underweight, similar to a sell rating, from neutral, saying
they are worth 31.8 euros apiece. GSW surged to the highest
price since its 2011 initial public offering on Aug. 20 after
Deutsche Wohnen AG made an all-share bid for the company that
would create the second-largest owner of German homes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  