-- Google Buys Wearable Technology Patents From Taiwan’s Hon Hai
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-08-23T12:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/google-buys-wearable-technology-patents-from-taiwan-s-hon-hai.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which is testing Web-enabled eyeglasses, bought patents for wearable technology used
in gaming and training simulations from Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co., a primary assembler for Apple Inc.  The head-mounted display technology consists of a computer-generated image that is superimposed on a real-world view,
Taipei-based Hon Hai said in an e-mailed statement today.
Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Google has been amassing technology for its Glass device
from Taiwanese companies, agreeing to invest in  Himax
Technologies Inc. (HIMX)  on July 22. The eyeglasses can take pictures
and videos and share information via the Internet.  “This deal may allow the company to leverage Google’s
content strength and seek manufacturing contracts from the U.S.
firm on wearable-computing devices,” Edward Chen, a research
analyst at Taipei-based First Capital Management Inc., said by
phone today.  Hon Hai doesn’t know if Google will use the display
technology for Google Glass, Laura Liu, a spokeswoman for Hon
Hai, said by phone today.  Terry Gou, chairman of Hon Hai Group, said reports the
company will assemble Glass for Google were speculative,
Economic Daily News reported July 23.  Hon Hai assembles iPhones and iPads, and the company is
hiring as many as 90,000 workers in the Chinese cities of
Shenzhen and Zhengzhou to meet client demand in the fourth
quarter, Liu said earlier today. Liu declined to name the
clients.  Taj Meadows, a Singapore-based spokesman for Google, said
in an e-mail he didn’t immediately have any information
available on Hon Hai’s announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  