-- Google Seeks Court Approval of Search Privacy Settlement
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-08-23T20:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/google-seeks-court-approval-of-search-privacy-settlement.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  asked a judge to approve
a settlement of a lawsuit claiming the company transferred
personal information contained in user searches to third parties
including marketers and data brokers.  The lawsuit, before U.S. District Judge Edward Davila in
San Jose,  California , claims Google “consistently and
intentionally” designed its searches to collect and send data -
- including names, credit card numbers, Social Security numbers,
account numbers, medical information and political beliefs --
and that the information was sold and resold to “countless
other third parties.”  Kassra Nassiri, a lawyer representing plaintiffs in the
case, explained to Davila at a hearing today that users are
concerned about their privacy because that data is now
aggregated in such a way that any single  Google search  “will be
associated with them in the future.”  The aggregation of personal information from searches “has
turned into something else entirely,” making privacy concerns
of “just five years ago seem pretty innocuous,” Nassiri told
Davila.  Nassiri and  Edward Johnson , a lawyer for Google, asked
Davila for approval of a settlement requiring Google to post
disclosures on a “Frequently Asked Questions” page of its
website telling users whether their search queries are
transmitted to third parties, and allowing them to make
decisions about their privacy choices, according to a court
filing.  Research Organizations  Google will also pay $8.5 million that will be distributed
to privacy research organizations such as the World Privacy
Forum in  San Diego , and the Center for Information, Society and
Policy at the Chicago-Kent College of Law, according to a
filing.  Davila expressed skepticism about how many people will read
Google’s Web page produced as a result of the settlement, and
asked for detailed information about how the privacy
organizations who will benefit from the agreement were selected.  Google’s lawyer, Johnson, said that the settlement also
includes an “elaborate advertising campaign” to generate 200
million hits at various websites explaining the agreement.  The lawsuit and settlement “more than accomplishes the
goal that the plaintiffs had in the first place,” which was to
explain Google’s practices to its users, Johnson said.  ‘Scrubbing’ Searches  According to the complaint, Google, in 2011, confirmed that
it was selling individual user search queries to advertisers. At
that time it began “scrubbing” searches when users click on
“regular, organic search results” and continued transmitting
search queries to third parties when users click on paid
listings that come up in search results.  While the policy change was a “small win” for privacy
advocates, it also proves how valuable the information is to the
company because “Google no longer gives away this precious data
for free, but will do so when it gets paid for it,” according
to the complaint.  The case is Gaos v. Google, 10-cv-04809, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Jose, California, at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  