-- India to Import Onions for First Time Since 2011 as Prices Surge
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-08-23T18:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/india-to-import-onions-for-first-time-since-2011-as-prices-surge.html
India  is preparing to import onions
for the first time in two years as a surge in prices threatens
to trigger a backlash against Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
before next year’s elections.  Prices of the vegetable have almost quadrupled in three
months in New Delhi as the government struggles to tackle the
highest inflation among the biggest  emerging markets . State-run
trading company PEC Ltd. this week sought overseas suppliers to
deliver as much as 300,000 tons of onions, while National
Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. said
the country may buy from China,  Iran ,  Egypt  and  Pakistan .  “The government has to address this issue urgently and
imports are the only solution in the short term,” said  Madan Sabnavis , chief economist at rating company Credit Analysis and
Research Ltd. in Mumbai. “Onions are a nasty thing politically
and parties have lost elections in the past” over this issue,
he said.  With the rupee’s plunge threatening to fuel inflation in a
country where a gauge of gains in consumer prices has averaged
10 percent, a surge in the cost of onions is the last thing
Singh needs before he faces polls by May. Already embattled in
the face of decade-low economic growth and twin budget and
current-account deficits, his government is counting on the
inbound shipments to address shortages caused by droughts,
hoarding and distribution bottlenecks.  Won and Lost  Politicians have won and lost elections in the South Asian
country over the cost of the key ingredient used to make spicy
masala that goes into dishes from curries to biriyani.  Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, defeated after she
suspended democracy from 1975 to 1977, swept back into power in
1980 by turning the price of onions into a populist rallying
cry. Waving garlands of onions at political gatherings, she
assailed the incumbent government for its failure to control
prices.  Inflation of more than 6 percent between 1994 and 1996
helped oust Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao. His Congress
party-led government lost to the BJP, which was voted out in May
2004 after prices rose in eight of the 12 months that preceded
the polls.  “The price of onions could become a political game
changer,” said Satish Misra, an analyst at the Observer
Research Foundation, a policy group based in  New Delhi . “The
government needs to check the prices of essential commodities,
particularly onions, otherwise it could really harm its chances
of winning the next elections.”  $5 Wage  Food inflation accelerated to 11.91 percent last month, the
highest rate since January, the commerce ministry said last
week. Onion prices in Delhi surged to 60 rupees (93 cents) a
kilogram (2.2 pounds) from 16 rupees three months ago. Potatoes
have rocketed to 20 rupees a kilogram from 12 rupees in six
months, while tomatoes quadrupled to 56 rupees in July compared
with January, according to data from the ministry of consumer
affairs.  Arvind Kumar Singh, who earns $5 a day as a carpenter at a
metro project in New Delhi, says the wage is too little to feed
his family of five back home in  Bihar . Now he can’t even afford
onions, a staple in Indian food.  “Everything is expensive here, not only onions,” said
Singh, 32, who shares a bedroom with six other men in the
nation’s capital. “Somehow or the other, we are managing. This
is not a good life that I aspire for.”  Biggest Worry  The bulbous flavonoid-rich root may be the only source of
nutrition for the poor who use it as a raw side dish with
flattened bread in many of the northern states from Rajasthan to
Bihar. Of the 1.2 billion people in the country, about two-thirds live on less than $2 a day, according to the  World Bank .  About 40 percent of the respondents in an  opinion poll 
published by the CNN-IBN television channel and the Hindu
newspaper last month said that inflation was the biggest worry,
three times higher than the next answer.  The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  has seized on
the issue and is attacking the ruling Congress party for failing
to deliver an effective government. It has opened stalls selling
onions at a third of the market price and gave them out as gifts
on a national holiday earlier this week.  “Escalating onion prices will only add fuel to the fire,”
said  Arun Singh , an economist at Dun & Bradstreet Information
Services India Pvt. in Mumbai. “It’s a very challenging
situation when the rupee’s decline is adding to already high
inflation. High food costs, if uncontrolled, will have a
significant toll on the economy.”  Rupee Slide  The $1.8 trillion  economy  expanded 5 percent in the year to
March 31, the slowest pace since 2003, while the current-account
deficit widened to a record 4.8 percent of gross domestic
product. The rupee has dropped 15 percent this year and touched
an all-time low of 65.56 yesterday.  To stem the currency’s slide, the  Reserve Bank  of India
unexpectedly reversed a bias for policy easing starting mid-July
by tightening cash availability in the financial system, causing
benchmark 10-year bond yields to reach a 12-year high this week.  The next elections may throw a fractured mandate,
prolonging a political gridlock, surveys show. Neither of
India’s main alliances would win more than 30 percent of seats
in parliament if voting were to be held now, according to an
opinion poll released by Times Now television channel and C-Voter polling agency at the end of last month. No margin of
error was given.  Onion prices will stay high until the end of next month
before harvesting of the monsoon-sown crop starts in October in
the western Maharashtra state, the nation’s biggest grower, said
C.B. Holkar, a director at NAFED.  Colluding Traders  India is the world’s second-largest producer of onions
after  China . Yet, it has the  third-lowest  yield per hectare
among the 20 biggest producers, according to the Bangalore-based
Institute of Social and Economic Change. The report says that
collusion among traders and the poor state of India’s
infrastructure act to push up prices.  About 40 percent of India’s fruit and vegetables rot before
they can be sold because of a lack of cold storage facilities
and poor transport infrastructure, according to the government.  The price of onions has risen because of a fall in
production and because the area under cultivation has been
reduced. India’s onion production was 16.65 million tons in
2012-13, down 4.8 percent, from 17.5 million tons a year
earlier, according to data from the farm ministry.  In a sign of the growing value of onions, robbers hijacked
a truck carrying 40 tons of the vegetable this week traveling
between Delhi and Jaipur, according to the  Indian Express 
newspaper.  In the southern city of  Chennai , prices have tripled to 75
rupees a kilogram. Devaki, 40, who goes by only one name and
earns $85 a month as a garbage collector, says her family of
five uses only two onions per meal.  Singh, the laborer working on the Delhi metro, says he has
stopped eating onions altogether because they are so expensive.
Instead he is buying cabbage as a cheaper alternative because he
needs to send some savings home to support his parents, wife and
two children, he said.  “A poor man like me has no voice,” said Singh. “The
government isn’t caring enough about us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  