-- India’s Rupee Set for Worst Week Since 1993 on Fed Stimulus Risk
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-23T05:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/india-s-rupee-set-for-worst-week-since-1993-on-fed-stimulus-risk.html
India ’s rupee plunged 4.4 percent to
a record this week in its worst performance since 1993 on signs
the U.S. is getting closer to reducing stimulus that fueled
demand for emerging-market assets.  Federal Reserve policy makers were “broadly comfortable”
with Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s plan to start reducing bond
purchases later this year if the economy improves, with a few
saying tapering might be needed soon, according to the minutes
of their July meeting released Aug. 21. Global funds cut
 holdings  of Indian debt by $9.9 billion since Bernanke first
flagged possible paring on May 22, leaving the rupee vulnerable
to the nation’s record current-account deficit.  “The rupee’s levels reflect lack of flows in the market,”
said Mirza Baig, head of foreign-exchange and interest-rate
strategy in  Singapore  at BNP Paribas SA. “Indian authorities
should just allow the currency to find its own value.”  The rupee fell to 64.4650 per dollar this week as of 10:29
a.m. in Mumbai and touched an unprecedented 65.56 yesterday,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It
was the biggest weekly loss since March 1993. The currency rose
0.2 percent today.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, rose 408 basis, or
4.08 percentage points, from Aug. 16 to 16.80 percent.  India’s current-account deficit widened to a record 4.8
percent of gross domestic product in the year ended March 31.  Excessive Pessimism  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram and Reserve Bank
of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao held coordinated briefings in
New Delhi yesterday to try to soothe investors’ nerves. Data due
Aug. 30 may show India’s  economy  expanded 4.7 percent in the
quarter ended June 30, slower than 4.8 percent in the previous
period, according to the median estimate of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Excessive pessimism is unwarranted, economic expansion will
pick up as the year progresses and the rupee’s drop has overshot
appropriate levels, Chidambaram said. In its annual report
released in Mumbai yesterday, the central bank said the nation’s
economic and monetary policies must focus on preserving
financial stability.  The RBI said Aug. 20 it will start buying government debt
to pump funds into markets and consider reducing weekly sales of
cash-management bills to rein in a surge in bond yields. The
central bank engineered a cash crunch in Asia’s third-largest
economy last month to shore up the rupee.  Yield Surge  India’s 10-year local-currency sovereign debt  yield  touched
9.48 percent on Aug. 20, the highest since 2001, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The yield has since retreated to 8.29 percent.  The cost to protect State Bank of India’s bonds from
default climbed 70 basis points this week to 370 basis points,
prices from CMA show. The insurance rate reached 372 on Aug. 20,
the highest since June last year. The lender is seen as a proxy
for the Indian government by some investors.  “The less the authorities do about saving the rupee, the
better it is,” BNP’s Baig said. “What they are doing is having
no effect, they’re losing their credibility, and raising the
risk of a credit-rating downgrade.”  Fitch Ratings said yesterday that recent pressures on
India’s markets aren’t a trigger for rating action at this point.
Moody’s investors Service reiterated its stable outlook on the
nation’s rating on Aug. 19, while analyst Atsi Sheth said in an
e-mail that inflows are unlikely to accelerate unless the growth
outlook improves.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.6 percent to
65.97 per dollar today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts climbed 0.7 percent to 66.28.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  