-- Lira in Freefall to Spur Off-Schedule Rate Boosts: Turkey Credit
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-08-23T14:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/lira-in-freefall-to-spur-off-schedule-rate-boosts-turkey-credit.html
Turkey ’s central bank will probably
have to intervene with an off-schedule rate increase after its
Aug. 20 decision to raise the overnight lending rate was unable
to contain a market selloff, according to Citigroup Inc.  Since the central bank boosted the  upper end  of its three-pronged rates corridor and left the other rates unchanged, the
lira fell to a record and 10-year  bond yields  surged above 10
percent for the first time in 19 months. Turkey has led a jump
in yields from  Indonesia  to Brazil in the past three months as
speculation grew that the Federal Reserve will curb stimulus.  Turkey, which started using an interest-rates corridor in
2011 to stabilize the lira and rein in  inflation , has spent $8.3
billion in reserves to shore up the currency. While the policy
has helped deter speculative attacks on the lira, it’s no longer
working, according to Luis Costa, a Citigroup  emerging-markets 
currency strategist.  “We are probably coming very close to the point where the
central bank will have to hike more aggressively,” and it’s
“very likely” it will have to do so before the next rates
meeting, Costa said by e-mail yesterday. “The markets know the
central bank does not have the same firepower in terms of
foreign-exchange interventions, and that leaves rates as the
only available stabilization tool.”  Currency Slides  The central bank raised its overnight lending rate by 50
basis points to 7.75 percent three days ago and kept the
benchmark one-week repo rate and overnight borrowing rate
unchanged.  Less than 24 hours later, policy makers said they would
implement additional tightening until further notice and sell at
least $100 million in dollars daily. They ramped up sales to
$350 million yesterday after an auction at the minimum rate of
$100 million the day before. The bank is scheduled next to meet
on rates Sept. 17.  The lira lost 0.2 percent to 1.9970 against the dollar at
5:09 p.m. in Istanbul, after sliding 2.2 percent in the previous
two days, the biggest drop among 24 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg worldwide. Turkey’s currency has depreciated 5.3
percent since policy makers resumed dollar auctions on June 11,
the most in emerging Europe, the Middle East and  Africa .  “An extraordinary decision may come if the market pressure
continues,” Bulent Topbas, a strategist at Strateji Menkul
Degerler AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments yesterday.
“The benchmark and the upper end of the corridor are obviously
inadequate” to provide investors with sufficient yield to
ensure continued capital inflows, he said.  Dollar Auctions  The central bank had $109 billion in foreign-exchange
reserves as of Aug. 16, it said yesterday. Excluding foreign
exchange from banks as reserves, less than $50 billion is
available for dollar auctions, according to Costa.  The yield on  two-year notes  rose 20 basis point to 9.74
percent today, extending the increase from a record-low on May
17 to 495 basis points, the most among major emerging markets.
That compares with a 312 basis-point jump for second-ranked
Indonesian securities in the period and 250 basis points for
 Brazil . Turkey’s 10-year yield climbed above 10 percent
yesterday for the first time since January 2012.  The central bank’s rate increase this month was
“cosmetic,” according to Cristian Maggio, a strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank in  London .  “Turkey has to push the overnight lending rate to at least
9 percent and the benchmark rate and the overnight borrowing
rates at least 50 basis points higher each,” Maggio said by e-mail yesterday. A surprise rate increase “would not be
unthinkable if things get ugly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  