-- Islamist Rallies Fizzle in Egypt Amid Security Presence
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2013-08-24T17:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/islamist-rallies-fizzle-in-egypt-amid-security-presence.html
Protests against the army’s ouster
of Mohamed Mursi fizzled across  Egypt  yesterday, allowing the
military to ease its curfew amid a crackdown that has curbed
Islamists’ ability to bring backers into the streets.  Demonstrators moved through the Ramsis, Helwan and Haram
districts of Cairo and neighboring Giza, chanting “Mursi is my
president” and calling Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi a
traitor. Mursi supporters also marched in the governorates of
Aswan, Suez, Minya and Fayoum, state-run Ahram Online said.  Some protesters waved Egyptian flags while others carried
yellow cards showing a four-finger salute, a reference to the
Aug. 14 raid by security forces on two pro-Mursi protest camps
that left about 1,000 people dead. Nationwide, at least one
person died and 54 were hurt in clashes during marches
yesterday, the government said.  A day earlier, former President  Hosni Mubarak  was released
from prison and sent to a military hospital under house arrest,
a stunning development for many who took part in the 2011
uprising that toppled him. Some critics said Egypt’s current
leadership, installed by the military, is out to reprise the
police state Mubarak once led.  U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel spoke with his Egyptian
counterpart al-Seesi by telephone from  Kuala Lumpur  today and
stressed the importance of a peaceful, inclusive, transparent
political process that includes all Egyptians, according to
 George Little , a Pentagon spokesman.  Tightened Security  Egypt’s cabinet, in an e-mailed statement today, said it
was easing the hours of the curfew imposed Aug. 14 in response
to citizens’ demands. The curfew will now run from 9 p.m. to 6
a.m., except for Fridays, which will remain at 7 p.m. to 6 a.m.  The Anti-Coup Alliance, which includes Islamist groups such
as the Brotherhood, had called on its supporters to join the
“Friday of Martyrs” marches after prayers. The army and police
forces tightened security at sites in Cairo that had been used
by protesters and closed off  Tahrir Square  in the city center
with tanks and barbed wire.  Violence broke out in several Nile Delta cities during the
marches, Ahram Online reported. One person was killed and 23
wounded in clashes between Brotherhood supporters and residents
in Tanta city, the  Interior Ministry  said on its Facebook page.  The 2 1/2 years since Mubarak’s ouster have been marked by
division, deepening poverty and violence instead of the better
life protesters sought when they ended his three-decade rule.  Mubarak, 85, was moved to the hospital a day after a court
ordered his release in relation to a case involving gifts from a
state-run organization. Other cases involving Mubarak, including
a retrial for his alleged role in the death of protesters in
2011, will continue. He’s also standing trial on corruption-related charges.  Mubarak’s ‘Remnants’  The Brotherhood, whose leadership has been detained since
Mursi’s July 3 ouster, says “remnants” of the old regime,
which barely tolerated the group, played a key role in deposing
Mursi, Egypt’s first freely elected civilian president.  Among the Brotherhood leaders rounded up this week are
Ahmed Aref, the group’s spokesman, and Mohamed Badie, its
spiritual leader.  The struggle is raising the cost of financing Egypt’s
budget deficit and leaving little room for the government to
spur growth.  Yields on local-currency debt are rising from two-year lows
reached after Mursi’s ouster. Egypt sold one-year notes at an
average 12.86 percent this week, more than twice what Lebanon
pays for its local debt. The budget gap may widen to 12 percent
by year-end from 11 percent in 2012, according to the average of
11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  