-- Island Inventor Levine Says Backups Not Enough in Stocks
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-08-23T18:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/island-inventor-levine-says-backups-not-enough-in-stocks.html
Systems such as stock markets should
be designed to avoid “single points of failure,” though doing
so is getting harder, according to Josh Levine, who invented the
technology that underlies  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc.’s exchanges.  The Nasdaq Stock Market halted trading in shares it lists
for three hours yesterday after connectivity was disrupted
between its data processor and NYSE Arca, where about 11 percent
of American share volume occurs. The breakdown spurred Nasdaq to
freeze thousands of stocks from Apple Inc. to Facebook Inc. that
trade on about 50 markets from  Kansas  to  New Jersey .  “In general I prefer distributed systems over centralized
ones, and distributed systems’ resistance to outages like this
is only one of the many reasons why,” Levine, who designed the
Island ECN that Nasdaq acquired when it bought Instinet Group
Inc. in December 2005, wrote in an e-mail. He said he didn’t
have specific details about the Nasdaq outage.  Yesterday’s shutdown raised questions among traders about
how problems in Nasdaq’s quote-distributing subsidiary, known as
the securities industry processor, were enough to bring half the
American equity market to a standstill. Concern bad data could
lead to “information asymmetry” among investors spurred the
decision, Nasdaq Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said on
Bloomberg television this morning.  “Having backups is not enough to assure failure
resistance,” Levine wrote. “You must also make sure that you
do not have single points of failure.”  Securities Processors  Nasdaq and the  New York Stock Exchange (NYX) , where almost all
U.S. companies go public, each operate securities industry
processors, known as SIPs. The units receive quotes and trades
from around the country and disseminate them in three groups,
known as tapes. NYSE operates the Tapes A and B and Nasdaq runs
Tape C.  The Nasdaq SIP processed about 100.5 million quotes and
6.75 million trades per day in the first quarter, according to a
consolidated exchange data report. NYSE’s handled 394.8 million
quotes and 16.6 million trades daily in the same period. During
peaks, Nasdaq saw an average of 97,955 quotes and 19,446 trades
a second.  “Designing systems and structures that avoid these single
points of failure is very hard, and gets harder the more complex
and centralized a system is,” Levine wrote. “It is remarkable
how rare outages like this are considering the regulatory and
structural challenges that systems like Nasdaq are faced with --
they do an amazing job keeping these huge, complicated, and
constantly changing systems running almost all the time without
incident.”  Big J  In a January 2002 letter to an operating committee
reviewing proposals for a quote processor, Levine offered to
design a SIP by himself that would be run not-for-profit over an
open architecture. Big J SIP, it would be called, according to
the letter posted on his website.  “I’m not in this for the money,” he wrote. “I’m offering
to create this SIP because I see it as a once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity to make a meaningful and lasting improvement in the
overall quality of the U.S. equities markets. My ultimate hope
is that the SIP would effectively disappear; becoming the
infrastructure that invisibly supports the innovations happening
inside the marketplaces and data vendors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  