-- Historic Preservation Supporters Fighting to Keep Credit: Taxes
-- B y   L y d i a   B e y o u d
-- 2013-08-23T10:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/historic-preservation-supporters-fighting-to-keep-credit-taxes.html
Supporters of U.S. tax credits for
 historic preservation  work are fighting to keep the program as
Congress looks for cuts in a rewrite of the IRS code.  The Historic Tax Credit is used to rehabilitate historic
buildings and promote economic revitalization in rural and urban
areas. Investors are eligible for a 20 percent tax credit for
their expenses used in preserving historic properties or 10
percent for non-historic buildings built before 1936.  With tax writers saying they may throw out all the current
breaks and craft a new code from scratch, long-standing programs
may be in jeopardy. Preservation advocates are promoting
economic development initiatives as a boon to jobs, Bloomberg
BNA reported. The credit probably affects the financing
structure of historic preservation projects as taxpayers tailor
their plans to fit its requirements, said  Clint Stretch , senior
tax policy counsel at Tax Analysts.  “All of the special tax credits have to be at risk if and
when Congress addresses a fundamental  tax reform  plan,” Stretch,
a former legislative counsel to the congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation, said in an e-mail. “If the point of tax
reform is to get government out of economic decision-making and
to broaden the base as much as possible so that rates can be as
low as possible, then any tax credit that continues in existence
would be inherently at odds with the entire effort.”  According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, the credit
for rehabilitating historic structures will cost the government
$3.2 billion over five years.  Members of the National Trust for Historic Preservation are
seeking to use a recent report on the costs and benefits of the
federal historic tax credit as a defense against congressional
efforts to eliminate the tax credit as part of a tax rewrite.  Economic Defense?  The program has been a net benefit to federal funds,
bringing in $25.9 billion in tax receipts versus $20.5 billion
in allocated tax credits since 1978, according to a July 31
study by the National Park Service and  Rutgers University ’s
Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy.  More recently, the program has also served as a bulwark
against further economic decline for the construction and
manufacturing industries coming out of the housing crisis and
economic recession, the study said. In fiscal year 2012,
investments tied to these credits generated 58,000 jobs and were
responsible for creating $3.4 billion in GDP, the report said.  “Targeted to income-producing buildings, the HTC program is
the largest and most effective Federal program specifically
supporting historic preservation,” the report said.  The credit program also helps raise private investment,
often in conjunction with the low income housing tax credit. The
study’s authors found that the $20.5 billion cost of the credit
to federal coffers, in inflation-adjusted 2012 dollars,
encouraged more than five times that amount of private
investment, or $106.1 billion, for historic rehabilitation.  Making Case  “Historic tax credit projects protect the places that make
a community special, while fueling the economy and creating good
jobs,” Tom Cassidy, vice president of government relations and
policy at the National Trust for Historic Preservation, said in
a statement. “For lawmakers taking up tax reform, you simply
cannot find fault with the federal historic tax credit.”  Congress is working on the biggest overhaul of the  tax code 
since 1986, trying to get a draft together this year. Companies
and advocates are lobbying ahead of the draft to keep their
preferred breaks in for everything from research tax credits to
pieces of the code that affect the  steel industry .  Representative  Dave Camp  of  Michigan , chairman of the House
Ways and Means Committee, wants to reduce the top corporate  tax
rate  to 25 percent from 35 percent and set the top individual
rate, now 39.6 percent, as close to 25 percent as possible.  He would do that while raising the same amount of money for
the government.  Starting from zero makes the tradeoffs inherent in a tax
rewrite more explicit, because every break that’s added would
mean higher tax rates. Every $2 trillion over 10 years in
individual tax breaks would cause rates to rise between 1.3 and
2.2 percentage points and every $200 billion in corporate tax
breaks means a 1.5 percentage-point increase.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  