-- Italy’s Consob Claims Monte Paschi Obstructed Regulator in 2012
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-08-23T14:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/italy-s-consob-claims-monte-paschi-obstructed-regulator-in-2012.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena
SpA ’s management was accused by  Italy ’s market regulator Consob
of obstructing its supervisory duties last year by giving
incorrect or incomplete information on past financing and
derivatives deals that led to a fraud probe.  Consob wrote in a note to prosecutors in Siena dated Feb.
15 that the bailed-out bank misled the regulator between April
2012 and July 2012 in response to Consob request for information
on the financing of Banca Antonveneta SpA’s purchase in 2008,
according to a document reviewed by Bloomberg News and
originally obtained by consumer group Codacons.  Monte Paschi also withdrew information on a derivative
contract with  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in its communications to the
regulator from November 2011 through October 2012, Consob said
in the document. The Rome-based agency asked prosecutors to
start a probe into alleged regulator obstruction, the document
said.  Magistrates are accusing former executives, including ex-chairman Giuseppe Mussari and General Manager Antonio Vigni of
withholding information from regulators about how the bank
financed its purchase of Antonveneta. Prosecutors are also
probing whether former managers at Monte Paschi, which piled up
losses of 7.9 billion euros ($10.5 billion) in the past two
years, used derivative contracts to obscure more than 700
million euros of losses.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola, 55, and Chairman
Alessandro Profumo, 56, took the helm last year to revive profit
after the acquisition of Antonveneta and investments in
sovereign debt and derivatives hurt capital an finances.  A Consob spokesman declined to comment. A Monte Paschi
spokeswoman wasn’t available for a comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  