-- Japan Pays Final Tribute to Man Who Led Fukushima Fifty
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   P e t e r   L a n g a n
-- 2013-08-23T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/japan-pays-final-tribute-to-the-man-who-led-the-fukushima-fifty.html
 Masao Yoshida confronted a horror
few can conceive, and he stood his ground.  Japan ’s great and good, prime ministers old and new, joined
Yoshida’s family and colleagues yesterday in paying a final
tribute to the man who died last month after leading the fight
against the Fukushima nuclear disaster, the country’s worst
since the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki 68 years ago.  More than 1,000 people attended the memorial in Tokyo,
including Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who laid flowers at an
altar before a framed picture of Yoshida in blue work overalls.
Beside that were a towel and megaphone with the logo of his
favorite baseball team, the Hanshin Tigers.  “Yoshida must be unhappy with what’s happening now,” said
Naomi Hirose, the president of the Fukushima plant operator
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , a reference to recent revelations of
radioactive water leaks at the site.  Yoshida, an engineer and the manager of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station on March 11, 2011, ordered the evacuation
of thousands of non-essential personnel after the  biggest
earthquake in Japan’s recorded history hit the area. He made
more staff leave as the tsunami that followed knocked out power,
causing meltdowns at three reactors and a surge in radiation.  Difficult Decision  He then had to make another decision: Who should stay as
reactor buildings exploded, radiation readings continued to rise
and aftershocks threatened more damage.  That decision must have been the most difficult of his
life, Tatsujiro Suzuki, vice chairman of the  Japan Atomic Energy
Commission , said in an interview on July 10, the day after
Yoshida died at age 58 in a Tokyo hospital of esophageal cancer.  The engineers that remained with Yoshida risked their lives
to get the reactors under control in the following weeks and
months. They became known as the Fukushima Fifty.  Spain  gave the Fukushima Fifty the  Prince of Asturias Award
for Concord  in September 2011, calling them the “heroes of
Fukushima.”  On March 12, a day after the tsunami, Yoshida ignored an
order from Tepco headquarters to stop pumping seawater into a
reactor to try to cool it because of concerns that ocean water
would corrode the equipment.  Tepco said it would penalize Yoshida, then backed off after
then-Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  defended him, the Yomiuri
newspaper reported. He stayed at the plant, helming the disaster
response for almost nine months.  Kan’s Words  Kan attended the memorial and spoke of his deep regret when
he heard of Yoshida’s death.  The 2011 earthquake and tsunami left more than 18,000
people dead or missing, while radiation leaks forced the
evacuation of 160,000 people, eventually prompting the idling of
all but two of Japan’s 50 reactors for safety checks.  Author Ryusho Kadota, who interviewed Yoshida and other
members of the Fifty for his book “The Man Who Stared Down
Death,” said the station head was a born leader.  Speaking in an interview after Yoshida died, he said: “If
Yoshida hadn’t been plant manager,  Tokyo  would be a no-man’s
land right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Langan in Tokyo at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  