-- JPMorgan Sells Largest ’Worst-of’ Structured Note This Year
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-08-23T21:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/jpmorgan-sells-largest-worst-of-structured-note-this-year.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sold $50.4
million of four-year notes tied to the least performing of two
stock indexes and an exchange-traded fund, the largest “worst
of” offering this year.  The securities, issued on Aug. 21, yield 8 percent a year
as long as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the  Russell 2000 
Index and the iShares MSCI EAFE ETF are all at least 60 percent
of their initial value with all capital at risk, according to a
prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The bank distributed the notes, which can be called
in as soon as three months, for a 1.75 percent fee and estimated
their value at 97 cents on the dollar at the time of sale.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan in  New York ,
declined to comment.  Sales of worst-of notes have soared to $1.27 billion this
year, 23 percent more than the $1.03 billion issued in all of
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities
have become more popular as issuers look for ways to construct
bonds with higher yields.  Correlation between changes in the Russell 2000 and iShares
MSCI EAFE dropped to .75 this year from .83 for all of 2012,
Bloomberg data show. The closer the correlation is to one, the
more the prices of assets tend to move together. Notes tied to
less correlated assets can give investors better terms.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  