-- JPMorgan Worth 30% More If Broken Up, KBW Says
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-08-23T15:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/jpmorgan-worth-30-more-if-broken-up-kbw-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, would be worth 30 percent more if broken
into its four business segments, an unlikely scenario, an
analyst at  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) ’s KBW unit said.  JPMorgan’s businesses -- traditional banking,  investment
banking , asset management and private equity -- are separately
worth $255.7 billion, KBW’s Christopher Mutascio said today in a
note. That compares with the New York-based lender’s $197
billion market capitalization as of yesterday’s closing price.  While the possibility of breaking up JPMorgan is “quite
low,” it “could potentially result in substantial upside for
current shareholders if the segments were valued like similar
companies,” Mutascio wrote in the note.  JPMorgan said it estimates that losses from lawsuits and
investigations could exceed its legal reserves by as much as
$6.8 billion, according to an Aug. 7 regulatory filing. While
litigation costs are “high and uncertain,” JPMorgan can
“easily earn through them,” Mutascio wrote.  New regulatory probes and potential litigation costs have
damped JPMorgan’s stock price compared to other large banks,
Mutascio said. JPMorgan has slid 7.8 percent since Aug. 1 to
$52.11 at 11:35 a.m. in  New York , compared with the 3.4 percent
drop in the 24-company KBW Bank Index.  ‘Attractive Valuation’  Share prices of the biggest banks reflect the possibility
that net interest margins will expand when short-term rates
increase, an event that might not occur for two years, Mutascio
wrote in the note. Rather than investing in other banks,
investors can buy JPMorgan shares at a discount and wait for
litigation costs to decline, he wrote.  “We believe the resulting discounted valuation represents
an attractive valuation alternative to other banks that are
poised to disappoint investors when their net interest margins
do not expand” immediately, he said.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment on the note.  To reach a valuation, Mutascio used the trailing 12-month
net income for each of JPMorgan’s four units, subtracted
preferred dividends and applied a price-to-earnings multiple of
a similar company to find the value of each segment.  JPMorgan could also “free up” about $20 billion in common
capital if it were broken into four parts, Mutascio wrote.
That’s because the individual units would need to hold less
capital to reduce risk than the company as a whole, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  