-- Junk Bonds Snap Seven-Week Winning Streak in Europe on Tapering
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-08-23T11:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/junk-bonds-snap-seven-week-winning-streak-in-europe-on-tapering.html
Junk (BEUH)  debt investors lost money for
the first time since June in Europe this week as bondholders
anticipate the Federal Reserve slowing stimulus.  High-yield notes from companies including Italian carmaker
Fiat SpA and Portugal Telecom SGPS SA, the country’s biggest
telecommunications company, lost investors an average 0.3
percent over the period, paring a 2.6 percent gain in the
longest winning streak since Jan. 11, according to Bloomberg
bond index data.  Investment-grade (BERC)  bonds also forfeited 0.3
percent, a second week of losses.  Global markets were roiled as speculation the Fed will ease
stimulus triggered a sell-off in emerging market securities amid
concern global borrowing costs may increase. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index dropped 3 percent, the most in two months for the
equity benchmark, while the average yield investors demand to
hold European junk debt climbed 17 basis points to 4.85 percent,
Bloomberg data show.  “Concern about tapering and weakness in several  emerging
markets  has sparked a rise in interest rate volatility,” said
Rik Den Hartog, a portfolio manager at Kempen Capital Management
in Amsterdam. “This has caused some selling in credit
markets.”  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s $1 billion of bonds due May 2019 fell to the
lowest since July 8 after the phone maker was downgraded by
Moody’s Investors Service. The Espoo, Finland-based company’s
debt was cut one level to B1, four levels below investment
grade, with a negative outlook on concern it will have
difficulty generating profits in its core operations.  Bond Sales  A total of 11 billion euros ($14.7 billion) of bonds was
sold in Europe this week, below the average of 14.1 billion
euros for 2013, with  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SCAB) ,  Sweden ’s second-largest bank, and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest lender, were
among leading issuers, Bloomberg data show.  The average yield for European investment grade notes rose
four basis points this week to 2.06 percent, the highest since
July 5.  In derivatives markets today, the cost of insuring
corporate debt fell with the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of
credit-default swaps linked to 50 high-yield companies dropping
3.6 basis points to 416 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined one basis point to 101.8
basis points, paring three weeks of gains.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  