-- Nasdaq Trading Halt, NSA Data, Repo Curbs: Compliance
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-08-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/nasdaq-trading-halt-nsa-data-repo-curbs-compliance.html
Computer breakdowns yesterday shook
American equity trading for the second time this week, freezing
thousands of stocks listed on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market for three
hours and raising fresh concerns about the fragility of
exchanges.  The second-biggest American exchange operator, home to
3,200 companies from 37 countries, halted transactions in all of
its securities shortly after noon, a decision that caused buying
and selling to stop on its platform and dozens of others where
the securities trade. Errors in the feed used to disseminate
quotes and prices were to blame, Nasdaq said on its website.  Many of the country’s most-traded shares, from Apple Inc.
to  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Facebook Inc., ground to a virtual standstill
as brokers were unable to execute customer orders. The Nasdaq
100 equity index didn’t update during the outage and volume in
stocks listed on the rival New York Stock Exchange also dwindled
as liquidity dried up around the country.  Shares covered by the halt began to change hands again at
about 3:25 p.m. yesterday in New York. Apple’s price swung
between $499 and $504.10 after resuming. The Nasdaq 100 added 1
percent.  The disruption, just two days after options markets were
roiled by mistaken trades sent by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is
the latest in a series of computer malfunctions that have raised
questions about the reliability of electronic markets.  Though the cause was unclear, the outage is more bad news
for  Robert Greifeld , the Nasdaq chief executive officer whose
reputation suffered in the Facebook initial public offering.
Company representatives didn’t respond to e-mails and phone
calls asking what triggered the breakdown.  Securities on Nasdaq have a combined market capitalization
of more than $5 trillion, based on the value of the 2,446-member
Nasdaq Composite Index.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  E-Mails to Web Searches in U.S. Collected Illegally, Court Found  Tens of thousands of Americans who sent e-mails from 2008
to 2011 had some of them scooped up by an unintended recipient:
the National Security Agency.  The NSA intercepted as many as 56,000 electronic
communications a year of Americans who weren’t suspected of
having links to terrorism before a secret court found the
operation unconstitutional in 2011, according to legal opinions
that were  declassified  Aug. 21.  The finding raises new questions about President  Barack
Obama ’s assurances that the NSA hasn’t been engaged in a
“domestic spying program.” The disclosure also added to
demands by members Congress for more oversight of the agency.
Lawmakers have been preparing legislation that would curb U.S.
surveillance operations for consideration when they return from
a break next month.  Obama said on Aug. 6 that “there is no spying on
Americans” by the government.  Release of the documents “begins to appropriately draw
back the curtain on the secret law of government surveillance,”
Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont, chairman of the
Senate Judiciary Committee, said in an Aug. 21 statement. “They
also underscore the need for increased oversight and stronger
protections for Americans’ privacy.”  The court order on intercepted Internet communications was
declassified Aug. 21 by the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence after it was described last week in a Washington
Post report. That article, based on documents provided by former
agency contractor Edward Snowden, focused on a separate audit
that found the NSA broke privacy rules thousands of times in a
year.  “Mistakes and errors can and will happen,” Director of
National Intelligence James Clapper said in a statement. “The
government undertakes extraordinary measures to faithfully
identify, record and correct its mistakes and to put systems and
processes in place that seek to prevent mistakes from occurring
in the first place.”  For more, click here.  EU Said to Weigh Curbs on Collateral Asset Reuse in Repos  Banks and brokers may face European Union curbs on the
number of times a single asset can be passed on as collateral in
 repurchase agreements  and other secured trades, according to a
person familiar with the plans.  The EU is weighing whether it should limit the length of
transaction chains in which traders who receive collateral in
turn use the same securities to back separate trades, according
to the person, who asked not to be named because the proposals
aren’t public. It is also planning measures to make the chains
easier to monitor by regulators.  Repurchase agreements, or repos, are one of the targets of
the possible EU rules, as authorities seek to extend regulations
beyond traditional banking activities to cover other sources of
risk taking.  The 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
unleashed turmoil in financial markets, fed by uncertainty over
who owned cash and other assets used to back derivatives trades
with the bank. Litigation over the collateral has continued ever
since, including a dispute between Lehman and Intel Corp. over
$1 billion in cash the bank provided to the world’s largest
chipmaker as part of a swap agreement.  The handing over of collateral is an integral part of repos
-- one of the activities under review by global regulators as
part of their efforts to regulate shadow banking. Banks use
repos to help finance investments in Treasuries, corporate bonds
and mortgage-backed securities.  Lenders including  UBS AG  and  HSBC Holdings Plc  have warned
that plans by global regulators in the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  to set minimum collateral requirements for
non-centrally cleared swaps trades will prompt a global
liquidity squeeze as banks struggle to locate enough securities
to satisfy the standards.  While Basel regulators early this year proposed changes to
the draft standards, including some scope for re-using
collateral, and a longer phase-in time, lenders have said this
doesn’t go far enough to resolve their concerns.  For more, click here.  SEC to Expand Ban on Employees Lobbying Agency After Departure  Hundreds of U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawyers
and examiners face new obstacles to cashing in on their agency
experience under an expanded ethics rule to take effect in
January.  The change targets the practice of regulators moving to
jobs at law firms and investment banks where they capitalize on
their SEC relationships. The ethics rule, which previously
affected only the most senior officers, will now be applied to
everyone who earns more than $155,440 a year, according to a
copy of an agency announcement.  The employees will be banned from contacting old colleagues
for one year after leaving the SEC when the policy becomes
effective in January. Commissioners and division directors have
long faced such limits.  The rule “places us on even footing with our peer
regulators and adds an additional layer of protection against
even the appearance of impropriety when former employees take on
new jobs,” Shira Pavis Minton, the SEC’s top ethics official,
wrote in the announcement.  Law firms and investment banks regularly recruit top aides
to SEC commissioners, enforcement attorneys and examiners of
broker-dealers to help defend against investigations and advise
on compliance.  FHFA Should Develop Policies to Govern Settlements, Report Says  The Federal Housing Finance Agency should develop a formal
review process for settlements that levy fees on lenders or take
away their right to service home loans, according to a report
from its watchdog.  The agency, which oversees government-backed mortgage firms
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , should have more formal policies to
govern how it decides what banks must pay for missing
foreclosure timelines and other actions, according to a report
from the agency’s inspector general, Steve Linick. The FHFA
agreed to enact the conclusions.  The report examined the FHFA’s review and approval of the
$11.7 billion agreement between  Bank of America Corp.  and  Fannie
Mae . The accord was designed to resolve most mortgage disputes
between the two entities, and involved the bank paying $3.6
billion in cash, $6.75 billion to buy back residential loans
sold to Fannie Mae, and $1.3 billion in fees for taking too long
to assist or foreclose on overdue borrowers.  “There are several opportunities for improvement that FHFA
might wish to consider,” according to the inspector general’s
report. “The most important would be the development of
procedures for settlements of compensatory fee claims and
significant MSR transactions.”  Compliance Action  U.K. Banks to Pay $2 Billion for Card-Insurance Compensation  Britain’s biggest banks  will pay as much as 1.3 billion
pounds ($2 billion) to compensate customers wrongly sold
insurance to cover credit-card and  identity theft .  A group of 13 banks and credit-card issuers, including
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Capital One (COF)  (Europe) Plc and MBNA
Ltd. will fund the redress program, the Financial Conduct
Authority said in a statement yesterday. The regulator didn’t
disclose the firms’ individual contributions.  Regulators said in November that  CPP Group Plc (CPP) , which
provided the insurance for the lenders, overstated the risks and
consequences of identity theft and failed to tell buyers of its
card-protection product that they were already covered for
losses of as much as 100,000 pounds by their banks. The
compensation adds to the 15.5 billion pounds Britain’s  banks 
have already set aside for customers who were wrongly sold
payment-protection insurance that they didn’t need.  “The involvement of the banks and credit-card issuers
reflects the fact that they introduced customers to CPP’s
products and so must share responsibility for putting things
right,” the FCA said in the statement.  About 7 million customers who bought the insurance since
2005 will be able to claim a refund on the premiums they paid
plus 8 percent interest, the London-based FCA said. The money is
expected to be paid in early 2014.  “We are determined to put things right for Barclays
customers who are eligible for redress payments as swiftly as
possible,” Paul Maddox, Barclays’s managing director for
 customer service , said in a statement.  RBS and Lloyds said in separate statements they will work
with CPP to achieve “the best outcome” for customers affected.
Officials at HSBC declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Morgan Stanley Fined $1 Million for Unfair Trading in Bonds  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s largest brokerage, was
fined $1 million for buying and selling bonds for customers at
unfair prices.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority also ordered
the bank to pay $188,000 in restitution to customers, the group
said in a  statement  yesterday. The case involved corporate,
agency and municipal bonds, Wall Street’s self-funded regulator
said.  “Finra will continue to sanction firms that execute fixed-income transactions for their customers at unfair prices,”
 Thomas Gira , Finra’s executive vice president of market
regulation, said in the statement.  Morgan Stanley was also fined $1 million for  similar
violations  in 2011. James Wiggins, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley, said in an e-mail that the bank cooperated
with Finra’s investigation and that yesterday’s settlement
involved fewer than 300 transactions during a period when it
made 4 million trades. Finra didn’t allege fraud or intentional
misconduct, he said.  Courts  Bo Xilai Disputes Guilt as China Court Microblogs Bribery Trial  Former Chinese Politburo member Bo Xilai denied guilt in
his bribery and abuse-of-power trial, sparring with the judge in
a hearing that broke with precedent as court officials released
live updates on the Internet.  As yesterday’s trial started, Bo rejected charges that he
took bribes worth more than 21 million  yuan  ($3.4 million) and
dismissed his  wife’s testimony  that he kept a safe stocked with
cash for her and their son to spend in the U.K. Responding to
one witness’s testimony, Bo said he’d just seen “the ugly
performance of someone who had sold his soul.”  “I’m not a perfect person, or one with a strong mind, and
I’m willing to take responsibility for that,” Bo said,
according to remarks posted on the Internet by the Intermediate
People’s Court in the city of Jinan. “But I won’t be silent
about the basic truth on whether I’m guilty or not.”  Bo’s combativeness signals that he will not submit to the
charges against him in a case that roiled China’s once-a-decade
leadership transition last year, after the Communist Party
expelled him following the death of a British businessman.  The bribery and embezzlement charges against Bo date back
to his time as mayor of Dalian in the 1990s. An abuse of power
charge that will be heard when the trial resumes today is linked
to the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood in Chongqing
in 2011, when Bo was party secretary there.  Bo’s wife Gu Kailai was convicted of murder and given a
suspended death sentence last year over Heywood’s death. His
former police chief in Chongqing, Wang Lijun, was sentenced to
15 years on charges related to the cover-up of Heywood’s
poisoning at a hotel in the megacity.  For more, click here.  Indian Tribes Sue New York Financial Regulator Lawsky  Two American Indian tribes sued New York state’s financial
regulatory agency and its head over his crackdown on Internet
lending businesses, some of which are tribally owned.  A lawsuit seeking a court order against  Benjamin Lawsky ,
superintendent of the New York Department of Financial Services,
was filed Aug. 21 in federal court in Manhattan.  Lawsky ordered 35 online lenders, including at least four
tribal companies, to stop offering loans in New York on Aug. 6.
He also sent a letter to 117 banks -- including Citigroup Inc.,
 Bank of America  Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  -- requesting
their help to block improper lending by cutting off the lenders’
access to the electronic payments system they rely on.  The executive director of the Native American Financial
Services Association, Barry Brandon, said that only the  U.S.
Congress  can regulate tribes. The association was formed last
year to defend services based in tribal communities.  “We wrote a letter to Lawsky with our concern about his
actions, requesting a meeting,” Brandon said during an Aug. 21
telephone press conference. “We received no response from
him.”  “Payday loans are illegal in New York. We have respect for
tribal sovereignty, but these are loans sold illegally to New
Yorkers outside of tribal boundaries,”  Matt Anderson , a
spokesman for the financial services department, said in an e-mail.  Last week, the  Online Lenders Alliance  wrote to the
organization that manages the payments network, the  Electronic
Payments Association , or Nacha, asking that it tell the banks to
allow access to businesses doing legitimate lending. The trade
group said it supports the tribes in this legal dispute.  The case is Otoe-Missouria Tribe of Indians v. New York
State Department of Financial Services, 13-cv-05930, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Arizona, Kansas Sue U.S. Over Voter Proof of Citizenship Rule  Arizona and Kansas sued the U.S. Election Assistance
Commission, seeking a court order forcing it to amend voter
registration forms for those states so that people signing up
are required to prove they’re citizens.  The states’ complaint, filed Aug. 21 in federal court in
Topeka, Kansas, comes two months after the U.S.  Supreme Court 
threw out Arizona’s law requiring such proof from would-be
registrants.  Writing for the majority, Supreme Court Justice  Antonin
Scalia  said then that the state could petition the election
commission to amend its form to add the requirement, which he
said otherwise runs afoul of federal law.  “As sovereign states, plaintiffs have the constitutional
right, power and privilege to establish voting qualifications,
including voter registration requirements,” Kansas and Arizona
said in their complaint.  Current law requires only that those registering to vote
using the standardized federal form swear an oath that they’re
American citizens, according to the complaint. The Supreme
Court’s ruling doesn’t prevent Arizona from requiring the proof
from voters using a state registration form.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department,
declined to comment on the states’ suit.  The case is Kobach v. The United States Election Assistance
Commission, 13-cv-04095, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas
(Topeka).  Comings and Goings  Everbright Securities President Xu Resigns After Trading Error  Everbright Securities Co. (601788) , the brokerage whose erroneous
buy orders set off China’s biggest stock swings since 2009, said
Xu Haoming resigned as president four days after regulators
announced a probe into the company.  Shares in the brokerage were suspended yesterday from
trading for the afternoon session in Shanghai and will resume
today, the company said in a statement to the city’s stock
exchange.  Chairman Yuan Changqing will become acting president as the
company seeks to allay investors’ concern and stem an 18 percent
drop in its shares this week, after it made 23.4 billion yuan
($3.8 billion) of erroneous buy orders on Aug. 16. The China
Securities Regulatory Commission banned Everbright from
proprietary trading for three months following the error, which
the watchdog called unprecedented.  The company earlier this week suspended Yang Jianbo, who
oversees its proprietary trading as head of global markets.  Everbright estimated that it lost 194 million yuan on the
trades, based on Aug. 16 closing prices, and said the figure may
change.  Interviews  Krawcheck Says Bank Leverage, Capital Need Discussion  Sallie Krawcheck, former head of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
wealth management division, talks about financial industry
regulation.  Speaking with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen, Alix Steel and
 Julianna Goldman  on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance,”
Krawcheck also discusses the outlook for the next Federal
Reserve chairman, the importance of women in management and the
economy.  To watch the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  