-- Natural Gas Futures Rise in Survey on Outlook for Midwest Heat
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-08-23T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/natural-gas-futures-rise-in-survey-on-outlook-for-midwest-heat.html
Natural gas futures may gain next
week on speculation that late-summer heat in the Midwest will
stoke fuel demand from electricity producers.  Six of 13 analysts, or 46 percent, predicted that futures
will rise on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through Aug. 30.
Four, or 31 percent, said gas will fall and three predicted
prices will stay the same. Last week, 53 percent of participants
said gas would advance.  The Midwest may see temperatures near the highest of the
year next week while readings may be above normal in the mid-Atlantic states, according to Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  Gas prices  climbed 2.9 percent in August
through yesterday following lower-than-forecast supply gains the
previous two weeks.  “If this weather that’s being projected actually
materializes and we do get this heat wave in the next couple of
weeks, we will see this trend lower in injections over that time
frame,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy
Management Institute in  New York . “If it gets really, really
hot, we could see gas pushing toward $4.”  Natural gas futures jumped 17.7 cents, or 5.3 percent, to
$3.545 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the Nymex. Yesterday’s close was the
highest settlement since July 26 and prices are heading for a
second straight weekly gain. The futures are up 5.8 percent this
so far year.  Hot Weather  The high in  Minneapolis  on Aug. 26 may be 94 degrees
Fahrenheit (34 Celsius), 15 above normal, and  Chicago ’s reading
four days later may be 10 higher than the average at 90 degrees,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .
Temperatures in  Manhattan  on Aug. 30 may be 91, 11 degrees above
the norm.  Power producers account for 32 percent of U.S. gas demand,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  U.S. inventories  expanded by 57 billion cubic feet in the
week ended Aug. 16 to 3.063 trillion, the EIA said yesterday.
Analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg predicted a gain of 65
billion. The five-year average increase for the period is 56
billion. A  supply surplus  to the average held at 1.5 percent.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  6      4      3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  