-- NYSE Said to Void Most Goldman Sachs Erroneous Options Trades
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-08-23T17:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/nyse-said-to-void-most-goldman-sachs-erroneous-options-trades.html
Most of the trades caused when
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bombarded NYSE Amex Options with
erroneous orders have been canceled, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  The decision by the exchange where most of the transactions
occurred will limit losses at the fifth-biggest bank by assets
after it roiled options markets three days ago. More than half
of Goldman’s trades and a greater percentage of its volume from
the first  13 minutes  of the day will be voided by NYSE Amex,
according to the person, who asked not to be named because the
matter is private.  A programming error that spewed orders that pushed prices
on dozens of contracts to a dollar each, according to a person
briefed on the matter Aug. 20 and data compiled by Bloomberg.
How exchanges would rule on trades that qualified as “clearly
erroneous” orders was key to quantifying Goldman’s losses.  Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, and  Michael DuVally  at Goldman Sachs declined to comment on the trades.  “Goldman clearly wanted as many of those trades busted as
possible,” Mark S. Longo, a former market maker and chief
executive officer of Options Insider Inc., said by phone today.
“They were the ones who put the trades on at excruciating
prices. The more cancellations they could get the better for
Goldman.”  Options Trades  The malfunction affected securities with ticker symbols
starting with the letters I, J and K. Of the 500 biggest options
trades in the first 15 minutes markets were open on Aug. 20, 405
were for those tickers and priced at $1, according to data
compiled by Trade Alert LLC and Bloomberg.  NYSE Amex Options accounted for 76 percent of those,
compared with 18 percent for Nasdaq Options Market and 12
percent for the International Securities Exchange, data show.  NYSE Euronext’s options venue  said  less than two hours
after the malfunction that, “as permitted by the rules, we
anticipate that most of the impacted trades will be busted.”
Goldman Sachs, which generated $5.8 billion in revenue from
equities last year, said in an e-mail that any potential losses
would be within the firm’s risk limits and not material to its
finances.  Goldman Sachs shares  fell  0.8 percent to $158.21 at 1:31
p.m. in New York after rising 1.5 percent yesterday.  The majority of the reviewed trades at the International
Securities Exchange were adjusted and not canceled, based on the
exchange’s rules, according to spokeswoman Molly McGregor. Bats
Global Markets Inc. let the few hundred trades on that venue
stand while Boston Options Exchanges adjusted trades.  CBOE, BATS  Chicago Board Options Exchange, operated by  CBOE Holdings
Inc. (CBOE) , said it reviewed the trades as obvious errors when a
request for review was received within its time limit, which is
60 minutes.  Randy Williams, a Bats spokesman, Tony McCormick, chief
executive officer of the Boston Options Exchange, Robert Madden
of Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and CBOE’s Gail Osten declined to
comment for this story.  “It’s crazy when you look at how ISE does it one way, CBOE
does it another way, Amex does it yet another way, that is
absurd and it is demonstrably dangerous,” Longo said. “Let’s
say you’re a market maker and you put up the same trade on three
different exchanges, then you have three different processes you
have to deal with to bust or adjust the exact same trade and you
may have three different outcomes. How is that beneficial to
anybody?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  