-- Tobacco Proposal in Pacific Trade Talks Balanced: Froman
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-08-23T22:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/tobacco-proposal-in-pacific-trade-talks-balanced-froman.html
The U.S. Trade Representative said
his agency’s proposal for tobacco regulation in Pacific-region
trade talks “strikes the right balance” after anti-smoking
groups criticized it for being too weak and U.S. business groups
called it unnecessary.  The proposal shows balance in protecting the public health
and ensuring that governments have the means to settle disputes,
 Michael Froman  said today on a call with reporters as he was
returning from Trans-Pacific Partnership talks in Brunei.  The plan, which the U.S. trade agency unveiled Aug. 21,
would let health agencies in the nations brokering the free-trade agreement control tobacco regulation. It would require
that those authorities hold discussions before formally filing a
trade complaint, if there is a dispute over a nation’s tobacco-related rules.  The U.S. proposal has created a flurry of controversy as
the 12 nations working toward the accord seek an agreement by
the end of the year.  The dispute provision and the regulatory exception “are
weak half-measures at best that will not protect American law --
and the laws of other countries -- from being usurped by the
tobacco industry,”  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  wrote
yesterday in an op-ed article in the  New York Times. (NYT)  Bloomberg
is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News .  Tobacco Packaging  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  has pressed the U.S. for
language that would make it tougher for countries in a proposed
Pacific Rim trade pact to require plain packaging or other
limits on company logos.  Business groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the
American Farm Bureau Federation and the National Association of
Manufacturers said language in trade agreements already includes
measures to protect human health. The groups “oppose any effort
to introduce any further qualification, clarification, or
understanding with respect to tobacco or any other product in
the TPP given the adverse implications,” they wrote in a letter
to Froman yesterday.  The plan “illustrates a broad range of views,” Froman
said.  In addition to the U.S., the nations working on the
agreement are Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia,
Mexico,  New Zealand , Peru, Singapore and Vietnam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  