-- Obama Aide Burwell Rejects Year’s Delay of Health Law
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-08-24T04:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/obama-aide-burwell-rejects-year-s-delay-of-health-law.html
White House Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell rejected delaying the health-care law as a way
to get a budget deal with Congress and voiced optimism that
talks with lawmakers would avoid a government shutdown.  A demand by more than 90 Republican lawmakers to withhold
funds for carrying out the law set to take effect Jan. 1 has
drawn fire from other party members. An alternative some
Republicans are considering would delay implementing the law for
a year as part of a deal on 2014 government spending and raising
the U.S. debt ceiling.  The Obama administration is “not interested at all in
delaying what we believe is bringing people onto health care and
continuing a path of reducing costs” of medical care, said
Burwell, who directs the Office of Management and Budget.  The Affordable Care Act “is a law that has been passed, it
is a law that has been upheld by the Supreme Court,” she said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. Lawmakers should instead
talk about “whether or not you want to prevent” people from
starting to sign up Oct. 1 on exchanges to purchase health-care
insurance, Burwell said.  “I am not sure why the conversations are about things like
a shutdown,” she said. Still, some Republicans’ demands to use
must-pass legislation to keep the government operating after
Sept. 30 as leverage to delay the health-care law won’t create a
budget crisis, she said.  Avoid Shutdown  “We’re very hopeful that we can avoid a shutdown,”
Burwell said.  Obama, who wants to replace automatic spending cuts known
as sequestration with other reductions, will oppose efforts by
House Republicans to spare further cutbacks in  defense outlays 
at the expense of domestic programs, such as education, Burwell
said. “The president has been clear on that point.”  The cuts of about $1 trillion over the next decade were
designed by Congress to be equally divided between defense and
other domestic, discretionary programs such Head Start for
preschool children.  The cuts were included in  deficit -reduction legislation
Congress passed in 2011 that extended the government’s borrowing
authority, which is projected to again run out before year’s
end.  “What we need to do is fix both parts” Burwell said of
proposals to replace automatic cuts with other spending
reductions. “If one is going to fix defense, one also has to
fix the non-defense monies.”  Boehner’s Position  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, has
repeatedly told reporters and colleagues that the sequester will
remain in effect until Obama proposes a package of cuts to
replace it.  Burwell said the president’s proposal in his 2014 budget
plan “would both replace sequester, have additional deficit
reduction” and “make investments in things like
infrastructure.”  So far, Republicans in Congress aren’t biting, she said.  The administration has “tried to have conversations about
that,” with Republicans, she said. “We’re looking for someone
to counter that proposal and have not had that yet.”  Burwell has been participating with White House Chief of
Staff  Denis McDonough  in discussions with a group of Senate
Republicans on ways to end the budget stalemate.  Asked if she were amenable to a shorter replacement of
automatic cuts, for a year or two, Burwell said “the question
is how one would go about doing that.” The administration
“would like to see the substance of that,” yet “no one has
presented us with that.”  When she isn’t focused on the budget and spending, Burwell
said another part of her portfolio is “development of a second-term management agenda.” OMB is examining how to make the
government more efficient and is finding ways to “use
management to help government be a part of stimulating the
economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  