-- Obama’s Campaign for College Plan Eyeing Fiscal Debate
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-08-23T18:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/obama-s-campaign-for-college-plan-eyeing-fiscal-debate.html
President  Barack Obama  is still on
the campaign trail even though he won’t face another election.  For the fourth time in a month, Obama is on the road
promoting proposals he says are needed to assure U.S. economic
growth and to lift middle- and lower-income Americans battered
by the worst recession since the 1930s.  While Obama’s topic yesterday and today has been the cost
of higher education, politics and the coming  budget  battles with
congressional Republicans remained in the foreground.  “Rather than keeping focus on a growing economy that
creates good middle-class jobs, we’ve seen a faction of
Republicans in Congress suggest that maybe America shouldn’t pay
its bills that have already been run up, that we shut down
government if they can’t shut down” the 2010 health-care law he
pushed through Congress, Obama told a cheering crowd at the
University of Buffalo in upstate  New York  yesterday before
outlining his plan to rein in college costs.  The president is seizing the stage before lawmakers return
to  Washington  on Sept. 9 from a five-week recess and renew talks
on three financial fronts -- a stopgap measure to fund the
government in the first few months of the fiscal year starting
Oct. 1, raising the government’s $16.7 trillion  debt  limit and
replacing about $1 trillion in across-the-board spending cuts,
known as sequestration.  “There will be some resistance,” Obama said today at
 Binghamton University  in New York. “But part of our goal here
is to stir a conversation.”  2014 Elections  Curbing the costs of college is one element of Obama’s
“bargain for the middle class,” which also includes spending
on infrastructure, programs to bolster job growth and aiding the
housing market. All are geared toward generating public support
to strengthen his hand in the dealing with Republicans and
helping Democrats in next year’s congressional elections.  “Everything’s a setup for 2014,” said Jonathan Krasno,
professor of political science at Binghamton University. “The
Democrats can’t afford another shellacking like in 2010,” when
Republicans seized control of the House and gained Senate seats.  Obama yesterday told his audience in Buffalo and later in
Syracuse that the country can’t afford “the usual circus of
distractions and political posturing” in Washington.  The subject of college cost plays directly to one of
Obama’s core constituencies. In his 2012 re-election, he won 60
percent of the vote of those ages 18 to 24.  Government Rankings  At the University of Buffalo yesterday, Obama said he’s
directed the Education Department to create a new government
ranking of colleges that would factor in cost, student debt and
graduation rates, among other criteria. He proposed Congress
pass legislation that would tie federal financial assistance to
those ratings.  The White House said the new ratings would be based on such
measures as access, including the percentage of students
receiving  Pell grants , reserved for those from lower-income
families; affordability, including average tuition, scholarships
and loan debt; and outcomes, such as graduation and transfer
rates, earnings of graduates and graduates’ advanced degrees.  The federal government provides more than $150 billion a
year in federal student aid, awarding it based on the number of
students who enroll, rather than the number who earn degrees or
what they learn, the White House said.  The federal government already gathers reams of information
to develop the ranking, and the administration has produced a
College Scorecard with data on cost and student debt.  Cost Burden  “The soaring cost of higher education” has “become a
barrier and a burden for too many American families,” Obama
said to a cheering crowd of 7,200 at Alumni Arena on the campus
of the University at Buffalo.  The message was “dear to my heart,” said Richard Kalb,
who was dining at Magnolia’s Deli & Café in Rochester, New York,
when Obama stopped there after his speech. His daughter Natalie,
a senior, returns today to the College at Brockport, part of the
State University of New York system.  “I stay up at night worried about  student loans  and how I
can pay for them,” said Kalb, 49, a designer at  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  in
Rochester.  Among lawmakers, reaction to Obama’s proposal suggested the
political difficulty of getting legislation through Congress to
tie aid to rankings.  Iowa Democrat  Tom Harkin , who heads the U.S. Senate
education committee, said he supported college ratings “to help
students and their families make informed decisions.” Still, he
didn’t say whether he would back tying aid to such rankings.  Unintended Consequences  Minnesota Republican  John Kline , chairman of the U.S. House
Education & the Workforce Committee, voiced concern “that
imposing an arbitrary college-ranking system could curtail the
very innovation we hope to encourage -- and even lead to federal
price controls.”  Some education leaders criticized Obama’s plan, saying its
unintended consequences might include discouraging colleges from
accepting and giving aid to students from low-income families
because of the risk that they might hurt the school’s rankings.  “It’s a very hard job to decide on how to rate colleges,”
Derek Bok, former president of  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview. “I have to be
somewhat apprehensive when any force as powerful as the federal
government undertakes the task.”  After his stops at Binghamton, and yesterday in Buffalo and
a high school in Syracuse, the president was scheduled to speak
at Lackawanna College in Scranton,  Pennsylvania  later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Syracuse, New York at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  