-- Obama Pressed by Chemical-Attack Claims for U.S. Action
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-08-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/obama-alleged-syria-chemical-weapons-use-troublesome-.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  is under
increased pressure to intervene in Syria amid allegations that
President Bashar al-Assad’s government used chemical arms in an
attack opposition groups say killed 1,300 people.  Obama said on CNN he would “think through strategically”
on how to respond to the “very troublesome” allegations.
British Foreign Secretary William Hague put his nation’s weight
behind the reports, with a public accusation that Assad’s
government used toxic gas in its attack this week on the
Damascus suburb of Ghouta.  Obama has maintained a cautious approach since saying a
year ago that use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime would
cross a U.S. “red line.” The latest violence may force him to
make a decision on escalating U.S. involvement.  “This is a fork in the road for the U.S.,” said former
undersecretary of state Nicholas Burns, now a professor at
Harvard’s Kennedy School. “Our basic credibility is at stake.
If we do nothing, the world will lose confidence in American
leadership.”  Internet video and photos showed dead Syrians without
visible wounds following the Aug. 21 attack, and reports from
local doctors were consistent with nerve gas or lethal exposure
to pesticides.  “We do believe that this is a chemical attack by the Assad
regime on a large scale,” Hague said in  televised comments 
yesterday in  London .  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius on Aug. 22 urged the
world to respond “with force” to any use of chemical weapons.  Obama’s Caution  After the U.S. intelligence community concluded in June
that the Syrian government had used chemical arms on a “small
scale” last year, killing at least 100 to 150 people, Obama
said he would step up U.S. assistance for opposition forces.  Obama campaigned for office as a critic of the Iraq war and
as president has set a timeline for withdrawing U.S. forces from
Afghanistan. He has been reluctant to risk another war in the
Middle East and has been wary that chaos in Syria following a
collapse of Assad’s regime would provide a spawning ground for
extremist groups.  In an interview broadcast yesterday on  CNN ’s “New Day”
program, Obama said the new reports of chemical weapons use get
to “core national interests that the United States has, both in
terms of us making sure that weapons of mass destruction are not
proliferating, as well as needing to protect our allies, our
bases in the region.”  Obama stopped short of saying what his response would be.  Strategic Thinking  “We have to think through strategically what’s going to be
in our long-term national interests, even as we work
cooperatively internationally to do everything we can to put
pressure on those who would kill innocent civilians,” he said.  The U.S. has the ability to act “effectively in the time
and place of our choosing,” Jon Alterman, director of the
Middle East program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in  Washington , said in an interview.
“Instead we are sending a message of caution. It is read by our
friends and enemies alike,” and sends a signal of impunity.  Bernadette Meehan, a spokeswoman for the White House
National Security Council, said the president “has directed the
intelligence community to gather facts and evidence so that we
can determine what occurred in  Syria .” She added that “we have
a range of options available, and we are going to act very
deliberately.”  Obama’s advisers are discussing options that don’t at the
moment include imposing a no-fly zone on Syria or putting U.S.
troops inside the country, said an administration official who
asked not to be identified discussing closed-door deliberations.  No Decisions  One option administration officials are considering is more
active support for Syria’s neighbors, said another U.S. official
involved in Middle East policy making.  While no decisions have been made, consideration is being
given to asking Congress to approve increased military and
humanitarian assistance to Jordan,  Turkey  and possibly Iraq, the
official said. The aid could perhaps be offset by delays or
reductions in assistance to the Egyptian military if the
violence that country continues, the official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  The administration is increasingly worried about the
stability of pro-Western Jordan’s minority Hashemite monarchy,
critical to  Israel ’s security and now burdened by more than 1.3
million Syrian refugees, the official said. U.S. officials also
are concerned about efforts by Kurdish groups, which will meet
at a rare summit next month, to exploit the chaos in  Iraq  to
create an independent state out of territory in Syria, Turkey,
Iraq and  Iran .  Pressure Building  “Pressure is building on Obama to militarize the U.S. role
in Syria, something he has willfully and wisely avoided,” Aaron David Miller, vice president at the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars in Washington and a former adviser to
several U.S. administrations on Middle East policy. “He’ll look
for the least encumbering action to warn Assad that there will
be costs for use of chemical weapons.”  Obama has been criticized by human-rights advocates for
refusing to act against the Syrian regime, while polls taken
before the latest incident show the U.S. public shares the
president’s reservations about military intervention. Sixty-eight percent of Americans said U.S. forces are “too
overcommitted” to get involved in the conflict in Syria,
according to a Pew Research Center poll taken June 12-16.  ‘Political Stakes’  “The possibility of chemical weapons use raises the
political stakes for Obama, but it doesn’t alter the strategic
equation,” said Stephen Walt, a professor of international
affairs at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government.
“Destroying what remains of the Syrian government will create a
failed state, and end up empowering groups that are deeply
hostile to the United States.”  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said yesterday
in  Seoul  that he has asked the Assad government for “full
cooperation” in allowing a UN team of chemical weapons experts
already in Damascus to “swiftly investigate” the reports.  Obama told CNN that “we don’t expect cooperation” from
Assad’s government, “given their past history.” He suggested
he would first go to the UN Security Council, where Russia and
 China  have resisted moves against the Assad government, before
taking military action.  “If the U.S. goes in and attacks another country without a
UN mandate and without clear evidence that can be presented,
then there are questions in terms of whether international law
supports it,” Obama said, adding that “we’ve still got a war
going on in  Afghanistan .”  “Every time I sign a letter for a casualty of that war,”
he said, “I’m reminded that there are costs, and we have to
take those into account as we try to work within an
international framework to do everything we can to see Assad
ousted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  