-- Panasonic Targets Rooftops for Solar Sales in Japan
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-08-23T09:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/panasonic-targets-rooftops-for-solar-sales-in-japan.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  is targeting
rooftops for its solar panels as developers struggle to find big
enough plots of affordable land in  Japan  with the access to
transmission lines needed for utility-scale projects.  Japan’s largest consumer-electronics maker, which sold 540
megawatts of solar products in the 2012 fiscal year, wants to
increase the volume by 25 percent this year, said Kazuhiro Yoshida, who heads the solar division of the Osaka-based
company.  “Rooftops don’t require the purchase of land, and there
are transmission lines already available nearby,” he said in an
interview in Tokyo today. “Rooftops are going to be more
popular.”  Yoshida’s comments follow a debate about how to fix grid
congestion issues on Hokkaido island in the north of Japan, one
of the few places that does have large plots of inexpensive
land. The Panasonic official said homes, apartment buildings and
 convenience stores  have potential for solar.  Panasonic is forecasting Japan’s solar market may consume
as much as 5 gigawatts of solar cells in the year through March
31, making it one of the biggest in the world. Of that, 3.5
gigawatts will be for projects smaller than 50 kilowatts,
according to the company, which began developing solar panels in
1975. One gigawatts equals 1,000 megawatts.  Incentive Program  Japan’s solar market is booming thanks to an incentive
program that pays above-market rates for power produced from
renewable sources such as the sun and wind. Introduced in July
2012, the program is intended to diversify the country’s energy
mix following the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster.  The rate for non-residential solar is currently 37.8 yen
(38 cents) per kilowatt-hour for 20 years, about three times
that of  Germany ’s. The generous tariff prompted new-entrants
such as  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  and  Orix Corp. (8591)  to build utility-scale
plants.  Panasonic, whose new manufacturing plant in  Malaysia 
started operations in December, has been consolidating plants
overseas. Its Oregon plant ended solar wafer production at the
end of June. It continues to make silicon ingots there.  The company plans to close a panel manufacturing plant in
 Hungary  in September, according to Yoshida. It is considering
Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia as markets where it could seek
more sales, he said.  Japan may add from 6.9 gigawatts to 9.4 gigawatts of solar
capacity this year, according to a forecast from Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. That would make the nation the biggest consumer
of solar technology.  The country added 1.98 gigawatts of solar capacity in the
2012 fiscal year and another 1.24 gigawatts in the two months to
May 31, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said this
week. The ministry has approved 20.9 gigawatts of solar projects
by the end of May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  