-- Paula Deen Settles Bias Lawsuit That Toppled Food Empire
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2013-08-23T21:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/paula-deen-settles-bias-lawsuit-that-toppled-food-empire.html
Celebrity chef Paula Deen of
Savannah,  Georgia  today settled the federal job-discrimination
case that led to her admission that she’d used a racial slur
decades ago, testimony that prompted the collapse of much of her
empire.  The terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in the one-sentence statement filed today in court U.S. District Court in
Savannah announcing that all parties had agreed to dismiss the
case.  The suit was filed last year by a white woman, Lisa
Jackson, who had worked for five years managing a Savannah area
restaurant co-owned by Deen and brother, Earl “Bubba’’ Hiers.
Jackson alleged that she had been subjected to a hostile work
environment full of sexual impropriety, boorish behavior and
racist and sexist remarks.  Last week U.S. District Judge William T. Moore dismissed
the race claims. He ruled that as a white employee, Jackson
could not sue for the anti-black bias she claimed Hiers showed
at the restaurant, “Uncle Bubba’s Oyster and Seafood House.’’
Jackson never claimed she had been retaliated against for
complaining about work conditions, which could have given her
the right to sue.  Settled today were the remaining complaints, including
gender discrimination.  “The matter has been amicably resolved,” Jackson’s lead
lawyer, Wesley Woolf, said in an e-mail. He declined further
comment.  Deen said in a statement issued through her publicist
that she is “working to review the workplace environment issues
that were raised in this matter and retool all of my business
operations.” She acknowledged no wrongdoing.  Contracts Canceled  Moore’s ruling came too late to spare Deen from being
questioned about her racial attitudes at a deposition in May.
News coverage of excerpts from that, plus her inability to
redeem herself in video apologies and an appearance on the Today
show, led  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and other companies
that sold her products, to cancel their contracts with her. The
Food Network, where her ratings had already been dropping, also
decided not to renew her contract.  She then fired her original, all-local legal team and hired
a team headed by Washington-based litigator Grace Speights,
managing partner of the Washington office of Morgan, Lewis &
Bockius on July 11.  Before filing suit, Jackson’s lawyer Woolf wrote a
demand letter to Deen’s corporate attorney, James Gerard, on
January 31, 2012, asking for $1.25 million and threatening
publicity that would cost her far more if she didn’t settle.
The defense said Jackson’s claims were false and refused to
settle.  Deen maintains her flagship restaurant in downtown
Savannah, The Lady & Sons, and is 51 percent owner of Uncle
Bubba’s, 7 miles away. She also sells products from her Web
site.  Her business took a lesser hit in January 2012 when she
announced that she had been diagnosed with Type 2 Diabetes, a
potentially deadly condition linked to the sort of fatty, sweet
foods she favored. She had been diagnosed years earlier, and
made it public at the same time she announced an endorsement
arrangement with Norvo Nordisk, for its anti-diabetes drug.  The case is Jackson v. Deen, 4:12-cv-0139, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Georgia.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ann Woolner at 
   awoolner@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  