-- Philippine Peso Falls to 19-Month Low on Taper Risk; Bonds Drop
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-08-23T04:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/philippine-peso-falls-to-19-month-low-on-taper-risk-bonds-drop.html
The Philippine peso fell to a 19-month low and bonds dropped after U.S. economic data bolstered
the case for the Federal Reserve to start tapering stimulus that
has inflated asset prices in  emerging markets .  The index of U.S. leading indicators climbed in July by the
most in three months, according to a report released yesterday,
signaling improvement in housing and labor markets will help
foster faster economic growth through year-end. Asian currencies
fell this week as minutes of the Fed’s July meeting showed
officials were “broadly comfortable” with reducing bond buying
this year if the economy improves.  “The peso is just tracking the weakness of most regional
currencies,” said Emilio Neri, an economist at Bank of the
Philippine Islands in  Manila . “There’s a fundamental basis for
the peso to outperform given the current-account surplus
position, growth remaining generally on target, and monetary
authorities having ample reserves.”  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 44.25 per dollar at 11:41 a.m.
in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched
44.305 per dollar earlier, the weakest level since Jan. 9, 2012,
and dropped 1.3 percent this week. Financial markets were closed
on the first three days of the week because of floods and a
holiday. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 6.76 percent.  The yield on the 8 percent bonds due July 2031 rose 23
basis points to 4.98 percent, the highest since July 10,
according to Tradition Financial Services Inc. The rate climbed
53 basis points this week. The Philippine  Stock Exchange (PCOMP)  Index
fell 0.2 percent after plunging 6 percent yesterday. Financial
markets will be shut Aug. 26 for a holiday.  Investment Grade  The central bank will curb volatility in the  currency
market , Deputy Governor Diwa Gunigundo said yesterday. Moody’s
Investors Service may raise the  Philippines  to investment grade
in October, he said.  The $250 billion Asian economy probably expanded 7.3
percent in the  three months  through June, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
data due Aug. 29. Gross domestic product increased 7.8 percent
in the first quarter, outpacing  China  to become the fastest in
the region.  The  Federal Reserve  will probably reduce its $85 billion
monthly bond purchases in its September meeting, according to 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  