-- Pimco Rocked by Real to OGX Bonds Shows No Sign of Easing
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-08-23T20:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/pimco-buffeted-by-real-to-ogx-as-selloffs-deepen-brazil-credit.html
Brazil  is threatening to turn into a
sinkhole for the world’s biggest bond-fund manager.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $13.4 billion  Pimco
Emerging Local Bond Fund (PELBX) , which had real-denominated assets as
its biggest allocation in July, has lost 13.5 percent in the
past three months and underperformed 83 percent of peers as the
currency weakened the most in emerging markets and the nation’s
local bonds fell 28 percent in dollars. Pimco is also leading a
creditor committee seeking to recover money from  Eike Batista ’s
 OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , whose bonds sank 77 percent
after the firm raised its stake in the fourth quarter.  While  Michael Gomez , Pimco’s co-head of emerging-markets
portfolio management, said last week that Brazilian debt still
offers value, the  Newport Beach , California-based firm’s
investments in the country are faltering as sluggish growth
fuels speculation Brazil will have its ratings cut and the 16
percent currency slide fans inflation. Yields on Brazil’s notes
due 2017, the second-biggest holding in Pimco’s local debt fund
as of March 31, surged 2.54 percentage points in the past three
months to 11.88 percent, twice the jump in emerging markets.  “Brazil is clearly included in a group of countries most
vulnerable to headwinds,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-markets bond
and currency strategist at Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone
interview from  London . It has to do with issues such as
“economic deceleration and sticky inflation. If you put it all
together, it doesn’t bode well” for Brazil.  ‘Look Attractive’  The Pimco Emerging Local Bond Fund, which is managed by
Gomez, has also fallen more in the past three months than the
11.4 percent decline in its benchmark, the JPMorgan Global Bond
Index-Emerging Markets Global Diversified Index, which is
unhedged, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  According to the monthly commentary on Pimco’s website, the
fund had 12.3 percent of its market value allocated to real-denominated assets in July, the most of any country.  “We continue to think that local Brazilian  interest rates 
look attractive,” Gomez said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Aug. 14. Brazil has “inflation falling below 6
percent by year-end, a credible central bank that has a well-defined and managed inflation targeting framework, and among the
highest real and nominal interest rates in the world.”  While the annual  inflation  rate fell to 6.27 percent in
July from a 20-month high of 6.7 percent in June, central bank
economic policy director Carlos Hamilton said Aug. 12 that price
increases will probably accelerate this month as the real
plunges. Brazil seeks to keep inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or
minus 2 percentage points.  Weakening Growth  The central bank has raised interest rates by 1.25
percentage points in 2013, the most in the world, from a record
low 7.25 percent. At 2.23 percent, Brazil’s inflation-adjusted
interest rate is the second highest in  Latin America .  Standard & Poor’s  reduced its outlook on Brazil’s credit
rating to negative on June 6, citing weakening growth and an
expansionary fiscal policy. The country is rated BBB, the
second-lowest investment grade.  Analysts surveyed weekly by the central bank have cut 2013
economic growth forecasts by more than one percentage point this
year after gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent in 2012,
the least in three years. As part of her effort to revive
economic growth, President  Dilma Rousseff  prompted state banks
to boost lending to six times the rate of privately owned
lenders in the first half of 2013.  Deteriorating ‘Fundamentals’  Alejandro Urbina, a  money manager  at Silva Capital
Management LLC, which oversees $800 million in emerging-market
assets, says he’s staying away from Brazilian bonds after
selling his holdings about six months ago as growth
deteriorated. He said the selloff may create a buying
opportunity in the future if concern the  Federal Reserve  will
taper stimulus subsides.  “We noticed Brazilian fundamentals were deteriorating,
with a slowdown in the economic activity and inflation
problems,” Urbina said in a telephone interview from  Chicago .
“When we realized volatility was increasing, we decided we were
only going to stay in a market with better fundamentals.”  Pimco is also facing potential losses on its investment in
OGX debt. OGX’s notes due in 2018 are leading the declines in
Brazil’s bond market as the oil producer missed output targets.
The company is set to run out of cash as soon as this month,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Negative Bubble’  Pimco, which increased its Brazilian holdings in the first
quarter, is leading the OGX bondholder committee that hired
Rothschild to advise on a debt restructuring, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said this week.  Michael Reid, a spokesman for Pimco, declined to comment on
Pimco’s holdings of OGX bonds. An official at Rothschild also
declined to comment.  “What we’ve seen is unfortunately something this
government created, a negative bubble, for the last two to three
years,” Citigroup’s Costa said. Brazilian corporates are “like
the poor cousin. If you’re an investor, you don’t want to be
loaded up on corporate risk.”  Marcelo Assalin, who oversees $3 billion of local-currency,
emerging-market debt, including real-denominated notes, at ING
Investment Management Holdings NV, said Brazilian debt
securities are attractive.  Poor Sentiment  “I like the idea of holding these bonds with a medium-term
outlook,” he said in a telephone interview from Atlanta. “In
the short term, there is a good chance that we still see higher
yield levels. This is because the market has been driven by
technical, poor sentiment towards emerging-market countries in
general and in Brazil particular.”  Speculation U.S. policy makers will curb stimulus has
eroded demand for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 247 basis points at
4:02 p.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Brazil’s five-year credit-default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
fell 17 basis points to 197 basis points.  Currency Intervention  The real climbed 3.5 percent to 2.3535 per dollar a day
after the central bank stepped up efforts to arrest the biggest
three-month decline in  emerging markets , announcing a $60
billion intervention program involving currency swaps and loans.
Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
decreased 12 basis points to 9.16 percent.  While Pimco’s Brazilian investments have underperformed
this year, its bets on the country in the past have paid off.  In 2002, Pimco added to its Brazil holdings as the
country’s dollar-denominated bonds due in 2040 traded as low as
42.7 cents on the dollar on concern Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva
would default after taking office. The firm increased its stake
to about $1 billion by mid-2002. The bonds traded as high as
119.5 cents on the dollar two years later as Lula cut government
spendng after taking office in January 2003.  The Pimco local bond fund’s underperformance this year is
also a reversal from its longer-term performance. The fund has
returned an average of 5.1 percent annually over the past five
years, beating 93 percent of like funds, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Rousseff met with central bank president Alexandre Tombini
and Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  on Aug. 21 to discuss the
weakening real, according to a government official who asked not
to be identified because he isn’t authorized to comment on the
issue publicly.  “The risk of policy mistakes in Brazil has risen
substantially and that continues to create a lot of noise for
Brazilian bonds,” Citigroup’s Costa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  