-- Pimco’s Mather Says Treasury Selloff Overdone on Fed Misread
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-08-23T11:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/pimco-s-mather-says-treasury-selloff-overdone-fed-misread-1-.html
The selloff in Treasuries has gone
too far as markets misread the  Federal Reserve ’s signal it may
slow bond purchases by bringing forward expectations for
interest-rate increases, Pacific Investment Management Co. said.  In mapping out a timeframe to end the bank’s $85 billion in
monthly asset buying, the Fed is trying to ease the path for
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s successor after his term ends in
January, said  Scott Mather , head of global  portfolio management 
at Pimco, which runs the world’s largest bond fund. Mather said
his “favorite trade” is taking advantage of the steepness of
the U.S. yield curve where the difference between two- and 10-year rates climbed to the highest since July 2011 yesterday.  “Markets have misinterpreted and overshot,” Mather said
in a phone interview today from Auckland. “It’s most likely
that the Fed is at zero for another couple of years and the
markets are, in our view, overshooting in bringing forward rate
hikes at a time when both inflation and growth are well below
the Fed’s targets.”  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco managed $1.97
trillion of assets as of June 30.  Policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with Bernanke’s
plan to start reducing bond buying this year if the economy
improves, minutes of the Fed’s last meeting showed Aug. 21. The
Fed reiterated it plans to keep rates near zero at least as long
as unemployment is above 6.5 percent and inflation is projected
to be no more than 2.5 percent within one to two years.  Tapering Looms  The FOMC will probably vote next month to scale back its
unprecedented stimulus program, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13. The first step may
be to reduce monthly purchases by $10 billion, according to the
median estimate in the survey of 48 economists. They said buying
will probably end by mid-2014.  “In some way it removes uncertainty about whoever the next
chairman is and what their viewpoints will be, because the FOMC
has basically locked down policy, at least a road map for the
next nine months,” said Mather. “If you believe QE has acted
in place of rate policy because they’ve been bounded at zero,
you can say that removing QE means it will be longer before they
do their first rate hike.”  The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, the personal
consumption expenditures index, increased 1.3 percent in the 12
months ended in June. Excluding food and energy, the index rose
1.2 percent, near the lowest since March 2011. The FOMC targets
2 percent inflation.  Sluggish Growth  During the second quarter, gross domestic product rose at a
1.7 percent annualized rate, after a 1.1 percent gain in the
first quarter, according to the Commerce Department. FOMC
participants predicted in June that GDP will grow this year from
2.3 percent to 2.6 percent.  Treasury 10-year yields have risen 1.17 percentage points
this year to 2.92 percent as of 7:40 a.m. in  New York  after
touching a two-year high of 2.93 percent yesterday. The backup
in yields spurred investors to pull out of bond funds, including
 Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s biggest at $262 billion.  The fund, managed by Pimco founder  Bill Gross , has lost 4.1
percent this year, putting it in the 21st percentile among
similar funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the
past five years, the Total Return Fund has returned 6.9 percent,
outperforming about 88 percent of competitors.  The flagship increased holdings of Treasuries and other
U.S.-government-related debt in July to 39 percent, the highest
level since April. Clients pulled an estimated $7.5 billion from
the fund last month, research firm Morningstar Inc. said Aug. 2.  Curves Steepening  The  premium  10-year Treasuries offer over 2-year securities
reached as high as 2.55 percentage points yesterday and was at
251 basis points today.  “In addition to the stated yield, you get a lot of roll
down and  capital gains  from just holding bonds that are rolling
down the yield curve,” said Mather. “We think that’s
attractive and will be attractive for the next few years and we
think it’s more likely that rates fall from here rather than
rise so you do have capital gains in front of you as well.”  As a bond nears maturity or rolls down the yield curve, it
is valued at successively lower yields and higher prices.  Pimco expects the U.S. economy’s relative improvement to
spur dollar gains in the short term against the euro, the Aussie
and the British pound. The greenback may suffer in the long term
because of the nation’s fiscal and current-account deficits,
Mather said.  Europe, Australia  Outside the U.S., Mather favors taking similar positions to
benefit from steep yield curves in bond markets that have
followed the run-up in the U.S., including  Europe  and  Australia .  Australia’s central bank will probably lower its benchmark
rate to at least 2 percent from a record low 2.5 percent by
early next year, he said. The Aussie dollar may fall toward 80
U.S. cents from about 90 now, Mather said.  The yield  differential  between 2- and 10-year bonds in the
nation climbed to 1.55 percentage points yesterday, the most
since July 2009.  Pimco favors “strategies to take advantage of the
steepness of the curve both in the U.S. and elsewhere in the
world, particularly in places like Europe and in Australia,
where they’ve been dragged along with the U.S. for no good
reason,” said Mather. “Yes, the selloff is overdone, so
duration is attractive but curve is even more attractive in our
view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  