-- Poland’s Outlook Cut to Stable at Fitch on Wider Budget Deficit
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-08-23T17:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/poland-s-outlook-cut-to-stable-at-fitch-on-wider-budget-deficit.html
Poland had its rating outlook
reduced to stable from positive at  Fitch Ratings , which cited
the country’s reduced fiscal credibility.  Fitch maintained the foreign-currency debt grade of the
European Union’s largest eastern member at A-, the fourth-lowest
investment level, it said today in a statement from  London . The
company raised the outlook to positive in February, indicating
an upgrade was more likely than a downgrade or the rating being
left unchanged.  Poland on Aug. 20 raised the target for this year’s budget
deficit as the worst slowdown in more than a decade crimped
state revenue. The government also suspended debt limits to help
spur the recovery as it’s gearing up for elections in 2015.  “The upward revision to deficit forecasts entails a later
peak in gross general government debt than Fitch previously
assumed,” Matteo Napolitano, an analyst at the ratings company,
said in the statement. The suspension of of debt limits has
“reduced the credibility of  Poland ’s rules-based fiscal
framework.”  Fitch forecasts the country’s ratio of debt to gross
domestic product will peak at around 56 percent in 2013-2014
rather than in 2011 as it previously assumed. The company also
forecasts that the general government  deficit  will reach 4.2
percent of economic output this year because of “mainly weaker
GDP growth.”  Higher Deficit  The zloty strengthened 0.5 percent to 4.2288 per euro at
7:28 p.m. in Warsaw and the yield on Poland’s 10-year government
bonds fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.49
percent.  Poland’s deficit will not fall below 3 percent of output
until 2015, given the higher base and “our expectation that
political appetite for stronger  deficit reduction  will wane
ahead of the electoral cycle of 2014-15,” Napolitano said.  The government increased 2013 budget gap by 16 billion
zloty ($5 billion) to 51.6 billion zloty this month. It also
passed legislation to suspend fiscal safety rules that prohibit
increasing the budget deficit once public debt tops 50 percent
of gross domestic product.  The suspension would only apply to 2013 and 2014 and the
safeguard threshold will remain in the amended public finance
law, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said on July 16. A new
spending rule, to be adopted separately, will increase
“flexibility” in lean years and restrict expenditures when the
economy speeds up, he said.  The suspension of the debt rule “could undermine
confidence in the forthcoming permanent spending rule, which the
government intends to cover a much wider share of public
expenditure than the current temporary one,” Napolitano said.  It’s “hard to agree with” Fitch’s assessment of the
change in fiscal rules, Deputy Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk said in e-mailed statement today. The rule will allow
Poland to “maintain sustainable fiscal discipline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  