-- Pound Weakens Second Day Versus Euro Before Carney Policy Speech
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-08-23T15:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/pound-set-for-weekly-drop-versus-dollar-before-u-k-growth-data.html
The pound weakened for a second day
versus the euro as investors bet  Bank of England  governor  Mark Carney  will use a speech next week to affirm his intention to
hold borrowing costs at an all-time low.  Sterling headed for its first weekly drop in three against
the dollar. It was set for the biggest weekly slump against the
euro since May after data showed euro-area  consumer confidence 
increased more than analysts estimated in August. Benchmark 10-year gilt  yields  were little changed after approaching the
 highest  level in two years as a report showed the U.K. economy
expanded more than initially estimated in second quarter. Carney
is set to speak in Nottingham, England, on Aug. 28.  Carney “will of course defend forward guidance and try to
anchor market expectations, so the anticipated course would be a
downside move in sterling,” said  Geoffrey Yu , senior foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG in London. “If anything, the
communication will be much stronger.”  The pound depreciated 0.4 percent to 85.98 pence per euro
at 4:34 p.m. London time, extending this week’s decline to 0.8
percent. Sterling was little changed at $1.5573 after falling
0.5 percent yesterday, the steepest drop since Aug. 1. It has
slipped 0.3 percent this week.  The U.K. currency weakened the most in three weeks against
the dollar yesterday after Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  said it may be “sensible” for the central bank to extend
asset purchases in some circumstances.  Carney said when unveiling his new forward-guidance
framework on Aug. 7 that policy makers plan to hold the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent until the
 unemployment rate  falls to 7 percent, which the central bank
doesn’t see happening until the fourth quarter of 2016.  Output Increases  Indexes of manufacturing, services and construction output
all improved in July and  house prices  rose amid the strongest
property market since the financial crisis.  Sterling gained 6 percent in the past six months, the best
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro appreciated 4.6 percent
and the dollar rose 2.9 percent.  Strategists at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  expect the central-bank
governor will use his speech next week to reaffirm his intention
to hold borrowing costs at an all-time low.  “Carney may offer little new guidance and simply echo the
message presented in the quarterly Inflation Report,”
strategists at Barclays including  Chris Walker  in London wrote
in a note to clients. “However, we would hedge for the risk
that he uses the occasion to talk down rates more
aggressively.”  The 10-year  gilt yielded  2.70 percent after climbing to
2.76 percent yesterday, the highest level since Aug. 8, 2011.
The price of the 1.75 percent security due in September 2022 was
92.42. The rate earlier climbed to 2.759 percent.  Gilts lost investors 4.3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German
bonds dropped 2.5 percent and Treasuries declined 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  