-- Punish Assad’s Chemical Weapons Use With Airstrikes
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-23T20:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/punish-assad-s-chemical-weapons-use-with-airstrikes.html
Syria ’s President Bashar al-Assad
needs to be shown that using chemical weapons against his
opponents won’t be tolerated. If he has used such weapons -- or
if he refuses to let international inspectors investigate the
scene of the latest atrocity -- the U.S. and its allies should
respond with force.  Videos posted on the Internet suggest that hundreds may
have died this week in a poison gas attack. Assad’s ally  Russia 
has joined the  United Nations , the U.S. and its allies in Europe
and the  Middle East  in calling for Syria’s leader to cooperate
with an investigation. That’s an important development, but it’s
unlikely to suffice. Russia has  gutted  a draft UN Security
Council resolution that would have put real pressure on Assad to
allow the inspections. Stalling has worked well for Assad so
far, and he may hope to persist with that policy.  He needs to be shown otherwise. U.S. President  Barack Obama 
acknowledged today in a CNN  interview  that “we don’t expect
cooperation given their past history.” The president has been
cautious about intervening in Syria, and rightly so, but the
calculation is changing. Assad is testing the limits. The U.S.
and its allies need to shift the conversation in a fundamental
way: the purpose of intervention should not be to change the
course of the civil war but rather to make clear that the use of
chemical weapons will not be tolerated.  Assad continues to insist that he’s innocent. The coalition
should set a deadline -- measured in days, not weeks -- for
Assad to let the UN inspectors in to do their work. If he
continues to deny access, then that stance should be regarded as
an admission that chemical weapons have been used. And that, in
turn, should trigger airstrikes by the U.S. and its allies. The
president should gather a coalition to support this mission and
affirm the legality of its action.  France  opposed the U.S. invasion of  Iraq  in 2003 because it
didn’t believe there was sufficient proof that  Saddam Hussein 
had weapons of mass destruction. It has now called for force to
be used against Syria -- with or without UN Security Council
authorization -- if the use of chemical weapons is confirmed.
 Turkey  and other U.S. allies in the region have long demanded
firmer action. A coalition is forming and waiting to be led.  Israel  has shown that it’s possible to launch targeted
strikes in Syria without destroying air defenses beforehand -- a
daunting task that General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, has said he’s reluctant to undertake.
Planners at the Pentagon are, according to a  report  in the Wall
Street Journal, refining military options that would primarily
involve weapons launched from afar such as cruise missiles.  That would be the right level of force. The operation must
be designed -- and seen to be designed -- not to topple Assad
but to show him and everybody else that use of chemical weapons
is a war crime that won’t go unpunished.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 