-- Putin Energy Czar Igor Sechin Acquires First Shares in Rosneft
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-08-23T11:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/putin-energy-czar-igor-sechin-acquires-first-shares-in-rosneft.html
OAO Rosneft Chief Executive  Igor
Sechin  bought his first shares in the state-run company, now the
world’s largest traded crude producer by output, that he has led
for almost 10 years.  Sechin, who heads an energy commission formed by President
 Vladimir Putin  last year, bought shares worth 0.0075 percent of
the company’s charter capital, according to a regulatory filing
by the Moscow-based company today, which also listed six other
managers that bought stock. The stake is worth about $5.6
million, based on Rosneft shares, which rose 0.82 percent to
236.41 rubles at 2:22 p.m. in Moscow today.  “Linking even part of management remuneration to the share
price performance is a positive step for minority
shareholders,” said  Chris Weafer , a senior partner at Moscow-based Macro Advisory. “It is steps like this which will
eventually cut the big discount at which Russian stocks, on
average, trade relative to peers.”  Sechin served in Putin’s Presidential Administration from
2000 to 2008. During that time he led Rosneft, as board chairman
from 2004 to 2011, to become  Russia ’s largest oil producer,
buying assets of bankrupt Yukos Oil Co. Sechin then became chief
executive in 2012 and oversaw the $55 billion TNK-BP
acquisition, vaulting it into the top spot in oil production
among traded companies.  Rosneft still lags behind peers in  valuation  with share
prices at 5.97 times earnings, compared with Exxon Mobil Corp.
whose share price is 11.22 times earnings or  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  where
the multiple is 9.7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Management purchases of stock “exemplifies confidence in
the company’s further progress,” while providing incentive to
improve the company’s performance, according to the statement.  “Sechin said many times that he finds Rosneft undervalued
by the market, so his step fits into this logic,” said
Alexander Kornilov, a Moscow-based oil and gas analyst at  Alfa
Bank . “Other Rosneft top managers also bought the stock -- a
good indication in general.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  