-- Tradehill Bitcoin Accounts Moving to Credit Union
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-08-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/tradehill-bitcoin-accounts-moving-to-credit-union.html
Tradehill Inc. , an exchange for
virtual currencies such as Bitcoin, is moving customer accounts
to a U.S. credit union, a shift designed to make it easier for
clients to complete transactions.  Holdings with Tradehill will be transitioned to federally-insured accounts at the Internet Archive Federal Credit Union,
according to an e-mail to clients obtained by  Bloomberg News .
Tradehill is moving accounts to the credit union to win more
business from investors and financial institutions that trade in
Bitcoins, according to a person with knowledge of the matter,
who asked not to be identified because the plans aren’t public.  Created four years ago by a person or group using the name
Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin is a virtual currency that can be used
to buy and sell a broad range of items -- from cupcakes to
electronics to illegal narcotics. The surge in the value of
Bitcoins has made millionaires out of people who loaded up on
them early on -- however briefly. Many of them are self-described libertarians, drawn by the idea of a currency that
exists outside the control of governments.  “It’s a big move for the Bitcoin market in terms of
legitimizing it,” Ugo Egbunike, senior ETF specialist at
IndexUniverse, an index-fund researcher, said in an interview.
“They’ve made it clear, the types of people they cater to:
sophisticated, legitimate investors.”  Virtual Currency  Tradehill, based in  San Francisco , is among several upstart
exchanges including Mt. Gox and and BTC-e that have cropped up
to support Bitcoin trading. Tradehill’s client deposits will be
insured for as much as $250,000, according to the e-mail to
customers.  Customers must provide government-issued photo
identification and a social-security number to transition their
Tradehill account to the credit union, according to the e-mail.
Accounts were being frozen as of Aug. 23, and clients who didn’t
want to switch to the credit union were offered the option to
liquidate their holdings, according to the e-mail.  The  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based credit union is led by
Brewster Kahle, founder of the Internet Archive, one of world’s
largest online digital libraries. In an  April blog , Kahle said
that the Internet Archive began receiving donations of Bitcoins
in 2011, and that he thinks of it “as the local currency of the
Internet.” The Internet Archive set up a Bitcoin ATM, and even
paid some employees in Bitcoin, he said.  Kahle didn’t return a request for comment.  Banking Practices  “It is vital to us to serve and protect our clients as
well as facilitate law enforcement efforts to keep us all safe
by combating the use of the financial system to launder money,”
Ryan Singer, co-founder of Tradehill, wrote in in an e-mailed
statement. “For legal and confidentiality reasons, we cannot
speak to our clients’ banking relationships. For security
reasons, we cannot speak to our own banking relationships.”  Bitcoin is similar to the  U.S. dollar , the euro or the
Mexican peso -- except that it isn’t controlled by any country.
While it’s generally not used for transactions that require
real-world currency, a handful of technology companies --
notably blogging-tool maker WordPress -- are starting to accept
payments in Bitcoin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  