-- Rand Gains to Trim Second Weekly Decline on Emerging Assets
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-08-23T09:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/rand-gains-to-trim-second-weekly-decline-on-emerging-assets.html
The rand gained the most among
emerging-market currencies, paring a second straight weekly drop
on signals from nations including India and Indonesia that they
may support markets. Bond yields fell.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  stock index climbed 0.7 percent,
trimming the biggest weekly drop in two months, after shares
slumped on speculation Federal Reserve stimulus will be cut next
month. Indonesia said it plans policies that may include fiscal
stimulus while the  Reserve Bank  of India said yesterday the
nation’s economic and monetary policies must focus on preserving
financial stability.  “Emerging-market currencies have managed to claw back some
losses,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. The “rebound
has been assisted by some aggressive central bank action.”  The rand advanced 0.8 percent to 10.2029 per dollar as of
11:38 a.m. in Johannesburg, paring its depreciation this week to
1.1 percent. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December
2026 dropped 9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.57
percent, retreating from the highest close since January 2012.  Euro-area services expanded in August for the first time in
19 months after the 17-nation currency bloc’s economy emerged
from a record-long recession, data showed yesterday. German
gross domestic product climbed 0.7 percent in the second
quarter, data from the country’s Federal Statistics office
showed today. A preliminary reading of China’s  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index beat analysts’ estimates yesterday, while first-time jobless claims in the U.S. fell to the least in five years
over the past month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  