-- Four Dead in Helicopter Crash Off Scottish Coast, Police Say
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a ,   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n   a n d   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2013-08-24T11:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/three-missing-after-helicopter-crashes-into-sea-in-scotland-1-.html
Four people were killed when a
helicopter carrying 18 people for French  oil company   Total SA (FP) 
crashed into the sea off the Shetland Islands.  Police said the aircraft went down shortly before 6:30 p.m.
yesterday, 2 miles from  Sumburgh airport , which was closed for
use by  emergency services . The bodies of three people have been
recovered and the search continues to find the body of the
fourth, Police  Scotland  said in a  statement  today.  Yesterday, 14 people recovered from the sea were taken to
the Gilbert Bain Hospital in Lerwick, police said. A Coastguard
spokeswoman told the BBC their injuries varied. Nobody “has
walked away from this without a scratch,” she said.  The craft was a Super Puma L2 with 16 passengers and two
crew members and it was approaching the airport when the crash
occurred, CHC Helicopter, which operated the flight, said in a
statement on its website.  “A full investigation will be carried out in which we will
cooperate fully with all the regulatory bodies and share any
learnings with the industry,” CHC said in an e-mailed statement
today. “While it is not possible to take all of the risk out of
this industry, it is our obligation to mitiagate those risks.”  The  Super Puma L2  is made by the Eurocopter unit of
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  “Our sympathies are very much with the families of those
affected at this difficult time,” Malcolm Graham. Police
Scotland’s assistant chief constable  said in a statement. “We
will now be carrying out an investigation to establish the
circumstances in due course.”  Strong Tides  The wreckage of the helicopter was in a “fairly
inaccessible” position near cliffs in an area with strong
tides, Jim Nicholson, a lifeboat rescue coordinator, told the
 BBC . Anyone in the sea would be swept away “some distance,” he
said, according to a report on the BBC’s website.  Northlink Ferries said it had diverted a ferry and a
freight ship to help with the rescue, the Press Association
reported. Investigators from the Air Accidents Investigation
Branch were heading to the crash scene last night, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh  at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net ;
Louisa Fahy in Washington at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  