-- Reinhart Says Emerging Markets Could Get ‘Ugly’ as Outflows Grow
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-08-23T12:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/reinhart-says-emerging-markets-could-get-ugly-as-outflows-grow.html
Carmen Reinhart , a Harvard
University economist and co-author of a history of debt crises,
said emerging markets are deteriorating as the U.S. recovers and
may worsen as global  interest rates  begin to increase.  “It could get very ugly,” Reinhart said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Sara Eisen from the Federal
Reserve’s annual conference in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming. “Emerging
markets had a capital flow bonanza lasting several years, the
golden boom years, and the probability of a banking crisis, the
probability of a currency crash, the probability of a default,
all increase afterward.”  While the U.S. is “on the road to recovery,” the world’s
largest economy still isn’t ready for a “substantial withdrawal
of stimulus,” said Reinhart, a professor of international
finance at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. Europe is
“very far” from recovery and  emerging markets  “are heading in
the other direction,” she said today.  Stronger U.S. growth and speculation the Fed will scale
back bond purchases have helped erase about  $1 trillion  from the
value of emerging-market stocks worldwide since May, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has
declined 12 percent this year,  compared with  a 12 percent gain
for the MSCI World Index of companies in advanced economies.  India, Indonesia  India’s S&P BSE Sensex and Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite
Index both fell to 11-month lows this week, while Turkey’s lira
fell to a record low versus the dollar. In the U.S., the yield
on the benchmark 10-year Treasury climbed to a two-year high of
2.9 percent as of 8 a.m. in New York.  Reinhart, 57, previously worked at Bear Stearns Cos., the
 International Monetary Fund  and the University of Maryland. Her
views carry weight as the co-writer of the 2009 book “This Time
Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly” with her
Harvard colleague  Kenneth Rogoff .  Reinhart at the 2010 Fed symposium presented a paper,
“ After the Fall ,” co-written with husband  Vincent Reinhart ,
the chief U.S. economist and co-head of global economics at
Morgan Stanley. The paper concluded unemployment in developed
countries is about 5 percentage points higher on average in the
decade after financial crises than in the prior 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  