-- Ron Motley, Who Spearheaded Tobacco Suits, Dies at 68
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-08-23T15:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/ron-motley-who-spearheaded-tobacco-suits-is-dead.html
Ronald L. Motley, a South Carolina
lawyer who spearheaded lawsuits against  tobacco companies  that
led them to agree to pay $246 billion in the biggest civil
settlement in U.S. history, has died. He was 68.  He died yesterday at Roper Hospital in Charleston, South
Carolina,  Don Migliori , a partner in his law firm, said in an
interview. The cause was complications from organ failure, he
said.  Motley pioneered the development of mass-tort litigation to
sue tobacco makers in the 1990s such as  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s
Philip Morris unit and companies that sold asbestos-laden
building products, such as Johns Manville Corp. He recovered
billions of dollars for workers and consumers who blamed the
manufacturers’ products for their illnesses.  “Ron Motley changed the playing field for individuals
seeking to hold companies accountable in this country,” said
Richard Harpootlian, a Columbia, South Carolina-based
plaintiffs’ lawyer who had known Motley for 38 years. “He may
well have been the best trial lawyer of his generation.”  The son of a gas-station owner in North Charleston,  South
Carolina , Motley became one of the U.S.’s most feared plaintiff
lawyers. He could be seen striding across courtrooms in his
“lucky” ostrich-skin boots and often used props to entertain
jurors and annoy opponents.  Legal Fees  As part of the tobacco industry settlement, in which
companies agreed to make payments to U.S. states to resolve
claims that cigarettes caused public-health dangers, Motley’s
firm was guaranteed at least $1 billion in legal fees, the  New
York  Times  reported  in 1998.  William S. Ohlemeyer, a former in-house lawyer for Phillip
Morris, who tried a tobacco case against Motley in  Indiana , said
he was a formidable opponent.  “It was impressive to watch him operate in the
courtroom,” Ohlemeyer, now a partner at the law firm of Boies,
Schiller & Flexner LLP, said in an interview. “He was a
spectacular trial lawyer who worked hard for his clients.”  Filmmakers hired actor Bruce McGill to portray Motley in
the movie “ The Insider ,” an account of tobacco scientist
Jeffrey Wigand’s decision to blow the whistle on the tobacco
industry’s knowledge about nicotine’s addictiveness. The film
starred  Russell Crowe  as Wigand and  Al Pacino  as a TV journalist
who covered Wigand’s story.  Asbestos Cases  Motley started his career as an assistant prosecutor in
Greenwood, South Carolina. In the mid-1970s, he made a name for
himself by filing the first suits against Manville and other
companies that sold products such as insulation containing
asbestos. Studies have shown the material can cause cancer and
lung problems.  Motley and his law firm,  Motley Rice LLC , have recovered
hundreds of millions of dollars for workers injured by exposure
to asbestos, said Jack McConnell, one of his former partners who
is now a federal judge in Providence,  Rhode Island . McConnell
tried asbestos and other cases with Motley for 25 years before
joining the bench.  “He could take very complicated liability evidence from
the corporation’s own files and explain it to lay jurors in a
simple and straightforward fashion,” McConnell said. “He
despised it when people were hurt through corporate misconduct,
and he thrived on getting them justice.”  Remembering Mother  For Motley, representing smokers who developed  lung cancer 
was a personal matter, McConnell said. Motley’s mother was an
ex-smoker who died from the disease in 1984.  “Ron said on many occasions that he was out to avenge his
mother’s death from tobacco through the litigation,” McConnell
said.  To make his case, the raven-haired Motley sometimes turned
to unusual courtroom props. In an asbestos case in Baltimore,
Motley donned a white lab coat and used a toy doctor’s kit as
part of his cross-examination of a company’s medical expert,
McConnell said. During closing arguments in that case, Motley
used a squirt gun to spray a defense exhibit.  Defense attorneys for asbestos makers called him “the man
who took down Manville,’” McConnell said. The company, now
owned by billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
sought  bankruptcy protection  in 1982 because of billions of
dollars in asbestos liability.  Golden Retrievers  Motley’s lifestyle reflected his success. He owned a
mansion on Kiawah Island off the coast of Charleston, a $15
million yacht named Themis for the Greek goddess representing
justice, and a pair of golden retrievers named  Chrysotile  and
 Amosite , after different kinds of asbestos. In 1999, the lawyer
hired the soul group Earth, Wind & Fire to perform at what was
then his third wedding.  Motley’s hard-drinking lifestyle was documented in books,
such as “ Civil Warriors ” by Dan Zegart.  “Ron’s vices were well known,” Ernest “Fritz” Hollings,
a former U.S. senator from South Carolina, said of his friend
yesterday in an interview. “He liked that bottle too much. But
it didn’t stop him from being one of the best trial lawyers in
history.”  Health problems confined him to a wheelchair the last
several years, Migliori said.  Ronald Lee Motley was born on Oct. 21, 1944, in Charleston
to Woodrow Wilson Motley and the former Carrie Montease Griffin.
His father operated an Amoco gasoline station.  Motley received his bachelor’s degree in 1966 from the
University of South Carolina in Columbia and, in 1971, a law
degree. After serving as a prosecutor, Motley joined the  law
firm  of Solomon Blatt Jr., a state legislator, in Barnwell,
South Carolina. Motley began taking asbestos claims from workers
at the nearby Charleston Naval Shipyard while at the firm.  Survivors include his wife, Stephanie Motley, and his
daughter, Jennifer Motley Lee. His son, Mark, died in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  