-- Ropes & Gray, McCarter, Michelman: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/ropes-gray-mccarter-michelman-business-of-law.html
Ropes & Gray LLP didn’t discriminate
against a black lawyer who didn’t make partner, a federal court
has held. U.S. District Judge Richard G. Stearns still refused
to dismiss the former associate’s claim for retaliation and
scheduled a trial for November.  The decision isn’t unusual, said Samuel Estreicher, a
professor at  New York University School of Law  who specializes
in employment law.  “Underlying discrimination claims get rejected with some
frequency but the retaliation claims still go to trial,” he
said in a phone interview. “And plaintiffs can do well with
these claims because juries understand them.”  John H. Ray III, a Harvard-trained attorney, joined the
Boston office of Ropes & Gray as a fifth-year litigation
associate in 2005. After initial positive performance reviews,
his evaluations declined with time and in 2008 he was told he
wouldn’t make partner.  Ropes & Gray, according to the ruling, has what’s known as
an “up or out” policy -- associates who won’t become partners
must leave the firm after a severance period.  Ray asked for extensions of the six months offered. In May
2009, the firm refused, although it ultimately suggested a two-month extension if Ray agreed to release the firm from any
claims.  Ray rejected the offer and sent one partner a draft
discrimination complaint he planned to file with the Equal
Employment Opportunity unless the firm offered either an
indefinite severance period or a payment of $8.5 million,
according to the court’s decision. The firm rejected the offer
and told Ray he couldn’t return to the office.  Ray filed his claim with the EEOC, which in 2011 rejected
the discrimination claim while saying there was “probable cause
to believe that Ropes had retaliated against Ray for filing the
charge,” according to the Aug. 16 ruling.  Mediation was unsuccessful and Ray sent the EEOC’s finding
to members of congress, the president of the NAACP and Martha Minow, the dean of  Harvard Law School , as well as others,
Stearns wrote. The blog  Above the Law  learned of the dispute
and, in response, a firm spokesman sent the blog the EEOC
ruling, which it published.  In the Aug. 16 ruling, Stearns found that Ray had “not
come forward with plausible evidence” that the firm’s decision
was “tinged with or influenced by racial animus.”  The court, however, said that a jury should decide whether
Ropes & Gray’s dissemination of the EEOC determination, which
contained “severely damaging information about Ray,” was
retaliatory. The court also said that a jury could find that a
partner’s refusal to provide a recommendation following Ray’s
EEOC complaint could be found to be “in retaliation for filing
an EEOC charge.”  Ray’s lawyer, Latif Doman of  Washington ’s Doman Davis LLP,
said, “We were surprised by the decision dismissing the
discrimination claim and we will probably appeal, but we can’t
until after the trial on retaliation slated for November.”  Doman said Ray has his own practice and is “making the
best of a bad situation.”  “He’s a Harvard Law School grad, who was on Law Review and
clerked for the Seventh Circuit,” Doman said. “His skill set
says he could and should be doing more -- it’s sad.”  R. Bradford Malt, the chairman of the firm, said by phone
yesterday that the firm doesn’t comment on pending litigation.
The firm is represented by Foley Hoag LLP.  The case is Ray v. Ropes & Gray, 1:11-cv-11370, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  In the Courts  Chevron Can Subpoena E-Mail Information in Ecuador Case  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , facing a $19 billion damage award in an
environmental case in Ecuador, can subpoena information about
the e-mail accounts of the plaintiffs’ lawyers and their
contacts, a U.S. judge ruled.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Nathanael Cousins in San Francisco
yesterday refused to block some subpoenas in Chevron’s lawsuit
against Steven Donziger, the lead U.S. legal adviser for the
Ecuador plaintiffs. The  oil company  alleges that Donziger and
others improperly influenced a court expert in a case in  Lago
Agrio , Ecuador, and committed fraud to win the judgment.  The company’s racketeering suit against Donziger is pending
in federal court in Manhattan. While Chevron already has tens of
thousands of Donziger’s e-mails, it has subpoenaed  Internet
service providers  for information sent to Donziger’s Gmail
account and related e-mail accounts, according to yesterday’s
ruling. Information about Donziger’s accounts from 2003 to 2011
must be produced, Cousins ruled.  Karen Hinton , a spokeswoman for Donziger, had no immediate
comment on the decision.  Cousins also ruled that Chevron’s subpoenas don’t infringe
the free-speech rights of the targeted activists, although he
limited the amount of information the company is entitled to.
Chevron isn’t seeking e-mail content, only identifying
information associated with subscribers and usage, he said.  The case is Chevron v. Donziger, 12-cv-80237, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  AMR, US Airways Seek November Trial in U.S. Antitrust Suit  AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  are
seeking a trial as early as Nov. 12 in the government’s
antitrust lawsuit seeking to block their $12.1 billion merger.  The February trial date sought by the  Justice Department 
“will cause serious harm and cannot be justified,” the
airlines said in a joint filing yesterday. The carriers and the
Justice Department asked U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in Washington for a hearing to resolve the timing
dispute.  “The parties’ urgency to complete their transaction is far
greater here than in ordinary merger cases,” the airlines said
in their filing. “American’s ongoing bankruptcy proceedings
compound the costs and uncertainties associated with the delays
caused by the government’s lawsuit, including approximately
$500,000 in bankruptcy-related professional fees alone every day
that the bankruptcy continues.”  The planned merger, the Justice Department said in its
lawsuit filed Aug. 13, would hurt competition in the  airline
industry  and remove the incentive for  US Airways  to offer lower
prices, leading to higher fares for consumers.  The suit is an obstacle to American’s plans to exit
bankruptcy through a deal that would create the world’s biggest
airline. The challenge marks a break with the department’s past
policy, which allowed six airlines to merge during the past five
years in an effort to cut costs and end losses.  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington). The bankruptcy case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Law Firm Moves  SEC to Expand Ban on Employees Lobbying Agency After Departure  Hundreds of U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawyers
and examiners face new obstacles to cashing in on their agency
experience under an expanded ethics rule to take effect in
January.  The change targets the practice of regulators moving to
jobs at law firms and investment banks where they capitalize on
their SEC relationships. The ethics rule, which previously
affected only the most senior officers, will now be applied to
everyone who earns more than $155,440 a year, according to a
copy of an agency announcement.  The employees will be banned from contacting old colleagues
for one year after leaving the SEC when the policy becomes
effective in January. Commissioners and division directors have
long faced such limits.  The rule “places us on even footing with our peer
regulators and adds an additional layer of protection against
even the appearance of impropriety when former employees take on
new jobs,” Shira Pavis Minton, the SEC’s top ethics official,
wrote in the announcement.  Law firms and investment banks regularly recruit top aides
to SEC commissioners, enforcement attorneys and examiners of
broker-dealers to help defend against investigations and advise
on compliance. More than 400 SEC alumni filed disclosure
statements saying they planned to represent clients before the
agency from 2001 to 2010, according to a recent report by the
Project on Government Oversight, a nonprofit government watchdog
group.  Former SEC officials who have been affected by the ban
include ex-enforcement chief  Robert Khuzami , who is now working
at Kirkland & Ellis LLP, and former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
at Promontory Financial Group LLC.  Outside the agency, most U.S. government personnel earning
more than $155,440 a year have long been covered by the one-year
restriction. Ten years ago, the SEC won an exemption for some
workers designed to make regulators’ jobs more attractive.  McCarter & English Expands IP Practice in New York and Boston  Lisa D. Tyner and James G. Cullem joined the intellectual
property practice of McCarter & English LLP. Both lawyers will
serve as special counsel -- Tyner in the New York office and
Cullem in the Boston office.  The additions continue the expansion of the firm’s IP
group, which also recently added Eric Evain as a partner in the
firm’s Wilmington, Delaware, office. The firm now has more than
100 IP lawyers, technical specialists and patent agents,
according to a statement.  “Lisa and Jim bring valuable knowledge and experience to
McCarter due to their extensive work in the biotech industry,”
said Elizabeth Hanley, the head of McCarter’s Intellectual
Property/Information Technology Group.  Cullem is a registered patent attorney with expertise in
both business development and IP licensing issues that face most
early-to-mid stage biotech companies.  Tyner specializes in patent prosecution and due diligence
investigations in life sciences, and assists clients with the
preparation of patentability, infringement, validity, and
freedom-to-operate opinions.  Kaufman Dolowich & Voluck Adds Partner in Firm’s LA Office  Cameron Stewart joined Kaufman Dolowich & Voluck LLP as a
partner in the firm’s  Los Angeles  office. Stewart has more than
15 years of experience in all aspects of employment law.  Stewart’s practice focuses on defending employers in
employment discrimination, harassment and wrongful discharge
cases in state and federal courts and administrative agencies.
She represents employers and management in litigation and
preventive counseling, wage and hour matters, wrongful
termination, Title VII and the California Fair Employment and
Housing Act, and sexual harassment training and investigations.  Stewart had been a member in the  Sherman Oaks , California,
office of Nemeck & Cole. Before that, Stewart was managing
partner of the Los Angeles office of Johnnie L. Cochran Jr.’s
law firm, The Cochran Firm, where she was a plaintiff’s lawyer
and chairman of its employment litigation department.  “Cameron’s experience representing both plaintiffs and
defendants gives her the two perspectives that will be
tremendously beneficial to our clients,” said Michael A.
Kaufman, co-managing partner of the firm.  Litigator Joins New York Office of Michelman & Robinson  Robert D. Piliero joined the New York office of Michelman &
Robinson LLP as a partner in the commercial and business
litigation department of its New York office.  Piliero has almost 40 years of experience representing
clients in complex business and commercial litigation, the firm
said. He concentrates on issues related to sophisticated
financial products and recently has focused on litigation
stemming from the credit crisis.  David A. Schwartz, managing partner of the firm’s New York
office, said Piliero’s “experience and expertise will further
bolster our litigation department.”  Piliero previously was a shareholder at Butzel Long PC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 