-- Tropical Storm Ivo off Mexico May Mean Heavy Rain for U.S. West
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-08-23T15:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/tropical-storm-ivo-off-mexico-may-mean-heavy-rain-for-u-s-west.html
Tropical Storm Ivo developed off
 Mexico ’s Pacific Coast and may bring heavy rain to  Baja
California  and the U.S. Southwest, forecasters said.  Ivo, the ninth storm of the eastern Pacific hurricane
season, is 330 miles (530 kilometers) south-southwest of  Cabo
San Lucas , Mexico, with maximum winds of 40 miles per hour,
according to a U.S.  National Hurricane Center  advisory at about
11 a.m.  New York  time. The system is moving north at 6 mph.  “Interests in the southern Baja California Peninsula
should monitor the progress of Ivo,” the  advisory  said. “A
tropical storm warning or watch may be required for this area
later today.”  Most storms in the eastern Pacific this year have moved
west out to sea. Ivo’s northerly track may mean drenching rains
for the U.S. Southwest from southern California to Arizona after
the storm breaks up early next week.  “The possibility is there for flash flooding and heavy
rain,” said Bob Smerbeck, an expert senior meteorologist with
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. “We’re
concerned for Phoenix, Las Vegas, Yuma and that whole Colorado
River valley. It’s good to get the rain but it’s not good to get
it too fast.”  Much of that area is suffering from  severe drought .  Mexico Rain  As the storm tracks north in the Pacific, parallel to land,
it’s expected to drop 1 to 3 inches (2.5 to 7.6 centimeters) of
rain across Baja California and produce rip currents and “life-threatening surf” along the coast, according to the hurricane
center.  In addition to Ivo, forecasters are watching a disturbance
in the  Gulf of Mexico  that has a 10 percent chance of becoming a
tropical system in the next five days.  Conditions in the Gulf aren’t favorable for that system to
strengthen, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  “That blob in the Gulf is too weak and short-lived to
cause any trouble,” Rogers said.  Smerbeck said the disturbance may bring some rain to Texas
over the weekend. Air pressure in the Gulf is too high for it to
become a tropical system, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  