-- Tropical Storm Ivo Threatens Heavy Rain for Mexico’s Baja
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-08-23T21:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/tropical-storm-ivo-threatens-heavy-rain-for-mexico-s-baja.html
Tropical Storm Ivo strengthened
slightly and veered closer to shore, prompting tropical storm
warnings and watches along Mexico’s Baja California coast, the
 U.S. National Hurricane Center  said.  Ivo, the ninth storm of the eastern Pacific hurricane
season, was 265 miles (425 kilometers) south-southwest of  Cabo
San Lucas , Mexico, at about 5 p.m.  New York  time with maximum
winds of 45 miles per hour, up from 40 mph earlier, according to
a hurricane center  advisory . It was moving north at 6 mph.  “Tropical storm conditions are expected to spread across
the southern Baja California Peninsula in the warning area
tonight and Saturday,” the advisory said.  The storm may bring life-threatening surf and rip currents
to the shore and as much as 5 inches (13 centimeters) of rain to
parts of the Baja peninsula, according to the hurricane center.
Ivo’s northerly track may mean drenching rains for the U.S.
Southwest from southern California to Arizona after the storm
breaks up early next week.  “The possibility is there for flash flooding and heavy
rain,” said Bob Smerbeck, an expert senior meteorologist with
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . “We’re
concerned for Phoenix,  Las Vegas , Yuma and that whole Colorado
River valley. It’s good to get the rain but it’s not good to get
it too fast.”  Much of that area is suffering from  severe drought .  Warnings Posted  Tropical storm warnings, meaning winds of at least 39 mph
can be expected within a day, are in effect on the Pacific coast
from Punta Abreojos to Cabo San Lucas and on the Gulf of
California coast from Loreto to Cabo San Lucas.  A tropical storm watch is in effect from Punta Abreojos to
Punta Eugenia on the Pacific coast, according to the center.  In addition to Ivo, forecasters are watching a disturbance
in the  Gulf of Mexico  that has a 20 percent chance of becoming a
tropical system in the next five days.  Conditions in the Gulf aren’t favorable for that system to
strengthen, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  “That blob in the Gulf is too weak and short-lived to
cause any trouble,” Rogers said.  Smerbeck said the disturbance may bring some rain to  Texas 
over the weekend. Air pressure in the Gulf is too high for it to
become a tropical system, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  