-- Rupiah, Rupee Lead Drop in Asia Currencies as Fed Spurs Outflows
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-08-24T00:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/rupiah-rupee-lead-drop-in-asia-currencies-as-fed-spurs-outflows.html
Indonesia’s rupiah and India’s rupee
led a drop in Asian currencies this week as foreign funds pulled
money from regional assets on speculation the U.S. will soon
start tapering stimulus.  The rupiah fell by the most since 2008 as minutes of the
Federal Reserve’s July meeting released Aug. 21 showed policy
makers were “broadly comfortable” with reducing bond-buying
this year should the U.S. economy improve.  Thailand  entered a
recession in the second quarter and  Malaysia ’s current-account
surplus shrank 70 percent, reports showed, prompting the baht
and the ringgit to reach the weakest levels since 2010.  “Funds are flowing out from  emerging markets , weighing on
the regional currencies,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief executive
officer and foreign-exchange strategist at FPG Securities Co. in
 Tokyo . “The contrast is becoming clearer between the U.S.,
where the economy is recovering, and slowing growth in emerging
countries.”  The Indonesian currency fell 3.7 percent this week to
10,780 per dollar yesterday in Jakarta, according to prices from
local banks. The rupee weakened 2.6 percent to 63.33, the baht
dropped 2.1 percent to 31.93 and the ringgit declined 0.7
percent to 3.3005.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index (ADXY) , which tracks the
region’s 10 most active currencies excluding the yen, declined
0.6 percent to 114.63, the biggest weekly drop in two months.
Global funds sold $1.5 billion more Thai, Indonesian and
Taiwanese equities than they bought in the first four days of
the week, exchange data show.  Indonesian Deficit  The rupiah touched the lowest level since April 2009
yesterday after Southeast Asia’s largest economy posted a  record
current-account deficit  of $9.8 billion in the second quarter,
the largest in data going back to 1989, the central bank said on
Aug. 16. Inflation accelerated to a four-year high of 8.6
percent in July, official data show.  The currency rebounded yesterday as  Indonesia ’s government
released a policy package including relaxing mineral export
rules, offering tax holidays and simplifying the investment-permit process.  “Sentiment toward possible Fed tapering and the widening
current-account deficit drove the rupiah’s weakness,” said
Aldian Taloputra, a Jakarta-based economist at PT Mandiri
Sekuritas, a unit of the nation’s largest lender.  Indian Inflation  The rupee lost 13.2 percent this year versus the dollar,
the worst performer among Asia’s 11 most-active currencies after
 Japan ’s yen. The decline could fuel already “high” consumer-price inflation, the central bank said in its annual report
released in Mumbai Aug. 22. Asia’s No. 3 economy also faces
risks from a current-account deficit that’s not sustainable,
slowing growth, a budget gap and rising bad loans at banks, the
monetary authority said.  The Reserve Bank of  India  bought long-dated government debt
yesterday in an attempt to stabilize markets after rising
volatility threatened to hurt an economy that is already growing
at near the slowest pace in a decade.  “The RBI has no choice but to maintain financial stability
at this point, which means sacrificing growth in the near
term,” said Tirthankar Patnaik, a strategist at Religare
Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai.  The baht had its worst week since January 2007 after gross
domestic product unexpectedly decreased 0.3 percent in the three
months through June, after contracting 1.7 percent in the
previous quarter, the National Economic and Social Development
Board said Aug. 19. Thailand posted a current-account deficit
every month in the second quarter, central bank data show.  Baht Bears  Morgan Stanley is bearish on the baht’s outlook and
Citigroup Inc. is underweight on the currency, according to
research reports published Aug. 22. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut
the baht’s three-month forecast to 33 per dollar from 31.3, the
bank said in a note yesterday written by analysts Mark Tan and
Hui Ying Chan.  Malaysia’s current-account  surplus  was 2.6 billion ringgit
($788 million), the closest the country’s come to a deficit in
data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1999.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso slumped 1.4 percent to
44.263 per dollar in two days after onshore financial markets
were closed for the first three days of the week because of
floods and a holiday. South Korea’s won declined 0.3 percent to
1,117 this week and  China ’s  yuan  slipped 0.1 percent to 6.1210.
 Taiwan ’s dollar dropped 0.2 percent to NT$30.053.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  