-- S&P 500 Has First Rise in Three Weeks on Fed Speculation
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-08-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/s-p-500-has-first-rise-in-three-weeks-on-fed-speculation.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  had
its first weekly gain since Aug. 2 as investors weighed minutes
of the  Federal Reserve ’s July meeting and economic data to gauge
the prospect of monetary stimulus.  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. rallied 9.3 percent as the world’s largest
software maker said Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  will
retire. Best Buy Co. jumped 16 percent after posting its biggest
quarterly profit in more than two years.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and Staples Inc. plunged more than 15
percent as earnings forecasts disappointed investors.
Homebuilders slid 2.2 percent as a group as purchases of new
U.S. homes plunged.  The S&P 500 added 0.5 percent to 1,663.5 for the five days,
the first gain after two weeks of losses. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  fell 70.96 points, or 0.5 percent, to
15,010.51. The 30-stock gauge declined for a third week, the
longest retreat since November.  “Those who are not as invested in stocks still feel like
they are missing something,”  Richard Sichel , who oversees about
$1.9 billion as chief investment officer at Philadelphia Trust
Co., said by phone. “It comes down to the bottom line that
interest rates may be going up a bit and they might want to get
a little more into stocks.”  Almost all Fed policy makers agreed with plans to reduce
the pace of monthly bond purchases if the economy continues to
improve in line with forecasts, according to the central bank’s
minutes released Aug. 21.  Despite the consensus shown in the Fed minutes, three
central bank presidents speaking later in the week during the
annual conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , differed over the
timing for easing stimulus. One backed a tapering next month if
the economy remains strong and two others said policy makers
should take time to assess economic data.  Economic Data  Investors have been weighing whether the economy is strong
enough to prompt the Fed to curb its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases. Reports during the week included data showing the
fewest workers in more than five years applied for U.S.
 unemployment benefits  over the past month while manufacturing in
 China  unexpectedly improved, offsetting the worse-than-anticipated sales of new homes.  Three rounds of bond purchases by the Fed and better-than-forecast earnings have helped extend the  bull market  in U.S.
equities to a fifth year, with the S&P 500 surging more than 150
percent from a 12-year low in 2009. The benchmark index reached
a record high of 1,709.67 on Aug. 2 and has since lost 2.7
percent amid concern rising  interest rates  may derail an
economic recovery. Ten-year  Treasury yields  approached the
highest level in two years during the week.  Computer Malfunctions  Trading during the week was roiled twice by computer
malfunctions that raised questions about the reliability of
electronic markets. On Aug. 20, a programming error at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. caused unintended stock-option orders to flood
American exchanges. Two days later, the Nasdaq Stock Market was
prompted to halt trading in stocks and options for three hours
because of a faulty connection between exchanges.  “It’s just another example of machines taking over and
shutting things down,” Chris Willox, a Cobleskill, New York-based director of trading at Fenimore Asset Management Inc.,
said by phone. His firm manages about $1.7 billion. “It
undermines confidence.”  The disruption resulted in the slowest week in at least
five years, excluding periods surrounding holidays, with an
average  5.1 billion shares  trading over the five days, according
to data Bloomberg began compiling in 2008.  Volatility Gauge  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
 VIX (VIX) , declined 2.7 percent to 13.98. The equity volatility gauge
reached its highest level this year in June and has since
dropped 32 percent.  Nine of 10 main industries in the  S&P 500  gained, with
consumer-staples companies the only group declining. Raw-materials and technology stocks rose the most, climbing at least
0.8 percent.  Microsoft rallied 9.3 percent, the most since 2009, to
$34.75. Ballmer, who has struggled to adapt the company to the
shift away from personal computers and toward mobile devices,
plans to step down within 12 months. Microsoft, which supplies
the software running most PCs, lost almost half its value on
Ballmer’s watch.  Best Buy surged 16 percent to $35.08. The world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer reported a profit of $266 million
in the quarter ended Aug. 3 as Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly trimmed costs and cut prices to spur sales.  Hewlett-Packard  Hewlett-Packard plunged 15 percent, the largest drop in two
years, to $22.40. Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  rescinded
a  projection  for growth in fiscal 2014 as ebbing demand for PCs
and lower business spending hamper her turnaround efforts.  Abercrombie & Fitch sank 20 percent to $38.68. The clothing
retailer forecast profit for the current quarter that was less
than analysts estimated amid declining traffic at its stores.
Chief Executive Officer Mike Jeffries has been struggling to
reconnect with the clothing chain’s teenage customers who have
become less enamored of Abercrombie’s fashions.  Staples tumbled 16 percent to $14.20. The world’s largest
office-supplies chain reduced its annual profit forecast because
of declines in its retail and international business.  The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index fell 2.2 percent
as all of its 11 members retreated. Purchases of new U.S. homes
plunged 13 percent in July, the most in more than three years,
raising concern higher  mortgage rates  will slow the real-estate
rebound.  Lennar Corp. slipped 3.8 percent to $32.60 while D.R.
Horton Inc. lost 1.4 percent to $18.73.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  