-- Sales of New U.S. Homes Fell More Than Forecast in July
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-08-23T21:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/sales-of-new-homes-in-u-s-plunged-more-than-forecast-in-july.html
Purchases of  new U.S. homes  plunged
13.4 percent in July, the most in more than three years, raising
concern higher  mortgage rates  will slow the real-estate rebound.  Sales fell to a 394,000 annualized pace, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The reading was the weakest
since October and was lower than any of the  forecasts  by 74
economists Bloomberg surveyed.  A jump in  borrowing costs  over the past three months may be
prompting buyers to hold back, showing the difficult job ahead
for Federal Reserve officials as they try to wean the economy
from monetary stimulus while sustaining growth. The falloff in
demand is in contrast to a surge in confidence among builders
such as  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , which suggests they remain
optimistic about the long-term outlook as employment improves.  “It’s definitely a rate shock,” said Doug Duncan, chief
economist at  Fannie Mae  in Washington. “You could see another
month or two of weak sales or it could go longer. This is a
sustainable recovery, but we’ve also said it’s not robust. Along
the way, there will be some hiccups. This is certainly a
hiccup.”  Stocks rose, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index’s posting
its first two-day gain in three weeks, as investors weighed the
housing data against signals from Fed policy makers on stimulus
cuts. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.4 percent to 1,663.5 at the close in
 New York .  The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a decrease to 487,000. Forecasts ranged from 445,000
to 525,000. The Commerce Department also marked down readings
for each of the previous three months with June’s sales pace
revised down to 455,000 from a previously reported 497,000 pace.  Economic Surprise  The difference between July’s outcome and the average
estimate of economists surveyed was 7 times larger the poll’s
standard deviation, or the average divergence between what each
economist forecast and the mean. That was the biggest surprise
since April 2010. The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index,
which includes companies such as  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  and  KB Home (KBH) , fell
1.5 percent in the first 30 minutes after the figures were
released. It was down 3.1 percent at 1:12 p.m. in New York.  New-home purchases were 6.8 percent higher in July than the
same period in 2012 on an adjusted basis, today’s report showed.
The  median price  increased 8.3 percent last month from a year
ago to $257,200.  That’s one reason builders are becoming more upbeat, with
the National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  confidence
index  rising this month to the highest level since November
2005.  Builder Sales  Toll Brothers, the largest U.S. luxury-home builder, this
week reported sales grew 24 percent in the three months through
July from the year before. Orders rose 26 percent to 1,405
homes.  “Inventory levels are still tight in almost all of our
markets and housing remains very affordable,” co-founder Robert Toll said on an Aug. 21 conference call. “Unemployment trends
are slowly improving and demand based on household formations is
compelling, especially given the still very-low volume of
industry home production.”  Purchases declined in all four regions in July, paced by a
16.1 percent slump in the West, today’s report showed.  Sales of new properties, which are tallied when purchase
contracts are signed, are considered a more timely measure of
the market than sales of previously owned dwellings, which are
counted when a sale is final.  Mortgage Rates  The average rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate purchase loan was
4.58 percent in the week ended Aug. 22, the highest in two
years, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac . The 30-year rate was at 3.35 percent in early May compared with a
record-low 3.31 percent in November.  “Those higher  interest rates  are definitely going to be
damping the housing market, and we’re beginning to see that,”
Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC in Austin,
 Texas , whose forecast of 445,000 was the lowest among economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Purchases of previously owned homes climbed a more-than-forecast 6.5 percent to a 5.39 million annualized rate last
month, the second-highest level in more than six years, as
buyers rushed to lock in mortgage rates before they increased
any more, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed Aug. 21.  The data reflected closings of contracts signed a month or
two earlier, when mortgage rates were just beginning to edge up.
Buyers were probably persuaded to complete transactions quickly
as borrowing costs subsequently shot up.  Limiting Supply  A shortage of lots, materials and labor may push some
builders to limit supply of new homes as they try to boost
prices. Builders  started  work on 2.2 percent fewer single-family
homes last month, taking them to a 591,000 annualized rate, the
least since November, Commerce Department data showed last week.  Fed policy makers probably will reduce the pace of bond
buying next month, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed Aug. 9-13 by Bloomberg. Their first step may be small,
cutting monthly purchases by $10 billion to a $75 billion pace,
according to the median estimate of 48 economists.  The minutes from the Fed’s July 30-31 meeting reveal policy
makers’ anxiety. They describe “volatile” financial markets in
response to “policy communications” and economic data, and
U.S. interest-rate increases that signaled “heightened
financial-market uncertainty about the path of monetary
policy.”  Last month’s drop in new-home sales “is another reminder
that the housing recovery may not be a straight line and may not
be very steep,” said  Nicolas Retsinas , director emeritus of
Harvard University’s Joint Center for Housing Studies and a
member of the Freddie Mac board of directors. “It will be
interesting to see whether the housing recovery can withstand
the headwind of rising interest rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  