-- San Diego Mayor Quits to End Sex-Harass Case Against City
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/san-diego-mayor-quits-to-end-sex-harass-case-against-city.html
San Diego  Mayor Bob Filner will step
down after nine months capped by a flurry of sexual-harassment
claims against the Democrat, the first in his party to lead the
eighth-largest U.S. city in two decades.  Filner agreed yesterday to leave office on Aug. 30 after
the City Council voted 7-0 for an agreement under which the city
will defend him against noncriminal legal actions stemming from
his behavior as mayor, which he attributed to “my own personal
failures.”  “I offer deep apologies,” Filner, 70, told the council
after the agreement was announced. “The city should not have to
be put through this.” Still, he denied the fundamental claims
made against him by Irene McCormack Jackson, his former
spokeswoman, and more than a dozen other women.  “Not one allegation has been proven in court,” Filner
said. “I have never sexually harassed anyone.”  Striking a defiant tone, the mayor denounced the campaign
against him for the past six weeks and likened it to a “lynch
mob” driven by political opportunists.  “The fight for control of this city has been vicious and
bloody,” he said. “I can’t afford to continue this battle,
even though I know that if given due process, I would be
vindicated.”  Close Victory  Filner won office in November with 52 percent of the vote
partly because of changes the council backed and voters approved
for pensions for city workers. The alterations, including limits
on benefits, helped labor unions rally support for the
Democrat’s bid. Once he leaves, a special election will be held
within 90 days to replace him, giving Republicans a chance to
recapture the post.  “Bob Filner’s politics were popular, just not his
personality,” Carl Luna, who teaches politics at San Diego Mesa
College, said in an interview before the deal was accepted.  Council members said the accord will restore stability to a
government rocked by lurid claims of unwanted kisses, graphic
sexual descriptions and headlocks used by the divorced mayor.  “This settlement represents an end to our civic nightmare
and allows the city to begin to heal,” Council President Todd Gloria, a 35-year-old Democrat who will temporarily assume the
mayor’s powers, said after the closed-door vote was announced.  Filner made few public appearances after July 11, when
three former supporters publicly accused him of making unwanted
advances and inappropriate comments toward multiple women. Less
than two weeks later, McCormack Jackson sued the mayor and the
city, becoming the first of 18 women to make public their
complaints about his behavior. None of the others have sued.  Rising Tide  By the time the council gathered yesterday, all of its
members had joined  California ’s Democratic U.S. Senators Dianne Feinstein and  Barbara Boxer  in calling for Filner’s resignation.
 Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a U.S. representative from  Florida  and
the chairwoman of the  Democratic National Committee , told him
last month he should resign. A poll showed 81 percent of San
Diego’s adults wanted him out. Still, Filner had resisted.  The agreement won’t shield the city of 1.3 million from
having to pay damages related to harassment claims, City
Attorney Jan Goldsmith said. San Diego could still sue Filner
for reimbursement for all such claims except the one from
McCormack Jackson, Goldsmith said. In that case, Filner will
only be responsible for any punitive damages that may result.  The accord caps the city’s legal costs to defend Filner at
$98,000, Goldsmith said, adding that it won’t “significantly”
increase municipal expenses.  Recall Preferred  “I don’t know of all of the potential claims,” Goldsmith
said in an interview after the vote about other legal actions
that may emerge. He said the risks involved weren’t unique.  The council approved the settlement with Filner after a
public hearing in which more than 20 people urged the members to
reject any deal that might use taxpayer money on Filner’s
behalf. Several said the council should leave it to a recall
campaign, which began Aug. 18, to remove Filner from office.  A drive for almost 102,000 signatures for the effort had
already collected about 20,000 in its first six days, recall
leader Michael Pallamary said. Others said a popular vote to
repudiate Filner was a better solution.  “We have become a national laughingstock,” Mike Slater, a
radio talk-show host, told the council. “Only a full recall can
prove to the country that we can take care of this on our own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  