-- Second Namibia Desalination Plant to Replace Areva Supply
-- B y   F e l i x   N j i n i
-- 2013-08-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/second-namibia-desalination-plant-to-replace-areva-supply.html
Namibia will name a private investor
to help build the second desalination plant in the nation, a 1.5
billion-Namibian-dollar ($145 million) project to replace water
supplied by  Areva SA (AREVA)  for uranium mines.  Construction of the water-treatment plant adjacent to
Areva’s is expected to start in 2014, Nehemiah Abraham, under-secretary for water and forestry in the ministry of agriculture,
water and forestry, said in a phone interview.  An evaluation of three shortlisted companies is being
concluded, and a contract to build the plant in the Erongo
region about 380 kilometers (235 miles) from the capital
Windhoek with the capacity to produce 60 million cubic meters of
water will be awarded before year-end, Abraham said.  Construction will start in 2014 and once in production, the
plant along Namibia’s coastal region will take over supplying
water to uranium mines in the Erongo area from Areva’s plant,
which signed a deal with  Namibia  Water Corp. on Aug. 15 to
distribute water to three uranium mines.  Areva agreed to supply 10 million cubic meters of water a
year to Paladin Energy Ltd.’s Langer Heinrich uranium mine,
China Guangdong Nuclear Power Co.’s Husab uranium project and
Rio Tinto Plc’s Rossing mine.  Areva’s existing desalination plant was built to supply
water to Trekkopje uranium mine, which the world’s biggest
producer of nuclear reactors mothballed last year after prices
of the fuel slumped. The southwest African nation is enduring
its worst drought in three decades.  Water Shortages  Namibia’s semi-arid Erongo region suffers from severe water
shortages. The water-supply agreement between Areva and Namwater
is a “stop-gap measure as private companies are not allowed to
sell water” in the country, Abraham said on Aug. 21.  “Areva will make the water available until our plant is in
place,” he said. “Water is not privatized in Namibia.”  The desalination plant will be a public-private sector
partnership with Namibia financing 30 percent of the capital
required through state-owned Namibia Water. Namibia has an
option to raise its shareholding over 15 years, Abraham said.  “A contract to the winning bidder will be awarded before
the end of the year and the government wants plant construction
to start next year,” Abraham said. “First water from the plant
should start running by around 2016.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felix Njini in Windhoek at 
 fnjini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  