-- Shanda’s Luo Acquires 6.1% of Ad Company Millennial Media
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-23T20:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/shanda-s-luo-acquires-6-1-of-ad-company-millennial-media.html
Luo Qianqian Chrissy, a founding
shareholder of  China ’s Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd.,
acquired a 6.1 percent stake in  Millennial Media Inc. (MM)  after the
mobile advertising company’s shares  tumbled  earlier this month.  Luo, the wife of Chen Tianqiao, the chairman and chief
executive officer of Shanda, reported in a regulatory filing
today that she holds 4.99 million Millennial shares with a stock
market value of about $34 million.  Chinese companies and entrepreneurs are showing growing
interest in the U.S. online industry. Baidu Holdings Ltd., the
parent of China’s most popular search engine, disclosed in a May
regulatory filing that it held a lien on the assets of Kikin
Ltd., suggesting a possible lending arrangement with the New
York-based developer of “touch to search” technology.  Paul Palmieri, chief executive officer of Baltimore-based
Millennial, didn’t immediately return a telephone call seeking
comment. Matthew Lindberg, a Millennial spokesman, said he had
no immediate comment, while Luo Qianqian, a citizen of
 Singapore , couldn’t be located during U.S. business hours.  Millennial, the only publicly traded U.S. company focused
solely on mobile advertising, plunged last week after reporting
that second-quarter sales rose 45 percent to $57 million, shy of
the average analyst estimate of $59.2 million. The company also
said it would buy rival Jumptap Inc. for about $200 million to
better compete with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the largest seller of mobile
ads.  Millennial shares fell 19 percent to $6.90 each on Aug. 14,
the largest decline in almost six months. About 15.9 million
Millennial shares changed hands that day, almost 13 times higher
than the stock’s average daily trading volume for the prior 52
weeks.  Reporting Threshold  Luo’s stake in Millennial crossed the 5 percent reporting
threshold on Aug. 15, according to today’s Schedule 13G filed by
her and Fortune Capital Holdings Enterprises Ltd., a company she
controls. Luo owned a 13 percent stake in Shanda Interactive at
the start of 2012 through two entities she controls, according
to regulatory filings.  Shanda held a 76 percent stake in  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) , an
operator of online games in China whose American depositary
receipts trade on the  Nasdaq , as of March 31, according to a
regulatory filing. Shanghai-based Shanda Interactive announced
in October 2011 that Chen and Luo would take the parent company
private in a transaction valuing it at $2.33 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  