-- Sierra Leonean Faces U.S. Charges in Iran Uranium Sting
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/sierra-leonean-faces-u-s-charges-in-iran-uranium-sting.html
A Sierra Leonean arrested at  New
York ’s John F. Kennedy International Airport in an undercover
probe of illegal uranium sales will be taken to  Florida  to face
charges, according to court documents.  Patrick Campbell, 33, who appeared before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Vera M. Scanlon Aug. 22 in  Brooklyn , New York, consented
to the transfer, according to court records made public
yesterday.  Campbell was arrested on Aug. 21 at the airport on his way
to Miami to meet with an undercover agent posing as a dealer
planning to send the uranium to  Iran , the government said in a
criminal complaint.  Agents stopped Campbell at JFK’s Terminal 4 after he
arrived from overseas on an Air France flight, according to the
complaint. He admitted he had a plan for selling uranium and
showed the agents samples of raw uranium ore he had concealed in
his luggage, the government alleged.  “Campbell stated, in sum and substance, that he had agreed
to ship uranium to Iran,” investigators said in the complaint.  Campbell also had a thumb drive containing a contract for
sale and delivery of uranium 308 and a PowerPoint presentation
about the product he had discussed with the undercover agent,
the government alleged. Uranium 308 is also known as
“yellowcake” uranium and can be used in nuclear fuel or
nuclear weapons when further processed, according to the
complaint.  The suspect was in contact with an undercover agent about
the purported sale and export to Iran since about May 2012,
according to the complaint.  Campbell didn’t seek bail, according to court records.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Brooklyn U.S. Attorney
Loretta Lynch, declined to comment on the case. A lawyer for
Campbell, Chase Scolnick, also declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Campbell, 1:13-mj-733, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  