-- Six U.K. Furniture Stores Mislead With Fake Prices, OFT Says
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-08-23T10:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/six-u-k-furniture-stores-mislead-with-fake-prices-oft-says.html
Carpetright Plc (CPR)  and five other U.K.
carpet and furniture retailers are misleading consumers by
inflating prices before offering discounts, the  Office of Fair
Trading  said as it asked the stores to stop the practice.  Using so-called reference pricing, companies tout a
“higher artificial price when advertising the current price of
a product,” the OFT said in a statement today. “There were a
significant number of products amongst certain high street
retailers where no sales at all took place at the artificially
inflated reference price.”  The regulator has asked the retailers to sign legally
enforceable agreements to stop the practice, which it said
infringes consumer protection regulations. The allegations come
as Britons prepared for a three-day holiday weekend that is
traditionally a busy time for sales promotions.  “There is no suggestion in the letter of Carpetright
having behaved in a manner which breaches competition law,” the
retailer said in a statement today after receiving the request
from the OFT. The regulator declined to name other retailers who
received the letter.  The OFT recommended that customers ask store workers how
long reference prices have been in place and how many sales were
achieved at that price, to ensure they are getting a good deal.  Inflated reference prices “can make consumers buy goods
when they otherwise would not” and discourages people from
searching for a better deal from competitors, the regulator
said.  Carpetright fell 0.8 percent to 665 pence as of 10:27 a.m.
in  London , as trading volume was 7.3 percent of the three-month
daily average. The retailer’s shares are down 2.2 percent this
year.  The retailers have “until autumn 2013” to respond to the
OFT’s request, the regulator said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  