-- SocGen Sees Ghana Inflation to Less Gold Cash Speeding Cedi Fall
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-08-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/socgen-sees-ghana-inflation-to-less-gold-cash-speeding-cedi-fall.html
Ghana’s cedi may depreciate a
further 10 percent from a record low against the dollar by year-end as inflation accelerates and a weaker gold price reduces
foreign exchange inflows, according to Societe Generale SA.  The currency of  Africa ’s second-biggest bullion producer
will probably fall to 2.4 per dollar before the start of 2014,
Souheir Asba, a London-based  emerging markets  strategist at
SocGen, said in an e-mailed response to questions. The cedi has
lost 11 percent against the dollar this year to trade at 2.15
per dollar as of 4 p.m. in Accra yesterday, the continent’s
worst performer after the rand and  Namibia ’s dollar, which is
pegged to the South African currency.  The gold price has slid 18 percent this year, which may
cost Ghana $2.6 billion in lost foreign exchange for 2013, made
up of $2 billion in revenue and $600 million in mining-related
foreign direct investments, Asba said. Inflation accelerated to
11.8 percent in July, from a revised 11.6 percent in June, after
the government completed the scrapping of fuel subsidies. The
Bank of  Ghana  is targeting an inflation rate of 9 percent for
the end of December and an 8.9 percent average for 2013.  “The slowdown in U.S. dollar inflows is expected to cause
a U.S. dollar shortage in the Ghanaian market, which will
definitely put the cedi under further pressure,” she said on
Aug. 20. “Following the total removal of the subsidies, we see
inflation accelerating even higher to breach the central bank
target.”  Cedi Stabilization  The government expects the cedi to stabilize as foreign
exchange reserves increase following the receipt of proceeds
from the sale of international bonds, Kwabena Oku-Afari,
director of the real-sector division of the Finance Ministry and
a member of the economic policy coordinating committee, said by
phone from  Accra  on Aug. 21. Ghana’s foreign exchange reserves
rose to $5.6 billion as of Aug. 20 from $4.9 billion a month
earlier, according to the central bank.  The world’s second-biggest cocoa producer raised $750
million of 10-year debt at a yield of 7.875 percent on July 25,
part of which will be used to pay off domestic debt. Yields on
the notes were unchanged at 8.27 percent yesterday for a 27
basis-point, or 0.27 percentage-point, increase this month.
Rates on dollar-denominated bonds for African countries have
increased seven basis points this month to an average 6.85
percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes .  “Even though inflation is rising after fuel subsidies were
scrapped, we don’t foresee significant impact on the exchange
rate, given the growth in foreign reserves,” Oku-Afari said.  Swapping Dollars  Last year, 11 out of 12 gold mining companies switched 20
percent to 100 percent of their dollar revenue for cedis with
the central bank, according to the government. This means that
“even though falling gold prices is adverse to the balance of
payments position, it will not significantly affect the gross
international reserves,” he said.  Food inflation may slow as the harvesting season starts,
while the bond sale will bolster foreign exchange reserves,
helping to stabilize the cedi, Yaw Adu-Koranteng, a research
analyst at NDK Financial Services Ltd. in Accra, said by phone
yesterday. The cedi will probably weaken to 2.2 per dollar by
year-end amid higher imports before the festive season, he said.  Proceeds from the bond sale will do little to help the
currency amid sustained demand for dollars, according to
SocGen’s Asba.  Gold rose 0.5 percent to $1,373.10 an ounce as of 5 p.m. in
 London  yesterday. SocGen predicts that the bullion price will
fall to as low as $1,150 an ounce by 2014. Ghana’s gold export
earnings declined 16 percent to $2.7 billion in the first half
from a year earlier, the central bank said  July 31 . The precious
metal was the nation’s biggest export in 2012 at $5.6 billion.  Ghana’s central bank will probably reduce dollar sales to
banks and companies to keep bolstering reserves, said Asba.
“This will subsequently cause the cedi to depreciate at a
higher pace,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  