-- Software Patents, Tesla, Reddit: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-23T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/software-patents-tesla-reddit-intellectual-property.html
Software patents are the biggest
reason for a rise in litigation over inventions, especially
against companies that use the technology, the U.S. Government
Accountability Office found.  Its study, required under a law passed in 2011 that
overhauled the U.S. patent system, said the revisions and court
rulings made it easier to invalidate questionable patents and
limited damages that can be collected on a minor feature. The
report recommended that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office do
more to improve the review process.  The GAO found almost half, or 46 percent, of lawsuits filed
from 2007 to 2011 involved software-related patents, and more
than one-third of those, or 39 percent, were against companies
outside technology fields. Those included retailers and
drugmakers who were sued over features on their websites.
Companies told the agency that it’s often difficult to determine
what the patents cover.  “Although there is some inherent uncertainty associated
with all patent claims, several of the stakeholders with this
opinion noted that claims in software-related patents are often
overly broad, unclear or both,” according to the report.  Companies whose main business is to extract royalty
revenue, called patent monetization entities or PMEs, filed
about 19 percent of all lawsuits from 2007 to 2011, while
operating companies brought 68 percent, the study found.  The number of defendants sued by patent monetization
entities more than tripled, to 3,401 in 2011 from 834 in 2007,
the study found.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  NFL Sued by Former Players Over Use of Their Images by NFL Films  The  National Football League  was sued by 10 retired players
who claim the NFL unfairly violates their rights of publicity by
using their images to sell NFL Films products.  Five Hall of Fame players joined the suit filed Aug. 20 in
federal court in Camden,  New Jersey . The complaint claims that a
settlement reached this year in a similar case in  Minnesota 
doesn’t go far enough to compensate former players.  In March, the NFL settled a class-action lawsuit, filed by
Fred Dryer and others, and agreed to put $42 million in a fund
to help retired players and set up a licensing agency to market
their publicity rights. The new case involves players who opted
out of that settlement, which has preliminary approval of U.S.
District Judge Paul Magnuson in  St. Paul , Minnesota.  “NFL Films’ continued use of former players’ images is
unauthorized, and not consented to,” according to the
complaint. NFL Films uses raw footage of former players taken
from a vast archive of games and develops promotional and
marketing products, according to the complaint. It films every
game, apart from commercial broadcasts, so that it can assemble
promotional materials to help the NFL brand, the players said.  An NFL spokesman,  Brian McCarthy , said the league is
“disappointed that a few retired players believe that
additional litigation will be productive in the face of Judge
Magnuson’s decision in April finding that the settlement” is
“fair and reasonable.”  In an April 5 order, Magnuson criticized players who
rejected the settlement, which he said is a “thoughtful,
beneficial” resolution to the case.  “It is the height of disingenuousness for these same
plaintiffs to now complain, like children denied dessert, that
the settlement does not benefit enough the individuals who
brought the lawsuit,” he wrote.  The case is Culp v. NFL Productions LLC d/b/a NFL Films,
13-cv-04999, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Camden). The Minnesota case is Dryer v. National Football
League, 09-cv-02182, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(St. Paul).  Philip Morris Leads Plain-Packs Battle in Global Trade Arena  The war between the tobacco industry and anti-smoking
forces is heating up as cigarette makers intensify efforts to
use treaties to block labeling constraints.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  has pressed the U.S. for
language that would make it tougher for countries in a proposed
Pacific Rim trade accord to require plain packaging or other
limits on company logos. Australia’s packaging law is being
challenged at the  World Trade Organization , and U.S. senators
from tobacco-growing states, including Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , recently warned the European Union that the
smoking controls it’s considering might endanger a U.S. trade
deal.  Cigarette makers defend the efforts as necessary to
safeguard the  intellectual property  protections embedded in
treaties. To antismoking forces, the tobacco lobby is working a
strategy of intimidation.  “They are in this to convince governments it’s not worth
the cost” to enact laws to reduce tobacco’s appeal, said Chris
Bostic, deputy director for policy at Action on Smoking and
Health, a Washington-based nonprofit organization.  The Trans-Pacific Partnership being negotiated by
Australia, the U.S., Japan,  Chile  and eight other nations will
be a test of sovereign states’ freedom to regulate tobacco, said
Gary Fooks, a University of Bath research fellow who has written
about the industry’s efforts to influence the pact. The next
round of talks is scheduled to begin today in Brunei.  Anti-smoking activists were encouraged last year when the
Obama administration wrote a draft proposal to strengthen
protections for anti-smoking regulations from challenges. It
would have created “a safe harbor” for U.S. Food and Drug
Administration tobacco rules, according to a government summary
of the draft.  The safe harbor proposal died last week after running into
opposition from lawmakers, former trade representatives and
business groups, including the Grocery Manufacturers
Association. They contended it would set a bad precedent that
could lead to other products’ being singled out in trade pacts.  Instead, the U.S. will ask for a clause requiring that
before a case against a tobacco regulation can be filed under
the treaty, health authorities of the countries involved must
discuss the measure.  Companies including New York-based Philip Morris
International, which sells Marlboro outside the U.S., and
 British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , whose brands include Dunhill and
Lucky Strike, are in a global battle against moves to curtail
branding and make cigarettes unappealing.  Tesla Motors Trademark Application May Be for Mass-Market Car  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  this month filed an application with the
U.S. Patent and Trademark office to use the name  Model E  for an
automobile.  Shanna Hendriks, a Tesla spokeswoman, declined to comment
on whether that’s intended for a still-unnamed mass-market
electric car.  Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk  said the electric-car
maker intends to add factories in Europe and Asia, anticipating
volume gains from a planned mass-market battery car.  The company this year plans to make at least 21,000 of its
$70,000 Model S premium sedans at its Fremont, California,
plant, and double that in 2014. While the factory has capacity
to produce as many as 500,000 vehicles a year, the addition of a
smaller electric car priced about half that of Model S will
require additional plants, Musk said.  Tesla, named for inventor  Nikola Tesla , has seen its shares
surge more than  fourfold  and its market value exceed some
established carmakers such as  Fiat SpA (F) , the majority owner of
Chrysler Group LLC. The  Palo Alto , California-based company
reported its first profitable quarters this year, excluding some
items, and has seen demand for the Model S outstrip its ability
to build the car.  Among the company’s accolades, Model S was named 2013 “Car
of the Year” by Motor Trend magazine;  Consumer Reports  in a May
review rated it among the best it’s ever tested; and this week
Tesla said it received top crash and safety ratings in tests by
the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration .  ‘Gaymer’ Trademark Relinquished, Reddit Players Can Use the Term  A Georgia resident surrendered a trademark he claimed was
infringed by a group of gay participants in computer games.  According to a July 22 filing with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, Chris Vizzini voluntarily gave up his
registration for the term “gaymer.”  The patent office’s Trademark Trial and Appeal Board said
Aug. 21 that the registration will be canceled “in due
course.”  Earlier Vizzini sent a cease-and desist notice to Advance
Publication Inc.’s  Reddit  social-media unit, saying that the use
of “gaymer” by the 16,000-member group of gay participants
infringed his trademark.  He registered the term in March 2008 for use with computer
services, online games and games-related social networking.  San Francisco’s  Electronic Frontier Foundation  and Seattle-based Perkins Coie LLP then took on the representation of the
Reddit gaymers, seeking cancellation of the trademark. After
discussions, Vizzini decided to surrender his trademark,
according to a  statement  from EFF, a digital-rights group.  Star Belly Stitcher Application Properly Rejected, Board Says  A trademark application filed by Star Belly Stitcher Inc.,
a sportswear maker, was properly rejected, an appeals panel of
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office  said .  The company, based in Ooltewah,  Tennessee , filed the
application in February 2011 for a mark to be used with a range
of products, including golf shirts, baseball caps, sweatshirts,
and hunting vests.  The application was rejected on the grounds that it was
objectionable or immoral matter. In June 2012, the company filed
an appeal. The appeals board said the examiner made the proper
determination.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Gallery Show Honoring Indian Director Runs Afoul of Copyrights  An exhibition that includes photographs of sketches of set
designs and costumes done by the late  Satyajit Ray  has become a
copyright issue between the art gallery where they are shown and
the  Satyajit Ray Society , which is the custodian of the Indian
filmmaker’s legacy, the Times of India  reported.   The  exhibition  at the  Delhi Art Gallery  and the catalog of
the show were created without obtaining permission from the Ray
estate, according to the newspaper.  Arup De, chief executive officer of the Satyajit Ray
Society, told the Times that his organization didn’t object to
the photographs of the filmmaker himself, but the estate has
copyrights on the Ray sketches, which cannot be published
without written permission.  Although the gallery has since removed the objectionable
photos from the show, the photos remain in the exhibition
catalog, to be removed in the future, according to the Times.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California ,
at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 