-- Two Koreas Agree to Revive Family Reunions in Red Cross Talks
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-08-23T14:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/south-korea-begins-talks-with-north-on-reunions-as-tensions-ease.html
Red Cross officials from North and
 South Korea  agreed to revive reunions of families separated by
the  Korean War  in the latest sign of thawing ties between the
two countries.  The negotiations at the border village of Panmunjom ended
after 11 hours today with an agreement to hold the reunions from
Sept. 25 to Sept. 30 at the North Korean mountain resort of
Geumgang, South Korean Unification Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung
Suk said in a briefing.  The two Koreas held their last round of family reunions in
late 2010 at the eastern resort just north of the border. The
deal today is another sign that relations have improved since
the North threatened war against the South earlier this year.  “The two sides are cautious but willing to repair ties,”
Cheong Seong Chang, a North Korea analyst at Sejong Institute, a
researcher outside  Seoul , said by phone. “The North understands
it can’t rebuild its economy without help from the South.”  The two governments reached agreement on Aug. 14 on a plan
to reopen their jointly run factory complex in the North Korean
border town of Gaeseong. The site was shut in April and North
Korea withdrew its 53,000 workers after the  United Nations 
stepped up sanctions to contain the country’s nuclear program,
and the U.S. and South Korea held annual military drills.  More than 300 South Koreans visited the Gaeseong Industrial
Complex today as part of the agreement to work toward reopening
the factory park, the ministry said.  Kim said 200 families will be reunited next month at Mt.
Geumgang. The Red Cross negotiators also agreed on reuniting
families in October via video and reached consensus on holding
more face-to-face reunions in November, he said.  Tourism Talks  North Korea  is trying to hold separate talks on resuming
South Korean tours to Mt. Geumgang, a source of hard currency
for the regime. The cross-border project stopped in 2008 when a
North Korean guard shot and killed a South Korean tourist.  South Korea proposed earlier this month that the tourism
talks be held on Sept. 25 at the mountain. The North wants the
talks to be held later this month or early next month.  North Korea feels pressured by  China  to improve its
relations with the outside world after it conducted its third
nuclear test and threatened war against South Korea and the U.S.
earlier this year, Cheong said.  “The mood of reconciliation between the Koreas will
probably continue for some time,” Cheong said. “The North
needs it to open talks with the  United States .”  The Red Cross talks today coincided with a five-day hearing
in Seoul by UN investigators trying to assess human rights
conditions in North Korea through testimony by defectors. The
hearing ends tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  