-- Southwest Seen Overlooked as U.S. Seeks to Block AMR Deal
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-08-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/southwest-seen-overlooked-at-u-s-seeks-to-block-amr-deal.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  flies more
passengers in the U.S. than any other carrier and serves 29 of
the 30 largest metropolitan areas. To federal regulators, that’s
not enough to be considered an influential industry competitor.  In suing to block the merger of  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American
Airlines  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , the U.S.  Justice Department 
erred in deeming Southwest, the biggest discount carrier, too
small to sway others’ actions, according to analysts such as
Savanthi Syth of Raymond James Financial Inc.  “You can’t ignore one of the largest players in the
market,” Syth said in a telephone interview from  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida .  American and US Airways, seeking to overturn the Justice
Department’s opposition, are likely to cite Dallas-based
Southwest’s ability to undercut rivals as one reason to let
their deal go through. The U.S. says the merger creating the
world’s largest carrier would crimp competition and boost fares.  The government’s exclusion of Southwest and  JetBlue Airways
Corp. (JBLU)  as significant competitors “will clearly be one of the
airlines’ main contentions,” said Allen Grunes, a lawyer with
GeyerGorey LLP in Washington who formerly worked in the Justice
Department’s antitrust division.  AMR, which is in bankruptcy, and US Airways say they can’t
compete on their own against  United Airlines (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL) , the industry leaders formed in mergers since 2008. The
Justice Department said in its antitrust suit in federal court
in Washington that a combination of American, the third-largest
U.S. carrier, and No. 5 US Airways would create three major
carriers with little incentive to compete on pricing.  U.S. View  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, responded
yesterday to questions about the agency’s approach by citing the
lawsuit and comments made Aug. 13 by Assistant Attorney General
Bill Baer on a conference call with reporters.  The so-called legacy airlines are focused on each other,
and “to a large extent Southwest and the other low-cost
carriers are not competitive constraints in many, many
respects,” Baer said on the call.  Southwest and JetBlue, which rank fourth and sixth in the
U.S. industry by traffic, have route systems and business models
“significantly different” from carriers such as Fort Worth,
Texas-based American, according to the Justice Department’s
lawsuit.  “In many relevant markets, these airlines do not offer any
service at all and, in other markets, many passengers view them
as a less-preferred alternative,” the U.S. said. “Competition
from Southwest, JetBlue or other airlines would not be
sufficient to prevent the anticompetitive consequences of the
merger.”  Rationale Questioned  That argument spurred  Helane Becker , a Cowen & Co. analyst
in New York, to question the Justice Department’s rationale in
concluding that Southwest wasn’t “a viable fourth competitor,”
as she put it in an Aug. 20 note to clients.  “By what standard does the government cite they aren’t a
serious competitor?” Becker wrote. “Southwest is one of the
most competitive airlines, with competitive air fares throughout
the domestic US. Indeed, the airline has limited international
service, and does not charge baggage fees, while most other
airlines have bag fees.”  Besides carrying the most travelers on domestic routes,
Southwest is the largest airline in the U.S. using the industry
benchmark of miles flown by paying passengers. On that basis, it
is more than twice the size of Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways.  Domestic Leader  “It is the biggest domestic airline by a long shot,” said
 Rick Seaney , chief executive officer of Dallas-based travel
website FareCompare.com. “I can’t imagine how you can do
anything without including it.”  Seaney estimates that Southwest wields enough market power
to determine the success or failure of about a quarter of broad-based fare increases attempted by U.S. carriers. Southwest
declined to comment about its role in industry pricing, said
 Brad Hawkins , a spokesman.  The Justice Department is viewing Southwest as it operated
“10 years ago, but not today,” said  Michael Boyd , president of
consultant Boyd Group International Inc. in Evergreen, Colorado.  Southwest now carries more connecting passengers on longer
flights, as United, Delta and American do, instead of fliers
just making short nonstop trips. The average flight length rose
more than 21 percent to 678 miles (1,090 kilometers) in 2012
from 2003, according to the airline. In that same period, the
share of connecting passengers rose to 28 percent from 21
percent.  ‘Success Story’  “Southwest is taking on some aspects of a hub carrier and
effectively doing it,” said Charles Hunnicutt, senior counsel
in the transportation practice group at Thompson Hine in
Washington. “They’ve been a great success story. I consider
them the fourth network carrier.”  Instead of its old focus on secondary airports to avoid
costly delays from congestion, Southwest’s moves since 2009
include beginning service to Atlanta, home to the world’s
busiest airport, and to New York, the busiest air travel market.  “You wouldn’t even know that they really are a force in
this industry from that complaint,” Rich Parker, an antitrust
attorney for  US Airways , said on an Aug. 15 conference call.
“Southwest is bigger than my client and everyone knows
determines the fare structure.”  Southwest and JetBlue both objected to the dominance of a
post-merger American at Washington’s Reagan National airport.  2011 Purchase  In paying $1.01 billion for AirTran Holdings Inc. in 2011,
Southwest pulled off the most-recent merger in the  U.S. airline
industry  before the planned AMR-US Airways combination. Sales
totaled $17.1 billion last year, 24 percent more than for US
Airways.  Regulators opposing the AMR-US Airways deal would be able
to point to waning price clout at Southwest since the late
2000s, when its fuel-hedging program gave it a financial edge
over rivals.  At the time, it could kill about three-quarters of all
attempts to boost fares by deciding not to take part,
FareCompare’s Seaney said. Airlines that trigger increases
typically will rescind them if others don’t match.  The pricing shift has occurred because Southwest’s
operating costs have risen even as those of Delta and United
have dropped after restructuring in  bankruptcy court , erasing
part of the discounter’s cost advantage that helped it profit
while charging lower fares.  Good Evidence  “If the Justice Department defines Southwest and JetBlue
out of the market, they’ve got to have good documentary and
economic evidence to support that allegation,” said Grunes, the
former Justice Department lawyer. Baer, the U.S. antitrust
chief, “would not allow it to be in the complaint otherwise.”  David Swierenga , a former chief economist for the U.S.
airline trade group now known as Airlines for America, said
Southwest’s role as a brake on fare increases remains intact, if
diminished.  “Whatever market they are in, prices are measurably
lower,” said Swierenga, president of consultant Aeroecon in
Round Rock, Texas. “Maybe the effect isn’t as much as it was
only because the legacy carriers have gotten much more efficient
and more competitive with their costs. They still have a
definite impact.”  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington). The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  