-- Soy, Corn Yields Seen Less Than USDA Estimates on Midwest Tour
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-08-23T05:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/soy-corn-yields-seen-less-than-usda-estimates-on-midwest-tour.html
Samples taken from soybean and corn
fields across the Midwest this week showed more yield loss than
expected from unusually cool, dry weather in July, signaling the
government may have to reduce its crop forecasts next month.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  probably will cut its
soybean-crop estimate by 2.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg
survey of eight participants in a seven-state tour of more than
2,600 fields sponsored by the Professional Farmers of America.
The government’s corn-harvest forecast may fall by 1.5 percent,
a survey of nine crop scouts showed. Final yield estimates from
the four-day annual tour will be released later today.  After a wet May and June delayed planting, the USDA cut its
soy-crop forecast by 4.8 percent on Aug. 12 and reduced its corn
estimate for a third straight month. July was the 20th coldest
in 119 years in Minnesota,  Wisconsin ,  Michigan  and  Iowa , the top
U.S. grower, National Weather Service data show. Soybean futures
are up 12 percent from an 18-month low on Aug. 7, and corn rose
4.2 percent from a 35-month low on Aug. 13.  “There is more variability in corn and soybeans than I
expected before this week’s tour,” Bennett Meier, a New York-based market analyst for Morgan Stanley, said in an interview in
Rochester,  Minnesota . “The crop is immature and at increased
risk of damage from freezing temperatures and crop losses” in
September or early October, he said.  The government cut its soybean-crop forecast for 2013 to
3.255 billion bushels on Aug. 12, down from 3.39 billion in May,
and the corn estimate was cut to 13.763 billion bushels,
compared with a record 14.14 billion predicted in May. USDA is
scheduled to release updated production forecasts on Sept. 12.  Freeze Risk  The cool, wet planting season and below-average summer
temperatures are similar to 1996 and 1908, when freezing
temperatures in late September or early October damaged crops,
Dan Hicks, a meteorologist for Freese-Notis Weather, said in a
client report on Aug. 21.  U.S. crops need heat, rain and a late-arriving frost to
reach maturity, Nick Hanson, field agronomist for the Pioneer
seed-making unit at  DuPont Co. (DD) , said in Spencer, Iowa.  Soybean-pod counts per 3 square feet in four of the top
five producing states, including Nebraska, Minnesota, Iowa and
Illinois, are down from the three-year average, Pro Farmer data
this week show. The growth stage in Iowa, the largest producer,
was measured this week at 8.9 percent below the prior three-year
average, Pro Farmer data show.  “The soybean crop we saw this week is about six weeks
behind average,”  Peter Meyer , senior director for Pira Energy
Group in  New York , said in an interview yesterday after touring
fields from  Ohio  to Minnesota. “I have to wonder if we can
match last year’s production numbers,” said Meyer, who forecast
domestic production at 3.022 billion bushels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  