-- Sparks Fly in ‘Grandmaster’; ‘World’s End’; ‘Next’: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-08-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/sparks-fly-in-grandmaster-world-s-end-next-film.html
Wong Kar Wai’s martial-arts romance
“ The Grandmaster ” is a long series of fights, exquisitely
choreographed and hypnotically shot in snow, in watery
courtyards under heavy rain (which brings  Pina Bausch  to mind),
in beautiful rooms that are beautifully destroyed.  The picture is no less aching than Wong’s hyper-romantic
2000 masterpiece, “ In the Mood for Love ,” which also starred
Tony Leung, now in his early 50s.  The story purports to be based on the life of Ip Man, who
in his later years became Bruce Lee’s teacher. But no life ever
went by so gorgeously, or played out against such a lush string
soundtrack, with a little “Casta Diva” and a little Ennio Morricone thrown in.  Wong’s genius for overheated, overstuffed glamour brings to
mind the demented movies that Josef von Sternberg made with
Marlene Dietrich in the 1930s, which is when “The Grandmaster”
begins, in the southern Chinese city of Foshan.  It continues through the Japanese invasion and the war and
on into  Hong Kong  in the 1950s. The dialogue -- mainly exchanges
of gnomic and/or metaphorical wisdom about kung fu -- might feel
leaden if the picture were less mesmerizing.  The woman Ip Man falls in love with is Gong Er (Ziyi Zhang), daughter of the northern Chinese grandmaster. Their
moment of electricity occurs in the middle of hand-to-hand
combat. The voltage is off the charts.  “The Grandmaster,” from the Weinstein Company, is playing
in  New York ,  Los Angeles  and Toronto. Rating: **** (Seligman)  ‘World’s End’  A one-two punch half lager-drenched reunion flick and half
sci-fi camp, “ The World’s End ” is the final round of a genre-mashing trilogy from  Simon Pegg  and Edgar Wright.  I hit my limit at two.  Perhaps overloved by cultish fans and critics alike, the
Pegg-Wright comedies “ Shaun of the Dead ” and “ Hot Fuzz ” had
their delights, mostly by way of sneak attack.  But the broadly comic “World’s End” had me feeling like a
grumpy interloper at someone else’s raucous reunion.  You might want to stop reading  here  if you’ve managed to
avoid the ubiquitous TV trailers that reveal the mid-movie
twist.  “World’s End” begins as a boys-night-out quest in which
five middle-aged mates from the British suburbs reconvene to
finish the pub crawl that went uncompleted back in 1990.  Leading the charge is Gary (Pegg, who co-wrote with
director Wright), an alcoholic man-child still wearing the
Sisters of Mercy T-shirt and black trench coat of his Goth
youth.  Grow Up  The rest of the gang ( Nick Frost , Paddy Considine, Martin
Freeman and Eddie Marsan) have long since gotten on with
adulthood.  “World’s End” deftly toys with bromantic conventions,
initially stocking the party with crude jokes, old grudges,
betrayals and booze.  But even arrested adolescents can’t go home again,
especially when the old neighborhood has been overtaken by
outer-space body-snatchers.  The left-turn switch to sci-fi comedy at least stalls the
encroaching sentimentality of the movie’s first half, and the
boldness of the trick is temporarily invigorating.  But the gimmick quickly comes to feel as smug and self-satisfied as any drunken brawler, and Pegg’s in-your-face
performance grates, whether he’s bemoaning lost youth or ripping
heads off robots.  “The World’s End,” from  Focus Features , is playing across
the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘You’re Next’  Heroes are scarcer than corpses (and unlikely laughs) in
“ You’re Next ,” a giddy, blood-soaked indie chiller that slips
more sideways ingenuity into its hidebound genre than any five
of this summer’s big-budget blockbusters.  Director Adam Wingard, with a deadpan, knowing script by
Simon Barrett, employs all the usual don’t-go-down-to-the-basement cliches, then rewards seen-it-all audiences with a
satisfying slap. Or two.  Gathering at their remote estate for a 35th wedding
anniversary, the Davisons are loaded with wealth and vitriol.
Verbal arrows ruin dinner before real ones announce the start of
a bloody home invasion.  Three animal-masked killers, gruesomely reducing the number
of Davisons and assorted significant others, provide the
requisite gasps, but “You’re Next” finds its bullseye in the
dark humor of familial ruthlessness and sibling rivalry.  Even under attack, brothers bicker. “I’m the fastest,”
insists the eldest. “But I’ve got a [bleeping] arrow in my
back.”  “You’re Next,” from Lionsgate, is playing across the U.S.
Rating: *** (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 