-- Stanford’s Hall Says Fed QE Is Weak Tool With Main Rate at Zero
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-08-23T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/stanford-s-hall-says-fed-qe-is-weak-tool-with-main-rate-at-zero.html
The Federal Reserve’s bond purchases
and guidance on future policy are “weak instruments” the
 central bank  resorted to after pushing down the benchmark
interest rate to zero, according to a paper presented at a Fed
conference in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  “It’s fairly obvious that monetary policy does not have
instruments to restore ZLB economies to their normal
conditions,” said Robert Hall, an economist at Stanford
University, referring to the so-called zero lower bound.  Without the constraint from the zero lower bound, the U.S.
economy would have weathered the downturn with less disruption
because the inflation-adjusted cost of borrowing would have
declined enough to sustain growth near normal levels, Hall said
in a paper presented today at the Kansas City Fed’s annual
meeting of economists and central bankers.  The U.S. central bank cut the main interest rate close to
zero in December 2008 and has expanded its  balance sheet 
to $3.65 trillion and pledged to maintain accommodation to
bolster growth and reduce unemployment. Policy makers were
“broadly comfortable” with Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s plan to
start reducing its bond buying later this year if the economy
improves, minutes of their July meeting showed Aug. 21.  “The central danger in the next two years is that the Fed
will yield to the intensifying pressure to raise interest rates
and contract its portfolio well before the economy is back to
normal,” Hall said.  Receding risk aversion among investors and a waning need
for households to reduce debt signal that the economy is
gradually healing, Hall said.  “Most of the developments that led the U.S. and other
advanced countries into ZLB slumps are self-correcting,” he
said. “As output recovers, the lower bound will cease to be an
impediment and normal conditions will prevail again.”  Hall also said economists should devise a new way to
understand the relationship between  unemployment  and inflation,
given that high joblessness after the recession didn’t lead to
the deflation that characterized the Great Depression.  “The tradition of regarding high unemployment as a
disequilibrium that gradually rectifies itself by price-wage
adjustment may rest on a misunderstanding of the mechanism of
high unemployment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  