-- Stanford’s Taylor Says ‘Sooner the Better’ for Fed to Unwind QE
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-08-23T21:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/stanford-s-taylor-says-sooner-the-better-for-fed-to-unwind-qe.html
Stanford University Professor  John Taylor , creator of a rule for guiding  monetary policy , said the
 Federal Reserve  should begin as soon as possible to taper its
purchases of securities.  “The sooner the better to get started with it,” Taylor
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today with Sara Eisen
from the Fed’s annual monetary conference in Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming . Policy makers should “be very deliberative, indicate
it’s a strategy and it could be adjusted.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  next meets Sept. 17 and
18. Some 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg this
month expect the U.S. central bank to begin trimming its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases at that meeting.  The FOMC’s first step may be small, with monthly purchases
tapered by $10 billion to a $75 billion pace, according to the
median estimate in the survey of 48 economists conducted Aug. 9-13. The Fed will probably end the bond buying, a strategy known
as quantitative easing, by mid-2014, the survey showed.  Taylor said papers delivered at this week’s Fed conference
reflect “quite a bit of skepticism” about how effective the
bond purchases were.  As  interest rates  move higher in anticipation of tapering
bond purchases, “that tends to offset whatever positive effects
there were” from the policy, he said.  Taylor said “there’s a lot of angst out there” about how
quickly the Fed will unwind quantitative easing.  “There’s 35 central banks represented at this
conference,” he said. “Many of them are concerned about the
impact of the exit on them.”  Bernanke Absent  The gathering began yesterday without  Ben S. Bernanke , who
became the first chairman to pass up the meeting since 1988.
 Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and Bank of Mexico
Governor Agustin Carstens are among the speakers at the three-day symposium held by the Kansas City Fed, entitled “Global
Dimensions of Unconventional Monetary Policy.”  Taylor first published in 1993 his interest-rate formula,
which measures where a central bank should set its policy rate
based on inflation and growth.  The Fed kept its main interest rate below the Taylor Rule
from 2001 to 2006. Taylor and other critics said the failure to
raise rates more quickly contributed to the housing bubble,
leading to the deepest recession in seven decades when it burst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  