-- State Laws Hinder Obamacare Effort to Enroll Uninsured
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-08-23T19:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/state-laws-hinder-obamacare-effort-to-enroll-uninsured.html
President  Barack Obama  has set aside
$67 million to make it easier to enroll in his health-care
overhaul. Laws pushed by Republicans in 12 states may keep that
from happening.  Under the Affordable Care Act, the U.S. government plans to
pay a network of local groups known as navigators to explain the
law’s new coverage options to the uninsured and guide them
through its online insurance markets.  New laws passed by a dozen Republican-led states, the
latest in Missouri last month, may make that harder, imposing
licensing exams, fines that can run as high as $1,000 and
training that almost doubles the hours required by the federal
government. Republicans say the measures will protect consumers.
Obamacare supporters say they’ll undermine the effort to get as
many people as possible enrolled.  The rules are “like voter intimidation,” said Sara Rosenbaum, a health law professor at George  Washington 
University in Washington, D.C., who supports Obama’s act. “In
many, many cases these laws may be a direct interference with
outreach assistance and that’s going to be quite serious.”  The Obama administration awarded 105 grants last week,
steering money to hospitals, social-service agencies, local
clinics and other  groups . The navigators are meant to offer
“unbiased information” to help people through the complexities
of the new system, with its deductibles, copays, provider
networks and tax credits, according to an Aug. 15  statement  from
the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services.  October Deadline  The grants were issued barely a month before the online
exchanges are scheduled to open for enrollment on Oct. 1. The
administration has said about 7 million people may enroll next
year and it needs to motivate millions of young, healthy
customers to sign up to keep the markets financially stable.  The state laws may complicate that task. The restrictions
go farthest in a handful of states like Georgia and  Missouri ,
where Republican legislators have already refused to set up the
new insurance websites or spend money to promote the law.  In  Florida  this week, Governor  Rick Scott  told a Miami
 audience  that federal privacy protections for consumers working
with navigators were “behind schedule and inadequate.” He
urged people to use brokers and agents instead.  Georgia Governor Nathan Deal, a Republican, believes
navigators need state regulation because they’ll give advice on
“a highly complicated and highly important topic,” his
spokesman,  Brian Robinson , said in an e-mail. They will also
handle personal information that is open to abuse.  Consumer Protection  “This is a consumer protection issue more than anything,”
said Kenneth Statz, an insurance broker on the legislative
council of the  National Association of Health Underwriters , a
Washington-based group representing agents and brokers. “We
just want to make sure that somebody who is sitting down with a
consumer, trying to help them make this major decision, is going
to be properly prepared.”  The state laws have passed with the backing of insurance
agents and brokers, who view the online exchanges as competition
and navigators as potential rivals with an unfair advantage
absent new rules.  States require agents to be licensed and undergo periodic
training, said Statz, who’s based in Brecksville,  Ohio . He also
has to carry insurance to protect clients who may be hurt by bad
advice or malpractice, he said.  The 2010 law is intended to prod millions of Americans to
buy health insurance, many for the first time. Those seeking
coverage must provide details on citizenship, family size and
income to determine whether they’re eligible for subsidies, and
complete a form that can stretch to seven pages.  Federal Requirements  While states controlled by Democrats such as  Maryland ,  New
York ,  Minnesota  and  Illinois  have also passed rules, these
generally follow federal requirements, said Mark Dorley, a
health-policy researcher at George Washington University.  Other states have been more restrictive.  Georgia’s  navigators need a license from the insurance
commissioner. Each person assisting the uninsured has to pay a
$50 application fee, complete 35 hours of training -- 15 more
than the federal requirement -- pass an exam, and complete a
criminal background check. Licenses must be renewed every year,
requiring another $50 and 15 more hours of training.  Missouri  defines navigators more broadly than the federal
government, said Andrea Routh, executive director of the
 Missouri Health Advocacy Alliance  in Jefferson City. Violating
certification requirements risks a $1,000 fine.  Seeking License  Routh’s group, which seeks to educate people on the health
law, didn’t apply for a grant. It may seek a license just to be
safe, she said.  “Anyone who does outreach and education, or anybody who
assists anyone with enrollment had better be checking that law
to see if they need to be licensed,” she said.  Missouri voters approved a ballot initiative last year
barring Governor Jay Nixon, a Democrat, from setting up the
exchange without the assent of the Republican-controlled
legislature, which has declined to act so far.  The rules may scare off churches, clinics or others who
want to help, said Cindy Zeldin, executive director of Georgians
for a Healthy Future. The Atlanta-based nonprofit was part of a
group that won a $2.1 million grant.  Georgia ’s law implies “navigators are somehow
problematic,” she said in a telephone interview, “rather than
that they’re groups that likely have a history of working in
communities and are trusted.”  ‘In Conversations’  The Obama administration has been “in conversations with
states” to ensure their laws don’t hinder the effort, said
Chiquita Brooks-Lasure, a deputy director at the federal health
department, in an Aug. 15 conference call with reporters.  The federal law doesn’t require background checks, though
navigators must provide quarterly reports and can lose their
grants in cases of fraud or abuse. The administration is
requiring them to undergo an initial 20 hours of training.  Some people opposed to Obama’s overhaul “want to see it
fail,” said Missouri Health’s Routh. “If you put a lot of
barriers in place that make it tough for nonprofits to go out
and educate people and assist them in understanding the
exchange, that may be one way to have it fail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  