-- Sugar Traders Most Bearish Since May on Weakening Rupee to Real
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-08-23T05:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/sugar-traders-most-bearish-since-may-on-weakening-rupee-to-real.html
Sugar traders are the most bearish
in three months as weaker currencies in  Brazil  and  India  spur
sales from the top growers and above-average monsoon rains
improve the outlook for the crop in the South Asian nation.  Thirteen of 15 traders surveyed by Bloomberg said they
expect raw sugar to fall next week and two were bullish. That’s
the highest  proportion  of bears since May 10. The Brazilian real
and the  Indian rupee  declined more than 7 percent in the past
month, the worst performers in a basket of 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. A weaker local currency boosts
revenue of overseas sales priced in dollars.  The monsoon in India, the world’s second-biggest grower and
largest sugar consumer, was 14 percent above average between
June 1 and Aug. 21, according to the  India Meteorological
Department . Output next season may exceed this year’s, said
Agriculture Minister  Sharad Pawar . A weaker real means sugar is
more profitable than ethanol in Brazil’s center south, the main
growing region of the world’s leading producer, according to
Lausanne, Switzerland-based researcher Kingsman SA.  “The monsoon has been good this year and the crop will
benefit from it,” said Emmanuel Jayet, head of statistics and
research in Paris at Sucres et Denrees SA, which ships more than
8 million metric tons of sugar a year. “We started with a
conservative forecast of somewhere between 22 million and 23
million tons as the area has decreased but with this good
monsoon we will likely have to have to increase our number.”  Ethanol Conversion  The amount of cane used to make sugar should increase from
45 percent seen in July, Jayet said, without providing a
forecast. Brazilian hydrous ethanol, the kind used in flex-fuel
cars, was trading at 16.02 cents a pound in sugar-equivalent
terms, according to Fabienne Pointier, an analyst at Kingsman.
Raw sugar futures closed yesterday at 16.28 cents a pound on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York .  Global sugar supplies will be 4.5 million tons higher than
demand in the 2013-14 season that starts Oct. 1, the
 International Sugar Organization  in London said yesterday.
That’s higher than a previous forecast of 3.5 million tons.
Sugar, down 16 percent this year, is heading for a third year of
declines, the longest slump since 1992.  India produced 25 million tons of sugar in the 2012-13
season ending Sept. 30, according to the Indian Sugar Mills
Association in  New Delhi . The nation will probably export
500,000 to 1.5 million tons of the sweetener next season because
of a lower rupee and local surpluses, said Manish Gupta, head of
sugar trading in India at  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)   Millers in Brazil’s center south will use 55 percent to 56
percent of all the cane harvested in the 2013-14 season that
started there in April to make ethanol, according to Sao Paulo-based Copersucar SA. That is down from a June forecast of 57.5
percent. A weaker real has lowered the so-called ethanol parity,
the price at which millers favor the biofuel over sugar, broker
Marex Spectron Group in London said on Aug. 19.  “The extra exports from India and from the ethanol parity
will put second half 2013, which had begun to look a little
tight, firmly back into surplus,” said Robin Shaw, an analyst
at Marex Spectron in  London . “The fact that current sugar
prices are well above the ethanol parity means that we have to
accept that Brazil should produce an extra 2.5 million to 3
million tons of sugar compared with 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  