-- U.K. Says Assad Regime Behind Syria Chemical Attack
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-08-23T13:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/u-k-says-assad-regime-behind-syria-chemical-attack.html
The U.K. accused Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s government of carrying out an attack using
chemical weapons that opposition groups say killed 1,300 people,
as calls grew for United Nations inspectors to be given access
to the site near Damascus.  “Some people in the world would like to say this is some
kind of conspiracy brought about by the opposition in Syria,”
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in  televised comments  in
London today. “I think the chances of that are vanishingly
small, and so we do believe that this is a chemical attack by
the Assad regime on a large scale.”  Hague, who spoke to U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  last
night and will confer with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  later today, said the “priority is to make sure the UN
team can investigate on the ground and establish the facts.”
President  Barack Obama  said the reports of chemical-weapons use
are “something that’s going to require America’s attention.”  Syrian troops yesterday renewed their artillery assault on
the Damascus suburb of Ghouta where opposition groups say that
hundreds were killed by toxic gas the day before. While the
attack hasn’t been independently confirmed, doctors on the scene
reported injuries consistent with the use of nerve gas and
pesticides, and photos and video footage posted on the Internet
showed bodies without visible wounds.  Ban Call  Earlier today, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he saw
“no good reason” for either side in  Syria ’s civil war to deny
a chance to get to the truth of what happened and that he’d
asked Assad’s government for its “full cooperation” to allow a
swift investigation by the UN team of chemical experts already
in Damascus.  “Any use of chemical weapons, anywhere, by anybody, under
any circumstances, would violate international law,” Ban said
in a speech in  Seoul . “Such a crime against humanity should
result in serious consequences.”  A chemical attack, if confirmed, would be a war crime and
the worst atrocity in 2 1/2 years of civil war in which more
than 100,000 Syrians have died and 2 million more have fled to
neighboring countries, according to UN estimates. The U.S. and
European powers have resisted opposition appeals for more help
as  Iran  and Lebanon’s Hezbollah militia bolster Assad.  The Russian Foreign Ministry said today that Lavrov and
Kerry agreed on the need to conduct an “objective
investigation” in a phone call yesterday.  Deteriorating Evidence  Hague said the UN Security Council would need to meet again
to strengthen the inspectors’ mandate if the team in Damascus
isn’t granted access to the site.  “Time is of the essence in these things -- the evidence
will deteriorate over a matter of days,” Hague said.  In an interview broadcast today on CNN’s “New Day”
program, Obama said allegations that Syria used chemical weapons
“on a large scale” get to “some core national interests that
the  United States  has, both in terms of us making sure that
weapons of mass destruction are not proliferating, as well as
needing to protect our allies, our bases in the region.”  Obama told  CNN  that “we don’t expect cooperation” from
Assad’s government, “given their past history.”  The “very troublesome” allegations indicate “that this
is clearly a big event of grave concern,” he said.  Obama, who in June pledged increased support for rebel
forces in Syria not allied with Muslim extremists, has
repeatedly said the use of chemical weapons by Assad’s regime
would cross a “red line” for the U.S.  UN Envoy  The UN secretary-general said he’d ordered his top envoy on
disarmament, Angela Kane, to travel to Damascus to discuss the
alleged attack. There’s “no time to waste” in seeking a halt
to hostilities as the situation in Syria “continues to
worsen,” Ban said.  The medical center in east Ghouta has counted 1,302 bodies,
according to a e-mailed statement yesterday from the Syrian
Support Group, a Washington-based nonprofit licensed to raise
funds for the opposition Free Syrian Army. Many civilian victims
were found unconscious in the street, the group said.  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said yesterday the
world should act “with force” if chemical weapons had been
deployed.  Hague said the U.K. government would not “rule out any
options for the future” should Syria refuse access to
inspectors. “Any option that complies with international law,
and could save innocent lives, we have to be open to those
options. But decisions about that would come later. Now, we have
to establish the facts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  