-- U.K. Said to Start $4.7 Billion Royal Mail IPO Next Month
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-08-23T11:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/u-k-said-to-start-4-7-billion-royal-mail-ipo-next-month.html
The U.K. government is targeting
September to start the sale of a majority stake in  Royal Mail 
Group Ltd., the 360-year-old postal service, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter.  Royal Mail may announce the intention to float in the
middle of the month and the initial public offering could open
for investors in October, with a potential valuation of about 3
billion pounds ($4.7 billion), the people said, asking not to be
identified as the details aren’t public yet.  Companies including theme park operator Merlin
Entertainments Group Ltd. and real estate broker Foxtons Ltd.
are lining up IPOs in  London , people familiar have told
 Bloomberg News . The listings may benefit from a pickup in U.K.
economic growth, which accelerated in the second quarter more
than initially forecast, according to data released today.  The U.K. plans to sell Royal Mail during the current
financial year and hasn’t decided on specific timing, the
Department for Business said in an e-mailed statement.  The government aims to stagger the Royal Mail IPO with two
other large share sales planned for the coming months, one of
the people said. The U.K. is considering selling about 5 billion
pounds of Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, as early as September, a person with knowledge of the
plan said in July. Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest
lender by assets, is also planning a 5.8 billion-pound rights
offering next month.  A Royal Mail spokeswoman declined to comment on the timing
or size of the IPO.  The government plans to dispose of a majority stake in
Royal Mail, including 10 percent of shares that employees will
receive for free, Business Secretary Vince Cable said in July.  The sale of Royal Mail will be the largest privatization in
Britain since former Prime Minister  John Major  broke up the
country’s railway in the 1990s. Royal Mail, one of the U.K.’s
biggest employers with about 159,000 workers, has sought to
adapt its letter-focused network to more lucrative shipping of
packages in the face of competition from  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  of the
Netherlands and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL Express unit.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Barclays and  Bank of
America  Merrill Lynch are among banks mandated for the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  