-- Uber’s Google-Led Deal Said to Value Company at $3.5 Billion
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-08-24T00:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/uber-s-google-led-funding-said-to-value-company-at-3-5-billion.html
Uber Technologies Inc., the
developer of a mobile application for car-service booking, said
it raised $258 million from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s venture-capital arm
and private-equity firm TPG Capital.  The financing values San Francisco-based Uber at about $3.5
billion, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
declined to be named because the valuation wasn’t disclosed.
Uber announced the funding on its blog.  “We couldn’t be more excited to embark on the next phase
of our journey with our new partners,” Travis Kalanick, Uber’s
chief executive officer, wrote in the blog post. “Our vision is
to build a technology company that changes transportation and
logistics in urban centers around the world, and this financing
gives us the fuel to make that a reality.”  David Drummond, Google’s senior vice president of corporate
development and chief legal officer, and David Bonderman, a TPG
co-founder, will join Uber’s board of directors, the post said.  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Uber, declined to comment on
the valuation.  Uber has grown the business sevenfold over the past year,
Kalanick said in Taipei last month for the service’s debut
there. Kalanick said in an interview at the time that Uber was
seeking hundreds of millions of dollars to fund its expansion to
cities in  China  and around the world.  The company is opening in new markets, seeking to promote
its products before upstarts, such as Hailo and Lyft Inc., can
dominate in cities where Uber doesn’t yet operate.  Earlier this month, Uber said in a corporate disclosure
that it had raised $88.4 million from TPG and an additional $15
million from Benchmark, an existing investor. The remaining
shares to be issued were valued at $258 million, according to
the filing.  AllThingsD  reported yesterday on the filing and valuation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Milian in San Francisco at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  