-- UN’s Ban Presses Assad on Syria Chemical-Arms Inquiry
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-08-23T15:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/un-chief-ban-says-no-time-to-waste-on-syria-chemical-arms-probe.html
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon pressed for a UN team to gain access to the site of an
alleged chemical attack in Syria, saying he sees “no good
reason” for either side in the civil war to deny a chance to
get to the truth of what happened.  Ban said today he has asked Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government for its “full cooperation” so that the UN
team of chemical experts already in Damascus can “swiftly
investigate” the Aug. 21 attack that opposition groups say
killed as many as 1,300 people.  “Any use of chemical weapons, anywhere, by anybody, under
any circumstances, would violate international law,” Ban said
in a speech in  Seoul . “Such a crime against humanity should
result in serious consequences.”  A chemical attack, if confirmed, would be a war crime and
the worst atrocity in 2 1/2 years of civil war in which more
than 100,000 Syrians have died and 2 million more have fled to
neighboring countries, according to UN estimates. The U.S. and
European powers have resisted opposition appeals for more help
as  Iran  and Lebanon’s Hezbollah militia bolster Assad.  The secretary-general said he has ordered his top envoy on
disarmament affairs, Angela Kane, to travel to Damascus to
discuss the alleged chemical attack. There’s “no time to
waste” in seeking a halt to hostilities as the situation in
 Syria  “continues to worsen,” Ban said.  Artillery Assault  Syrian troops yesterday renewed their artillery assault on
the Damascus suburb of Ghouta where opposition groups say that
hundreds were killed by toxic gas.  While the alleged chemical attack hasn’t been independently
confirmed, doctors on the scene reported injuries consistent
with the use of nerve gas and pesticides, and photos and video
footage posted on the Internet showed bodies without visible
wounds.  The medical center in East Ghouta has counted 1,302 bodies,
according to a e-mailed statement yesterday from the Syrian
Support Group, a Washington-based nonprofit licensed to raise
funds for the opposition Free Syrian Army.  Many civilian victims were found unconscious in the street,
the group said. Two nurses treating victims of the attack have
reportedly died after being exposed to chemical residue on their
patients, according to the group, whose description of the
attack’s aftermath couldn’t be independently verified.  ‘Very Troublesome’  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said the “very troublesome”
allegations indicate “that this is clearly a big event of grave
concern.” In an interview broadcast today on CNN’s “New Day”
program, Obama said reports of chemicals weapons use by Syria
are “something that’s going to require America’s attention.”  U.S. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters
in  Washington  yesterday that “right now, we are unable to
conclusively determine” the use of chemical arms. She said that
U.S. officials are doing “everything possible within our power
to nail down the facts.”  The opposition’s allegations against Assad’s regime have
stirred calls for a swift international response. French Foreign
Minister Laurent Fabius said the world should act “with force”
if chemical weapons were deployed.  “If it’s true, the position of  France  is that there needs
to be a reaction,” Fabius said on France’s RMC radio. “That
reaction can take the form of force.”  Attack by Assad   U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said, “We do believe
that this is a chemical attack by the Assad regime on a large
scale.” The “priority is to make sure the UN team can
investigate on the ground and establish the facts,” he said in
televised comments in  London  today.  Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich
told reporters in Moscow yesterday that Syria, which has denied
using chemical weapons, has pledged “maximum cooperation” with
the UN experts.  Russia  is a long-time ally of the Assad regime
and one of the Syrian government’s top arms suppliers.  The Obama administration urged the Assad regime to let the
UN inspectors visit the location of the alleged attack to
conduct a full investigation.  “That means allowing them to interview witnesses,” White
House spokesman  Josh Earnest  told reporters yesterday. “That
means allowing them to collect physical samples. And that allows
them unfettered access to the region so that they can do their
work.”  Obama, who in June pledged increased support for rebel
forces in Syria not allied with Muslim extremists, has
repeatedly said the use of chemical weapons by Assad’s regime
would cross a “red line” for the U.S.  Geneva Talks  Plans for peace talks in conjunction with the U.S. and
Russia have stalled for months as Assad’s regime and opposition
leaders jockey for stronger positions.  Ban said he’s working closely with U.S. Secretary of State
 John Kerry  and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  to convene
a peace conference in Geneva “as soon as possible” to settle
the Syria crisis.  “All the technical, logistical preparations are now
complete,” Ban said of the Geneva talks. “It is a matter of
time when we can and the parties are ready to participate.”  Kerry and Lavrov have struggled to bring the warring sides
together to negotiate peace on the basis of an agreement
brokered in talks last year, also held in Geneva. The follow-up
meeting, dubbed “Geneva II,” has yet to occur after being
repeatedly put off since May with no set dates or deadlines.  Deputies to Kerry and Lavrov are scheduled to meet in the
Hague on Aug. 28, Psaki said yesterday. U.S. Ambassador to Syria
 Robert Ford  will meet leaders of the main political opposition,
the Syrian National Coalition, in Istanbul ahead of talks with
the Russians, Psaki said.  It would be the first meeting of American and Russian
officials since reports of the alleged chemical weapons attack
this week.  Dangerous Crisis  Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN and the  Arab League ’s special envoy
on Syria, said the “outrageous” alleged use of chemical arms
will expedite international efforts to convene talks in Geneva.
Brahimi said he recently relocated to Geneva from  New York  to
focus on preparing for a possible meeting in September,
according to an e-mailed transcript of his interview today with
UNTV.  Brahimi said he couldn’t definitively determine whether a
conference will be held next month because the warring parties
haven’t yet agreed that a political solution is the only way to
end the fighting, according to the transcript.  “This allegation, that chemical weapons have been used a
few kilometers from the heart of Damascus, as a matter of fact
emphasizes the importance of this crisis and the danger it
represents, not only for the Syrian people, not only for the
region, but for the world,” Brahimi said.  There is “no doubt” that resolution of the Syrian crisis
will dominate discussions at the UN General Assembly as well as
a Group of 20 meeting in Russia next month,  he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  