-- UN Says One-Millionth Child Refugee Flees Syrian Conflict
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-08-23T19:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/un-says-one-millionth-child-refugee-flees-syrian-conflict.html
The number of children among
refugees who have fled Syria’s civil war has reached 1 million,
the  United Nations  said today.  Children account for half of all refugees who have flooded
across Syria’s borders into neighboring Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey
and  Iraq , while increasing numbers are fleeing to  Europe  and
North Africa, according to a statement from the  United Nations
Children’s Fund , known as Unicef, and the UN High Commissioner
for Refugees.  “This one millionth child refugee is not just another
number,” Unicef Executive Director Anthony Lake said in the e-mailed statement. “This is a real child ripped from home, maybe
even from a family, facing horrors we can only begin to
comprehend.”  The UN refugee agency pointed to an 8-year-old girl from
Homs, named Aya, as representing the toll on  Syria ’s youth. With
bombs rattling their home and kidnappings becoming common, Aya’s
family drove to Lebanon’s Bekaa Valley, where the girl lives in
a makeshift tent with her parents, four sisters and two
brothers,  according  to an agency fact sheet.  Family members work in nearby vegetable fields to earn
money while Aya cares for an older sister who has Down Syndrome.
While the girl wants to be a pediatrician, she doesn’t go to
school because her family can’t afford $20 a month for
transportation costs, the agency said.  Living Costs  The exodus from Syria is growing as the cost of living has
almost tripled due to the plunging value of the Syrian pound,
Unicef said in a report on its  website . Families have lost the
ability to protect their children from malnutrition and
diarrhea, according to the report.  An additional 2 million children inside Syria have been
forced from their homes by fighting between President Bashar al-Assad’s troops and rebel forces, the UN agencies said.  “The youth of Syria are losing their homes, their family
members and their futures,”  Antonio Guterres , the UN high
commissioner for refugees, said in the statement. “Even after
they have crossed a border to safety, they are traumatized,
depressed and in need of a reason for hope.”  Forced Labor  The child refugees, about three-quarters of them under the
age of 11, face threats from forced labor, early marriage and
sexual exploitation and trafficking, according to the statement.
The UN’s Syria Regional Refugee Response plan, which is part of
“the largest humanitarian operation in history,” has raised
only 38 percent of the $3 billion it needs, according to the
statement.  More than 100,000 Syrians have died in the conflict that
began in March 2011 on the heels of the widespread revolts in
Arab nations. About 7,000 of the dead are children, according to
the UN High Commissioner for  Human Rights .  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said today that the
humanitarian situation in Syria “continues to worsen” and
called for the resumption of negotiations to end the conflict.  “The Syrian people have suffered enough far too long,”
Ban said in remarks in  Seoul . “The time has clearly come for
the parties to stop shooting, and start talking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  