-- Murder Convictions of Najib’s Ex-Guards Overturned in Malaysia
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-08-23T10:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/murder-convictions-of-najib-s-ex-guards-overturned-in-malaysia.html
Malaysia’s Court of Appeal
 overturned  the conviction of two of Prime Minister Najib Razak’s
former police guards who had been sentenced to death for the
2006 murder of a Mongolian woman.  A three-person panel chaired by Justice Mohamed Apandi Ali
ruled that misdirections by the trial judge rendered their
convictions unsafe, the Star newspaper reported online today.
Attorney-General Abdul Gani Patail said he will appeal today’s
decision in the Federal Court, the country’s highest court.  “The prosecution is dissatisfied with the decision,”
Abdul Gani said in an e-mailed statement. “The misdirection by
the trial court is not the fault of the prosecution.”  Special Action Unit officers Sirul Azhar Umar and Azilah
Hadri, who were part of a rotating pool of policemen who guarded
Najib, were sentenced to death for killing 28-year-old Altantuya Shaariibuu. Najib, deputy prime minister at the time, has denied
any connection to her death. His former adviser Abdul Razak Baginda, who admitted an affair with Altantuya, was acquitted in
2008 of abetting the killing due to lack of evidence.  “With their release, people will be asking even more
questions on who did the murder,” Wan Saiful Wan Jan, chief
executive officer of the Institute for Democracy and Economic
Affairs, said in a phone interview today. “The timing is awful
for Najib with the UMNO leadership elections coming up. This
will add pressure on him.”  The United Malays Nasional Organisation, or UMNO, is the
biggest political party in the coalition that has governed
 Malaysia  since independence in 1957. Najib is waiting to see if
he’ll be challenged for the party’s presidency after leading the
alliance to its narrowest victory in five decades during the
general election in May.  Affair, Blackmail  “Today’s acquittal is a matter for the courts,” the
government said in an e-mailed statement. “The Malaysian
judiciary is robust and independent, and the prosecution have
stated their intention to appeal.”  Abdul Razak had been head of the Malaysian Strategic
Research Centre, a Kuala Lumpur-based organization that was
founded by Najib in 1993. During his trial, the political
analyst said he had an affair with the model who later
blackmailed him.  During earlier hearings, police said they found the
victim’s bone fragments in the jungle and her family claimed she
was shot and then blown apart with plastic explosives. Rosmah Mansor, Najib’s wife, denied being present at the murder in a
biography released this year, and said she had been questioned
by police at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  