-- US Airways Must Face Frequent Flier’s Suit Over Credit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-23T18:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/us-airways-must-face-frequent-flier-s-suit-over-credit.html
US Airways Group (LCC)  must face a lawsuit
from a frequent flier claiming the carrier is cheating its
loyalty rewards program members when determining how many miles
they’ve flown.  U.S. District Judge Harry D. Leinenweber in Chicago today
denied the airline’s bid for dismissal of the lawsuit filed this
year by Dividend Miles program member Annette Kwok of
Washington.  Kwok claims the airline “misled and deceived millions of
its members” by crediting them with fewer miles than they’ve
actually flown in conflict with the terms of its program
membership guide.  “While defendants argue that the guide’s unambiguous
language illustrates that they are not in breach, the court
disagrees,” Leinenweber said.  Kwok cited, as one example of being short-changed by  US
Airways , the carrier’s decision to award her 313 miles (504
kilometers) for a flight from Washington’s Reagan National
Airport to Bradley International Airport near Hartford,
Connecticut. She said the trip was 398 miles from origin to
destination.  The airline accounted for the discrepancy in court papers,
saying that it counts miles based on point-to-point distance and
not the flight’s actual route, according to Leinenweber.  Membership Guide  The judge said that elsewhere in the membership guide, the
airline says the points earned are based on actual miles.  Claiming breach of contract, Kwok is seeking group status
on behalf of all current and former Dividend Miles Program
members who have been awarded less miles than flown on
qualifying flights plus unspecified compensatory damages.  The Tempe, Arizona-based airline’s media relations
department didn’t immediately respond to a phone message seeking
comment on today’s ruling.  The U.S.  Justice Department  on Aug. 13 sued to block U.S.
Airways’ planned merger with  AMR Corp’s (AAMRQ)   American Airlines , which
would create the world’s biggest airline.  The case is Kwok v. US Airways Group, 13-cv-02068, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  