-- Wall Street Swaps Claim Detroit Cash Over Retirees: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-08-23T16:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/wall-street-swaps-claim-detroit-cash-over-retirees-muni-credit.html
As Nobel Prize-winning economist
 Joseph Stiglitz  sees it, banks that sold interest-rate swaps to
 Detroit  “should be at the bottom in line” among those paid in
the city’s record bankruptcy.  Instead, they may be first, ahead of retired city workers
and investors. UBS AG and  Bank of America Corp. , which sold the
swaps to the city as a way to cut the cost of borrowing for
pension contributions, won the preferential treatment in 2009,
four years before Detroit’s $18 billion bankruptcy filing. The
banks probably will get 75 percent of what they’re owed while
unsecured bondholders and pensioners will get less than 20
percent under Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr’s plan to restructure.  “It’s a perversity when those with no skin in the game
have a better chance of getting paid than those who put up real
cash,” said Joseph Fichera, chief executive officer of Saber
Partners, a  New York  financial adviser to companies and
governments. “The bondholders had money at risk up front, skin
in the game, with a promise for future payments.”  The city’s bankruptcy, the largest municipal filing in U.S.
history, highlights weak regulation of banks and advisers that
structure deals in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market, said
Marcus Stanley, policy director for Americans for Financial
Reform, a Washington-based group that seeks stronger bank
regulation.  ‘Glaring Example’  “It’s a glaring example of why we need stronger regulation
of the banks and advisers who put the money of investors and
taxpayers at risk,” said Stanley. The bankruptcy shows “what
happens to cities when they’re sold products that only benefit
the banks.”  Detroit was among dozens of cities, counties and school
districts that once purchased unregulated derivatives contracts
from Wall Street banks, a step that promised to reduce  borrowing
costs .  Interest-rate swaps  are derivatives in which two parties
agree to trade interest payments on a set amount of debt,
letting one side create a fixed payment on variable-rate debt.
They were sold to municipal issuers as a way of cutting
borrowing costs on debt with variable  interest rates  as well as
a hedge against rising rates.  Unexpected Costs  Public officials were often unaware of the large bank fees
and risks associated with such trades, which resulted in
billions of dollars in unexpected costs. As borrowing costs fell
to near historic lows in recent years, the agreements backfired
and forced U.S. municipal borrowers to make more than $4 billion
of payments to end them, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Policy and public-finance specialists are questioning
traditional assumptions used to set priority in bankruptcy.
Stiglitz, 70, an economics professor at  Columbia University  who
won the  Nobel Prize  in 2001, and  Robert Johnson , president of
the Institute for New Economic Thinking, a New York public-policy organization, questioned the treatment of retired city
workers and general-obligation bondholders in a conference call
with reporters last month.  Orr’s treatment of general-obligation holders as unsecured,
even though they expect to have the full backing of a government
borrower, also has drawn the wrath of investors and analysts.
Orr, 55, was appointed by Michigan Republican Governor  Rick Snyder .  ‘Terrible Precedent’  “I have a problem when people give 40 years of their lives
to earn a pension and now we want to take that away,” said
Johnson in a interview. “It’s a terrible precedent.”  Detroit next month will ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes for permission to buy its way out of the swaps contract
at a discount as part of a settlement with UBS and Bank of
America.  Under the proposal filed by the city on July 18, swap
providers would be paid at least 75 percent of what they’re
owed, depending on when the contract is canceled. City attorney
Corinne Ball, a partner at  Jones Day  in New York, said in court
on Aug. 21 that the discounted value of the swaps was about $190
million.  That means the swaps providers are owed about $253.3
million. Retirees and many of the city’s other unsecured
debtholders, with about $11.5 billion of claims, were asked to
take about $2 billion, or 17 percent, under Orr’s June 14
proposal.  Bond insurer Syncora Guarantee Inc. has asked the judge to
reject the settlement. Syncora is also suing the swap providers
in federal court in New York over the settlement.  Alleging Harm  Syncora is seeking to stop the swap providers from settling
with the city, claiming that the bond insurer could be
economically harmed by the deal.  Detroit now owes $1.4 billion from debt it issued in 2005
and 2006 to fund its pension contributions. That includes fees
of $108.2 million to sell and insure the debt. About $18 million
of that went to underwriters, including UBS and Merrill Lynch,
which later became part of Bank of America.  The swap providers may be paid ahead of other creditors
because they negotiated to have payments to them treated as
secured debt backed by collateral, said Mark Berman, a
bankruptcy attorney with the law firm of Nixon Peabody in
 Boston , who isn’t working on the Detroit case.  “Secured creditors are at the top of the food chain,” he
said.  ‘Massive Default’  Swap providers protected their position in 2009 when
Detroit faced paying about $400 million to end the agreements
after its ratings were cut. In exchange for not pushing the city
to make the payment, equal to about one-fourth of its budget,
the banks asked the city to agree to pledge a secured revenue
stream from gambling  tax revenue .  “Everyone was facing the possibility of a massive default
by the city,” Ball told Rhodes at the Aug. 21 hearing. “So the
city did the responsible thing.”  The agreement vaulted the swap providers ahead of other
creditors, including those who bought the $1.4 billion of bonds
sold in 2005 and 2006 for pension costs that were tied to the
swaps.  “The holders of those derivatives got moved up in the
 capital structure ,” said Johnson. “The settlement raises the
question of whether the city officials who entered the
agreements knew what they were doing.”  Freeing Cash  By settling with the swap providers, Orr freed up about $10
million a month. Under the agreement, the city was paying the
providers about $50 million a year. Orr’s settlement saves the
city $80 million and provides funds to improve city services,
said Bill Nowling, Orr’s spokesman, in an e-mail.  Bill Halldin , spokesman for Bank of America, and  Karina Byrne , UBS spokeswoman, declined to comment on the arrangements.  Changing bankruptcy policy to prevent any debt, even one
generated by a losing swaps contract, from being backed by
collateral would be a mistake, Berman said.  “It’s a way to ensure yourself that you’re going to get
paid,” he said. “There is no reason in my mind why anybody
dealing with a borrower shouldn’t be able to analyze the risk of
payment or default and where the risk is high to negotiate for
collateral.”  Congress in 2010 approved the Dodd-Frank law that regulated
derivatives for the first time. Rules since adopted by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission place stricter standards on
banks when entering into contracts with municipalities. Separate
rules enforced by the Securities and Exchange Commission require
greater disclosure of the risks in bond deals such as the one in
Detroit.  City Wagers  Cities shouldn’t be allowed to use their money to bet on
interest rates, Stiglitz said in last month’s conference call.  “Municipalities have a long history of betting and not
getting anything in return,” said  Robert Brooks , finance
professor at the  University of Alabama  in Tuscaloosa, in an
interview. “That’s not a strategy municipalities should be
pursuing.”  States and cities plan to borrow $4.5 billion of long-term
debt next week, led by  California ’s $764 million general-obligation bond deal, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At  3.1 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year muni bonds are
at their highest since April 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That compares with  2.9 percent  for Treasuries with similar
maturity.  The ratio of the two yields, which shows relative value, is
about  107 percent , higher than the five-year average of 101
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Following is a pending sale:  Atlanta will sell about $568.7 million in revenue bonds
tied to its water and sewer system as early as Aug. 26 to
finance refunding of earlier debt, a sale document shows. The
system had about $596.7 million in 2012 operating receipts, with
about $404.5 million available to repay obligations, according
to the document. It lists about $3.2 billion in long-term debt
as of March. The tax-exempt bonds are rated Aa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its fourth-highest grade. Units of Wells
Fargo & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are managing the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  