-- Kuchar Leads U.S. PGA Tour’s Barclays Event, Woods Is Five Back
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-08-24T04:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/webb-simpson-leads-u-s-pga-tour-s-barclays-playoff-opener.html
Matt Kuchar has a one-shot lead over
fellow Americans  Webb Simpson  and Gary Woodland during the
second round of the Barclays tournament, the opening event in
the U.S. PGA Tour’s playoff series.  Kuchar had finished 13 holes and was at 10 under par when
play was suspended last night by darkness. He will finish his
second round this morning at Liberty National Golf Club in
Jersey City, New Jersey.  Simpson and Woodland already have finished their second
rounds at 9-under 133.  Rickie Fowler , Keegan Bradley and Masters
Tournament winner Adam Scott are through two rounds at 7-under
135, while U.S. Open champion Justin Rose is 7 under through 14
holes in his second round.  “It feels great to play good on a long day,” Simpson, who
finished up 11 holes from the first round yesterday and then
added 18 holes in the second round, said in a news conference.
“When you’re playing well, you feel like could you play 40
holes in a day.”  Tiger Woods had three bogeys in a five-hole span during his
round and was five shots off the lead at 5 under through 13
holes of the second round. He started the round late yesterday
afternoon after the opening day was halted twice by
thunderstorms.  Woods, who entered the tournament atop the season-long
FedEx Cup points standings with five wins this season, was among
63 players who returned to the course yesterday morning to
finish their first 18 holes.  “I got off to a great start today and then lost it the
middle part of the round and made too many mistakes,” Woods
told reporters. “Didn’t hit any greens. Consequently, made some
bogeys.”  Playoff Format  British Open winner Phil Mickelson is at 2 under after
rounds of 71 and 69. The left-hander returned to the course
yesterday morning with 12 holes still to play.  “I’m hitting a lot more good shots and fewer bad shots,
but I’m still not quite dialed in and the putter has been just a
little bit off,” Mickelson said in a news conference.  The top 125 players in the standings qualified for the
Barclays. The top 100 players on the points list following the
Barclays qualify for the  Deutsche Bank Championship  at TPC
Boston from Aug. 30 to Sept. 2. After that, the top 70 move on
to the BMW Championship outside  Chicago  from Sept. 12 to 15.  The top 30 in the standings then compete for the FedEx Cup
title and the $10 million bonus at the Tour Championship in
Atlanta from Sept. 19 to 22.  Woods entered the Barclays tournament with a 766-point lead
over Kuchar in the competition for the FedEx Cup title.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  