-- Wells Fargo Eyes Rise in Asia Fund-Services Clients
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-08-24T04:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/wells-fargo-eyes-20-annual-growth-in-asia-fund-services-clients.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the world’s most
valuable bank, plans to expand the number of fund services
clients in Asia by as much as 20 percent a year, said
Christopher Kundro, co-head of the bank’s global fund services
division.  The administrator of $30 billion of assets globally has 20
clients receiving its fund services in the region, New York-based Kundro said in a telephone interview. The majority of them
are single-manager  hedge funds , in addition to traditional,
private-equity and hybrid funds, he said.  Wells Fargo is trying to gain business in a region whose
economic growth and potential opportunities for investment have
attracted boutique shops to compete for fund clients with the
likes of  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and  State Street Corp. (STT)  The region
represents about 15 percent of its global fund services revenue
at the moment, according to Kundro.  “In terms of geographical expansion, we’re looking more
toward funds in Hong Kong,” he said. Increasing high-yield
issuance in the region will play to the advantage of the bank,
which has traditional expertise in complex funds such as those
that focus on credit and  emerging markets , he added.  Asia-Pacific region issuers raised $1.8 trillion from bond
sales since the beginning of 2012, exploiting low  interest rates 
and narrow credit spreads, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That was 18 percent more than the two full years
before.  Asia Expansion  Wells Fargo’s fund services business traces its roots to
Cargill Inc.’s Black River Asset Management LLC hedge-fund unit.
Its global fund-services division has operated out of a
Singapore office since January 2007, according to Kundro.  In December, it announced the opening of a Hong Kong office
and the hiring of Johnson Har as a vice president of business
development and client relationships to help gain customers in
the city.  Unlike some competitors that support clients with staff
based out of the region, its 40-people-strong staff in  Asia  is
able to provide traditional administration and outsourced
middle-and-back-office operations, Kundro added.  Those include calculating daily profits and losses,
reconciling trades with prime brokers, clearing transactions
that don’t go through prime brokers, and managing cash and
collaterals for over-the-counter derivative trades.  “Given the size of some of the funds in Asia, they
effectively have a lot of benefits outsourcing that function,”
he said, referring to smaller hedge funds farming out such tasks
to service providers, instead of maintaining a large in-house
operational team.  The number of Asian clients of Wells Fargo’s fund services
division has increased about 10 percent to 15 percent a year,
Kundro said.  “We’re not trying to be a hundred-billion-dollar
administrator,” he said, adding that they’re looking for long-term clients which are profitable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  