-- World Cup Opens Arbitrage Opportunity for Brazil Boy
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-08-23T13:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/world-cup-opens-arbitrage-opportunity-for-brazil-boy.html
The freefalling Brazilian real is
unintentionally creating a boon for soccer fans seeking tickets
to next year’s  World Cup , with the currency’s tumble opening up
a 20 percent difference between local and overseas prices.  “What an arbitrage opportunity,”  John Welch , a strategist
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto who was raised
in Brazil and plans to attend the tournament next June, said in
a phone interview. “Without a doubt some people will be
transferring dollars at the market rate and then buying tickets
in reais.”  Soccer governing body FIFA set a rate of 2 reais per dollar
for pricing tickets that went on sale this week, compared with
2.4009 on international  currency markets  today. The real has
tumbled 17 percent in the past three months, the most among 31
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The real is bearing the brunt of an exodus from  emerging
markets  as the U.S. Federal Reserve prepares to reduce the money
it pumps into the world economy. To stem the decline, which
threatens to push inflation above the 6.5 percent upper limit of
the government’s target range,  Brazil ’s central bank has sold
more than $54 billion of swaps since the end of May and
announced yesterday a $60 billion intervention program.  Starting today, the central bank will auction $1 billion of
dollar loans on Fridays and offer the equivalent of $500 million
of foreign-exchange swaps daily, Monday through Thursday, it
said in a statement. The program will run through Dec. 31.  Cutting Forecasts  Analysts have had trouble keeping up with the real’s
decline, reducing their year-end forecasts for the currency to
2.25 per dollar, from 2 in June, according to the median of more
than 40 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Banco Santander SA, the second-most-accurate forecaster for
the real in the second quarter according to Bloomberg data, sees
the currency strengthening to 2.3 per dollar by the end of the
year. The real dropped to as low as 2.4549 on Aug. 21, the
weakest level since December 2008, and gained as much as 2.3
percent today to 2.3802.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  convened an emergency
meeting Aug. 21 with senior finance officials, including central
bank President Alexandre Tombini, to discuss the real’s drop.  Policy makers have raised the target lending  rate  by 1.25
percentage points this year to 8.5 percent and will increase it
again to 9 percent on Aug. 28, according to all 16 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Carry Trade  “The recent depreciation of the Brazilian real has brought
it back to equilibrium levels,” strategists including Claudio Irigoyen at Bank of America Corp. in  New York  wrote in a client
note yesterday. “A more aggressive central bank exchange-rate
intervention and interest-rate hikes” may support the currency,
the analysts wrote, revising their year-end forecasts to 2.4 per
dollar from 2.2 previously.  Brazil has the second-highest benchmark interest rate in
the Group of 20 after  Argentina . The high rate had attracted
investors in carry trades who borrow money in countries with
lower borrowing costs and invest the proceeds elsewhere.  That’s changing as capital flees the country on
expectations that the Fed is preparing to reduce its $85 billion
of monthly bond purchases. Minutes of the Federal Open Market
Committee meeting published Aug. 21 showed that most members
were “broadly comfortable” with the plan to trim stimulus in
2013.  Falling Apart  Growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy has stagnated,
further hastening the flow of capital from the country. Brazil’s
 gross domestic product  expanded 1.9 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, official data showed May 29, falling short
of the 2.3 percent growth forecast by economists.  “Carry trades only work when countries have high  interest
rates  and high growth,”  Tony Volpon , the head of emerging-market research for the Americas at Nomura Holdings Inc., said
in an Aug. 20 phone interview from New York. “They tend to fall
apart quickly when you have low growth.”  FIFA  determined its exchange rate for the real in May based
on a year-ahead forecast for the currency by 30 international
banks, the soccer governing body said in an e-mailed statement.
Ticket prices range from $90 for a group-stage match to $990 for
a seat for the final in  Rio de Janeiro .  Only residents of Brazil can buy tickets in reais for
themselves and as many as three named guests, and proceeds of
local sales are used for expenses in the country, limiting
organizers’ exposure to currency fluctuations, FIFA said.  ‘Way Undervalued’  South Africans  also benefited from a favorable  exchange
rate  when tickets went on sale for the 2010 World Cup, though
the price gap vanished by the time the tournament started 16
months later. The nation’s rand, which strengthened 12 percent
that year, has slipped 7.2 percent in the past three months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Welch, 53, who’s married to a Brazilian, said the real is
“way undervalued.” His firm had the third most-accurate
forecast for the currency in the second quarter, and he sees it
strengthening to about 2.15 per dollar by year-end, depending on
the government’s policy response to its slide.  “It will be very difficult for the real to get back to 2
reais per dollar,”  Jankiel Santos , the chief economist at Banco
Espirito Santo de Investimentos, said in an Aug. 21 phone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “Not even winning the World Cup will
be enough to reverse pessimism with regard to inconsistencies on
the economic policy front.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  