-- Oil Gains as U.S. Home Data Eases Concern on Stimulus
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-08-23T19:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/wti-falls-on-signs-stimulus-to-ease-as-libya-output.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
climbed the most in two weeks after a drop in purchases of newly
built U.S. homes last month bolstered speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will defer tapering stimulus measures.  Futures rose 1.3 percent after government data showed sales
of  new homes  fell by the most in more than three years. Minutes
from the Fed’s July policy meeting recorded that members were
“broadly comfortable” with curbing bond buying this year if
the economy improves. Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said the bank should pledge not to raise the benchmark
 interest rate  as long as inflation is below 1.5 percent.  “The market rebounded after the release of the pretty-horrific July home numbers,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of
commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston. “The housing
data appears to have put fears of a quick end of stimulus to
rest. Housing has been one of the stronger sectors of the
economy recently.”  WTI crude for October delivery increased $1.39 to settle at
$106.42 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest gain since Aug. 9. Prices fell 1 percent this week. The
volume of all futures traded was about 12 percent below the 100-day average at 2:46 p.m.  Brent oil for October settlement advanced $1.14, or 1
percent, to end the session at $111.04 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. Trading of futures was 3.4
percent above the 100-day average. The European benchmark crude
settled at a $4.62 premium to WTI, down from $4.87 yesterday.  New Homes  Sales of newly built homes fell 13.4 percent to a 394,000
annualized pace in July, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . A decrease to 487,000 was projected,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Last
month’s decline was the biggest since May 2010.  “The housing report was a shocker,” said Rich Ilczyszyn,
chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in  Chicago .
“It’s so poor and it does open up the door to potentially no
Fed tapering in September. If that’s the case, you are going to
see a bit of a risk-on trading and that’s what is pushing up
crude oil.”  Fed officials have been scrutinizing data to determine
whether the economy is strong enough to reduce stimulus. Fed
Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  told Bloomberg
Television that he wouldn’t rule out a September move to start
tapering as long as the economy’s performance justifies it.  Dollar Weakness  Commodities climbed as the dollar weakened. The currency
fell as much as 0.4 percent to $1.341 per euro. A declining U.S.
currency increases the appeal of dollar-denominated commodities
as an investment. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials gained 0.9 percent.  “The big part of the run seems to be due to the drop in
the dollar after the bad housing data,” said  Phil Flynn , senior
market analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago.
“Commodities across the board got a little bit of a boost. The
dollar definitely played into it.”  Futures also rose on signs that European economic growth is
accelerating while violence in the  Middle East  escalates. Euro-area  consumer confidence  increased more than economists
estimated in August, a report from the European Commission in
Brussels showed today.  U.K. Growth  U.K. economic growth expanded more than initially estimated
in the second quarter.  Gross domestic product  increased 0.7
percent from the first quarter, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in  London  today. That’s up from an initial
estimate of 0.6 percent published on July 25.  Israel said it bombed a site in Lebanon today in response
to the first rocket attack from that country in almost two
years, adding to the turmoil gripping the Middle East.  “There’s support from the improving economic outlook in
Europe,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The tumult
in the Middle East and North Africa continues to raise concerns
about supply. The Israeli attack today is a reminder of how
volatile the situation is.”  The flare-up along the Israeli-Lebanese border comes at a
time of upheaval in the region.  Egypt  is reeling from the
violent aftermath of President Mohamed Mursi’s ouster and more
than 100,000 have been killed in Syria’s civil war, according to
United Nations estimates.  Explosions near two Sunni Muslim mosques in Lebanon’s
northern city of Tripoli during Friday prayers killed at least
29 people and wounded more than 500, the official National News
Agency said. The bombings occurred at a time of heightened
tensions between Sunni and Shiite communities as the sectarian
war in  Syria  spills into Lebanon.  WTI Outlook  WTI may drop next week on speculation that demand from
refineries will slow with the end of the peak-demand summer
driving season next month, a Bloomberg survey shows. Twenty of
33 analysts and traders, or 61 percent, forecast futures will
decline. Seven respondents projected a gain and six said there
would be no change.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 20.9 percent, down from 21.5 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 481,689
contracts as of 2:46 p.m. It totaled 457,856 contracts
yesterday, 29 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.82 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  