-- Xiaomi Director Says Valuation Reaches $10 Billion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-23T04:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/xiaomi-director-says-valuation-reaches-10-billion.html
Xiaomi Corp., the three-year-old
smartphone maker that overtook  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone in  China , has
a valuation of $10 billion after completing its latest round of
funding, according to a board member.  Hans Tung, a director of Xiaomi, confirmed the valuation in
an e-mail today, declining to provide further details of the
fundraising. Founder and CEO Lei Jun confirmed the estimate for
the closely held company earlier today on his  verified account 
on  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s Weibo microblog.  Xiaomi said it had a valuation of $4 billion in June 2012
after raising $216 million, bolstering a company backed by
Temasek Holdings Pte and Tung’s Qiming Venture Partners. Since
then it has announced plans to more than double handset sales to
15 million this year, struck a deal to supply devices to  China
Mobile Ltd (941)  and risen to sixth in the nation’s smartphone market,
one place ahead of Apple.  “It’s surprising to see such a small company reach such a
high valuation of $10 billion,” Nicole Peng, the Shanghai-based
China research director for Canalys, said in a phone interview
today. Xiaomi has the potential to grow and challenge companies
including  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and Huawei Technologies Co., she
said.  A $10 billion valuation on Xiaomi compares with a market
value of $10 billion for Lenovo, the world’s biggest maker of
personal computers, and about $20 billion for Sony Corp.  Xiaomi has won sales with cheaper handsets as it builds its
brand. Apple sells the iPhone 5 on its China website from 5,288
 yuan  ($864). Xiaomi’s most expensive  handset  is 1,699 yuan.  The company rose to sixth in the June quarter from eighth a
year earlier, Canalys said Aug. 9.  Raine Zhang, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Xiaomi,
declined to comment on the valuation. She verified Lei’s Weibo
account.  Starting this month, Xiaomi began sales of its first device
for China Mobile, the world’s largest phone company with 745
million subscribers at the end of July. The handset will be
priced at 799 yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  