-- Zuckerberg’s Internet Vision Sure Likes Facebook
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-23T17:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/zuckerberg-s-internet-vision-sure-likes-facebook.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  founder  Mark Zuckerberg  is thinking big about how to increase Internet access
in the developing world. That’s an ambitious and laudable goal.
Incidentally, it could also be very profitable for Zuckerberg’s
company.  This week, Facebook and a few other companies announced a
partnership,  Internet.org , with plans to expand access “to the
two-thirds of the world who are not yet connected.” They want
to make it cheaper to get online, improve the efficiency of data
usage and encourage business models that can help poorer
consumers  connect more easily .  This would be good for the world’s poor and marginalized --
and good for Facebook, too, as the newly connected begin
obsessively updating their Facebook profiles. In principle,
that’s great: the kind of doing-well-by-doing-good synergy
sought after by civic-minded entrepreneurs the world over. But
before we beatify Zuckerberg for this effort, let’s consider
some of the details.  The plan envisions most people getting online via mobile
phones. This makes sense, because phones have quickly spread
through the developing world, but expanding the data networks
necessary to connect them all to the Internet could prove hugely
expensive. As Joshua Brunstein of Bloomberg Businessweek  points
out , there are daunting technical and regulatory hurdles to
taking full advantage of the networks that already exist.
Building capacity to handle the demands of billions of new users
will require huge investments -- in land rights and cellular
towers, in power generation and maintenance.  Zuckerberg agrees, but if he has a plan for meeting these
costs, he hasn’t divulged it. A  white paper  he wrote about the
project had plenty of high-minded rhetoric -- “I believe
connectivity is a human right” -- but very few details.
Presumably, paying for it all is where governments and taxpayers
come in.  And, as always with Facebook, the wondrous free benefits
come with a catch. Or two catches, in this case.  First, mobile phones are cheap and plentiful, but mobile
data plans tend to be expensive and less popular. Zuckerberg has
a solution: Offer “basic services” over data networks at no
charge. Once users get used to these services, they’ll start to
discover what else they’re missing on the Internet -- and have
an incentive to pay for better data plans to access it. So what
might qualify as a “basic service”? Zuckerberg suggests
messaging, search engines, Wikipedia -- and, oh yes, Facebook.
Users would be free to choose other social networks: They’d just
have to pay to access those.  Second, many mobile-phone users in the developing world use
prepaid calling cards -- a technology that makes users
anonymous. This is annoying to a social-media entrepreneur like
Zuckerberg, who makes his money by collecting personal
information and selling it. He has an answer for this as well:
“Giving people the ability to link their Facebook or other
accounts with operators could help solve these problems and make
it easier to provide better service.” That’s one way of looking
at it.  Zuckerberg’s thinking makes perfect sense from a business
perspective. A study last year by the Pew Research Center  found 
that once people in developing countries get online, they tend
to engage with social networks at very high rates. In countries
such as the  Philippines , Facebook increasingly is
indistinguishable from the Internet; it’s all people want. As
Facebook’s growth slows in the U.S. and other developed
countries, the unconnected present a great opportunity for
expansion. They’re a vast middle class in the making, and
they’ll eventually have great spending power of their own.  The uncharitable way of looking at Zuckerberg’s charitable
endeavor, in other words, is to see it as an effort to
permanently entangle Facebook in the lives of the next wave of
Internet consumers, and to attract a public subsidy at the same
time.  Greater connectedness in the developing world is an
eminently worthy goal: It would speed economic growth, raise
living standards, boost employment, expand access to education
and generally improve the lot of people in need. But it
shouldn’t be achieved at the cost of a disguised public subsidy
to a particular enterprise or in ways that create an unfair
competitive advantage. Praise Zuckerberg for his vision, by all
means -- but bear that in mind.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 