-- Zumtobel Falls After CEO Quits on Strategy: Vienna Mover
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-08-23T09:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-23/zumtobel-falls-after-ceo-quits-on-strategy-vienna-mover.html
Zumtobel AG (ZAG)  fell the most in five
months after the Austrian lightmaker said its chief executive
and chief financial officers will leave following disagreement
over the company’s strategy.  The  shares  fell as much as 75 cents, or 7.3 percent to 9.55
euros and traded at 9.60 euros a share at 10:50 a.m. local time.
It was the biggest intra-day drop for the Dornbirn, Austria-based company since March 5 and gave it a market value of 419
million euros ($560 million).  Zumtobel accepted the resignation of CEO Harald Sommerer
and CFO Mathias Daehn after “intensive discussions on the
future strategic direction” of the company, it said in a
statement late yesterday. The two board members and the
supervisory board held different views on Zumtobel’s focus on
LED technology, it said.  Ulrich Schumacher, 55, will succeed Sommerer on Oct. 1,
while the search for a new CFO is expected to be concluded in
the coming months, the company said.  Zumtobel has cut more than 200 jobs since March as it
shifts from older technologies to LED products. It is closing a
plant in Fuerstenfeld,  Austria  and selling another in  Melbourne .
The technology shift is connected with “substantial structural
and financial challenges,” Sommerer wrote in the company’s
latest  annual report .  “Given the uncertainty with a transition period to a new
management,” there will probably be no details on guidance for
the current financial year, Andreas Willi, a London-based
analyst at JPMorgan, wrote in a note to clients. He advised
investors adopt a neutral stance on the stock, withdrawing a
previous recommendation to overweight shares in their
portfolios.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  