-- ‘House of Horrors’ Philadelphia Abortion Trial Ends
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-04-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/-house-of-horrors-philadelphia-abortion-trial-ends.html
Philadelphia doctor Kermit Gosnell,
on trial for killing fetuses during late-term abortions, is a
victim of an “incredible” rush to judgment brought on by an
“elitist and racist prosecution,” his lawyer said.  In closing statements yesterday in state court in
Philadelphia, defense attorney Jack McMahon accused Pennsylvania
prosecutors of an irresponsible use of power and rhetoric in
trying to manipulate witnesses who testified against Gosnell,
many of whom worked for him and pleaded guilty to related crimes
including third-degree murder. The jury is scheduled to begin
deliberations today.  “This case is not a referendum on abortion,” McMahon told
jurors at the city’s criminal justice center. “You’re here to
decide a very narrow issue: Is Dr. Kermit Gosnell a murderer?”  Gosnell, 72, is charged with killing four babies allegedly
born alive at a clinic he operated in West Philadelphia by
severing their spinal cords with scissors. Prosecutors said
Gosnell performed illegal third-trimester abortions and employed
unlicensed and unskilled staff members to administer narcotics
to patients.  Gosnell is also charged in the death of a 41-year-old
patient from Bhutan who died of an overdose while undergoing an
abortion in 2009. The doctor didn’t testify at the trial or call
witnesses in his defense.  Dismissed Counts  State court Judge  Jeffrey Minehart , who is overseeing the
case, dismissed three of seven first-degree murder counts
against Gosnell and six lesser counts, the  Philadelphia Inquirer 
reported April 25.  An investigation of Gosnell’s clinic was begun in 2010
after drug agents raided the facility and uncovered the death of
Karnamaya Mongar, who went into cardiac arrest after clinic
employees gave her lethal doses of the narcotic Demerol.  Investigators found women being treated in squalid
conditions with old equipment and outdated drugs, prosecutors
said. They described the clinic as a “house of horrors” with
floors and walls stained with cat urine and blood. McMahon
disputed that title yesterday as he showed jurors pictures of a
cleaner facility.  The term is “a political press rhetoric fabrication,”
McMahon said.  ‘Pigeonhole’  “Everyone wants to pigeonhole and simplify this case
because they want it to be that way and it doesn’t have to be,”
he told jurors.  Gosnell ran an urban clinic that catered to a poor
clientele, McMahon said. He provided a service to the community
and often didn’t charge his clients for treatment for colds and
other ailments. Gosnell never turned away desperate troubled
young women, McMahon said.  “He allowed people that were poor and didn’t have access
to health insurance the ability to get  health services ,”
McMahon said.  The government has failed to show proof of an alleged
pattern of killing babies, McMahon said. Out of 47 fetuses
confiscated by investigators, only two were older than 24 weeks,
the legal cutoff for abortions. None of the fetuses showed signs
of a live birth, McMahon said.  Witnesses testified that Gosnell snipped the necks of at
least 30 fetuses. Prosecutors disputed McMahon’s claims that
Gosnell used the drug Digoxin, which causes intrauterine death,
before each abortion. Former staff workers testified that the
drug didn’t work efficiently and Gosnell stopped using it in
favor of snipping necks, assistant district attorney Edward
Cameron told jurors.  Prosecutor’s Accusation  “This was somebody who was going through the motions who
was taking the easy way out,” Cameron told jurors.  Gosnell, dressed in a dark suit and wearing wire-framed
glasses, listened intently as Cameron pointed a finger at him
and accused him of performing “back alley coat hanger
abortions.”  “All those patients and his workers trusted him and he
took advantage of the situation,” Cameron said. “Being a
doctor is not a right, it’s a responsibility. It’s a
responsibility to your patient and that’s what is abused here.”  One fetus, which was aborted at 29.4 weeks, had an 80
percent change of surviving, Cameron said. Gosnell charged the
mother $2,400 for the procedure that left her hospitalized with
an abscess, blood clots on her heart and a scarred uterus.  “That baby would be four and a half years old now,”
Cameron told jurors. “Instead it had scissors jabbed into its
neck and it slowly suffocated to death.”  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Gosnell, CP-51-
CR-0001667-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County
(Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  