-- T-Hrvatski 1st-Quarter Profit Falls 34.7% as Revenue Falls
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-04-30T13:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/t-hrvatski-1st-quarter-profit-falls-34-7-as-revenue-declines.html
  T-Hrvatski Telekom d.d. , the
Croatian unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , said first-quarter profit
fell 34.7 percent from a year earlier to 238 million kuna ($41
million), as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis continues to hurt
the economy.  Revenue declined 6.1 percent to 1.7 billion kuna from the
same period a year ago, the Zagreb-based company said today in a
Regulatory News Service statement. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization dropped 22 percent from a
year earlier to 609 million kuna, it said.  The phone company, in which Deutsche Telekom holds a 51
percent stake, is expanding its Internet, mobile-phone and pay-
TV services to keep its leading position in  Croatia  as the
country fights a renewed recession.  “Our business in the first quarter was again impacted by
the sluggish economy as well as intensified regulatory and
competitive pressure,” Chief Executive Officer Ivica Mudrinic
said in an e-mailed statement. “We have increased our efforts
to maintain and grow our customer base and to promote the
group’s broadband and TV products.”  He added he is “confident that the investment will pay off
soon.”  Croatia, which is set to join the European Union in July,
is trying to revive growth after four years of recession or
stagnation. The Adriatic nation may receive as much as 10
billion euros ($13 billion) in EU funds through 2020 and the
government plans to use it to channel investment to
infrastructure and energy projects.  Growth Outlook  The government in February reduced this year’s growth
outlook to 0.7 percent, while the  International Monetary Fund 
said in January the economy will stagnate.  The drop in the company’s earnings was caused by severance
pay expenditures and higher marketing costs in the first
quarter, Attila Gyurcsik, an economist at Concorde Securities
brokerage in Budapest, said by e-mail.  “Results were below our estimates, but it takes time for
marketing spending to bear its fruits,” Gyurcsik said. “So our
full year forecasts are still achievable,” he said, reiterating
the full-year EBITDA margin forecast of 43.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  