-- AB InBev Cuts Brazil Beer Forecast After Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-04-30T10:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ab-inbev-first-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-on-brazil-sales.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the
world’s biggest brewer, reported first-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates and said volume in  Brazil  may decline
this year as business falters in its second-largest market.  Earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and
depreciation, excluding some items, fell to $3.43 billion, the
Leuven, Belgium-based brewer of Budweiser said today in a
 statement . That missed the $3.57 billion median estimate of 10
analysts. The  shares  fell as much as 3.6 percent.  AB InBev cut its forecast for the Brazilian beer market
after an 8.2 percent first-quarter volume decline. This year’s
earlier Carnival celebration, bad weather in Brazil, high
inflation and weakened growth in disposable income weighed on
consumers in that market, the Stella Artois maker said.
Competitor  Heineken NV (HEIA)  flagged a decline in Brazil when it
reported results.  “In light of Heineken’s earlier commentary, a small miss
was probably in the price,” said Jonathan Fyfe, an analyst at
Mirabaud Securities in  London . “However, we are surprised at
the depth of volume declines in Brazil and margin weakness in
North America.”  Shares Drop  AB InBev traded 3.1 percent lower at 70.83 euros as of
12:01 p.m. in Brussels, giving the company a market value of 114
billion euros.  The Brazilian market will be “flat” or decline by a
single-digit percentage this year, the brewer of Beck’s forecast
today. The company previously expected a low-to-mid-single-digit
volume gain.  AB InBev is seeking to attract consumers in Brazil with 1-
liter and 300-milliliter returnable bottles of its brands
including Brahma and Skol.  Organic revenue rose 1.5 percent, and the volume of beer AB
InBev sold on the same basis fell 4 percent. Analysts had
anticipated a 5.3 percent revenue increase and a decline of 0.3
percent in volume.  AB InBev, which won U.S. permission for its $20.1 billion
takeover of  Mexico ’s Grupo Modelo SAB on April 20, is trying to
glean growth from  emerging markets  and from innovations in
developed markets. These include new versions of traditional
brands such as Bud Light Platinum, which it started selling last
year.  U.S. sales to wholesalers fell 5.2 percent, led by so-
called sub-premium brands. The company said it estimated a 50
basis-point decline in market share. Share for its Bud Light
brands was “marginally down” as Platinum growth slowed after
strong demand at the time of its introduction last year.  Budweiser Innovation  The brewer had said in February it expected first-quarter
volume in the U.S. to be hurt by short-term pressure on
disposable income, but that profitability in the U.S. should
improve this year. Chief Financial Officer Felipe Dutra said he
still anticipates a recovery in profitability in  North America ,
even as volumes decline, as the Michelob maker charges more for
innovations such as Bud Light Lime Straw-ber-Rita, which the
company expects to outperform its Lime-A-Rita variety.  The company will introduce a new bow-tie-shaped tin for its
Budweiser brand in the U.S. this year to attract younger
consumers.  Sales in  China  boomed 16 percent, as the Jinling maker
gained share in the country by selling more Budweiser and
Harbin. Western European volume fell 7 percent due to “an
unusually cold and long winter season” while tax increases and
sales restrictions in Russia and Ukraine dragged down central
and eastern European volume 16 percent.  German beer sales dropped to the lowest level in at least
20 years, the Federal Statistical Office said today. Germany
ranks only below the  Czech Republic  for per-capita beer
consumption, according to 2010 statistics compiled by Kirin
Holdings Co.  AB InBev also reduced its plans for spending on advertising
and marketing this year compared with a prior forecast. It
expects investments to increase “mid-to-high single-digits”
compared with a prior expectation of “high single-digits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  