-- Aberdeen Says Unilever Offer Isn’t ‘Obvious’ Price to Sell
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-04-30T09:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/aberdeen-says-unilever-offer-isn-t-an-obvious-price-to-sell.html
Unilever Plc’s offer to pay 600
rupees a share to raise its stake in  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) 
isn’t high enough to spur an “obvious” sell decision for
existing stockholders, said  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. (ADN)   The U.K.  money manager  held 87.53 million  shares  in
Unilever’s Indian unit, or 4.05 percent of equity, as of March
31, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That makes Aberdeen the
fourth-biggest shareholder, the data show. The offer values
Hindustan Unilever at 36 times projected earnings for the year
ending in March 2014, versus 13 times for the benchmark S&P BSE
Sensex Index, according to the average of 13 analyst estimates.  “It’s just not clear cut,” James Thom, a Singapore-based
money manager at Aberdeen, which oversees about $322 billion
worldwide, said in a phone interview. “It may be about fair,
may be worth a little bit more than that, but it’s not an
obvious price to be giving up the stock.” Aberdeen is still
discussing what to do with its shares, he said.  Hindustan Unilever  surged  17 percent to 582.85 rupees at
2:27 p.m. in Mumbai after Unilever said it will spend as much as
292.2 billion rupees ($5.4 billion) to boost its stake to 75
percent from 52.48 percent.  The Anglo-Dutch company is seeking greater control of
 India ’s largest consumer-goods maker after this month reporting
the slowest quarterly growth in two years as Europeans curbed
spending. Hindustan Unilever reported a 15 percent  jump  in
fourth-quarter profit yesterday, exceeding analyst estimates.  India Confidence  India’s economy  grew 5 percent in the year through March,
according to an estimate from the statistics agency. That’s less
than the average of about 8 percent in the past decade.  “The confidence they are showing in Hindustan Unilever, at
a time when consumption in India is also slowing, is out of the
world,” Ambareesh Baliga, a managing partner at Edelweiss
Financial Services, told Bloomberg TV India today. He advises
shareholders to sell part of their holdings in the offer.  Unilever’s offer price is “good” and Bajaj Allianz Life
Insurance Co. plans to sell some of its holding to Unilever,
Sampath Reddy, the insurer’s chief investment officer, said in
an e-mail. Bajaj Allianz has about $7 billion in assets.  The offer, which opens in June, is being managed by HSBC
Holdings Plc, according to an exchange filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  