-- Aberdeen Leads Investors Into Petrobras Board
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-05-01T14:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/aberdeen-leads-investors-into-petrobras-board-corporate-brazil.html
(Corrects name of Hermes Fund Managers in second paragraph
of story published April 30. To set a daily alert for Corporate
 Brazil : SALT BZCORP)  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR)  is being
pushed by minority shareholders led by  Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc (ADN)  to focus more on profit than  job creation  after the state-
run producer’s earnings slumped to an eight-year low.  Mauro Cunha, head of Brazil’s capital markets association,
was elected yesterday as the minority investors’ representative
on the 10-member board. Nominated by a group of 16 that includes
Hermes Fund Managers Ltd, Cunha replaces Josue Gomes da Silva,
who was elected with votes from state-run banks and pensions,
giving the fund managers a greater board-room voice after a
similar push led by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  failed last year.  Petrobras is the worst-performing major  oil company  in the
past two years after  Russia ’s  Gazprom OAO (GAZP)  as aging wells dragged
down annual oil output for the first time since 2004 and fuel
subsidies erode profit. The stock has fallen 24 percent since
the Rio de Janeiro-based company lured investors to a $70
billion  share sale  in September 2010 on promises of boosting
output 9.4 percent a year through 2014 by bringing deep-water
fields into production.  “It’s a good day for the Brazilian market, it shows
investors are increasingly willing to cooperate,” Cunha said in
an interview after the vote.  “The whole point of there being a
board is to have discussions, so every board member is
important, that’s why it’s a great responsibility.”  ‘More Comfort’   The BNDES state development bank and three state-run
pension funds, which hold more than 10 percent of the company’s
voting shares, defeated Cunha’s candidacy last year. Hermes and
other investors complained to Petrobras and the country’s
securities regulator, known as CVM, which published a resolution
indicating the government-run institutions shouldn’t vote for
minority representatives.  “Minority investors now have a bit more comfort their
interests are being taken care of,”  Nick Robinson , a the head
of Brazilian equities at Aberdeen, which has $15 billion in
Latin American shares including Petrobras, said in an interview
from Rio de Janeiro. “It will go some way to improving the
perception of Petrobras’s governance.”  Cunha’s election increases the chances of non-government
investors gaining additional seats in coming years, said Ricardo
Martins, the head of the  Sao Paulo  division of  APIMEC , an
association of professional investors and analysts. APIMEC’s
national director  Reginaldo Alexandre  was elected to represent
minority shareholders on Petrobras’s fiscal board.  Inside Debate  “It’s a great signal, you will be officially debating
inside of the company,” Martins said by phone from Sao Paulo.  Petrobras said in an e-mailed response to questions before
the vote that Cunha was the only official candidate to represent
minorities. BNDES and Previ, the pension fund for  Banco do
Brasil SA (BBAS3)  employees, both declined to comment on how they would
vote in e-mailed replies to questions. Petros, the pension fund
for Petrobras employees, and Funcef, a pension fund for state
bank Caixa Economica Federal, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  “We started earlier, we had a bigger group,” Will
Landers, manager of the $4.4 billion  BlackRock Latin America (BRLA) 
Fund, said by phone from Princeton,  New Jersey . “It’s adding to
the discussion in the board to improve the results of the
company. If you look at the share price, something has to
change.”  Petrobras lost investors 34 percent in U.S. dollar terms in
the past two years, the biggest loss among major producers after
Gazprom’s 50 percent drop, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Brazilian company’s shares rose 2.2 percent to
22.02 reais at 4:47 p.m. in Sao Paulo today.  $1.9 Trillion  Foreign institutional investors who collectively manage
$1.9 trillion and have been in contact with the capital markets
association, known as AMEC, disagree with Petrobras’ decision to
invest more than $60 billion in its refining division at a time
when the company sells imported fuel at a loss as part of a
government policy to contain inflation, Cunha wrote in an Aug.
29 letter to Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster and
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega . Foster congratulated Cunha at
yesterday’s meeting.  Petrobras announced plans to build new refineries in north
eastern Brazil under former president  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva 
to make the country self-sufficient in fuel production and
create jobs in one of the country’s poorer regions.  “The absence of a formalized system for setting the prices
at which refined products can be sold to distributors raises
questions over the predictability of future returns on these
investments,” Cunha, who previously worked as an investment
director at  Maua Investimentos , said in the letter. “These
issues are particularly important in light of the value
destruction experienced by Petrobras’ shareholders over the past
few years.”  Company Reactions  Petrobras plans to have domestic prices eventually
“converge” with international prices and it is still studying
if it will pursue two of the additional refineries Lula planned
to build, according to its 2013-2017 business plan. Fuel
subsidies contributed to the company’s first quarterly loss in
13 years in the second quarter of 2012.  “We just expect that the views of minority shareholders
will be better represented at board meetings and perhaps it may
make a difference in terms of the reactions of the
company,”Robinson, who also manages Aberdeen’s Latin America
Equity Fund, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  