-- Actavis Seen Selling for Higher Valuation: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d ,   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-05-01T20:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/actavis-seen-selling-for-higher-valuation-real-m-a.html
Actavis Inc. (ACT) , the generic drugmaker
whose merger negotiations with  Valeant (VRX)  Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. stalled over price, may deserve the
industry’s second-best valuation ever in a deal.  Gamco Investors Inc. said buyers may be lured by Actavis’s
lineup of drugs, including generic versions of birth-control
pill Seasonique and pain killer Percocet. The $13.5 billion
 company  should get about $115 a share in a sale, Cowen Group
Inc. and Canaccord Financial Inc. said. That price from Valeant
or another suitor would represent the second-highest multiple to
profit on record for the purchase of a generic-drug company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Discussions for a merger with Valeant reached an impasse in
April because Parsippany, New Jersey-based Actavis balked at the
premium offered, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The revelation that the companies were negotiating prompted two
large pharmaceutical firms to begin looking into whether buying
Actavis makes sense, another person with knowledge of the matter
said. Cowen said Valeant may still win Actavis, while Aegis
Capital Corp. sees  Novartis AG (NOVN)  as a potential suitor.  “Actavis is a very strong company and kind of uniquely
positioned in the generic space,” Kevin Kedra, an analyst at
Rye, New York-based Gabelli & Co., a unit of Gamco, said in a
telephone interview. The company owns Actavis shares. “They
have about everything that you would want across the whole array
of generic product offerings. For anybody looking to get into
the space, buying Actavis would give you critical mass right
away.”  Watson Pharmaceuticals  Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Actavis, declined to comment
on the company’s takeover prospects. Laurie Little of Montreal-
based Valeant also declined to comment.  Actavis was created when Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. bought
Actavis Group hf, which was backed by Deutsche Bank AG, for 4.25
billion euros ($5.6 billion) in October. The world’s third-
biggest generic drugmaker by revenue changed its name to Actavis
in January.  Discussions between Valeant and Actavis had been going on
for some time, though it was unclear if the companies would
reach an agreement on a deal, Bloomberg News reported April 26,
citing a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations were private. The talks were
said to have stalled because of a disagreement over price,
people familiar with the matter said April 28.  ‘Crucial Factor’  “Price is the crucial factor here,” Herman Saftlas, a New
York-based equity analyst at Standard & Poor’s, said in a phone
interview. “Actavis is a very solid company, and it’s doing
great on its own. Actavis shareholders are looking for some
appreciative premium, and it doesn’t seem that the deal with
Valeant was yielding that.”  Actavis and Valeant shares both rallied on April 29, the
first trading session after the negotiations became public.
Actavis rose 4.6 percent to $105.58, while Valeant added 3.8
percent to $75.94.  Today, shares of Actavis fell 1.3 percent to $104.39, and
Valeant declined 3.1 percent to $73.69.  Ken Cacciatore of Cowen estimated Actavis could fetch $110
to $115 a share in a takeover, while  Randall Stanicky , a New
York-based analyst at Canaccord, said a buyer would likely have
to pay a premium to his share-price estimate of $115.  A $115-a-share bid would  value  Actavis at $20.8 billion,
including net debt, or 20 times its earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization from the past 12 months,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Among generic-drugmaker deals
larger than $500 million, only one was completed at a higher
multiple: The 23 times Ebitda that  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  agreed to pay for Ivax Corp. in 2005, the data
show.  $134 Value  Gamco’s Kedra estimates Actavis should be valued at $134 a
share in a sale, 27 percent higher than yesterday’s closing
price and 33 percent more than the end-of-day level on April 26,
before the talks with Valeant were reported.  Kedra said it’s possible that other suitors may be drawn to
Actavis’s foothold in the generic pharmaceuticals market, with
capabilities to produce drugs in injectable, topical and inhaled
dosages as well as pills. Potential bidders include large
pharmaceutical companies with an interest in expanding into
generic drugs, he said.  “Big pharma is probably always going to be in the
discussion,” said Kedra of Gamco, which has $36 billion in
assets. “Those guys have a lot of money to throw around.”  ‘Long Shot’  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc. stands out among the biggest drug companies for
its large generics business, said  Mark Schoenebaum , a New York-
based analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group LLC.
Still, a takeover by Pfizer is “a long shot,” he said.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, said yesterday that
it will analyze over the next eight months whether it should
break itself in two, with one business focused on brand-name
products and the other on generics. The New York-based company
said a separation wouldn’t happen until at least 2016.  Sanofi (SAN)  of Paris,  France ’s largest drugmaker, has also shown
an appetite for generic drugs, including through its purchase of
a stake in Toyama, Japan-based Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co. The
company could be interested in Actavis, although a deal for a
large generic drugmaker would likely be a lower priority than
acquisitions of branded medicines, said Alistair Campbell, an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London .  Actavis may appeal to Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva or
Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based  Mylan Inc. (MYL) , according to S&P’s
Saftlas, who said an offer from either company would likely draw
scrutiny from antitrust regulators. Teva and Mylan are the two
biggest generic drugmakers by sales.  Meaning More  Among large pharmaceutical companies, Novartis has the most
to gain by acquiring Actavis, Raghuram Selvaraju, managing
director and head of health-care equity at Aegis Capital in New
York, said in a phone interview. The Basel, Switzerland-based
company’s generic-drug division, Sandoz, doesn’t have a major
American presence, he said. Actavis got about 80 percent of its
$5.9 billion in revenue last year from the U.S.  “Novartis for a long time has been chasing the mantle of
‘top three generics company,’ but they’ve never quite managed to
get there,” Selvaraju said. Adding Actavis’s products “would
mean more to Novartis than anyone else.”  Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, Teva’s Denise Bradley, Novartis’s  Eric Althoff  and Mylan’s Nina Devlin said
their companies don’t comment on speculation. Sanofi’s Jean-Marc Podvin didn’t respond to a phone message or e-mail seeking
comment after normal business hours.  Valeant’s Interest  A deal with Valeant is still possible, Cacciatore of Cowen
said. The company is a logical buyer of Actavis and is likely
lured by the drugmaker’s cash generation and the chance to
bolster its market  share  in generics, the New York-based analyst
said. Actavis is projected to produce a  record  $863 million of
free cash flow this year, according to the average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “If this transaction was consummated, it would unlikely be
a final stop, but a major move to create a significant platform
enhancer along the way to doing something even larger,”
Cacciatore wrote in an April 29 note to clients. “From that
platform it would appear that Valeant could begin to look at a
whole host of assets previously unattainable.”  Actavis doesn’t need to sell itself, said  David Amsellem , a
New York-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  “They’ve built a high-quality overseas infrastructure,
they’ve got a very strong U.S. generics portfolio that continues
to expand,” he said in a phone interview. “They have put all
of the pieces in place for sustainable growth and cash flows.”  Still, Actavis’s  management  could be motivated to
eventually agree to a merger with Valeant to avoid grappling
with the costs of a potential expansion into branded and other
drugs, Cacciatore said.  “This deal will eventually get done,” he said. “The next
stage of growth for Actavis is difficult, and this gives them a
solid way out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  