-- Saudi Power Developer Gives Spanish Firms Work in Morocco
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-04-30T12:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/acwa-power-says-it-was-awarded-solar-thermal-project-in-morocco.html
ACWA Power International, a Saudi
Arabian power plant developer, started work on building a 160
megawatt concentrated solar thermal facility in  Morocco , it said
in an e-mailed statement today.  ACWA Power Ouarzazate, the unit designated to control the
project, awarded construction contracts yesterday to Spanish
group composed of  Acciona SA (ANA) , Sener and TSK to build the plant.
It’s part of a 500-megawatt solar complex Morocco intends to
build in the Ouarzazate area about 200 kilometers (124 miles)
south of Marrakesh. ACWA Power didn’t disclose the financial
details of the contract.  The project is expected to start commercial operations in
the second half of 2015, Paddy Padmanathan, president and chief
executive officer of ACWA Power, said in an e-mailed statement.  Morocco has an ambition to generate 2 gigawatts of
electricity from solar power by 2020, requiring investment of as
much as $9 billion, Fouad Douiri, the country’s energy minister,
said in January in  Abu Dhabi .  Next year, he said the government plans to tender for
another solar project in the city of Oujda about 60 kilometers
south of the  Mediterranean Sea . That project would be between
400 megawatts and 500 megawatts.  The Ouarzazate project is to be developed on a build, own,
operate, and transfer basis, ACWA Power said. Moroccan Agency
for  Solar Energy , known as Masen, buy the power produced under a
25-year purchasing agreement signed on Nov.19, it said. Morocco
is seeking to award work on the second phase of its Ouarzazate
solar power project by the end of the year, the nation’s
minister of mines and energy said.  Morocco plans to tender a second phase of Ouarzazate
project by end of this year, Minister Douiri said in January.
The second phase would provide 300 megawatts to 340 megawatts of
power once completed. ACWA power said today in a separat
statement that it’s interested in pursuing this tender and any
other opportunity once it’s out for bidders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  