-- Aetna Raises Profit Forecast as Insurer Grows Enrollment
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-04-30T20:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/aetna-raises-2013-forecast-after-profit-beats-analyst-estimates.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-biggest
health insurer by sales, raised its full-year forecast, helped
by a surge in Medicare and Medicaid premiums and medical claims
that were lower than the company anticipated.  Profit for 2013 may be $5.50 to $5.60 a share, Aetna said
today in a statement. The Hartford, Connecticut-based carrier
had forecast earnings of at least $5.40 a share in January.
Excluding costs for its acquisition of  Coventry Health Care
Inc. (CVH) , first-quarter earnings were $1.50, 12 cents higher than
the average of 18 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Aetna joined larger U.S. health insurers  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH)  and  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  in reporting first-quarter results that
beat analyst estimates. The industry has benefited for years
from slow growth in medical costs as Americans cut back on care
amid economic concerns.  “That Aetna beat consensus meaningfully in the first
quarter should surprise no one at this point,” wrote Carl McDonald, a New York-based Citigroup analyst, in a note to
clients today. “Almost every company that has reported thus far
has benefited from lower utilization” of medical services.  Aetna said earnings were also boosted by rising revenue
from private versions of Medicare, the U.S.-backed program for
the elderly, and plans it administers for Medicaid, which covers
poor Americans. The company’s total membership in medical plans
rose 2.1 percent to 18.3 million.  The carrier rose 2.3 percent to $57.44 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 30 percent in the past 12 months.  $64,000 Question  So far this year, insurers have been helped by “a
combination of better industry price discipline and continued
moderate utilization,” said Matthew Borsch, a Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analyst in New York, in an April 17 note to clients.  Whether the lower costs are a temporary result of a weak
economy or a permanent change “in some ways is the $64,000
question” for health insurers, Shawn Guertin, Aetna’s chief
financial officer, in a phone interview.  “We’ve approached the business assuming in our pricing
that it would turn around and we did not see that in the first
quarter,” Guertin said. Aetna didn’t change its forecast for
medical costs the rest of the year, preferring to take a wait-
and-see approach, he said.  UnitedHealth, the biggest health insurer, is based in
 Minnetonka ,  Minnesota ; WellPoint, No. 2 in the industry, is
based in Indianapolis.  Coventry Update  Aetna agreed to buy Coventry for $5.6 billion last year, to
expand its Medicare and Medicaid offerings. The deal is expected
to close by the middle of 2013, Aetna has said.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Bertolini, on a call with
analysts today, said the insurer has all the required approvals
from U.S. states and is awaiting a decision from the federal
Justice Department.  First-quarter net income declined 4.1 percent to $490.1
million from $511 million a year earlier as  costs  rose along
with the higher membership, Aetna said in its statement. Per-
share earnings rose to $1.48 from $1.43 after the insurer bought
back 3.7 million shares in the quarter for $184 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  