-- Agility Rises to Three-Year High as Profit Jumps: Kuwait Mover
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-04-30T11:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/agility-rises-to-three-year-high-as-profit-jumps-kuwait-mover.html
Agility climbed to the highest
level in more than three years after the Kuwait-based company
reported a 46 percent jump in first-quarter profit.  The shares  of Agility, which supplies logistics in
developed and  emerging markets , jumped 3.1 percent to 670 fils,
the highest close since February 2010. About 3.2 million shares
traded today, or 1.6 times the three-month daily average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Agility said yesterday net income advanced to 10.1 million
dinars ($35.5 million) from 6.9 million dinars a year earlier as
revenue rose 10 percent. The company, which operates in markets
including the  Middle East ,  Africa ,  India ,  China  and Brazil, won
a United Nations contract in Darfur valued at $190 million.  “The management of Agility has promised shareholders
there’s much more to come, that they have invested in the right
geographical scope,” said Fouad Darwish, head of brokerage at
Kuwait-based Global Investment House KSCC. “Agility has
rebounded in terms of revenue and contracts since losing the
very lucrative American contracts.”  Agility is under indictment on allegations it overcharged
the U.S. military on a multi billion-dollar contract to supply
food for troops in Kuwait and Iraq. The company said in April
2012 it filed a claim seeking about $225 million from the
 Department of Defense  for breaching contract terms. In December,
Agility said a U.S. court ordered the government to end a
contracts suspension for two of its units.  The stock has gained 31 percent this year, compared with a
25 percent rise in the  benchmark index . Agility’s  14-day
relative strength index  rose to 72 today. A reading above 70
indicates to some analysts that a security or index is poised to
decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  