-- Thai Bonds Gain, Swaps Drop to Two-Year Low on Rate-Cut Outlook
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-04-30T02:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/thai-bonds-gain-swaps-drop-to-two-year-low-on-rate-cut-outlook.html
Thailand ’s bonds rose and onshore
 interest-rate swaps  dropped to a two-year low on speculation the
central bank will cut borrowing costs amid pressure from the
government to curb inflows.  The yield on notes due in 2015 declined to its lowest level
since November 2010 and the one-year swap fell for a third day
after Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said April 26 a
reduction in the policy rate will stem the influx of capital
that helped drive the baht to a 16-year high this month. The
ministry predicts economic growth will slow to 5.3 percent in
2013, compared with 6.4 percent last year.  “Some investors are pricing in the possibility of a rate
cut on concern the central bank will give in to increasing
pressure to do so from the government,” said Tohru Nishihama,
an economist covering  emerging markets  at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “Personally, I don’t think they will
cut as current economic conditions in Thailand don’t really
require a rate reduction.”  The yield on the 3.625 percent debt maturing May 2015 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.78 percent as of
9:24 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That was the lowest level since November 2010. It dropped seven
basis points in April, a third monthly decline.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive a floating rate, slipped two basis points to 2.45
percent today and fell 20 basis points in April. That was the
biggest monthly decrease since October, when the central bank
last lowered borrowing costs by a quarter of a percentage point
to 2.75 percent.  Exporter Demand  The Bank of Thailand has left its  benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged for the past four meetings, drawing criticism from
Finance Minister Kittiratt who said the higher rate attracts
inflows and puts pressure on the baht to appreciate. The
monetary authority next reviews policy on May 29.  Overseas funds  bought  $2.4 billion more sovereign debt than
they sold this month, adding to net purchases of $9.6 billion in
the first quarter, Thai Bond Market Association data show.  The baht was little changed as speculation of increasing
demand from local exporters was countered by concern the
monetary authority will impose  capital controls .  The currency traded at 29.28 per dollar, compared with
29.29 yesterday and 29.26 at the end of March, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It climbed 4.3 percent this year, the best
performance in  Asia , and reached 28.56 on April 22 and April 19,
the strongest level since July 1997.  “We can expect some baht demand from exporters as it’s
quite a good level,” Dai-ichi Life Research’s Nishihama said.
“Corporate demand usually increases toward month-end. But
concern about capital controls remains, keeping downward
pressure on the baht in the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  