-- AirStrip, Oregon Brewing, Museums: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-30T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/airstrip-oregon-brewing-museums-intellectual-property.html
AirStrip Technologies Inc. and
 MVisum Inc.  have settled their patent fight, according to a
court filing.  San Antonio , Texas-based AirStrip filed suit in federal
court in  Manhattan  in October, accusing competitor MVisum of
infringing patent 8,2555,238, which covers a system and method
for real-time viewing of critical patient data on mobile
devices. Both companies’ technology enables health-care
providers to use mobile devices for a wide range of patent-
monitoring purposes, including viewing and responding to EKGs.  A variety of devices made by Sicklerville,  New Jersey ’s
MVisum infringe the patent, including the mVisum CCS, mVisum
Live Stream, mVisum OB and mVisum onDemand, according to the
complaint.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in the court
filing. In a joint company  statement , MVisum and AirStrip said
that MVisum has agreed not to offer infringing products that
include “streaming or displaying real time or near real-time
patient physiological data.”  Neither party is licensing any  intellectual property  from
the other, according to the statement.  The case is Airstrip Technologies Inc. v. mVisum Inc.,
1:12-cv-07776-JGK, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  LG Wins LCD Patent Case Brought by Taiwan Research Institute  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  didn’t violate an LCD patent owned by
Industrial Technology Research Institute, the International
Trade Commission  said  yesterday.  The Washington-based commission, which has the power to
exclude the importation of products that infringe U.S. patents,
ended its investigation with a finding of no violation.  The commission upheld, with modification, a judge’s finding
that the Chutun Chen, Taiwan-based company’s patent is invalid
and not infringed.  ITRI had claimed infringement of backlight modules that
improve uniformity of light so they have correct brightness in
TVs and computer monitors.  In dispute was patent 6,883,932, which was issued in 2005.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Oregon Brewing Sues D.C.’s Rogue 24 Restaurant for Infringement  Oregon  Brewing Co., the maker of Rogue beers and the
operator of 11 restaurants and brew pubs, has sued celebrity
 chef R.J. Cooper  and his Washington-based restaurant for
trademark infringement.  The brewer claims that Cooper’s  Rogue 24 LLC  infringes the
“Rogue” trademarks, and accused the restaurant operators of
attempting to trade on the fame of the Rogue beers and
properties. Rogue beers are “well-known in the  Washington 
Metropolitan Area,” according to the complaint filed April 25
in Washington federal court.  The fact that Rogue 24 offers microbrews at the restaurant
further confuses the public, the brewer claims. Oregon Brewing
says it has used “Rogue” -- which is the name of a river in
southern Oregon -- since 1989, and that its trademark
registration covers beverage glassware and newsletters in
addition to alcoholic beverages, restaurants and pub services.  Additionally, Oregon Brewing says the restaurant’s
registration and use of its rogue24.com Internet domain name is
cybersquatting and further confused the public.  The brewer asked the court for an order barring the
restaurant’s use of “Rogue,” and for the destruction of all
promotional materials. The company also requested that it be
transferred the rogue24.com domain name. The complaint doesn’t
list any demands for monetary damages, attorney fees or
litigation costs.  Rogue 24 didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is Oregon Brewing Co. v. Rogue 24 LLC, 1:13-cv-
00570, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Parish Learns Projected Songs Allowed, Projected Scripture Isn’t  A Catholic parish on  Florida ’s  Gulf Coast  has run into
copyright issues as part of its efforts to get rid of paper
missalettes and the noise of turning pages, the Bay News9
website  reported .  The pastor told the television station that while the
parish pays a license fee to project hymns onto the walls on
either side of the altar, it discovered that copyright law
barred doing the same with scripture passages that are read at
Mass.  The U.S. Conference of Bishops told the parish that the
scriptures were covered by copyright and barred the projection
of the texts, according to Bay News9.  A parishioner complained to the TV station that the
scriptural texts “should be copyrighted by Jesus” and
available for free to everyone.  U.K. Museums Must Pay Copyright Fee, Even for ‘Orphan’ Works  U.K. Museums will have to pay a copyright fee in advance
for the use of images even if the owners of the copyright can’t
be found, the Art Newspaper  reported .  An amendment to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Bill
that would have limited the licensing fees was defeated in the
House of Lords, according to the publication.  The National Museum Directors Conference has estimated
there are 50 million so-called orphan works -- whose copyright
owners can’t be found -- in the museums’ collections, and that
paying in advance for the use of the images would place an
“impossible” burden, Art Newspaper reported.  The defeat of the amendment will slow museums’ efforts to
digitize orphan works in the collections, according to Art
Newspaper.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Five Finnegan Trademark Lawyers Depart to Start Own Firm  Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett & Dunner LLP is
losing five trademark practitioners to a Washington-based
startup.  According to a statement from the newly established  Kelly
IP , David M. Kelly, Robert D. Litowitz, Linda K. McLeod,
Stephanie H. Bald and Lynn M. Jordan are leaving Finnegan, which
is also in Washington.  The primary focus of the new firm will be trademark,
copyright, domain name and unfair competition issues.  Name partner  Kelly , who has practiced IP law for almost 30
years, has both an undergraduate and a master’s degree in civil
engineering from the  University of Pittsburgh  and a law degree
from Duquesne University.  Litowitz , who has handled trade-secret and design-patent
cases in addition to trademark work, has an undergraduate degree
from Dickinson College and a law degree from George Washington
University.  McLeod  has previously served as an administrative trademark
judge at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s Trademark Trial
and Appeal Board. She has an undergraduate degree in economics
from Willamette University, a law degree from the University of
Oregon, and a master’s degree in trade regulation law from  New
York University .  Bald  has represented clients in trademark disputes in
federal courts and before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board.
She has an undergraduate degree in English literature and French
from Denison University, a master’s degree in international
politics and a law degree from American University.  Jordan  has done both trademark litigation and acquisition
work. She has an undergraduate degree from  Pennsylvania State
University  and a law degree from the University of Tulsa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 