-- Taiwan’s Economy Expanded Slower Than Estimated Last Quarter
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2013-04-30T01:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/taiwan-gdp-grew-less-than-estimated-last-quarter-as-exports-fell.html
Taiwan ’s economy expanded at a
slower pace than economists estimated in the first quarter as a
faltering global recovery hurt exports, increasing pressure on
the central bank to extend an interest-rate pause to aid growth.  Gross domestic product  rose 1.54 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, after increasing 3.72 percent
in the fourth quarter, the statistics bureau said in a
preliminary report in Taipei today. The gain was less than all
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 17 economists, where the
median was 3.1 percent.  The island’s growth slowdown adds to signs of a cooling
global economy after  China  and the U.S. expanded less than
analysts estimated last quarter. Taiwan’s export orders and
industrial output for March unexpectedly fell, while Japanese and
South Korean production missed forecasts as faltering demand
limits  Asia ’s recovery.  “Taiwan’s GDP is a reflection of a sluggish global recovery
and the decline of global demand, notably from  China (CNGDPYOY) ,” said
Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based senior economist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. The data suggests the monetary
policy stance will be maintained, “unless there is a significant
contraction of the regional economies from unforeseeable risks,
including avian flu.”  The benchmark  Taiex stock index  gained 0.8 percent at 9:53
a.m. in Taipei. The  Taiwan dollar  climbed 0.3 percent to
NT$29.464 against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex
Inc. It has declined about 1 percent this year.  Lowest Profit  Taiwan last week confirmed an H7N9 bird flu infection in a
traveler returning to the island from China, the first incidence
of the killer virus spreading outside the mainland. The island’s
economy contracted after an outbreak of severe acute respiratory
syndrome, or SARS, hit Taiwan in February 2003, as companies and
individuals cut back on travel, dining out and entertainment.  President Ma Ying-jeou has sought closer trade and
investment ties with China to bolster the island’s economy.
Taiwan has allowed domestic lenders to conduct  yuan  business and
doubled the quota for mainland visitors, and this month said it
will let Chinese lenders own as much as 20 percent of some
financial institutions.  Export  orders , an indication of shipments in the next one to
three months, fell for a second straight month in March. Overseas
sales are equivalent to about two-thirds of the economy. HTC
Corp., Taiwan’s largest smartphone maker, this month posted its
lowest quarterly profit on record after the delay of its newest
flagship phone.  The statistics bureau in February raised its forecast for
GDP growth this year to 3.59 percent, and said  inflation  may
average 1.37 percent, with exports growth of 6.23 percent.  Maintain Order  Private consumption gained 0.35 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, slowing from a 1.55 percent pace in the
previous three-month period, today’s report showed.  The  International Monetary Fund  earlier this month lowered
its forecasts for global growth and China’s expansion this year,
and said yesterday that Asian economies face the risks of
financial imbalances and rising asset prices fueled by strong
credit growth and easy financing conditions.  Governor Perng Fai-nan has said the monetary authority will
maintain order in the foreign-exchange market if needed, and
asked lenders to exercise discipline while extending mortgages in
areas where property prices have risen. The central bank held the
benchmark discount  rate  on 10-day loans to banks at 1.875 percent
for a seventh meeting last month.  The weak worldwide demand “would worry the central bank,”
said Ma Tieying, a Singapore-based economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. “It is most likely to keep rates on hold in coming
quarters to support the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  