-- Make Airline Passengers Pay Higher Fees
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2013-04-30T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/make-airline-passengers-pay-higher-fees.html
The recent U.S. airline delays
reminded us that a dysfunctional government can also mess up our
private lives.  Congress appears to have temporarily  fixed  the problem by
allowing the  Federal Aviation Administration  to respond to
sequestration more flexibly. Yet the basic problem remains: The
federal government retains the ability to control our mobility
as long as the FAA is financed with general tax revenue.  Passengers should bear the costs of their own travel.
Taxpayers generally shouldn’t pick up the bill. In exchange,
passengers should be entitled to reliable flights and shorter
security lines, free from the mess of  Washington  politics.  The FAA  attributed  more than 1,200 delays on April 22,
1,025 on April 23 and 863 on April 24 to “staffing reductions
resulting from the furlough” caused by sequestration. Over the
same three days, the FAA said more than 4,500 delays resulted
from “weather and other factors,” suggesting that the furlough
was responsible for about 40 percent of late U.S. flights over
those three days.  Congress quickly approved a bill that would allow the FAA
to redirect $253 million to end the furloughs. President  Barack Obama  will probably sign it, even though he called it a “Band-
Aid.” It is unfair, he says, to continue paying for services for
relatively well-off air travelers while maintaining
sequestration for services that affect poorer Americans.  Government Subsidies  FAA spending and social-welfare outlays shouldn’t have been
part of the same debate in the first place. Food stamps and Head
Start are transfer programs for those in need; whatever spending
they deserve must come from general tax revenue. We should be
debating the size of these programs -- which is what
sequestration is all about -- because Americans differ in their
opinions about the right size of the safety net.  When it comes to travel, however, taxpayers shouldn’t be on
the hook. Government must ensure safety and help direct the
construction of vast transportation projects, but general tax
revenues shouldn’t pay for this infrastructure.  Seventy percent of the FAA’s spending in 2012 came from the
Airport and Airway Trust Fund, which is financed by user-fee-
like taxes, including a 7.5 percent ticket sales levy, a 4.3
cent-per-gallon fuel tax and a passenger charge of $3.90 per
flight. For 2014, the  Transportation Security Administration 
proposed $2.3 billion in user fees ($5 a trip) to help cover a
$7.4 billion budget. As it now stands, about 31 percent of the
FAA’s budget and more than 60 percent of the TSA’s is paid for
out of general tax revenue.  According  to the 2009 National Household Travel Survey,
almost 59 percent of  air travel  is done by those in households
earning more than $100,000 a year. On average, these wealthier
Americans fly 10 times more than people in households earning
about $50,000 annually.  So it should have been no surprise when a Rasmussen Reports
poll  showed  that only 16 percent of Americans knew someone
affected by the recent flight delays.  Sometimes we can make society fairer if the public sector
spends less, a policy of progressive libertarianism. Making the
FAA and TSA independent entities responsible for funding
themselves by charging air passengers would reduce the overall
deficit and economic inequality simultaneously.  Moreover, as last week’s delays suggest, a shift to
independent funding could help the passengers themselves, even
if they pay higher costs. User fees could be used to reduce
congestion in airport lines and to improve the overall flying
experience.  Reducing Inequality  How much would this cost? The TSA’s projected 2014 budget
shortfall is $5.1 billion; the FAA’s budget shortfall in 2012
was $4.6 billion. In 2012, there were about 640 million
 passengers , meaning that a $15 fee per flight segment would
almost cover the complete shortfall. If air shippers cover some
of this cost, as they should, then fees could be lower.  The time-honored economic principle is that efficiency
requires people to pay the costs of their actions. Frequent
fliers should cover the expenses that their lifestyle imposes on
others, such as increasing the length of security lines. If the
entire cost of the FAA and the TSA were paid for with fees for
each flight segment, the segment charge would be $35, which
would replace the current mixture of gas taxes and fees that
rise with ticket prices.  There is a solid economic case for primarily using per-
ticket charges because more-expensive seats don’t impose wildly
higher costs on the TSA, the FAA or other passengers.  Since the time of  Adam Smith , economists have argued that
the wisest infrastructure investments can and should be paid for
by future users. If a new bridge, highway or rail line won’t
generate enough tolls or tickets to cover its costs, then it
probably isn’t worth building. If the government is footing the
bill, then all sorts of white-elephant projects start looking
good.  When we paid for highways with gas taxes, we at least had
the semblance of a user-charge system for our roads. Under Obama
we have moved backward, toward funding with regular taxes and
deficits.  The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009  awarded 
$50 billion to the Transportation Department by the end of 2012.
Last year’s highway legislation authorized an additional $16.6
billion transfer of general tax revenue into the Highway Trust
Fund, meaning that we senselessly subsidize people to congest
highways.  The foes of big government shouldn’t fight against
appropriate airline fees or highway tolls. They should fight
against a system that makes taxpayers foot the bill for the few
who benefit. Instead of taxpayer-financed subsidies, Americans
need skies that are permanently clear of Washington’s budgetary
breakdowns.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 