-- Aldar, Sorouh Fall After Sales Drop at U.A.E. Developers
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-04-30T10:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/aldar-and-sorouh-fall-after-sales-drop-at-abu-dhabi-developers.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and Sorouh
Real Estate PJSC fell in  Abu Dhabi  trading after the Gulf
emirate’s two largest developers said first-quarter revenue
declined in the last earnings statements before their merger.  Aldar, the bigger of the two companies, fell 3.3 percent,
the most since March 4, after reporting a 55 percent slide in
sales in a statement to the Abu Dhabi stock market today. Sorouh
declined 1.6 percent after saying revenue was down 35 percent.  The companies agreed to merge in a 5.5 billion-dirham ($1.5
billion) deal that would create the  Middle East ’s third-biggest
publicly traded developer by assets. Abu Dhabi’s government
backed the tie-up as the oil-rich emirate increases its direct
support for property development by reviving stalled projects
and commissioning new work.  Net income at Aldar  dropped  by 68 percent.  Sorouh (SOROUH)  reported
a 22 percent increase in profit after accounting for funds that
had been withheld until projects were completed.  A recruitment agency was hired to search for a chief
executive officer for the combined company, Sorouh’s Chief
Financial Officer Richard Amos told reporters in a conference
call after announcing the results. Aldar and Sorouh have set up
17 committees to help integrate the companies, he said. The
merger will become effective in June.  Growing Revenue  Sorouh is on track to grow its recurring revenue to 650
million dirhams by the end of 2015, Amos said. The developer
will complete 7,000 units by the end of 2014.  Aldar’s recurring revenue from rentals, hotels and schools,
climbed 12.9 percent to 406.7 million dirhams in the first-
quarter, according to its statement.  Residential and commercial rents in Abu Dhabi are expected
to drop further as an increasing supply of homes and offices are
built after the global financial crisis crimped the  United Arab
Emirates ’ real estate market, according to a CBRE Group Inc.
report earlier this month. Home rents fell about 3 percent on
average in the first quarter compared with the previous three
months and 17,000 new homes are expected to be completed this
year. Office vacancies are set to climb from a record high of
about 35 percent as concern about slower economic growth prompts
companies to cut costs and halt expansion, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  