-- Alibaba Steps Up Tencent Battle with Stake in Weibo
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-30T08:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/alibaba-steps-up-tencent-battle-with-stake-in-weibo.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.
committed to invest $586 million in a Chinese Twitter-like
service as billionaire Jack Ma expands his campaign to lure
smartphone and tablet users from  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)   Alibaba,  China ’s largest e-commerce company, agreed to buy
an 18 percent stake in  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s Weibo unit, with an option
to increase its holding in the message service to 30 percent,
according to a statement released yesterday. The companies also
agreed to cooperate on online payments and marketing.  Alibaba founder Ma, who started developing the company’s
mobile business three years ago, hasn’t been able to keep pace
with Tencent and its WeChat messaging service for customers who
access the Internet through mobile devices. Buying a stake in
Weibo, with its 503 million registered users, may boost Ma’s
efforts to compete with his Shenzhen-based competitor in making
money from those platforms.  “They are forming a strategic cooperation to compete
against Tencent,” said Thomas Chong, an analyst at Bank of
 China International Holdings Ltd. (CHIH)  in Hong Kong. “Now the
biggest challenge is execution.”  Alibaba’s most popular e-commerce platforms include Taobao
Marketplace, a cross between Amazon.com Inc. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  with
more than 500 million registered users, and Tmall.com, a
business-to-consumer portal. The two businesses sold more than
$3.1 billion worth of goods in one day during a Nov. 11
promotion.  Mobile Growth  Hangzhou, China-based Alibaba could use Weibo’s popularity
with mobile users to expand its mobile e-commerce business,
Chong said. Ma said last month Alibaba may use acquisitions to
boost growth through apps.  About 75 percent of Weibo’s 46.2 million daily active users
access the service through mobile devices, according to Sina.
Tencent, led by billionaire Ma Huateng, had more than 300
million users by January. The billionaires aren’t related.  “We believe that the cooperation of our two robust
platforms will bring unique and valuable services to Weibo
users,” Alibaba’s Ma said in the statement. The stake will make
mobile “a core part of Alibaba’s strategy,” he said.  Alibaba said this month it’s working with five Chinese
handset makers to use its operating system, called AMOS, as it
takes on  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Tencent for mobile device users.  A Chinese government research institute said in March that
the nation’s smartphone makers are “heavily dependent” on
Google’s Android software and that is hampering the development
of the domestic industry.  “We believe e-commerce will play a vital role in building
an eco-system around Weibo’s open platform,” said Charles Chao,
chairman and chief executive officer of Sina.  Sina Shakeup  The move could help Sina boost its market value, which has
 nearly halved  since June 2011 as it struggles to monetize Weibo
and as growth in its Web portal business weakens, said Cao Lei,
a director at Hangzhou-based China e-Business Research Center.  “Sina has been investing a lot of money into Weibo,
Alibaba’s deal could help Sina with liquidity,” Cao said. “The
cooperation will also help Weibo’s monetization.”  Shares of Sina surged 9.4 percent to $55.03 at the close in
 New York  yesterday.  The deal values Weibo at $3.2 billion,
compared with Sina’s total market capitalization of $3.67
billion at yesterday’s closing price.  Jerry Huang, a director of  investor relations  for Tencent
in Shenzhen, didn’t respond to an e-mail and phone call seeking
comments during a public holiday in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  