-- Handgun-Sales Age Requirement Upheld by Court in NRA Suit
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-04-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/handgun-sales-age-requirement-upheld-by-appeals-court.html
     April 30 (Bloomberg) -– A U.S. law that prohibits federally
licensed dealers from selling handguns to buyers under the age
of 21 was upheld by an appeals court in a lawsuit brought by the
 National Rifle Association .  The NRA sued the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives and U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder in 2010 on
claims the federal ban violated the constitutional rights of
more than 11,000 NRA members who were 18 and older, though still
younger than the federal minimum.  Government lawyers convinced a U.S. judge in Lubbock,
 Texas , that the ban didn’t violate younger NRA members’ Second
Amendment right to bear arms or Fifth Amendment guarantee of
equal protection. The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans 
yesterday agreed in a 41-page revised opinion.  “Congress designed its scheme to solve a particular
problem: violent crime associated with the trafficking of
handguns from federal firearms licensees to young adults,” U.S.
Circuit Judge Edward C. Prado wrote on behalf of the three-
member appeals panel.  “Congress could have sought to prohibit all persons under
21 from possessing handguns -– or all guns, for that matter,”
Prado said. “But Congress deliberately adopted a calibrated,
compromise approach.”  The law doesn’t prohibit adults under age 21 from owning
“long guns” or legally acquiring handguns from parents or
guardians, Prado said. He also said Congressional concerns were
well-founded as illustrated by U.S. Census Bureau statistics
that “18-to-20-year-olds accounted for a disproportionately
high percentage of arrests for violent crimes” in 2010.  Charles Cooper , the NRA’s attorney, didn’t immediately
respond to phone and e-mail messages yesterday after regular
business hours seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is National Rifle Association of America Inc. v.
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, 11-10959,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
  laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  