-- Apple Joining Bond Bacchanalia as ’13 Sales Soar: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-04-30T18:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/apple-joining-bond-bacchanalia-as-13-sales-soar-credit-markets.html
Corporate  bond sales  are
approaching the fastest pace on record as central bank stimulus
from the U.S. to  Japan  and  Europe  stokes demand and prompts
economists to scale back forecasts for interest-rate increases.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the largest U.S. maker of smartphones, is
selling $17 billion of bonds in the biggest U.S. corporate
offering on record as issuance from the most creditworthy to the
riskiest borrowers surges to $1.4 trillion this year, topping
last year’s $1.38 trillion tally in the same period and
exceeding every year apart from the $1.47 trillion in the first
four months of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While concern the Federal Reserve would begin preparing to
pare back its bond-buying measures led to the worst first-quarter corporate debt returns since 2009, issuance picked up
this month as the  Bank of Japan  followed the Fed in announcing
unprecedented monetary easing. Renewed confidence in central
bank efforts to boost their economies cut bond yields to a
record 3.11 percent yesterday as the extra interest bondholders
demand to own high-grade debt instead of government notes
narrowed to the least since 2007.  ‘Cheap Financing’  “We all started off the year expecting rates to be higher,
and Treasury yields have come in and that means there’s cheap
financing available yet again,”  Ashish Shah , the head of global
credit investment at New York-based AllianceBernstein LP, which
oversees $256 billion in fixed-income assets, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s a real shortage of yield product.
Demand is there.”  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
corporate bonds rather than government debentures reached 140
basis points yesterday, the lowest since it last touched that
level in November 2007, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Corporate index.  “Companies are saying now is as good a time to issue as
ever and we might not see these spread levels for a really long
time after this,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s the most open window right now to issue.”  Offerings Surge  Sales of bonds from the U.S. to Europe and  Asia  exceeded
2012’s pace after offerings surged this month to at least $318
billion, compared with $205.3 billion in the similar period last
year, Bloomberg data show. Issuance lagged last year’s pace
during the first quarter, falling 7.6 percent behind a record
 $1.174 trillion  in the first three months of 2012.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , one of four U.S.-based businesses with the
highest ratings from Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s , raised $2.67 billion in dollars and euros on April 25,
including 550 million euros ($715 million) of 20-year, 2.625
percent notes, the lowest coupon among similar-maturity, non-financial corporate bonds sold in that currency, Bloomberg data
show. Proceeds may be used to fund working capital, stock
repurchases, acquisitions and debt repayment.  “It’s opportunistic funding for a lot of issuers,”
Timothy Cox, executive director of debt capital markets at
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “Why wait for something to happen that you have no
control over, when today the market is really pristine and
extremely efficient?”  ‘Opportunistic Funding’  The securities have returned 1.56 percent this month
through yesterday, the biggest gain since 2.44 percent in July
and an about face from a 0.42 percent loss in January, its first
negative return since November 2011, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Corporate & High Yield index.
Returns of 0.82 percent in the first quarter were the least for
the period since a loss of 0.67 percent in the first three
months of 2009.  Apple’s offering would be the largest dollar-denominated
sale on record.  Roche Holding AG  tops the existing list with a
$16.5 billion six-part deal from February 2009 that included $3
billion of one-year floating-rate debt, followed by AbbVie
Inc.’s $14.7 billion six-part issue in November, Bloomberg data
show. Apple’s sale, its first since 1996, is being managed by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG.  Apple Offering  The maker of the iPhone is issuing $3 billion of floating-rate notes and $14 billion of fixed-rate securities in six parts
with maturities from three to 30 years, according to a person
familiar with the offering. Proceeds may help Apple avoid
repatriation taxes on its $102.3 billion of funds held overseas
as Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  returns an additional $55
billion to shareholders through 2015 to compensate for a  stock 
that’s been hammered by signs of slowing growth.  “The demand for investment-grade debt continues to be very
strong,” Thomas Farina, managing director at Deutsche Insurance
Asset Management in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“Overall global yields are low, and should be low for some
time. In that environment, any ability to generate incremental
yield over risk-free rates is something that’s compelling for a
lot of investors.”  Offerings are peaking as quantitative easing measures,
including the Bank of Japan’s April 4 announcement to increase
monthly bond buying to 7.5 trillion yen ($77 billion), keep
yields at record lows and stem the expected rise in benchmark
borrowing costs.  ECB, Fed  European Central Bank policy makers may cut  interest rates 
this week, according to the majority of economists in a
Bloomberg survey, while the  Federal Reserve  will consider
renewing its commitment to bond-buying at a two-day meeting
starting today.  Yields on 10-year German  government bonds  are expected to
rise to 1.65 percent in the first quarter of 2014 from 1.2
percent now, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed this month by Bloomberg. That’s down from a 2.1 percent
forecast in March. Yields on similar-maturity Treasury notes are
expected to rise to 2.4 percent from less than 1.7 percent now.
That’s down from a 2.48 percent forecast last month.  “When they see the 10-year at 170, that gets Treasurers on
the edge of their seats,” Cox said. “It could be fleeting.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell for an eighth day,
with the Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, dropping 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of
75.2 basis points as of 2 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Swaps  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings fell 2 to 98.3.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.18 basis point to 13.89 basis points
as of 2:01 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, accounting for 3.4 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, at 2:03 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  