-- Dollar Slumps While S&P 500 Advances, Europe Bonds Gain
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-30T20:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/asian-stocks-climb-to-five-year-high-won-gains-as-silver-drops.html
The dollar slid as U.S. business
activity shrank for the first time in more than three years and
investors bet the Federal Reserve won’t reduce its bond buying
program. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose to a record for a
second day while industrial metals led commodities lower.  The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency versus six major
peers, fell 0.5 percent for a fourth straight loss, its longest
slump since February. The S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,597.57
at 4 p.m. in New York, capping a sixth straight month of gains.
French 10-year yields set a record low of less than 1.70 percent
and bonds in  Italy , Spain and  Portugal  rallied. Ten-year
Treasury yields traded near their lows of the year.  Zinc,
copper and aluminum lost more than 1.3 percent to help lead
commodities lower.  The Fed will consider renewing its commitment to bond
buying, or quantitative easing, at a two-day meeting that
started today. The MNI Chicago Report’s business barometer fell
to 49 in April, the lowest since September 2009 and less than
the reading of 50 that signals contraction. Euro-area inflation
slowed more than economists forecast in April, data showed
today, and most economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict
the European Central Bank will cut interest rates this week.  ‘Disinflationary Tendencies’  “The disinflationary tendencies that are building into the
U.S. and the risk that the debate shifts to expanding rather
than tapering QE has conspired to keep the U.S. under
pressure,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London , said in a phone
interview. “The fact we’ve now seen U.S. 10-years testing the
lows of the year is keeping the U.S. dollar on the defensive.”  The dollar weakened against 15 of its 16 major peers. The
U.S. currency lost 0.5 percent to $1.3168 per euro, near the
weakest level since February. Ten-year Treasury yields were
little changed at 1.67 percent after slipping as much as 3.5
basis points to 1.64 percent, the lowest since December.  The S&P 500 ended the session higher after swinging between
gains and losses. The benchmark gauge closed yesterday at an
all-time high, finishing its recovery from a 3.3 percent slump
from April 11 to April 18.  International Business Machines Corp., Microsoft Corp. and
American Express Co. rose more than 1 percent to lead the Dow
Jones Industrial Average up 21.05 points to 14,839.8. Apple Inc.
jumped 2.9 percent after the iPhone maker was said to be selling
$17 billion of bonds in the biggest U.S. corporate offering on
record, according to a person familiar with the offering, as the
company seeks to help finance a $100 billion capital reward for
shareholders.  Earnings Season   Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  gained 4.1 percent after earnings topped
analysts’ estimates as cost reductions started to show results.
Pfizer Inc. declined 4.5 percent as the world’s biggest
drugmaker reported earnings that fell short of analysts’
projections.  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  lost 4.6 percent as the
biggest U.S. gold producer reported profit that missed estimates
following a slump in gold prices and higher-than-expected costs.  The bull market in U.S. equities entered its fifth year
last month and the S&P 500 has surged about 136 percent from a
12-year low in 2009, driven by better-than-estimated corporate
earnings and three rounds of bond purchases by the Fed. Earnings
beat the average analyst estimate at 73 percent of the 306
companies in the S&P 500 that reported results so far in the
latest reporting season. Profit at S&P 500 companies rose 1.1
percent in the first three months of the year, according to
analysts’ projections compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Pause’  “Given the strength we’ve seen in the market here and with
earnings being a mixed bag, you’re just getting a little bit of
pause,” Kurt Brunner, who helps manage $1.5 billion at
Swarthmore Group in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve had a good month in here, now there are some concerns
over ‘are we heading into that growth problem again?”  The slump in business activity overshadowed another report
showing  consumer confidence  climbed more than forecast in April.
The Conference Board’s index rose to 68.1, exceeding the highest
projection in a Bloomberg survey, from a revised 61.9 in March,
data from the New York-based private research group showed
today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast an increase to
61.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
increased 9.3 percent in February from the same month in 2012
after rising 8.1 percent in the year ended in January, the group
said today in New York. The gain exceeded the 9 percent median
forecast from economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Norwegian Fund  Norway’s $730 billion sovereign-wealth fund, the world’s
largest, warned that the current upbeat mood in global stock
markets may not last even as low interest rates offer scant
returns on bonds.  “The safest investment alternative will provide a return
after inflation below zero,”  Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive
officer of Norges Bank Investment Management, said in the text
of a speech held today at parliament in Oslo. “Many countries
are heavily indebted and monetary policy implies low, and in
some cases negative, real interest rates ahead. Moreover,
today’s favorable stock market conditions may be based on
expectations that do not materialize.”  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.2 percent while still
capping an 11th straight month of gains, the longest winning
streak since 1997.  European Movers  UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, rallied 5.7 percent as
first-quarter earnings beat analyst estimates on higher revenues
at the investment bank and in wealth management. BP rose 2.1
percent as Europe’s second-largest oil company reported profit
that exceeded projections because of an improved performance at
its fuel-trading business. Deutsche Bank AG surged 6.1 percent
on plans to raise as much as 4.8 billion euros ($6.3 billion) in
capital.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer, lost
1.2 percent after posting first-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ forecasts on weaker-than-anticipated beer sales in
 Brazil  and the U.S.  The Frankfurt-based ECB will lower its benchmark rate to a
record 0.5 percent when central bankers meet in Bratislava on
May 2, according to the median estimate of analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Reports from the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg today showed the annual inflation rate in the euro
area fell to 1.2 percent in April, the lowest since February
2010, and the March jobless rate advanced to 12.1 percent, the
highest since the data series began in 1995.  Europe’s ‘Elephant’  “The chances of an ECB cut this week have been revised
upwards so the market has been chasing fixed-income,
particularly in Europe,” said Francesco Garzarelli, the London-
based co-head of macro and markets research at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” with Francine Lacqua and Guy Johnson. For the Fed, “the
big question mark, or the elephant in the room, is whether they
taper these purchases” of bonds, he said.  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield rose one basis point to 1.22
percent after touching a nine-month low of 1.18 percent.  Spain’s 10-year securities capped an eighth monthly gain,
the longest streak in eight years, as yields declined two basis
points to 4.135 percent, the least since October 2010. Italy’s
two-year  note yield  fell to 1.09 percent, the least on record.  ‘Could Consolidate’  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 1.1 percent to a six-
week high as investors speculated global monetary stimulus will
boost demand for riskier assets. Benchmark indexes in Brazil,
South Korea,  Hungary ,  Russia ,  Turkey  and the United Arab
Emirates rose more than 1 percent.  “There’s plenty of liquidity around the world, and so one
would presume we will continue to see the rally for the next six
to 12 months,” said Khiem Do, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian
multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees about $51 billion. “In the short term, some markets
like  Japan  and the U.S. have been overbought and could
consolidate from day to day.”  Chinese markets were closed today for holidays, while
Japan’s were shut yesterday. There are holidays tomorrow in most
of Asia’s emerging markets.  Gold futures for June delivery rose 0.3 percent to settle
at $1,472.10 an ounce in New York. The price has climbed 11
percent from a 26-month low of $1,321.50 on April 16. The metal
has slumped 12 percent this year.  Crude oil slipped 1.1 percent to $93.46 a barrel in New
York and lost 3.9 percent this month. U.S. inventories probably
increased to the highest level in more than 22 years, a
Bloomberg  survey  showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  