-- Austria Revisits Hypo Alpe Bad-Bank Plans Dismissed by Fekter
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-04-30T11:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/austria-revisits-hypo-alpe-bad-bank-plans-dismissed-by-fekter.html
Austria  is reconsidering plans to
establish a separate “bad bank” to wind down delinquent loans
at nationalized lender Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, a
move that could add to the nation’s debt.  The government is discussing whether separate wind-down
units modeled on Germany’s FMS Wertmanagement AoeR or Austria’s
KA Finanz AG would make sense for Hypo Alpe, Chancellor Werner Faymann told journalists in Vienna today. The  Finance Ministry 
is also in talks with the European Union to allow more time for
the bank to sell its viable assets, he said.  “There are intensive consultations about whether there
could be ‘bad-bank’ parts like the German or the previous
Austrian model,” Faymann said after the weekly government
meeting. “The goal is to manage as many assets as possible as
beneficial as possible.”  Austria is under pressure by EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia , who is reviewing state aid of as much as 2.2
billion euros ($2.9 billion) the country has provided to the
lender since 2008. A firesale of the bank’s assets by the end of
the year may cause as much as 14 billion euros of additional
losses for Austrian taxpayers, according to a central bank
document cited by Profil magazine April 27.  Finance Minister Maria Fekter last year refused to create a
bad bank for Hypo Alpe. Such an institution would bring
Austria’s debt to “exorbitant levels,” she said Oct. 15. The
liabilities of Germany’s FMS, which is managing the risky and
non-performing assets of failed mortgage lender Hypo Real Estate
AG, are counted as part of  Germany ’s state debt.  Fekter said a draft plan for how to deal with Hypo Alpe
couldn’t be discussed in this week’s government meeting and she
would present a new plan next week. She said the sale of the
bank’s viable units in Austria,  Italy  and the former Yugoslavia
would have to be “intensified.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  