-- Lautenschlaeger Says Single Bank Supervisor Timetable Ambitious
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-04-30T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/lautenschlaeger-says-single-bank-supervisor-timetable-ambitious.html
Bundesbank Vice President Sabine Lautenschlaeger cast doubt on Europe’s ability to set up a fully
operational single European banking supervisor by mid-2014.  “I believe that you will need more than one year to
develop an optimally designed supervisor that’s fully
functioning,” Lautenschlaeger told journalists at an event in
Frankfurt last night. “That doesn’t mean that you can’t be
ready by the middle of next year to start. You grow into it. But
it is ambitious.”  Euro-area finance ministers this month endorsed plans to
hand supervision powers to the  European Central Bank , the first
step toward the banking union that European leaders agreed on
last year. Officials including ECB President  Mario Draghi  have
called for the Single Supervisory Mechanism to be complemented
by a European Resolution Authority.  “I’m convinced that we need a European resolution for the
long haul but there is a question whether this is doable under
the current laws,” Lautenschlaeger said. “I’m realistic enough
to see that we might need a treaty change.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told his
counterparts this month that there isn’t enough of a basis in
the European Union’s current rulebook for building a common
authority and fund for  bank failures . Other nations, including
 France , Luxembourg, and  Denmark , are urging swift progress on
putting in place a resolution system, amid concerns that treaty
changes would cause unacceptable delays.  ‘Optimal Design’  With a treaty change “we could tackle the optimal design
of supervision with a proper separation” from monetary policy,
Lautenschlaeger said.  “Since  Germany  has two supervisory institutions, the
Bundesbank and Bafin, clearly both should be represented” in
the supervisory board “and they should exercise their voting
right together,” she said. “That ensures that the German
position is represented stringently and consistently.”  Of the 130 banks the ECB will supervise directly, 25 will
be German, Lautenschlaeger said.  “The situation of German banks is relatively comfortable
and overall, German banks have neither a problem with liquidity
nor with capital in the short term,” she said. “In contrast to
many other economies, we don’t see indications for a credit
squeeze or a tightening of credit standards.”  Still, most recent data for systemically important banks
don’t suggest there will be a trend reversal to higher earnings,
Lautenschlaeger said. “The trend of lower earnings will be a
challenge for banks and banking regulation in the long term.”  Basel III  While  Europe  missed the target date of Jan. 1 this year to
introduce Basel III, it will do so “step by step in 2014 at the
latest,” she said. “I’m confident and I expect that this will
also happen in all important financial centers. Unequal
competitive conditions can create regulatory arbitrage.”  Lautenschlaeger and Bafin president Elke Koenig told the
Federal Reserve board in an April 26 letter that they oppose a
proposed rule aimed at compelling large foreign bank holding
companies to hold more capital and liquidity in their U.S.
subsidiaries.  “It’s not my job to propose special provisions to the U.S.
for its national legislation,” Lautenschlaeger said. “I’m in
favor of a globally coordinated framework so that we have a
level playing field and no regulatory arbitrage. I don’t believe
that you will get anywhere with national rules in such an
interconnected market.”  Lautenschlaeger also said that officials might agree on
further minor changes to the liquidity coverage ratio
requirement for banks.  “I assume that it will remain unchanged in its core but
there may be small changes in details, both at the global and
the European level,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  