-- Authorities Said to Find Female DNA on Boston Bomb Piece
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-04-30T05:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/authorities-said-to-find-female-dna-on-boston-bomb-piece.html
Investigators have found female DNA
on a fragment from one of the two bombs used in the attack on
the  Boston  Marathon two weeks ago, according to a U.S. official
briefed on the probe.  The genetic material may have come from a number of sources
and its discovery doesn’t necessarily mean that additional
people were involved beyond the two brothers suspected in the
bombing, said the official, who asked not to be identified in
discussing an open case.  The DNA find emerged as authorities continue to investigate
whether the suspects, Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, had help
in planning or carrying out the April 15 attack. So far,
according to a second U.S. official who asked not to be
identified, there’s no evidence of such assistance.  Among those under scrutiny is Tamerlan’s wife, Katherine
Russell Tsarnaev. Agents from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation visited her parents’ home in North Kingstown,
Rhode Island, yesterday and took a DNA sample from her,
according to one of the U.S. officials briefed on the probe.  Amato DeLuca, a lawyer for Katherine Tsarnaev, said in an
e-mail yesterday that she was continuing to “assist in the
investigation in any way she can.” Last week, he said in an
interview that she knew nothing about the attacks beforehand and
“was as shocked as anybody” when they happened.  Jason Pack, an FBI spokesman, declined to say whether
Katherine Tsarnaev was cooperating voluntarily and said that
the bureau can’t discuss specific aspects of the case.  Younger Brother  Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a police shootout April 19.
He and his brother are suspected by U.S. authorities of setting
off the bombs at the Boston Marathon finish line that killed
three people and wounded 260.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was apprehended on April 19 after a
manhunt that paralyzed the Boston metropolitan area. He was
found hiding in a boat in the backyard of a Watertown,
Massachusetts, home and taken to the hospital for treatment of
gunshot wounds.  The younger Tsarnaev, now being held at a federal prison
west of Boston for inmates needing medical care, is charged with
using and conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction.  As part of the investigation, the FBI wants to interview
family members including the suspects’ parents, who are in
 Russia , said an official familiar with the probe who asked not
to be identified. Friends, associates and others who were part
of the suspects’ lives are also being sought for interviews, the
official said.  ‘Up Our Game’  In the aftermath of the attack, members of Congress said
investigators have told them that the Tsarnaev brothers were
schooled in radical Islam and terrorist bomb-making online.  Lawmakers say they want to know why U.S. intelligence and
law enforcement agencies didn’t take a closer look at Tamerlan
when he traveled to Russia last year. The trip took place after
Russian authorities raised concerns in 2011 with their U.S.
counterparts that he might be involved in extremist activities.  “We’re going to have to up our game,” Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican, said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” broadcast on April 28. “How could you miss the fact
that the guy you were -- you were informed by a foreign
intelligence service you have a radical in your midst.”  The FBI, at the request of Russia’s domestic intelligence
service, conducted a three-month review of Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s
activities in 2011. The FBI checked the tip thoroughly “and did
not find terrorist activity, domestic or foreign,” White House
spokesman Jay Carney said on April 22.  Russian Warning  Russia declined to cooperate when the FBI sought more
specific information, according to Representative Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican and chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee.  The Russians’ warning to the U.S. about Tamerlan in 2011
stemmed from two secretly recorded phone calls between him and
his mother, according to a U.S. official who asked not to be
identified because of the continuing investigation. Russian
authorities didn’t tell that to the U.S. until after the
bombing, the official said.  President  Barack Obama  in a telephone call yesterday
thanked President Vladimir Putin for Russia’s “close
cooperation” in the case. The two also discussed security for
the 2014 Olympics in Sochi, Russia, according to a White House
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  