-- Avalanche Land Top Pick in NHL’s Draft Lottery Over Panthers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-30T04:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/avalanche-win-top-pick-in-nhl-s-draft-lottery-with-panthers-2nd.html
The  Colorado Avalanche  landed the
No. 1 pick in the National Hockey League draft for the first
time since the franchise moved from Quebec in 1995.  After finishing with the NHL’s second-worst record at
16-27-5 and firing coach Joe Sacco, the Avalanche had an 18.8
percent chance of winning last night’s lottery, which was open
to the 14 clubs that missed the playoffs. The Florida Panthers
had a 25 percent chance at getting the top pick after going
15-27-6 and will have the No. 2 selection in the June 30 draft
at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey.  The Quebec Nordiques had the NHL’s top draft pick three
times before moving to  Colorado  and selected Mats Sundin, Owen
Nolan and Eric Lindros in consecutive years from 1989 to 1991.  “This is an exciting night for our organization and our
fans,” Avalanche Director of Amateur Scouting Richard Pracey
said in a statement last night on the team’s website. “Having
the first overall pick allows us to add an elite prospect to an
already solid group of young players.”  Defenseman Seth Jones, 18, is the top-rated player eligible
for the draft and had 14 goals and 42 assists in 61 games this
season for the Portland Winterhawks of the Western Hockey
League, according to NHL.com. He also helped the U.S. win the
gold medal at the World Junior Championships last year.  “There’s a lot to like about Jones,” Pracey said, adding
that taking him No. 1 isn’t a certainty. “His size and skating
ability are two things that jump off the page.”  The last defensemen taken with the top pick in the draft
were Erik Johnson by the  St. Louis Blues  in 2006 and  Chris
Phillips  by the  Ottawa Senators  in 1996.  Mooseheads’ Prospects  Center Nathan MacKinnon and left wing Jonathan Drouin, who
both play for the Halifax Mooseheads in the Quebec Major Junior
Hockey League, are the other highest-rated draft prospects
available this year.  “It would have been nice to get the top pick, but either
way we know we’re getting a good player,” Panthers General
Manager Dale Tallon said.  The  Tampa Bay Lightning  have the third pick in the draft,
followed by the Nashville Predators and  Carolina Hurricanes .
After the No. 1 pick, the rest of the top 14 selections are
determined by inverse order of teams’ regular-season record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  