-- Aveo Kidney Cancer Drug May Need More Study, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-30T13:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/aveo-kidney-cancer-drug-may-need-more-study-fda-says.html
Aveo Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AVEO) ’s lead
product candidate, a kidney cancer drug, may need another
clinical trial to assess the benefit, U.S. regulators said. Aveo
shares dropped in early trading.  While the medicine showed better results than  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and
 Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) ’s Nexavar in delaying disease
progression, a trend toward a reduction in patients’ overall
survival led Food and Drug Administration staff in a  report 
today to question whether Aveo should conduct further study. A
panel of FDA advisers will meet May 2 to discuss the compound,
called tivozanib.  Aveo applied for FDA approval based on one final-phase
trial that primarily studied tivozanib’s effect on the cancer’s
progression. If approved, tivozanib may generate sales of $287
million in 2016 for Aveo, according to the average of three
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Aveo would lead
marketing of tivozanib in North America and Tokyo-based partner
 Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  would handle the effort in  Europe .  “The therapeutic landscape has changed since the approval
of other agents” and proving a benefit on progression-free
survival may no longer be sufficient, Brian Klein, an analyst
for Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote in a note to clients April 25.  Same Class  Nexavar,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Sutent and GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s
Votrient, which are in the same class as tivozanib, were
approved based on a single trial focused on improved survival
time without the disease progressing rather than overall
survival, William Slichenmyer, the chief medical officer for
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Aveo, said in an interview.  Aveo fell 17 percent to $6.14 at 9:01 a.m.  New York  time.
The shares closed at $7.44 yesterday and had fallen 35 percent
in the past year.  Klein predicted a negative FDA advisory panel outcome this
week and recommends selling the shares. The FDA is scheduled to
decide whether to clear tivozanib for sale by July 28.  Aveo sold $81 million of shares in an initial offering
three years ago to help fund research on tivozanib, which is
intended to treat advanced renal cell carcinoma.  Patients taking tivozanib lived a median 11.9 months
without the disease worsening versus a median 9.1 months for
those on Nexavar, Aveo and Astellas said in a statement last
year. Patients on the pill lived a median 28.8 months compared
to a median 29.3 months for patients on Nexavar.  Desired Outcome  Tivozanib didn’t have the desired outcome on overall
survival because researchers let patients in the clinical trial
on Nexavar whose cancer got worse switch to tivozanib,
Slichenmyer said. The crossover resulted in the comparison of
two sequential drugs versus only tivozanib.  Tivozanib is highly potent and selective causing fewer side
effects such as diarrhea and a painful skin condition on the
hands and feet caused by chemotherapy, Slichenmyer said. The
most common reported side effect for patients on tivozanib was
high blood pressure.  There are about 59,000 new cases of renal cell carcinoma
diagnosed in the U.S. each year and about 25 percent are
advanced at the time of diagnosis, he said. About 12,000
patients with the disease die each year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  