-- Bakken, Three Forks Has More Oil Than 2008 Estimate: USGS
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-04-30T16:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/bakken-three-forks-has-more-oil-than-2008-estimate-usgs.html
Oil resources in shale formations
of  North Dakota ,  Montana  and nearby states are 7.4 billion
barrels, U.S. government researchers said, doubling an estimate
for the region made five years ago.  The  U.S. Geological Survey  said today the resources can be
extracted using current technology and exclude those oil-shale
reserves that have already been tapped or listed by industry. In
2008, the agency estimated total oil in the Bakken formation,
which is within the region assessed in today’s report, was 3
billion to 4.3 billion barrels.  The agency for the first time studied the Three Forks
formation, which is estimated to include 3.73 billion barrels,
exceeding the recoverable oil in the Bakken. Five years ago,
Three Forks, which lies further underground than the Bakken, was
considered out of reach, the agency said.  “The Three Forks is up and coming,” Brenda Pierce, the
USGS energy resources program coordinator, told reporters on a
conference call. The formation “was the big unknown.”  Oil production in  North Dakota  is booming, making that
state the second-largest U.S. producer after  Texas ,  according  to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Bakken production
rose 39 percent from a year earlier to 715,000 barrels of oil a
day in this year’s fourth quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  About 450 million barrels of oil have been produced from
the area since 2008, the geological survey said in its report.  Shale gas and shale oil is produced by horizontal drilling
and hydraulic fracturing, in which millions of gallons of water,
sand and chemicals are injected underground to break apart rock
formations and free the trapped fuel.  The Three Forks area covers about the same geographic area
as the Bakken, which extends through much of North Dakota,
northeast Montana and parts of  South Dakota .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  