-- Bangladesh Court Orders Confiscation of Building Owner’s Assets
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-04-30T10:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/bangladesh-court-orders-confiscation-of-building-owner-s-assets.html
A  Bangladesh  court has asked the
government to confiscate assets belonging to the owner of the
factory complex that collapsed last week as hopes fade for more
survivors after the nation’s biggest industrial disaster.  The property and assets belonging to Sohel Rana, owner of
the eight-story Rana Plaza that collapsed killing at least 387
people, as well as of four owners of garment factories in the
complex should be seized, High Court judges Mirza Hussain Haider
and Muhammad Khurshid Alam Sarkar said in a ruling today in
Dhaka. They have also barred transfer of assets held by the
five, according to the ruling.  The collapse of the building in Savar last week is at least
the third reported industrial accident in the South Asian nation
since November, when 112 people died in a fire at a workshop
that was producing clothes for companies including  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  Protesters in and around Dhaka blocked roads and
clashed with police last week demanding punishment for Rana, a
member of the ruling Awami League political party’s youth wing.  Rescue efforts are continuing and no new survivor was found
for a second day, according to the control room supervising the
salvage effort. They have pulled 2,437 alive from the rubble.
The government hasn’t provided estimates on how many are
missing.  Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed yesterday
visited the disaster site, where hundreds of relatives are still
waiting to learn the fate of family members.  Owner Arrest  Building owner Rana, 38, was flown to the capital Dhaka
after being arrested in the western border town of Benapole from
where he planned to flee into  India , Jahangir Kabir Nanak, state
minister for local government, told cheering relatives of
victims at the disaster site April 28. Police have arrested
executives of four apparel makers housed in the building.  After cracks were found in the building April 23, Rana
forced workers to return to their posts and said it was safe as
it was being checked by engineers, according to Mokhlesur
Rahman, director general of the Rapid Action Battalion, an elite
law-enforcement agency.  Rana’s wife and father were among the people arrested in
connection with the collapsed building. The police have 15 days
to interrogate Rana, according to a court order issued
yesterday. Anisur Rahman, chairman of Ether Tex, one of the five
companies housed in Rana Plaza, turned himself in April 28.  Worker Protests  About 300 factories employing as many as 500,000 people in
the industrial belt of Ashulia, about 10 kilometers (6.2 miles)
from Savar, suspended their production today after briefly
resuming work in the morning as some workers stormed out calling
for safe work environment, Atiqul Islam, president of Bangladesh
Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association, said by
telephone.  More than 100 people were killed in a fire in November at a
garment factory located in Ashulia, on the outskirts of Dhaka.  In another industrial belt, Gazipur, factories resumed
production and are operating smoothly, Munibur Rahman, director
of Gazipur Industrial Police, said by telephone.  Hasina on April 26 ordered the arrest of the owners of five
factories located in Rana Plaza in Savar, 24 kilometers
northwest of Dhaka.  Unmet Standards  Rana’s permit to construct the building, where clothes were
made for brands owned by  Loblaw Cos. (L)  and  Associated British
Foods Plc (ABF) , was from the Savar Municipal Corp., a local body that
has lower building standards, and not Dhaka’s development
authority, said Sheikh Mannan, a planning member of Rajdhani
Unnayan Kartripakkha, Dhaka’s development authority.  About half of Bangladesh’s garment factories don’t meet
legally-required work-safety standards, said Kalpona Akter,
executive director of the Bangladesh Center for Worker
Solidarity, a non-governmental organization. A factory collapse
in 2005 killed 64 and injured 80 people, according to the Clean
Clothes Campaign, which seeks to improve working conditions in
the garment and sportswear industries.  Bangladesh’s labor law requires safety measures such as
fire extinguishers and easily accessible exits at factories. The
government has decided to constitute a panel to identify garment
factories in the country at risk of collapse, cabinet secretary
Hossain Bhuiyan told reporters yesterday.  $18 Billion Industry  Loblaw’s Joe Fresh and Associated British Foods’ Primark,
which said that their suppliers made garments at the collapsed
factory, both vowed to help improve working conditions in
Bangladesh.  Surging wages and inflation in  China , the largest apparel
supplier, have prompted retailers such as Wal-Mart and  Hoffman
Estates , Illinois-based  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  to shift production
to Bangladesh. In response, an $18 billion manufacturing
industry has sprung up, marred by factories operated in
buildings with poor electrical wiring, an insufficient number of
exits and little firefighting equipment.  Textiles contribute more than 10 percent of Bangladesh’s
gross domestic product and about 80 percent of the nation’s
exports, mainly to the U.S. and the European Union, according to
the manufacturers’ association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  