-- Bank of Korea Division Deepens Over Cutting Rates, Minutes Show
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-04-30T09:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/bank-of-korea-division-deepens-over-cutting-rates-minutes-show.html
Division within the  Bank of Korea 
deepened when three out of seven board members called for a
reduction in  interest rates  this month, while the majority voted
for no change, minutes released today show.  The three supporters of a 25-basis-point cut were Chung Hae Bang, Ha Sung Keun and Chung Soon Won. The monetary policy
committee was split four-three for the first time since August
2006, according to the central bank. At previous meetings this
year, only Ha called for a reduction.  The Bank of  Korea  held borrowing costs unchanged at 2.75
percent for a sixth month on April 11, resisting government
pressure for a reduction. The nation’s biggest decline in
industrial output in a year, reported today, may fuel calls for
monetary loosening to accompany fiscal stimulus as weakness
in the yen threatens the nation's exports.   “The split, combined with the poor industrial output data,
will apparently rekindle the debate on a rate cut,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, an analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in  Seoul . “The
four-to-three split means only one vote is needed for a rate
cut, which may happen in May.”  Of those who called for a cut, Chung Hae Bangis a former
official at the Ministry of Planning and Budget, who was
recommended for the policy board by the finance minister. Hawas
recommended by the nation’s financial regulator. Chung Soon Won
is a former Hyundai Motor Co. president and was recommended by
the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  One board member cited a weak yen and a slow global
economic recovery as reasons for a reduction, according to the
minutes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  