-- Banker Roommates Follow Zuckerberg Not Blankfein With IvyConnect
-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2013-04-30T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/banker-roommates-follow-zuckerberg-not-blankfein-with-ivyconnect.html
A former GE Capital associate with
a  fuchsia  handgun on his $185 lilac tie gave out his business
card near a Danish man twirling a Turkish woman. An  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  employee left out his firm’s name when
he said he works in risk.  They had come to a lower Manhattan classic-car gallery
April 18 for what Philipp Triebel, co-chief executive officer of
IvyConnect, calls a new “private members club for the most
inspiring people.”  A former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. associate in the Special
Situations Group, which invests the firm’s own money, Triebel
started IvyConnect last year with ex- Morgan Stanley (MS)  investment
banker Beri Meric, 28. They threw their first party in November.  Members are “intellectually curious risk-takers,” said
Triebel, 31. “We want the hedge-fund guy the same as we want a
painter or a yoga instructor. We also want a lawyer, because we
believe there’s value to bringing them together.”  With banker and trader pay about half its 2007 total,
according to an Options Group report, and the six largest U.S.
banks announcing plans in the year’s first three months to cut
21,000 jobs, IvyConnect shows the lure of social media. Young
Wall Street alumni are tacking closer to  Facebook Inc. (FB)  CEO  Mark Zuckerberg  than Goldman Sachs’s Lloyd C. Blankfein.  Wellness Focus  In March, twins and Goldman Sachs partners Paul and Peter Scialla left for Delos Living LLC, which designs luxury homes
with a “wellness” focus. Last year, Goldman Sachs President
Gary Cohn’s chief of staff, Robert Reffkin, resigned to start
hyperlocal search company  Urban Compass , and colleagues Andy
Pickens and Moses Soyoola departed to build  Jamplify , which pays
fans of brands and bands to promote them.  Post-Goldman Sachs startup life isn’t easy. IvyConnect is
competing with  the Ivy Connection , the  Ivy Plus Society  and
 IvyLife  for Ivy League-themed dating, drinking and networking.  IvyConnect has approved 2,000 members, who attend events a
la carte or pay $45 a month or $500 a year, according to
Triebel. After three members at the party said they paid less,
he said rates are discounted to $200 for certain applicants,
“like someone who’s right out of college and works in the
creative space.” More than a few have been rejected, he said
without elaborating.  Harvard Men  Meric and Triebel, who met at a 2008 dinner for new Harvard
Business School students, have raised $2.6 million, according to
a filing last year with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Investors include SecondMarket Holdings Inc. CEO
 Barry Silbert , whose firm runs an exchange that helps investors
trade shares of closely held companies.  The founders, who share an apartment in Chelsea with a
friend, started website  DateHarvardSQ  in 2010 to link single
women with university men. It grew into IvyDate in 2011, and the
company announced in June that almost  30,000 people  had joined.
That site is now IvyConnect’s singles platform, which the two
bachelor founders said they don’t personally use.  IvyConnect members aren’t all Ivy League alumni. The group
borrows part of the conference’s name “to leverage the Ivy
brand heritage,” said Meric, a 2006 Brown University graduate.  “I’m happy they’re diversifying, because now their focus
isn’t really on dating,” said Alex Furmansky, president of
invite-only singles site  Sparkology  and a former analyst for
investment bank Evercore Partners Inc. “They have this more-diversified thing, where they’ve shifted into deals and
experiences and excursions and philanthropy.”  ‘Fascinating Individuals’  IvyConnect, now based only in New York, plans to attract
10,000 “fascinating individuals” in each of 50 global cities,
according to its website. Facebook, whose free social network
began in February 2004 in Zuckerberg’s Harvard dorm room, had 1
million users by that December,  according  to the company. He’s
worth $13.2 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index , after an initial public offering last year.  “There’s definitely a shift, not to say that no one’s
interested in finance anymore,” said Frank Rimalovski, a former
Bear Stearns Cos. banker who oversees New York University’s
Innovation Venture Fund, which invests in student startups.
Rimalovski, 47, who was drawn to finance after seeing the 1987
Oliver Stone film “Wall Street,” said falling technology costs
and cultural fascination with social media create a groundswell.  “We have thousands of followers and friends, but a true
companion and a real conversation are more and more eluding,”
said Arya Bolurfrushan, 28, an IvyConnect investor and the
founders’ friend at Harvard. He left Goldman Sachs in 2008 and
is CEO of  his family’s  Dubai-based Bolurfrushan International
Group, with insurance and petroleum holdings.  “It’s a nice platform that bridges the gap in the lives of
people who are very driven and don’t have time and circumstance
in the universe to meet,” he said.  Meatpacking Cocktails  Triebel, raised in Dusseldorf,  Germany , received a
bachelor’s degree from the London School of Economics and a
master’s in economics from the University of Cambridge. His twin
brother Toby went to the same schools and also worked for
Goldman Sachs.  Jamplify founders Pickens and Soyoola left the New York-based bank last year after deciding that “we’d rather intensely
work on something closer to our personal passions,” CEO Pickens
said. Starting Jamplify has meant “building something that
we’re proud to call our own,” he said.  IvyConnect has led a ski trip to  Vermont ’s Mount Snow, held
a dinner at Gemma restaurant in New York’s Bowery Hotel, hosted
a reception at an art gallery and a Paris-themed Meatpacking
District cocktail party and put together a Soho talk featuring
five members.  Eloquent, Sincere  “It helps bring together a community of smart, fun people
around this age in the city who otherwise probably wouldn’t
meet,” said Andrew Kallem, 30, a member who’s on leave from
consulting firm McKinsey & Co. to develop a mobile game. The
$200 he pays for IvyConnect is “well worth it,” he said.  The group wants to transcend “associations with the ‘Ivy’
word that can make it seem a little more stuffy,” Meric said.
Those associations received national coverage in March after the
Daily Princetonian published alumna Susan Patton’s  letter  to
Princeton University’s women in March, advising them to pick a
man from the college’s “virile plains” as soon as possible.  IvyConnect’s application asks would-be members to label
themselves as either policy influencers, entrepreneurs, artists
or distinguished professionals. They can use adjectives
including eloquent, sincere and driven.  “If they are organizing a group of people aspiring toward
transformation, that’s fantastic,” said Jennie Enterprise,
founder of the Core Club in  Manhattan , which costs $50,000 to
join. “This concept of elitism is not really relevant in our
world, because it really is about hard work.”  ‘Quick Flip’  IvyConnect investor Philip Renton, chief operating officer
of Sakonnet Technology LLC, which makes risk systems for energy
trading, said members aren’t elitist, “just inspirational
people who are motivated, and engaged in the world, and looking
to have an impact and make their own personal statement.”  Triebel said the group could sell one day to “companies
interested in our demographic,” listing magazine publisher
Hearst Corp. and WPP Plc, the world’s largest advertising
company. “We’re not in it for a quick flip,” he said.  IvyConnect membership perks include “preferential table
reservations” at the Dream Downtown hotel’s rooftop lounge,
according to the group’s website, plus discounts to the
Guggenheim Museum and Juice Press, which sells unpasteurized
smoothies and cleanses. An online philanthropy page lists
“curated social-impact projects,” and its section on ideas
features links to NYU journalism professor Clay Shirky’s  TED
talk  and New York Times columnist David Brooks’  foreword  to a
book titled “This Will Make You Smarter.”  At the April 18 IvyConnect party, which cost $40 for a la
carte members, purple lights bounced off parked Porsches in
Soho’s Classic Car Club until about 11 p.m. The DJ who had
played a “Pumped Up Kicks” remix packed away equipment as
Triebel watched the crowd disperse.  “I think there’s something to be said about building your
own business,” he said. “It’s a more touchable impact that you
have on other people’s lives than on Wall Street.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  