-- Baring Vostok Backs Amazon Clone After 500-Fold Yandex Win
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-04-30T14:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/baring-vostok-bets-on-ozon-after-winning-500-fold-yandex-returns.html
Baring Vostok Capital Partners  is
betting on online retailer Ozon.ru and classifieds website
Avito.ru after  Russia ’s largest private-equity firm earned 500-
fold returns on its investment in search engine  Yandex NV. (YNDX)   Ozon and Avito “are great Internet businesses” and among
a dwindling number of Russian companies offering fast growth,
according to Michael Calvey, founder and senior partner at
Baring Vostok. “We have high hopes,” he said, declining to
comment on possible initial public offerings.  Even as Russia’s economy slowed last year to the  weakest 
pace since its 2009 contraction, Baring Vostok’s portfolio of 20
companies expanded 38 percent on average in dollar terms,
according to Calvey. The weak IPO market may even benefit his
funds, giving them a pick of companies that in better conditions
would raise money directly in public markets.  Some of the “spectacular” returns that Baring Vostok has
enjoyed “will never be repeated,” Calvey said in an interview
in Moscow. Its second fund, which was formed 13 years ago and
made the initial Yandex investment, had three investments that
each generated “more than 20 times costs,” he said.  In 2000, Baring Vostok bought into Yandex with a group of
partners, acquiring a 36 percent stake at a price that valued
Russia’s largest Internet search engine at less than  $15
million . It sold part of its stake in Yandex’s 2011 IPO, which
reflected a more than 500-fold gain in value to about $8
billion, and $455 million of shares in a secondary offering last
month.  Never Again  “Baring Vostok scored a hole-in-one at the Augusta Masters
but the golf course has changed now and they will never ever get
that shot again,”  Eric Kraus , a  fund manager  at Nikitsky
Capital, which oversees about $215 million, said in e-mailed
comments. “Investing in Yandex back in 2000 was certainly one
of the best legal investments in Russia of all times -- and in
fact, easily beat most of the illegal ones with far less risk.”  Baring Vostok had about 22 percent of Yandex before the
2011 IPO and has gradually reduced its stake to about 10
percent, the search engine’s  filings  show. Yandex rose 12
percent since a March 12 secondary offering. Baring Vostok may
sell more Yandex shares after the lockup period expires in early
June, according to Sberbank Investment Research.  Emulating Amazon  Internet, software, health care and financial services
still offer growth of 15 percent a year, while “the best
companies in these sectors” may expand at twice the average
rate, Calvey said.  “It’s all about penetration catchup with the West,”
Calvey said. “We can still probably see 10 years ahead when
there can be decent growth.”  Ozon increased net sales 55 percent last year to $250
million, having emulated  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  by expanding from books
into products ranging from electronics to shoes, according to a
 March 28  statement. Ozon  raised  $100 million in 2011 selling
stock to investors including  Rakuten Inc. (4755) ,  Japan ’s largest
online retailer.  Avito, an online classifieds service similar to
Craigslist.org, was valued at $572 million, based on the holding
disclosed by  Sweden ’s Vostok Nafta fund last month. In March,
 Naspers Ltd. (NPN) ,  Africa ’s largest media group, folded two
classified websites it owned into Avito, gaining a 19 percent
stake in the combined company.  Sales Growth  Baring Vostok is focusing on expanding the businesses it
targets rather than making money from “multiples expansion,”
which has become more difficult in the current economy, Calvey
said. Industry multiples, such as price to earnings, will
probably remain at about the same level for the next five years,
he said.  Russian equities are the cheapest among 21  emerging markets 
tracked by Bloomberg. The country’s benchmark Micex Index trades
at 5.1 times its 12-month estimated earnings, compared with 10.7
for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Yandex trades at  22.7 times 
this year’s earnings.  “We are not counting on any miraculous recovery on the
global markets,” Calvey said. “We need to make all of our
return from organic growth. This narrows things down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  