-- Best Buy Exits Europe With Stake Sale to Carphone Warehouse
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-04-30T11:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/best-buy-exits-europe-with-sale-of-stake-to-carphone-warehouse.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, will exit  Europe  by selling its
50 percent stake in a mobile-phone venture to partner  Carphone
Warehouse Group Plc (CPW)  for 500 million pounds ($775 million).  Best Buy will receive 420 million pounds in cash and 80
million pounds in the U.K. company’s stock, the Richfield,
Minnesota-based retailer said today in a statement. Carphone
Warehouse shares surged as much as 15 percent, the most ever.  Best Buy Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly, who took
charge in September, is evaluating the retailer’s foreign units
to free up cash and resources in his effort to revive U.S.
stores hurt by competition from Amazon.com Inc. and Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. Best Buy generates about 25 percent of its revenue
from operations in Europe,  China  and  Canada .  “This transaction allows us to simplify our business,”
Joly said in the statement. It also strengthens Best Buy’s
return on invested capital and balance sheet, he said.  Best Buy projected revenue of $5.5 billion to $5.6 billion
in Europe this fiscal year, with adjusted per-share earnings
“expected to be immaterial.”  Best Buy advanced 3 percent to $24.20 yesterday in  New York 
trading.  The shares  have more than doubled this year, trailing
only  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  in the Standard & Poor’ 500 Index. The index
has gained 12 percent.  European Withdrawal  The European withdrawal “should not suggest any similar
action in our other international businesses,” Joly said.  Best Buy’s international segment posted an operating loss
of $881 million in the fiscal year ended Feb. 2 on revenue of
$12.8 billion. Sales totaled $49.6 billion companywide.  Best Buy formed the Best Buy Europe joint venture with
London-based Carphone Warehouse in 2008 and they now operate
stores in eight countries.  The companies also are terminating a venture that sells
laptops, tablets and mobile phones outside of Europe and  North
America . Best Buy said it will pay Carphone Warehouse 29 million
pounds to satisfy obligations from that venture.  Today’s gain in Carphone Warehouse shares was the steepest
since the company listed in  London  in March 2010. The stock was
up 13 percent at 230 pence as of 11:39 a.m., the highest price
in about three months.  Share Sale  The U.K. retailer said it will sell 47.2 million new shares
to help fund the cash element of the purchase price. The shares
will likely be priced between 220 pence and 230 pence apiece,
according to an e-mailed update sent by banks to clients and
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Chairman Charles Dunstone and executive directors “intend
to participate” in the share offer, according to the statement.  Under the terms of the deal,  Carphone Warehouse  will also
pay a deferred cash amount of 50 million pounds, split equally
between the first and second anniversaries of completion.  “We believe Carphone Warehouse has paid an extremely good
price,” Citigroup Inc. analyst Assad Malic said in a report.
“This now means that Carphone Warehouse can apply for a premium
listing and FTSE Index inclusion over time.”  Carphone Warehouse also said fourth-quarter same-store
sales rose 6.5 percent in the period ended March 31, beating
Citigroup’s estimates. Growth was driven by the U.K. business.  The retailer said it is withdrawing from France, where
markets are “particularly challenging.” The exit will be
achieved with a mixture of store disposals and closures and will
cost as much as 90 million pounds, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  