-- Big Banks Still Aren’t Safe Enough
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-30T18:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/big-banks-still-aren-t-safe-enough.html
Some of the world’s largest banks
are announcing spring makeovers. Earnings have improved,
expenses are lower and capital ratios are higher. Today, for
example, Deutsche Bank AG said its first-quarter  earnings  rose
19 percent and that it had sold almost 3 billion euros ($4
billion) of new stock.  Deutsche Bank had been one of the most undercapitalized of
the large, global banks. It now says it’s ahead of schedule --
and its peer group -- in meeting new capital rules that
international  regulators  agreed would take full effect in 2019.  Warning: The big banks may be in compliance, but that
doesn’t mean they are safe or no longer too big to fail.  Justifying this statement requires a brief explanation of
capital. By capital, we mean money that comes from shareholders
when they buy stock, also known as common equity. Capital is
also the money that comes from earnings if banks retain those
funds, rather than distribute them as dividends.  Banks are required to have capital because it can absorb
losses. Problem is, most big banks have very little capital;
instead, they borrow to obtain the bulk of their money.
Creditors think governments will bail out megabanks if disaster
strikes, as in 2008. Because of this, such banks can borrow at
lower interest rates than they otherwise would, a competitive
advantage as well as a taxpayer subsidy. It’s therefore
understandable that most big banks prefer to borrow money than
sell shares or retain earnings to fund operations.  Rainy Day  It’s also important to state what capital isn’t. It isn’t
money a bank “holds” or “sets aside” to satisfy new regulations.
A dollar of capital isn’t one less dollar working in the
economy. Capital isn’t a rainy-day fund or a basket into which
banks place excess cash in case the economy falters. Nor is
capital the same as loan-loss reserves, which is money banks
must set aside in the expectation that certain loans won’t be
repaid.  Banks, moreover, can use capital the same way they use
borrowed money -- to make loans, invest, trade securities and
pay expenses. They can lend it to startup companies or big
businesses. The banking industry allows lawmakers, the news
media and others to characterize capital as a reserve because it
suits their line of defense -- that having more capital would
result in fewer loans and hurt the economy.  Under the latest regulatory pact, called Basel III, large
global banks’ safest capital, called core Tier 1, must equal 7.5
percent of assets and be predominantly common equity and
retained earnings. The catch is that banks are allowed to weight
their assets (such as loans to companies and individuals, and
securities and office buildings) according to the level of risk
they represent. A loan to a government, for example, is
considered less risky than a loan to a startup company.  The process of risk-weighting has become vexed. Most banks
rely on credit ratings combined with internal mathematical
models that try to predict risk levels, based on past
performance. As we learned from the recent crisis, mortgage-backed securities were considered low-risk, carried the highest
credit ratings and didn’t require capital.  This brings us back to Deutsche Bank, which today reported
that its core Tier 1 capital ratio is 8.8 percent of risk-weighted assets.  Impressive. But there’s a catch. Deutsche Bank gets to that
number with aggressive use of risk-weighting to reduce its
assets from 2 trillion euros -- about 56 percent of  Germany ’s
total economic output -- to about 325 billion euros, an 84
percent shrinkage. By comparison, the risk-weighted assets of
the world’s largest financial companies equal about 50 percent
of their total assets.  Fresh Capital  To Deutsche Bank’s credit, it just raised almost 3 billion
euros in fresh Tier 1 capital by selling shares. This will bring
its core Tier 1 ratio to 9.5 percent, from 8.8 percent. Still,
Deutsche Bank’s risk-weighted assets will remain tiny when
compared with its total assets, as will its capital.  Luckily, there is a better way to judge financial health,
called a leverage ratio, which is similar to a capital ratio
without the risk weighting. Deutsche Bank’s leverage ratio as of
last year’s third quarter was 1.47 percent, the lowest among 28
large global banks, according to  calculations  by Thomas Hoenig,
the vice chairman of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  That means a decline of 1.47 percent in the value of
Deutsche Bank’s assets could have left it insolvent. The average
leverage ratio at large U.S. banks, including JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp., is 3.88 percent
(using international accounting rules) as of the fourth quarter
of 2012. Better, yet still too low. All comply with Basel III’s
3 percent minimum leverage ratio, but even then, debt would be
funding 97 percent of assets.  The FDIC’s Hoenig said in an April 9 speech that risk
weighting gives the “illusion of strength even when a firm
incurs losses.” Deutsche Bank, for example, had a net loss of
2.54 billion euros in last year’s fourth quarter. But its
capital ratio actually improved after regulators allowed it to
decrease risk-weighted assets by selling investments, adding
hedges and adopting what the bank calls “more advanced risk
models.”  A system that is so malleable is discomfiting. To avoid
this, a  growing number  of economists  recommend  that banks have
20 percent equity, without any risk weighting. We agree. Such a
requirement  wouldn’t harm  economies. Far from it: The history of
financial crises shows that the greatest damage to economic
growth happens when banks become distressed from having borrowed
too much.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 