-- Blackhawks Start NHL Playoffs as Second-Favorite Behind Penguins
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-30T04:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/blackhawks-start-nhl-playoffs-as-second-favorite-behind-penguins.html
The  Chicago  Blackhawks tonight
begin their attempt to avoid a third straight first-round exit
in the Stanley Cup playoffs after a season in which they posted
the National Hockey League’s best record.  The top seed in the Western Conference, the Blackhawks
(36-7-5) opened the regular season by recording at least one
point in 24 consecutive games, an NHL record. They start the
playoffs tonight by hosting the Minnesota Wild in Game 1 of
their best-of-seven series.  Chicago, which is led by Patrick Kane, Jonathan Toews and
Marian Hossa, enters the postseason with 7-2 odds of winning the
Stanley Cup for the second time in four years, according to the
Las Vegas Hotel’s Superbook. The Pittsburgh Penguins, the top
seed in the East, are the oddsmakers’ favorite at 3-1. The  New
York  Rangers have 16-1 odds of winning the Stanley Cup.  “It amps up a little bit in the playoffs,” Kane told
reporters after the end of the regular season, which was
shortened to 48 games by a lockout. “It seems like the season
went by pretty quick, but everybody is excited to get this thing
going and hopefully we start it off right.”  While the Blackhawks won the Presidents’ Trophy for having
the NHL’s best record, the Wild (26-19-3) were the last team to
make the playoff field. Chicago won two of three meetings during
the regular season.  Since winning their first Stanley Cup title in 49 years
after the 2009-10 season, the Blackhawks have been beaten in the
opening round of the playoffs the past two seasons.  “When you look at the season we’ve had, the success we’ve
had and the expectations that are in place, we should all be
motivated to continue on in what we accomplished this season,”
Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville said.  Penguins Losses  The Penguins also lost their first-round playoff series the
past two years. They face the New York Islanders in a best-of-
seven series that begins tomorrow, and All-Star center Sidney Crosby could be back for Pittsburgh after missing the final 12
games of the regular season with a broken jaw.  In today’s other two NHL playoff games -- both in the
Western Conference -- the Anaheim Ducks host the Detroit Red
Wings and the defending Stanley Cup-champion Los Angeles Kings
visit the St. Louis Blues.  The final matchup in the West begins tomorrow, as the
Vancouver Canucks host the San Jose Sharks.  Eastern Matchups  In the Eastern Conference, the Boston Bruins host the
Toronto Maple Leafs in Game 1 of their series tomorrow, while
the New York Rangers visit the Washington Capitals in their
series opener on May 2. Also in two days, the Montreal Canadiens
are home to the Ottawa Senators.  The Canadiens and Bruins are the oddsmakers’ third choice
to win the Stanley Cup, with 8-1 odds, followed by the Ducks at
10-1 and the Blues and Canucks at 12-1.  The Kings have 14-1 odds of becoming the first team to
repeat as champions since the 1997-98 Red Wings. The Rangers,
Sharks and Capitals are listed at 16-1, followed by the Maple
Leafs and Red Wings at 30-1, the Senators at 40-1 and the two
eighth seeds, the Islanders and Wild, are Stanley Cup long shots
at 50-1, according to LVH Super Book.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  