-- Boeing 787 to Fly at Paris Air Show as Airbus A350 Debut in Flux
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-04-30T11:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/boeing-787-to-fly-at-paris-air-show-as-airbus-a350-debut-in-flux.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  will put its 787
Dreamliner on flying display at the  Paris Air Show , as the
aircraft maker seeks to leave behind a prolonged grounding,
while Airbus SAS’s A350 may debut even before the June expo.  Qatar Airways Ltd. and Boeing are expected to participate
now that U.S. regulators have cleared the airplane to fly again,
said Gilles Fournier, managing director for the Paris show.  “We expect a flying display of the Boeing aircraft every
day” with confirmation still pending, he said at a London
briefing. The Airbus A350, the direct rival to the 787, is not
planned to showcase at the event, with Fournier predicting the
first flight before the show, which kicks off on June 17.  The Paris event rotates with the Farnborough International
Air Show near  London  as the industry’s largest annual gathering
of commercial and defense companies. It typically triggers a
spate of aircraft orders and comes as Boeing and Airbus have
already secured deals this year for about 1,000 jets.  “The show is fully booked since the end of January for the
first time,” Fournier said. “This success follows the success
of the industry.”  Fournier would not predict the level of sales announcements
to be expected at the event’s 50th gathering at the Le Bourget
airport north of Paris. Two years ago, aircraft makers combined
pulled in more than 1,400 sales, largely on booming demand for
Airbus’s more fuel-efficient A320neo.  While some companies have cut back on the size of their
displays to reduce costs, Fournier said smaller enterprises have
filled space to bring the total number of exhibitors to a record
2,200.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  