-- BofA Seeks to Toss U.S.’s $1 Billion Faulty Mortgage Suit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-30T01:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/bofa-seeks-to-toss-u-s-s-1-billion-faulty-mortgage-suit.html
Bank of America Corp.  asked a
federal judge to dismiss a $1 billion fraud lawsuit filed by the
U.S. alleging it sold defective residential mortgage loans to
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that defaulted.  The Justice Department filed the complaint last year
claiming the bank and its Countrywide Financial unit generated
thousands of defective loans and sold them to the two home-
mortgage finance companies now under government control.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  said after
hearing arguments today that he intends to issue a ruling in
about two weeks.  To boost revenue in the tightening credit market in
mid-2007, Countrywide sold the loans to boost revenue, according
to the complaint. The program was called “HSSL,” or the
“Hustle.”  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, argued
the suit was based on a single alleged factual scenario and
fails to state a claim.  “The amended complaint has no basis in law and should be
dismissed,” Kannon Shanmugam, a partner at Williams & Connolly,
said today.  The suit, which covers conduct from 2007 to 2009, is the
first by the Justice Department to allege fraud over mortgage
loans sold to the two entities, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan said in a statement when it was filed.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac losses totaled more than $1
billion, Bharara said. The Justice Department’s complaint was
brought under the federal False Claims Act, which allows for
triple damages.  Bank of America, which acquired Countrywide in 2008, was
among 17 financial institutions sued in September 2011 by Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac’s regulator, the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , over losses on mortgage securities sold to the
companies.  The case is U.S. v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  