-- BP First-Quarter Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on Trading
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-04-30T16:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/bp-first-quarter-profit-declines-on-lower-crude-prices-output.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil
company, reported profit that beat analyst estimates because of
an improved performance at its fuel trading business. Shares
rose.  Earnings adjusted for one-off items and inventory changes
fell to $4.2 billion in the first quarter from $4.7 billion a
year earlier, the company said today in a statement. That
exceeded the $3.2 billion average  estimate  of 11 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Net income tripled to $16.9 billion after
BP sold its half of the TNK-BP unit in Russia.  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley is trying to convince
investors that BP is poised for growth three years after the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill that left the company with a bill of
more than $40 billion. The trading gain offsets a drop in oil
prices and a production decline following divestments.  BP is “highlighting stronger trading and gas marketing
earnings,” said Iain Reid, an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC in
London. “Shares are likely to pop today” on “excellent”
results, he said.  BP produced the equivalent of 2.33 million barrels of oil a
day in the quarter. That’s 5 percent lower than a year earlier,
though 2 percent higher than in the fourth quarter. Output in
the second quarter will probably be lower, BP said.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s biggest company, last week
reported an increase in profit on the strength of its chemicals
business.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Total SA (FP)  reported a drop in net
income.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s biggest oil company, may
say on May 2 that profit slid to $6.5 billion from $7.28
billion, a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts shows.  Shares Jump  The shares rose 2.1 percent, the most since January, to
466.4 pence in London. The stock retreated 7.8 percent last
year.  Fuel trading helped BP increase downstream profit to $1.3
billion in the first quarter from $490 million a year earlier,
the company said. The contribution from oil and gas trading was
about $500 million higher than usual, Chief Financial Officer
Brian Gilvary said on a conference call.  “These strong first-quarter results demonstrate the
progress BP is making,” Dudley said in a statement. The latest
earnings “represent a strong start to 2013 across all of our
businesses.”  The business of turning crude into gasoline and other
products is improving. Global refining margins were $17.80 a
barrel in the first quarter compared with $14.75 a year earlier,
according to BP’s refining marker margin, a generic indicator of
refining profitability.  Asset Sales  Dudley has completed a $38 billion asset sale program a
year ahead of schedule and repositioned the company in  Russia  by
selling BP’s half of the TNK-BP venture. The deal left BP with
about 20 percent of state-backed  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  and $12 billion in
cash, most of which will be used to buy back $8 billion in
shares.  BP said in February that underlying oil and gas production,
stripping out the impact of divestments, should increase this
year after little change in 2012. Reported output will decline
as divestitures shave off 150,000 barrels a day.  BP’s asset sales are designed to focus output on its most
profitable fields. Investment will rise in 2013 to as much as
$25 billion from $23 billion last year as four new projects
start in  Angola ,  Australia , the Gulf of Mexico and Azerbaijan.
Investment will rise to between $24 billion and $27 billion from
2014 to the end of the decade, the company said.  Oil Prices  The spending comes as benchmark Brent crude, used to price
two-thirds of global sales, is starting to slide. During the
January-to-March period, Brent futures fell 4.9 percent from a
year earlier to average $112.61 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week cut
its forecast for average Brent prices in 2013 to $105 from $110.  “The statement refers to higher costs, lower production
and weaker downstream in the second quarter, so earnings
upgrades may be more muted than the first quarter headline
figures might suggest,” said Neill Morton, an analyst at
Investec Securities Ltd. in  London .  BP still doesn’t know what the final cost will be for the
2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill. The first phase of a trial to
determine liability finished this month, and the process will
resume in September.  Last year BP agreed to pay about $8 billion to settle
lawsuits by most plaintiffs as well as $4 billion to the U.S.
government in criminal penalties. The company is also facing
claims from plaintiffs who weren’t covered by last year’s
settlement and as much as $17 billion in fines over violations
of the U.S. Clean Water Act.  The company today maintained its provision for the cost of
the spill at $42.2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  