-- BP Ordered to Give Lawyer Spill Estimate E-Mails to U.S.
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-05-01T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/bp-ordered-to-give-lawyer-spill-estimate-e-mails-to-u-s-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  was ordered by a federal judge
to give the U.S. government e-mails regarding Gulf of Mexico
oil-spill volume estimates prepared with the help of the
company’s internal and outside counsel.  BP had sought to prevent disclosure of the documents,
contending they were protected by attorney-client privilege. The
e-mails discuss preparation of BP’s June 2010 letter to U.S.
Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat. The
letter is connected to BP’s guilty plea to a charge of
obstructing Congress’s investigation of the April 2010 spill.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan said she found enough
evidence to strip the privilege from a series of e-mails between
London-based BP’s lawyers and David Rainey, the company’s former
exploration vice president, who has been indicted on charges he
deceived the government about the volume of the spill.  “These e-mails reveal significant involvement by Rainey,”
Shushan said yesterday in a 42-page ruling issued after she
privately reviewed several dozen BP messages. “They contain
communications in furtherance of contemplated or ongoing
criminal or fraudulent conduct.”  Victims suing BP over damages caused by the worst offshore
spill in U.S. history claim the company lied about the volume of
the underwater gusher. Those alleged misrepresentations
ultimately prolonged the duration of the spill by more than a
month, the victims’ lawyers contend in court papers.  Two Lawyers  The messages were sent on June 22 and 23 in 2010 among
Rainey and two lawyers at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr
LLP, BP in-house attorneys and the company’s government-affairs
officer, among others, according to the order.  Scott Dean, a BP spokesman, and Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice
department spokesman, declined to comment on Shushan’s order.
Molly Nunes, Wilmer Hale’s director of public relations, didn’t
immediately return a call or e-mail yesterday seeking comment on
the ruling.  Susan Friedman and Tonya Robinson of Wilmer Hale, the
Washington D.C.-based law firm that advises BP on spill matters,
are named as participants in the spill-volume e-mails in
Shushan’s order. BP in-house lawyers Eric Nitcher and Kevin
Bailey are also named as participants, as is Elizabeth
Reicherts, a BP government affairs officer, and company planning
executive Jeff Morgheim.  Rainey, who was charged with two counts of obstruction, has
pleaded not guilty and is awaiting trial in September. Rainey’s
lawyer, Reid Weingarten, didn’t immediately respond to a request
yesterday for comment on the order.  U.S. Claim  The government has been trying to pry the attorney-assisted
spill papers from BP under the so-called crime-fraud exception
for months.  “Because BP used its attorneys to aid in its wrongdoing,
it can no longer claim privilege with respect to communications
related to developing the flow-rate information and
communications forming the basis of BP’s false and misleading
statements,” the U.S. said in a Jan. 29 filing.  BP has said the company’s guilty plea doesn’t implicate its
lawyers in improper conduct.  “Just because a lawyer is part of the process of preparing
a report that includes false or fraudulent statements does not
mean the attorney’s professional services were rendered in
furtherance of fraudulent purposes,” BP’s lawyers said in a
Feb. 28 filing. The attorney-client privilege can’t be
automatically stripped “every time a lawyer is involved in a
process of providing information to the government that might
later turn out to be false,” BP said.  The April 20, 2010, oil-well blast killed 11 workers and
sent more than 4 million barrels of oil into the gulf, killing
fish and waterfowl. The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits
against well owner BP; Vernier, Switzerland-based  Transocean
Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig; and Houston-
based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services for the
well.  Guilty Plea  BP pleaded guilty to one count of obstruction of Congress
as part of an agreement with the U.S. The company also pleaded
guilty to 11 counts of felony manslaughter related to the deaths
on the Deepwater Horizon.  Testimony in the first phase of a nonjury trial over
liability for the spill concluded last month in federal court in
New Orleans. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is presiding
over the trial, said he wouldn’t issue an immediate ruling.  In September, Barbier is scheduled to convene a second
phase of the trial over the size of the spill and efforts to
contain it, which will be used in calculating the potential fine
BP faces under the federal Clean Water Act.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  