-- Business Activity in U.S. Unexpectedly Shrank in April
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-04-30T13:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/business-activity-in-u-s-unexpectedly-shrinks-as-output-drops.html
Business activity in the U.S.
unexpectedly shrank in April for the first time in more than
three years, a sign manufacturing may be a smaller contributor
to economic growth this quarter.  The MNI Chicago Report’s business  barometer  fell to 49 in
April, the lowest since September 2009, from 52.4 last month. A
reading less than 50 signals contraction. The  median  forecast of
51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 52.5.  Manufacturing, which makes up about 12 percent of the
economy, is starting to cool in the wake of across-the-board
cutbacks in federal  government spending  that went into effect in
March. At the same time, consumer purchases  led by demand for
automobiles may prevent a sharper pullback at factories and help
keep assembly lines running.  “We’re starting to see some slowdown in manufacturing as
budget cuts take effect,” Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at
BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said before the report. “It’s
like what is happening in most parts of the  U.S. economy .
Manufacturing will keep expanding, just not at the same pace.”  Projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 51 to 54.2.  The employment measure dropped to 48.7, the weakest this
year, from 55.1 in the prior month, today’s report showed.  The production gauge decreased to 49.9 from 51.8.  One bright spot was that orders held up, signaling the
slump last month may be short-lived. The index of new bookings
climbed to 53.2 from 53.  Smaller Backlog  Even with little change in demand, the measure of backlogs
declined to 40.6, a more than three-year low, from 45. The gauge
of inventories also fell to 40.6, the weakest since December
2009.  The index of prices paid slumped to 51 this month, the
lowest since October 2009, from 61 in March.  Companies projecting a better outlook include Dallas-based
 Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  The largest maker of analog chips on
April 23 forecast second-quarter sales and profit that may top
some analysts’ estimates, helped by increased orders from
manufacturers of automotive and industrial-machine parts.  “We saw strength in the industrial and automotive
sectors,” Chief Executive Officer Kevin March said in an
interview. “Customers continue to operate with very lean levels
of inventory.”  The lagged effect from a two percentage-point jump in the
 payroll tax  at the start of 2013, and $85 billion in automatic
budget cuts that began last month, will cool the economy this
quarter, economists project.  Auto Sales  At the same time, factories are poised to keep getting help
from demand for autos.  Cars (SAARTOTL)  and light trucks sold at an average
15.3 million annualized rate in the first quarter, the most
since the same period in 2008, according to figures from Ward’s
Automotive Group.  Less government spending, and the higher payroll tax, are
the “only negative real headwinds,” Kurt McNeil, vice
president of U.S. sales and service at Detroit-based General
Motors Co., said on an April 2 conference call. The positive
factors include jobs, housing and the stock market’s
performance, he said.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge a measure
of overall growth. Its members have operations across the U.S.
and abroad.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s so-called  Empire (EMPRGBCI) 
State measure showed manufacturing in the region expanded in
April at the lowest pace in three months, and the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s index also showed factory
activity barely grew in the region.  The ISM’s monthly national factory  index  probably also
cooled this month, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s figures
are due tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  