-- California Proposal for Fracking Moratorium Clears Panel
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-04-30T03:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/california-proposal-for-fracking-moratorium-clears-panel.html
A  California  Assembly panel
approved a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing by oil and
natural-gas producers until the most populous U.S. state
assesses health and environmental concerns.  The bill by Adrin Nazarian, a Los Angeles Democrat, is
opposed by the  oil industry  through the Western States Petroleum
Association, which says hydraulic fracturing has been used
safely for more than 60 years. Democrats on the Natural
Resources Committee approved the measure 5-3 on a party-line
vote late yesterday. Democrats control the Legislature.  Fracking, a drilling technique that forces millions of
gallons of water, sand and chemicals deep underground to free
trapped oil and gas, has come under fire from environmentalists
as a threat to water resources. California -- the fourth-largest
oil-producing state -- is working on industry-backed standards
to allow its use to continue.  New York  and  New Jersey  have
moratoriums in place.  “We must identify the risks and ensure the public that we
are doing everything in our power to protect them,” said
Assemblyman Richard Bloom, a Santa Monica Democrat who proposed
one of two other measures that would place a moratorium on
fracking. Both also passed the committee.  Nazarian’s bill would require the secretaries of the
California Natural Resources Agency and the California
Environmental Protection Agency to lead a study to determine
whether fracking can be done without risk.  “The oil and gas industry is one of the few economic
drivers this state has left, and legislative Democrats are ready
to regulate it out of existence,” said Assemblywoman Shannon Grove, a Republican from Bakersfield  A separate bill pending in a Senate committee would allow
fracking to continue, but impose a moratorium if the state’s
Natural Resources Agency fails to complete a comprehensive
scientific study on the potential risks of fracking by 2015.  California’s Conservation Department, which oversees oil
and gas production, released proposed rules in December for
storing and handling fracking fluids, well monitoring after
fracking and preventing water contamination.  California’s Monterey Shale formation contains an estimated
15.4 billion barrels of recoverable oil. About 100,000 people in
California worked in oil and gas production in 2009, generating
about $5.8 billion in revenue from excise and income taxes,
according to the Senate report. Developing the Monterey Shale
may mean 2.8 million more jobs and $24.6 billion in state and
local revenue by 2020, according to a report from the University
of  Southern California .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  