-- Canada Economy Set for Fastest Quarterly Growth Since ‘11
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-04-30T13:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/canada-s-economy-grew-0-3-in-february-on-mines.html
Canada’s  gross domestic product 
grew for a second month in February led by gains at potash
miners and factories, putting the economy on track for its
fastest quarterly growth since 2011.  Output rose 0.3 percent, matching the revised January gain,
to an annualized C$1.57 trillion ($1.55 trillion), Statistics
Canada said today in Ottawa. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
 survey  of 23 economists was for a 0.2 percent expansion.  The report suggests economic growth in the first quarter
was faster than 2 percent, about the pace the central bank says
output can rise before inflation pressures build up. That’s up
from the 0.6 percent annualized pace set at the end of last year
as exports and investment slumped.  “Finally there’s something to cheer about in the Canadian
economy, with growth picking up in the first quarter, and in the
cyclical industries where such a turn is more meaningful,”
 Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, said in a research note sent by e-mail.  In notes to investors,  Derek Holt  of Scotiabank said Canada
is tracking growth of 2.3 percent in the first quarter, while
Shenfeld has the economy on pace for 2 percent growth. Those
would be the fastest quarterly rates since 2011.  The  Bank of Canada  projects potential output growth at
about 2.1 percent this year.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  predicted modest
expansion this year, reducing his first-quarter forecast to 1.5
percent from 2.3 percent on April 17 because of weakness in
 government spending  and investment.  Mining Surge  Mining and quarrying jumped 6.4 percent in February on
increased potash output,  Statistics Canada  said. The agency’s
mining, quarrying and oil and gas category rose 2.2 percent, the
fifth straight increase. Manufacturing rose 0.8 percent
following January’s 0.6 percent increase.  Most other categories made small contributions to the
change in gross domestic product in February. The output of real
estate agents and brokers fell 0.8 percent on a decline in
existing home sales, while arts and entertainment rose 3.3
percent as spending gained for a second month after the end of a
National Hockey League labor dispute, according to the report.  The economy grew 1.7 percent in February from a year
earlier.  Statistics Canada said in a separate report its  index  of
raw-materials prices paid by manufacturers fell 1.7 percent in
March led by crude oil. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had a
median prediction of a 0.5 percent increase.  The industrial product price index, which measures what
manufacturers receive for their goods, rose 0.1 percent,
compared with a median forecast it would be little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  