-- Canada March Industrial Product and Raw Materials Prices (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-04-30T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/canada-march-industrial-product-and-raw-materials-prices-text-.html
The following is the text of the
industrial product and raw material prices report as reported
by  Statistics Canada .  The Industrial Product Price Index (IPPI) edged up 0.1% in
March, led by higher prices for motor vehicles and other
transportation equipment. The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI)
fell 1.7%, mostly because of lower prices for crude oil.  Industrial Product Price Index, monthly change  The IPPI posted the third consecutive monthly increase in
March, as prices in most commodity groups rose. Of the 21 major
commodity groups, 15 were up, 4 were down, and 2 were unchanged.  The motor vehicles and other transportation equipment
(+0.9%) was the largest contributor to the IPPI advance in March,
which was primarily the result of higher prices for motor
vehicles (+1.2%). The depreciation of the Canadian dollar
relative to the US dollar was largely responsible for this
increase.  Some Canadian producers who export their products report
their prices in US dollars. Consequently, the 1.5% decrease in
the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar may
have the effect of increasing the IPPI. Without the measurable
effect of the exchange rate, the index would have declined 0.3%
instead of rising 0.1%.  Pulp and paper products (+1.0%) also contributed to the
increase of the IPPI, though to a lesser extent. This increase
was mainly attributable to higher prices for pulp (+2.7%).  Among the other product groups that posted gains was lumber
and other wood products (+0.9%), particularly lumber and ties
(+2.4%), which posted a fifth consecutive monthly increase.
Concurrent with the increase in prices for lumber and ties, the
number of housing starts was up for the second consecutive month
in March.  Conversely, the IPPI advance was moderated primarily by
petroleum and coal products (-1.8%), mainly as a result of lower
prices for liquefied petroleum gases and  diesel fuel . The IPPI
excluding petroleum and coal products rose 0.3% in March.  Primary metal products (-1.2%) also declined, mainly
because of lower prices for copper and copper alloy products,
other non-ferrous metal products, nickel products and aluminum
products.  Industrial Product Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with March 2012, the IPPI was up 0.9%, the second
consecutive year-over-year increase.  The IPPI advance was largely attributable to lumber and
other wood products (+10.5%), specifically lumber and ties
(+19.1%). Prices for lumber and ties continued to rise on a
year-over-year basis, extending the upward trend that began in
March 2012.  Compared with the same month a year earlier, motor vehicles
and other transportation equipment (+2.1%) also contributed to
the advance of the IPPI. The increase in this product group was
mostly a result of the 3.0% depreciation of the Canadian dollar
relative to the US dollar. Without the measurable effect of the
exchange rate, the IPPI would have edged up 0.1% instead of
rising 0.9% on a year-over-year basis.  Among the other commodity groups that posted increases was
fruit, vegetable, feeds and other food products (+1.8%). Prices
for feed products were up 9.0% on a year-over-year basis,
continuing a trend that began in October 2010.  Conversely, the IPPI advance was moderated largely by
primary metal products (-4.3%), specifically iron and steel
products (-3.3%), other non-ferrous metal products (-3.9%) and
aluminum products (-5.2%).  Raw Materials Price Index, monthly change  Following two consecutive monthly increases, the RMPI
declined 1.7% in March. Of the seven major commodity groups,
four decreased.  The RMPI decline was largely attributable to lower prices
for mineral fuels (-1.9%), specifically crude oil (-2.0%). Crude
oil inventories in  North America  continued to increase in March.
The RMPI excluding mineral fuels decreased 1.3% in March.  Non-ferrous metals (-2.7%) and animals and animal products
(-1.7%) also contributed to the decline of the index, though to
a lesser extent.  The decline in non-ferrous metals was led by copper
concentrates (-3.5%), zinc concentrates (-4.8%) and other non-
ferrous base metals (-5.3%). Almost all non-ferrous metal
products posted lower prices in March.  Lower prices for hogs-swine for slaughter (-7.8%) and
cattle and calves for slaughter (-1.3%) were the largest
contributors to the decline in animals and animal products.  The RMPI decrease was moderated slightly by wood products
(+0.1%).  Raw Materials Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with the same month one year earlier, the RMPI
decreased 2.0%, continuing the downward trend that began in
March 2012.  The RMPI decline was mostly a result of lower prices for
mineral fuels (-3.2%), specifically crude oil (-3.0%). Crude oil
continued the year-over-year downward trend that began in March
2012. The RMPI excluding mineral fuels fell 0.8% on a year-over-
year basis.  Among the other commodity groups that contributed to the
year-over-year RMPI decrease were non-ferrous metals (-3.5%) and
animals and animal products (-0.8%).  Compared with March 2012, the RMPI decline was moderated
slightly by vegetable products (+2.8%) and wood products (+3.5%).  Note to readers  With each release, data for the previous six months may
have been revised. The indexes are not seasonally adjusted.  The Industrial Product  Price Index  (IPPI) reflects the
prices that producers in  Canada  receive as the goods leave the
plant gate. It does not reflect what the consumer pays. Unlike
the  Consumer Price Index , the IPPI excludes indirect taxes and
all the costs that occur between the time a good leaves the
plant and the time the final user takes possession of it,
including the transportation, wholesale, and retail costs.  Canadian producers export many goods. They often indicate
their prices in foreign currencies, especially in US dollars,
which are then converted into Canadian dollars. In particular,
this is the case for motor vehicles, pulp, paper and wood
products. Therefore, a rise or fall in the value of the Canadian
dollar against its US counterpart affects the IPPI. But the
conversion into Canadian dollars only reflects how respondents
provide their prices. This is not a measure that takes the full
effect of exchange rates into account.  The conversion of prices received in US dollars is based on
the average monthly exchange rate (noon spot rate) established
by the  Bank of Canada , and it is available on CANSIM in table
176-0064 (series v37426). Monthly and annual variations in the
exchange rate, as described in the release, are calculated
according to the indirect quotation of the exchange rate (for
example, CAN$1 = US$X).  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) reflects the prices
paid by Canadian manufacturers for key raw materials. Many of
those prices are set on the world market. However, as few prices
are denominated in foreign currencies, their conversion into
Canadian dollars has only a minor effect on the calculation of
the RMPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  