-- Canadian Dollar Strongest Since February as Economy Expands
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-30T21:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/canadian-dollar-falls-on-forecasts-for-economic-growth-stall.html
The Canadian dollar reached the
strongest level since February after the nation’s economy grew
faster than forecast and speculation increased that U.S. policy
makers will sustain monetary stimulus measures.  The currency rose for the fifth day against its U.S.
counterpart as Statistics Canada said gross domestic product
increased 0.3 percent in February, putting the economy on track
for its fastest quarterly growth since 2011. The U.S. dollar
weakened against most major currencies after a private report
showed business activity unexpectedly shrank in April for the
first time in more than three years.  “For Canada, we’ve had better economic data, so that’s
encouraging and the broad move in the U.S. dollar is lower,”
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , said by telephone from Toronto.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose as much as 0.6 percent
to C$1.0054 per U.S. dollar, the strongest level since Feb. 15,
before trading at C$1.0073 at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie
buys 99.28 U.S. cents.  The loonie gained 1 percent in April, the second
consecutive monthly gain against the greenback.  Canada’s 10-year  government bonds  were little changed to
yield 1.7 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June
2023 rose 4 cents to C$98.20. Yields dropped 2 basis points in
April. The Bank of  Canada  will sell C$2.9 billion more of the
benchmark securities tomorrow.  Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 1.6 percent to
$93.01 per barrel, trimming its monthly gain to 4.3 percent,
while the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 1.2 percent
yesterday to 12,456.50.  Carney Speculation  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty says he will soon name a
replacement for Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney, who is
leaving June 1 to head up the Bank of England. Flaherty said
yesterday the process of finding a replacement is drawing to a
close.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg after Carney announced his
departure named Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem as the most
likely replacement. The second-most likely candidate is Export
Development Canada Chief Executive Officer Stephen Poloz,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a March 19 report. The Globe and
Mail newspaper said Stanford University finance professor
Darrell Duffie is also a candidate.  Canada’s GDP report suggests economic growth in the first
quarter was faster than 2 percent, about the pace the central
bank says output can rise before inflation pressures build up.
That’s up from the 0.6 percent annualized pace set at the end of
last year as exports and investment slumped.  “Take any move today with a substantial grain of salt,”
said David Watt, chief economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC
Holding Plc, by phone from Toronto. “I just don’t expect any
strength coming out of this report to be sustained, because I
think we’re going to see that reversal in March.”  U.S. Outlook  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart reached 5.69 percent, the
lowest level since January 18. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  The U.S. Federal Reserve started its two day policy meeting
today during which it is expected to hold its benchmark interest
rate at 0.25 percent and recommit to its policy of buying $85
billion of assets a month to lower borrowing costs as signs
mount the economy is losing momentum.  Business activity in the U.S. unexpectedly shrank in April
for the first time in more than three years, according to the
MNI Chicago Report’s business barometer.  The loonie has been little changed in the past month
against nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has
lost 1.6 percent and the U.S. dollar fell 1 percent while the
euro has climbed 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  