-- Canada Can’t Depend on China Export Demand, Husky Executive Says
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-04-30T18:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/canada-can-t-depend-on-china-export-demand-husky-executive-says.html
Canadian oil producers can’t depend
on Chinese demand for exports, a  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE)  executive
said at a conference in Calgary.  Canada  will have to compete for Chinese business with
growing exports from Iraq and Venezuela, as well as oil cargoes
displaced by increasing U.S. domestic production, said J.J.
Chen, manager of business development and origination for the
Calgary-based oil producer.  “There is no shortage of oil for China,” Chen said at the
Canadian Energy Research Institute Oil Conference today. “With
U.S. shale oil producing so much every day, you’ll have all
these traditional imports to the U.S. being diverted to Asia,
and Canadian cargoes are going to have to compete.”  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  last year visited
China, the world’s second-largest economy, to promote Canada’s
energy industry and build trans-Pacific ties. Nearly all of
Canada’s oil exports go to the U.S. Harper has said diversifying
Canada’s energy exports to Asia is a “national priority.”  Alberta producers are backing several pipeline projects
that would move their exports to ports and then overseas markets
by 2017.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Northern Gateway line would transport
as much as 525,000 barrels a day of heavy oil to Kitimat,
British Columbia, for shipment to China and other Asian nations,
while  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  plans to almost triple
the size of its Trans Mountain pipeline from near Edmonton,
Alberta, to Vancouver to 890,000 barrels a day.  China’s Interest  China’s interest in shipments of Canadian oil and gas will
be limited to hedging some of their geographic risk from other
sources of supply in Africa, South America, the  Middle East  and
Russia, Chen said. Chen is a former oil trader for Nexen Inc.
and former adviser to the Alberta government on Asian oil
demand. The majority of Husky Energy’s shares are owned by Hong
Kong conglomerate  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  and its billionaire
chairman,  Li Ka-Shing .  U.S. oil production is expected to increase by 2.5 million
barrels a day by 2019, according to the Energy Information
Administration’s 2013  Annual Energy Outlook . That will lower
U.S. oil imports, freeing them up for other buyers, Chen said.  Canadian production is also predicted to rise sharply this
decade, by 46 percent to 4.7 million barrels a day by 2020,
according to a  forecast  from the Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers.  “Canadian oil and gas is a nice thing to have, but it’s
not a must-have” for China, Chen said.  Canadian oil that reaches the coast on new pipelines will
probably find its way to buyers along the U.S. West Coast, as
well as in India, Japan and  developing countries  in Southeast
Asia, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  