-- Canada Feb. Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-04-30T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/canada-feb-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the February GDP report released by Statistics  Canada .  Real gross domestic product grew 0.3% in February, the same
pace as in January. Mining, quarrying, and oil and gas
extraction was the main source of growth in February.  Goods production expanded 0.9% in February, owing mainly to
increases in mining, quarrying, and oil and gas extraction and
in manufacturing. Construction, utilities, as well as the
agriculture and forestry sector also grew. The output of service
industries edged up 0.1%, mainly as a result of gains in arts
and entertainment, the public sector (education, health and
public administration combined) and the finance and insurance
sector. In contrast, accommodation and food services,
administrative and professional services and wholesale trade
declined.  Mining, quarrying, and oil and gas extraction expands  Mining, quarrying, and oil and gas extraction expanded 2.2%
in February, a fifth consecutive monthly increase.  Mining and quarrying (excluding oil and gas extraction)
grew 6.4% as a result of a significant increase in output at
potash mines. Metallic mineral and coal mining were also up in
February.  Oil and gas extraction rose 1.0%, as a result of increases
in oil production. This follows a 0.2% decline in January.  Support activities for mining and oil and gas extraction
(+1.2%) also advanced, with increases in drilling and, to a
lesser extent, rigging services.  Manufacturing output increases again  Manufacturing output was up 0.8% in February, following a
0.6% gain in January. Durable goods production grew 0.7% with
increases in transportation equipment, non-metallic mineral
products, and computer and electronic products. Non-durable
goods production increased 1.0% in February. Growth in chemical,
food as well as clothing and leather products more than offset
declines in paper and petroleum and coal products manufacturing.  Construction increases  Construction increased 0.2% in February. Engineering and
repair construction advanced, as did residential and non-
residential building construction.  The output of real estate agents and brokers decreased 0.8%
in February, as activity in the home resale market was down.  The finance and insurance sector advances  The finance and insurance sector rose 0.2% in February,
mainly as a result of an increase in financial investment
services.  Wholesale trade declines while retail trade edges up  Wholesale trade was down 0.2% in February, after rising
0.5% in January. The main declines were in the wholesaling of
machinery, equipment and supplies, of personal and household
goods and of farm products. These declines outweighed gains in
the wholesaling of motor vehicles and parts as well as of food,
beverage and tobacco products.  Retail trade edged up 0.1% in February. Increased activity
at general merchandise stores and at motor vehicles and parts
dealers was almost offset by declines at clothing and clothing
accessories stores, gasoline stations, as well as furniture and
home furnishings stores.  Other industries  The arts and entertainment sector increased 3.3% in
February after growing 4.0% in January, mainly the result of a
continued rebound following the end of a labour dispute in
professional hockey. In contrast, accommodation and food
services were down 1.0%, in parallel with a decrease in the
number of international travellers to Canada.  The public sector (education, health and public
administration combined) edged up 0.1%.  Utilities rose 0.4%, with increases in the demand for both
electricity and natural gas.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry data
at basic prices are chained volume estimates with 2007 as the
reference year. This means that the data for each industry and
each aggregate are obtained from a chained volume index
multiplied by the industry’s value added in 2007. The monthly
data are benchmarked to annually chained Fisher volume indexes
of GDP obtained from the constant-price input-output tables up
to the latest input-output tables year (2009).  For the period starting with January 2010, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are 2009 industry prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data more
comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data, chained
quarterly.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted. For more
information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and
identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  For more information about monthly national GDP by industry,
see the National economic accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm ) module on our
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  