-- Car Bomb Explosion in Damascus Kills 13, State TV Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-04-30T13:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/car-bomb-explosion-in-central-damascus-kills-10-state-tv-says.html
A car bomb in central Damascus
killed at least 13 people,  Syria ’s state television reported, a
day after Prime Minister Wael al-Halaqi survived a bomb attack
in the capital.  More than 70 people were wounded in the explosion in the
Marjeh district, according to the report. The device detonated
at the gate of the country’s old Interior Ministry building, the
Coventry, England-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said
in an e-mailed statement.  Images broadcast on Al Arabiya television station showed
damaged cars, a smoke-filled street and firefighters trying to
extinguish flames.  Syrian rebels have targeted high-ranking government
officials in their two-year fight to topple President Bashar al- Assad from power. The anti-Assad uprising has killed more than
70,000 people since it started in March 2011, according to
United Nations estimates.  Today’s attack “is a good example of the escalation into
Damascus,” Theodore Karasik, director of research at the
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai,
said by phone.  Yesterday’s attack was the first reported against a top
Syrian official since July, when a bomb killed members of
Assad’s military establishment leading the fight against the
Syrian insurgency. They included Assad’s brother-in-law, Assef Shawkat and Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah. The men remain the
most senior officials to have been killed since the uprising
began.  The opposition has tried to weaken Assad’s military
supremacy by seizing air bases across the country. Earlier this
week, clashes raged inside the Abu Zhuhoor base in northwestern
Idlib province and the Kweiras military air base in Aleppo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  