-- Cardiovascular Systems Confirms U.S. Information Request
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-30T22:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/cardiovascular-systems-confirms-u-s-information-request.html
Cardiovascular Systems Inc. (CSII) , a
medical-device maker that a news report said is part of a probe
of corporate insider investment vehicles, said it got requests
for information from the U.S. government and is complying.  The vehicles, known as 10b5-1 plans, let corporate insiders
with access to nonpublic information trade in securities under
predetermined arrangements. CSI said in a statement that it’s
“readily providing” information requested by the government.  “We have nothing to hide,” said Dave Folkens, a spokesman
for the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company. CSI isn’t “the
target” of an investigation and has corporate governance
procedures in place to prevent  insider trading , he said in a
statement.  The Wall Street Journal, citing a source it didn’t
identify, said subpoenas were issued by federal prosecutors in
New York. There have been no allegations of wrongdoing in
connection with the probe, according to the newspaper.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Brooklyn U.S. Attorney
Loretta Lynch, and  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment on the report.  Other companies receiving subpoenas included  Tesla Motors
Inc. (TSLA)  and investment firms Valor Equity Partners LP and ABS
Capital Partners, according to the Journal.  Tesla Board  Antonio J. Gracias, Valor’s chief executive officer, sits
on the board of Tesla, the luxury battery-car company run by
billionaire Elon Musk.  Shanna Hendriks, a spokeswoman for Palo Alto, California-
based Tesla, declined to comment on the report. A spokeswoman
for ABS, Stephanie Carter, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment.  Valor’s “success over many years has been built upon an
unwavering commitment to compliance with the letter and spirit
of the law,” the company said in a statement.  “Valor believes its sales activities in Tesla stock under
its 10b5-1 plans were in full compliance with applicable laws
and regulations,” according to the statement.  A spokesman for Valor declined to comment on whether the
investment firm had received a subpoena.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn Federal Court
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  