-- CBOE’s Systems Preparation for After Hours Caused Outage
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-04-30T00:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/cboe-s-systems-preparation-for-after-hours-caused-outage.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  said preliminary
work in preparation for reconfiguring its computer systems
caused the April 25 malfunction that shut the  Chicago Board
Options Exchange  for three-and-a-half hours.  The company was preparing to change its systems to get
ready for extended trading hours on the CBOE Futures Exchange
and eventually CBOE options, the exchange operator said in a
 letter  to customers posted on its website yesterday. That work
“exposed and triggered a design flaw,” it said.  “Early Thursday morning our team identified and addressed
a potential software issue and subsequently believed we were on
track for a normal open,” the company said in the letter from
Chief Executive Officer Bill Brodsky. “Unfortunately, the
nature of a software bug is sometimes only identifiable once the
system is operationally ready, such was the case last Thursday
at CBOE. As we approached the open, it became apparent that the
software issue was not fully resolved, and the decision was made
to delay the opening.”  The CBOE’s shutdown underscored how common technology
errors have become among the exchanges that dominate the world’s
largest financial market. While most  equity-derivatives 
contracts are traded on multiple exchanges, CBOE is the
exclusive venue for options based on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and the so-called  VIX (VIX)  gauge of equity volatility.  Options Trading  Buy and sell orders for options on stocks and exchange-
traded funds flowed to the 10 other U.S. options markets. CBOE
accounted for 8.4 percent of U.S. options trading on April 25,
compared with 23 percent the prior day, according to data
compiled by Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp.  The outage frustrated investors still shocked from a swoon
in the market on April 23 that briefly erased $136 billion from
S&P 500 stocks after a hacker sent a fake post from an
Associated Press Twitter account saying there had been
explosions at the White House that injured President  Barack Obama . Traders and analysts at firms including Aite Group LLC
and Conifer Securities LLC said the dip may have been
exacerbated by computer algorithms that read news feeds.  The Securities and Exchange Commission proposed a mandate
in March directing exchanges to strengthen their technology and
instruct member firms to participate in tests to show they can
sustain operations after a widespread disruption such as a
natural disaster or terrorist act. The planned  rule , called
Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, seeks to limit
technology breakdowns at venues handling stocks, options and
bond trades and ensure they can withstand malfunctions that
could jeopardize markets.  Voluntary Guidelines  Regulation SCI will replace the SEC’s Automation Review
Policy guidelines, developed in 1989 and 1991 after the 1987
market crash known as Black Monday, when the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  plummeted 23 percent. Codifying voluntary
guidelines to ensure the resilience of exchanges and the broader
market and expanding them to larger broker-owned dark pools will
protect participants in the complex, interlinked network of
competing venues, the SEC said.  Brodsky and Ed Provost, CBOE’s chief business development
officer, were at a Las Vegas resort for the annual Options
Industry Conference on April 25. The conference marked the 40th
anniversary of the CBOE, which was founded in 1973 when
exchange-listed options were first traded in the U.S.  The SEC was monitoring the situation  “as is our
practice,” spokesman  John Nester  said that day.  Shares of CBOE finished the April 25 session up 16 cents,
or 0.4 percent. The  stock  gained 1.4 percent to $37.04 yesterday
and it is up 26 percent this year.  ‘Software Bug’  CBOE said its internal review of the “software bug” is
now complete and the exchange conducted extensive testing and
re-testing of its systems over the weekend, according to the
letter. The outage wasn’t caused by a systems upgrade or new
systems load, it said.  The company plans a detailed analysis on its response and
procedures during the disruption, the letter said. It will study
how to reduce the time required to resume trading if another
error occurs, CBOE said.  Two additional abnormalities resulted from the malfunction.
Auction mechanisms for options products on CBOE weren’t
available to market participants on April 25 and some trade data
from that day was erroneously resubmitted to the Options
Clearing Corp. at the close of trading on April 26.  The CBOE’s breakdown is the latest in a series of computer
malfunctions that have rattled exchanges and trading firms in
the three years since a firm’s aggressive use of an algorithm
trading futures triggered the so-called flash crash on May 6,
2010, that briefly wiped out $862 billion in market value in
less than 20 minutes.  Bats, Knight  In January, Bats Global Markets Inc. acknowledged that
computer issues allowed about 12,000 trades that violated rules
intended to ensure all investors get the best prices for
equities, 10 months after it canceled its own initial public
offering because it couldn’t get the stock to trade on its
exchange.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  almost went out of business
in August as a result of improperly installed software. Charges
related to Nasdaq Stock Market’s bungled  Facebook IPO  prompted
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. to set aside $10 million for an SEC probe
as well as $62 million as compensation to brokers that lost
money in the stock’s debut.  A  power failure  shut the CBOE for 35 minutes in August 1999
and a computer malfunction halted trading for about two-and-a-
half hours in February 2000. The exchange’s systems
malfunctioned in November 2007 and disrupted trading for about
an hour.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  