-- CFTC Demands Banks Prove Dodd-Frank Act Swaps Compliance
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-04-30T15:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/cftc-demands-banks-prove-dodd-frank-act-swaps-compliance.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission has given the world’s largest banks until May 3 to
prove they are complying with a part of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The 2010 law requires swaps brokers to accept or reject a
trade for clearing in less than 60 seconds.  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were among the banks that
received the April 17 letter, a copy of which was given to
 Bloomberg News . The CFTC in November granted three-month delays
to at least eight banks for implementing the time standard.  The CFTC is writing and implementing rules mandated by
Dodd-Frank, which overhauled U.S. financial regulation in the
wake of the 2008 credit crisis. The act gave regulators
oversight of the over-the-counter swaps market for the first
time, including requirements that most trades be sent to
clearinghouses to reduce systemic risk. To help the market move
to electronic trading, the CFTC said cleared trades must be
accepted “as quickly as would be technologically practicable if
fully automated systems were used.”  The CFTC cited an April 9 article on the website of Risk
magazine that quoted unnamed swaps brokers saying some banks are
not adhering to the time limits, according to the letter in
which Ananda Radhakrishnan, director of the CFTC’s division of
clearing and risk, asks the banks’ futures commission merchants
to prove they are adhering to the regulations.  “DCR requests data from your FCM demonstrating
compliance” with the rules, according to the letter. “Please
provide data showing how many trades your firm has cleared” and
“how many were accepted or rejected within 60 seconds.”  Default Protection  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, and representatives of the
banks, declined to comment.  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their bank and
brokerage members, are meant to lessen the effect of default by
requiring collateral and marking positions daily so losses don’t
build.  The CFTC set three phases for the clearing mandate to
begin. The first became effective March 11, requiring dealer
banks, major swaps participants and so-called active traders to
clear their transactions. The CFTC defined active traders as any
firm trading 200 or more swaps per month.  The second clearing deadline is June 10, when  hedge funds ,
insurance companies, regional brokers and other swaps users will
have to begin clearing trades. The third phase of the clearing
rule takes effect in September.  The delay granted by the CFTC in November was intended to
help banks comply with time limits, a person familiar with the
decision said at the time. The banks receiving the reprieve were
JPMorgan, Barclays,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Credit Suisse,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , Goldman Sachs,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and UBS, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 