-- Checkered Flag for Rand Bonds on Yield Lure: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-04-30T09:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/checkered-flag-for-rand-bonds-on-yield-lure-south-africa-credit.html
South African bonds are posting the
best returns in  emerging markets  this month as yields among the
highest for similarly rated nations lure foreign buyers amid
signs inflation is slowing.  Rand debt with maturities of one year or longer returned
3.4 percent in local-currency terms in April, the best monthly
performance since July and the most of emerging markets
monitored by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg. Longer-term bonds are outperforming
shorter-dated securities, with maturities of 10 years or longer
returning 5.6 percent, the indexes show.  Near-zero interest rates in developed nations are prompting
investors to search for better returns in emerging markets. The
 European Central Bank  may cut borrowing costs this week,
according to the median of economists in a Bloomberg survey,
while the  Federal Reserve  will renew its commitment to bond-
buying. Even after falling 53 basis points this month, South
African 10-year yields remain the highest after Turkey and
 Russia  among emerging-market nations in the region.  “Our foreign friends still think there is value in this
market and that’s why they’re buying,” Mokgatla Madisha, who
helps oversee the equivalent of about $1.3 billion as head of
fixed-income investments at Argon Asset Management, said by
phone from Cape Town yesterday. “Inflation is not going to be a
problem in the next 12 months.”  Record Lows  Offshore investors have  bought  a net 12.3 billion rand
($1.4 billion) of South African bonds this month, bringing
purchases this year to 26.5 billion rand, according to
Johannesburg Stock Exchange data.  Yields on securities due December 2026 dropped five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.72 percent at 11:50 a.m.
in Johannesburg, the lowest on record on a closing basis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield
investors receive for holding South African debt rather than
Treasuries narrowed 36 basis points this month to 462 yesterday,
near the least since January 2011, Bloomberg data shows.  “Disappointing global growth indicators and falling
inflation in most of the major global economies will almost
certainly prompt further policy easing,” Theuns de Wet, head of
global markets research at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg,
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “Ongoing
and expanding monetary and fiscal stimulus in most of the
developed world should support risky currencies.”  Rand Threat  Germany ’s inflation rate slumped to 1.1 percent in April,
the lowest level in more than 2 1/2 years in April, days before
the European Central Bank is due to decide on  interest rates .  The rand remains a threat to  consumer prices  and will
probably push inflation past the upper limit of the central
bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target temporarily, Reserve Bank
Governor Gill Marcus said April 19. The central bank has kept
its benchmark interest rate at 5 percent, the lowest level in
more than 30 years, since a half percentage-point reduction in
July to boost the economy.  Slowing global growth may reduce demand for  South Africa ’s
commodity exports, curbing an economic expansion and putting
pressure on the nation’s current-account deficit, which swelled
to 6.5 percent of gross domestic product in the fourth quarter,
close to a four-year high.  “Global growth concerns and weak domestic data may trigger
renewed bouts of selling pressure on the rand,” Bernd Berg, an
emerging-markets strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich,
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. That would
“negatively impact the performance of South African local-
currency bonds,” he said.  Less Pressure  The rand strengthened 0.3 percent to 8.9649 per dollar
today, paring the currency’s decline this year to 5.5 percent,
the most of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation was 5.9 percent in March, unchanged from a month
earlier, the government said April 17. That was less than the 6
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “As soon as there is clarity on the inflation trajectory,
and provided it is lower, the central bank will cut rates,”
Madisha at Argon said. “Bond yields can go lower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  