-- Chesapeake Missed Chance to Clarify Call Date, Judge Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-30T18:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/chesapeake-missed-chance-to-clarify-call-date-judge-says.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  had “any
number of ways” it could have improved the language of a
$1.3 billion bond contract to clarify a deadline for early
redemption at par and avoid market confusion, a judge said.  The failure to make such changes before issuing the
6.775 percent notes due in March 2019 led to the natural-gas
producer’s lawsuit against  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
trustee for the notes, U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer said
today in New York. Evidence that Chesapeake presented during a
three-day trial about the deadline wasn’t available to
investors, he said.  Had the changes been made, “it would have succinctly
cleared up this whole thing,” Engelmayer said. “What good does
it do for the downstream purchasers” of the notes who “don’t
have access to this evidence?”  Chesapeake, the second-biggest producer of natural gas in
the U.S., sued BNY Mellon last month after the bank said the
company missed the March 15 deadline to call the notes early at
100 cents on the dollar. Chesapeake argues it was the deadline
for sending a notice of early redemption to investors. At stake
is Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake’s bid to refinance the debt
and save about $100 million by tapping lower interest rates.  The judge, who is presiding over the case on an emergency
basis, has said he intends to rule by May 9, less than a week
before the early call is scheduled to be formally executed.  Security’s ‘Ambiguity’  “To the extent this contract is made available to third-
party purchasers, then those investors are buying a security
with an ambiguity,” Chesapeake’s lawyer, Richard Ziegler, said
during closing arguments. “These are sophisticated investors
and they all have counsel.”  Under questioning from Engelmayer, Ziegler said there was
no “rational, economic benefit” for Chesapeake, which issued
the notes in February 2012, to define the deadline the way BNY
Mellon has. In the contract, the word “redeem” is used for a
process that starts with a notice, he said.  Steven Bierman, an attorney for BNY Mellon, said it was the
trustee’s job to interpret the language of the contract using
its clear meaning, and that Chesapeake was “trivializing” the
bank’s role.  “The marketplace and Bank of New York Mellon had every
right to take this language on its face,” Bierman said.
Chesapeake is making “linguistic gyrations” to change the
meaning of a deadline that appeared in the company’s regulatory
filings, its website, and in notices to investors, he said.  Deadline Dispute  Chesapeake argued that the deadline -- listed in the
indenture paperwork for the notes -- was for notifying investors
of the early call, and that it had another 30 days to complete
the transaction. New York-based BNY Mellon said the call had to
be announced in February and completed by March 15.  Engelmayer said last week that Chesapeake’s employees’
confusion over the deadline will weigh on his decision.  Elliot Chambers, Chesapeake’s assistant treasurer and vice
president of finance, thought as recently as Jan. 9 that the
company would need to complete the early call by March 15 to do
so at par, according to internal e-mails submitted in the case.
He testified at the trial last week, saying his earlier views on
the deadline were mistaken.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  