-- Chiasson Seeks Leniency From Court Citing Charitable Work
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/chiasson-says-charitable-works-merit-non-guideline-prison-term.html
Level Global Investors LP co-founder
Anthony Chiasson, convicted of an  insider-trading  scheme that
reaped $72 million, asked a judge to give him less time in
prison than the 13-year term called for by U.S. sentencing
guidelines.  Lawyers for Chiasson, 39, called such a sentence
“draconian” in a, April 29 court filing. They urged U.S.
District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan  to impose an
unspecified shorter prison term, saying the alleged crimes were
“aberrant” and that Chiasson has led an “exemplary life.”  Defense lawyers Greg Morvillo and Reed Weingarten cited
Chiasson’s charitable work, including his effort to save his
Catholic Jesuit high school in  Portland ,  Maine , from closure,
the creation of a scholarship program for his alma mater, Babson
College, and his contributions to the  Robin Hood Foundation  and
the Michael J. Fox Foundation.  “Anthony Chiasson is an extraordinary man,” Morvillo and
Weingarten said in a memo to Sullivan. “But for the conduct
that brings him before the court, Anthony has led an exemplary
life.”  Chiasson, who began his career on  Wall Street  at Solomon
Brothers and left SAC Capital Advisors LP to start the hedge
fund, is scheduled to be sentenced May 13.  Non-Binding Guidelines  While U.S. court officials said that based on non-binding
guidelines Chiasson should serve 121 to 157 months in prison,
his lawyers said the appropriate range is 78 to 97 months.  A Manhattan federal jury in December found Chiasson guilty
of five counts of  securities fraud  and convicted former
Diamondback Capital Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman 
of one count of conspiracy and four counts of securities fraud.
Newman is scheduled to be sentenced May 2.  The U.S. alleged that the two portfolio managers were part
of a “corrupt chain” of hedge-fund managers and analysts and
insiders at technology companies who swapped and traded on
illicit tips..  The U.S. said Level Global earned $68 million as a result
of the insider trading based on material nonpublic information
Chiasson received from Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, a former
Level Global analyst who worked for him.  Defense lawyers estimated the fund earned $11.7 million as
a result of trading in the stocks of  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) 
They disputed the government’s allegation that Chiasson based
the transactions on illicit information and argued that federal
sentencing guidelines allow prosecutors to inflate profits
generated as a result of alleged crimes.  ‘Punish Profit’  “There is only one reason the range is so high: the
guidelines’ unrelenting predisposition to punish profit,”
Morvillo and Weingarten said.  Morvillo and Weingarten also argued that Chiasson “should
not be required to forfeit gains of any co-conspirators.” They
said that the fund earned more than $21.6 million on trades by
David Ganek, a Level Global co-founder who was ruled by Judge
Sullivan to be an uncharged co-conspirator in the insider-
trading scheme. Adondakis, who pleaded guilty, testified that he
didn’t tell Ganek about the source of his tips. Ganek hasn’t
been charged with wrongdoing.  “This court should not include Ganek’s personal gains in
Mr. Chiasson’s forfeiture amount even though the court held
there was evidence sufficient to find Ganek a co-conspirator,”
Morvillo and Weingarten said.  “Fundamental fairness dictates that Mr. Chiasson should
not have to forfeit money Ganek obtained while Ganek gets to
keep it,” the defense lawyers wrote. “If, despite Adondakis’
testimony, the government still believes that Ganek is a co-
conspirator, it can get any monies it believes to be tainted
from Ganek himself.”  ‘Ganek’s Money’  If the government wished to obtain assets from Ganek, “it
has now and has always had the power to charge him, prove his
guilt and require him to forfeit the monies,” Morvillo and
Weingarten said. “There is no allegation that Mr. Chiasson had
any claim to control over Ganek’s money; thus to make him
forfeit it is to defy fundamental fairness.”  Morvillo said yesterday that he and Weingarten aren’t
trying to implicate Ganek in wrongdoing.  “We have always maintained Mr. Chiasson’s innocence,
therefore we are not now saying, nor have we ever said that we
believe Mr. Ganek has done anything wrong,” Morvillo said in a
phone interview.  John Carroll , Ganek’s lawyer, said his client has never
been charged with any wrongdoing by the U.S.  “David’s trades were perfectly legal as is demonstrated by
three facts: the case is over and the government did not charge
him, the star witness testified that David wasn’t involved in
any conspiracy and the lead FBI agent testified that David was
never implicated,” Carroll said in a statement.  Rajat Gupta  Chiasson’s lawyers argued that he deserves a sentence
comparable to others convicted of insider trading, including
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director  Rajat Gupta , who was
ordered to serve two years in prison, and former Primary Global
Research LLC executive James Fleishman and Michael Kimelman, the
co-founder of Incremental Capital LLC, who were both given 30-
month prison terms.  In January, a federal appeals court allowed Gupta to remain
free while he fights his conviction. Both Fleishman and Kimelman
were recently released from prison.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 