-- Chicago Resolves Parking Meter Dispute With Operator
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-30T01:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/chicago-and-its-parking-meter-operator-resolve-legal-disputes.html
Chicago and a group holding a 75-
year lease on parking meters reached a settlement that Mayor
 Rahm Emanuel  said will save the city more than $1 billion over
the term of the contract.  The agreement ends arbitration between the third-biggest
U.S. city and Chicago Parking Meters LLC, a consortium owned in
part by  Morgan Stanley (MS) , over the terms of a lease agreed to by
former Mayor  Richard M. Daley ’s administration in December 2008.  “When I was elected mayor, I said this was a bad deal, but
promised to do everything I could to make improvements on behalf
of the taxpayers of this city,” Emanuel said. “So, my
administration fought to ensure not one tax dollar was paid that
we didn’t need to pay.”  The Chicago Parking Meters group paid $1.15 billion for the
lease to monetize about 36,000 street parking spaces. It is the
third-biggest street meter system in the U.S. and the largest to
be privately administered, according to  Chicago  Parking Meters.  That sum was about $974 million less than the concession
was worth, the city’s inspector general said in a June 2009
report. A lawsuit accusing the city’s outside financial adviser,
William Blair & Co., of negligence in its valuation was
dismissed in 2011.  Chicago Parking Meters had sought $49 million from the city
over the two-year period ending March 31, 2013, as payment for
the city’s decision to remove some street spaces, including
those reserved for the disabled, from metering.  While the city agreed to pay the consortium $8.9 million
now, it obtained from CPM control over the processing of data to
determine whether the city owes or is owed money from future
adjustments to available street parking.  The city also agreed to extend metered parking by one hour
in most areas of the city and until midnight in the area
immediately north of the Chicago River. Chicago Parking Meters
agreed to free Sunday parking in neighborhoods outside the
city’s core.  By mid-2014, it will also be possible to pay for parking
using a mobile phone application, Emanuel said.  Terms of the revised agreement and legal settlement will be
put before Chicago’s city council on May 8, which will have 30
days to review it, the mayor said.  “CPM is hopeful that the city council will ratify both
agreements,” the company said in a statement. The entity’s
other co-owners are Allianz Capital Partners and the Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  