-- CIA Cash to Karzai Said to Fit Afghan Patronage System
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2013-04-30T03:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/cia-cash-to-karzai-said-to-fit-afghan-patronage-system.html
Afghan President Hamid Karzai won’t
be hurt by revelations that the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency
has funneled millions of dollars to his office because such
dealings are expected in a society steeped in patronage,
according to two former CIA officers.  The agency regularly delivered tens of millions of dollars
over a decade to Karzai’s office in suitcases, backpacks and
shopping bags, according to a  New York  Times report that cited
current and former advisers to the Afghan president.  Karzai acknowledged receiving money from the agency during
a news conference in Helsinki,  Finland  yesterday. He called the
money a “small amount” that was used for health care and other
basic needs. The CIA declined to comment on the report.  Such undercover payments are hardly new in Afghanistan,
which depends on an extensive patronage system to deliver
resources, said Reuel Gerecht, a former CIA officer who
specialized in Iran and the Middle East.  “I think everyone in Afghanistan probably assumed Karzai
was getting money from the agency or the U.S. government,” said
Gerecht, now a senior fellow with the Foundation for Defense of
Democracies, a nonpartisan policy group in  Washington .  “Karzai has to have his own patronage system and he needs
cash to fund it,” said Gerecht, who has also visited
 Afghanistan . “He would not be able to maintain his position
within the Pashtuns without it,” he said, referring to the
dominant tribal group within Afghanistan.  White House spokesman Jay Carney declined to comment
yesterday when asked about the New York Times report during a
briefing with reporters in Washington.  ‘Ghost Money’  Using secret cash payments to buy influence and access,
recruit agents or undermine opponents has long been standard
procedure for all intelligence agencies, said three U.S.
intelligence officials who asked not to be identified discussing
clandestine practices.  The U.S. payments to Karzai’s office began in January 2003,
according to the newspaper’s report. The sums ranged from
hundreds of thousands to millions of dollars, and much of the
CIA’s money goes to paying off warlords and politicians,
according to current and former Afghan officials interviewed by
the Times.  “We called it ‘ghost money,’” said Khalil Roman, who
served as Mr. Karzai’s deputy chief of staff from 2002 until
2005, according to the Times report. “It came in secret, and it
left in secret.”  Discredit Karzai  While the existence of secret payments, if true, wouldn’t
be surprising, their public disclosure might be part of an
effort to discredit Karzai as an American puppet in a nation
that has a centuries-long history of battling foreigners, all
three officials said.  Still, such a plan to undermine Karzai probably wouldn’t
succeed, said Vincent Cannistraro, a former CIA counterterrorism
chief who served in the agency for 27 years.  “I don’t think his standing is going to change,”
Cannistraro said of Karzai. “He’s clearly not a puppet. He’s
given us a lot of policy problems. He has basically undercut
U.S. efforts in parts of Afghanistan.”  Last month, Karzai roiled relations with the U.S. by
declaring that a March 9 Taliban suicide attack was in the
“service of America” and that the U.S. was holding talks with
the radical Islamist forces. His remarks were made during a
visit to the country by U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel.  Tensions eased two weeks later after U.S. Secretary of
State John Kerry visited and played down irritants in ties
between the two countries.  ‘Good Value’  Considering the rocky relations the U.S. has had with
Karzai, Cannistraro said, “the money, whatever it is, is not
buying good value.”  Even so, the payments are a part of doing business in
places like Afghanistan and follow a long tradition, the three
intelligence officials said.  The CIA and allied intelligence agencies made such
clandestine payments in  Africa , the Middle East and Latin
America throughout the Cold War, as did the Soviet KGB, the
officials said. In many instances, such as in the mineral-rich
Katanga province of what’s now the Democratic Republic of the
Congo and in  Laos , local leaders collected money, gold, diamonds
or payments in offshore bank accounts from both sides, they
said.  Cash payments were routine in South Vietnam during the war
there, and the CIA may have spent far more there in today’s
dollars than it reportedly did in Afghanistan, where one
official said the practice began with U.S. support for the
mujahiddeen after the Soviet Union invaded the country in 1979.  While there’s always a risk that such payments or other
support such as weapons, advisers and secret intelligence can
backfire if it’s revealed, all three intelligence officials said
the U.S. isn’t free to play by different rules to cultivate
local support because  Iran  and other countries are making
similar payments to Afghanistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  