-- Citic Pacific Wins Bid to Move Palmer Royalty Fight to WA
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-04-30T03:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/citic-pacific-wins-bid-to-move-palmer-royalty-fight-to-wa.html
Citic Pacific Ltd. (267)  won a court
order to move Australian mining magnate Clive Palmer’s lawsuit
over royalties from Sydney to Perth, Western Australia, home to
the property in the dispute.  Palmer’s Mineralogy Pty sued Citic’s Sino Iron unit in
state court in Sydney, capital of New South Wales state,
claiming it was owed A$200 million ($207 million) in royalties
from a Citic mine being built on his property in Western
Australia’s Pilbara region. A judge said the dispute had no
connection to New South Wales, in explaining the ruling today.  Palmer urged the judge to let the lawsuit proceed in
Sydney, saying it was necessary to resolve the dispute quickly
and New South  Wales  courts could deal with the issue more
speedily, according to an affidavit cited by Justice James
Stevenson at a hearing in Sydney.  “I’m not able to say if the matter can be heard more
quickly here,” Stevenson said in a ruling from the bench.
“Every other factor indicates it would be in the interest of
justice to have the proceedings transferred.”  The royalty dispute is one of at least three lawsuits
involving Mineralogy and Citic Pacific, which is building the
biggest magnetite iron ore project in Australia.  The royalty
dispute is one of at least three lawsuits involving Mineralogy
and Citic Pacific, which is building the biggest magnetite iron
ore project in  Australia .  The mine has been beset by a budget that swelled by almost
four times the initial amount and wrong currency bets costing
HK$14.6 billion ($1.9 billion) in 2008.  The $8 billion mine wouldn’t make its first shipment of
iron ore concentrate until the second half of May as production
was hampered by technical issues, Citic said April 19. The
facility was originally scheduled to begin output in the first
half of 2011.  The $8 billion mine wouldn’t make its first shipment of
iron ore concentrate until the second half of May as production
was hampered by technical issues, Citic said April 19. The mine
was originally scheduled to begin output in the first half of
2011.  Stock Moves  Citic rose 0.8 percent to HK$9.41 as of 10:15 a.m. in Hong
Kong trading, paring its loss this year to 19 percent. The
city’s Hang Seng Index has advanced 0.4 percent in 2013.  Palmer sought to terminate Citic’s mining rights and site-
lease agreements in a Supreme Court of Western Australia
lawsuit, claiming it failed to pay a separate royalty on
production. Supreme Court of Western Australia Justice James
Edelman reserved his decision after a one-day trial on April 23.  Western Australian courts have proven cases can be heard
quickly, said Charles Scerri, Citic’s lawyer. The dispute over
the mining rights was heard less than a year after Palmer filed
his complaint in Perth, Scerri said.  While justice is served “wherever you go in Australia,”
evidence indicates New South Wales courts would provide a
quicker hearing than Western Australian ones, Palmer said
outside the Sydney court after today’s hearing. “Justice
delayed would be justice denied.”  The New South Wales case is Mineralogy Pty v Sino Rion Pty.
2013/82818. Supreme Court of New South Wales (Sydney). The
Western Australia case is Mineralogy Pty v Sino Iron Pty. CIV
2338/2012, Supreme Court of Western Australia (Perth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  