-- Clariant Looks to Biofuel Amid Disposals of Older Assets
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-04-30T10:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/clariant-s-planned-sale-of-units-to-sk-capital-delayed-a-quarter.html
Clariant AG (CLN)  said it’s prepared to
take on a partner and help fund a second-generation bioethanol
plant to prove the effectiveness of its biotechnology and
compete against  Royal DSM NV (DSM)  and  Novozymes A/S. (NZYMB)   Clariant, based in Muttenz, Switzerland, is testing its own
technology for converting crop waste into biofuel at the
company’s research center in Munich, and the results are
“looking very good,” Chief Financial Officer Patrick Jany said
in a telephone interview today.  “We’re now indeed reflecting on how to commercialize the
technology, probably with a partner,” said Jany, a former
executive at drug developer Sandoz.  After years of restructuring, Clariant is expanding into
more-profitable products, leveraging research and technology
inherited in the $2.5 billion purchase of catalyst maker Sued-
Chemie in 2011. Business-unit leaders are being encouraged to
spot research opportunities alongside cost-cutting ones, and
there will be a “progressive” release of new products in
coming years, Jany said.  The company will update investors later this year on
biotechnology and possible future products for industries such
as personal-care items to agriculture and to oil and gas
extractors, according to the CFO.  Margin Plan  Reorganizing its product line will help Clariant increase
margins in 2013 as well as boost sales in local currencies, the
company reiterated today in a statement.  First-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization and one-time items held steady at 209 million
Swiss francs ($223 million), driven by expansion in  Latin
America  as well as a boost from a cold snap in  Europe  and  North
America  that bolstered demand for de-icers. Analysts predicted
202 million francs in earnings.  Clariant  fell  as much as 2.3 percent to 13.26 francs and
was trading down 0.3 percent at 12:32 p.m. in Zurich. The stock
has gained 12 percent this year, valuing the manufacturer at
4.49 billion francs.  The company is selling three commodity-chemical units
generating $1.3 billion in sales to buyout firm SK Capital
Partners LP. The disposal will be completed at the end of
September, once New York-based SK Capital has the licenses and
antitrust-related paperwork in place, Jany said.  Sale Processes  Emboldened by that sale, Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann is pushing ahead with the divestment of leather and
detergent units. In a first stage, information documents have
been sent out to potential buyers in the industry to drum up
interest, Jany said in the interview.  Greenhill & Co. (GHL)  is
advising on the transaction, two people familiar with the
process said in February.  Among remaining units, Clariant needs “to do its
homework” to improve a small water-treatment business in  South
Africa  that came with the Sued-Chemie purchase, according to the
CFO. Clariant’s strategy is similar to moves by competitors
 Kemira Oyj (KRA1V) , BASF SE and  Ashland Inc. (ASH)  to restructure water-
chemical divisions to offset weaker demand from cash-strapped
municipalities.  Clariant remains confident about the prospects of a
plastic-additives division, and there are signs that some
markets are improving, Jany said.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  has put its
plastics-additives business up for sale as part of a $1.5
billion disposal program, and BASF is cutting jobs in that area.  “After restructuring in 2009 and 2010, we have a good cost
position and portfolio” in plastic additives, Jany said.
“We’re not discontented with it at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  