-- Cnooc Considers Dollar Bond Issue
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-04-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/cnooc-considers-dollar-bond-issue.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore
energy explorer, is considering a sale of dollar-denominated
bonds, five people familiar with the matter said.  The company may raise about $5 billion in the offering, two
of the people said, asking not to be identified because the
terms aren’t set. A borrowing that large would match the biggest
note sale in the U.S. currency in Asia outside Japan, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Beijing-based Cnooc may begin
marketing the securities to investors as early as this quarter,
one of the people said.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. led record dollar bond
sales last month by oil and gas companies in Asia’s biggest
economy as falling borrowing costs aided overseas expansion.
Issuance in the region climbed to a three-month high of $19
billion, Bloomberg-compiled figures show. Sinopec, as Asia’s
biggest refiner is known, and  China  National Petroleum Corp.,
the country’s largest oil producer, raised a combined $5.5
billion, according to the data.  A Beijing-based spokeswoman at Cnooc who declined to be
identified said the company has no comment on the matter when
contacted yesterday.  Ten new offshore projects in China will start in 2013 and
capital spending will rise to between $12 billion and $14
billion, Cnooc said in January. This will help secure targeted
production growth of 6 percent to 10 percent for 2011-2015,
Chief Financial Officer Zhong Hua said on March 22.  The company completed the $15.1 billion purchase of
Canadian energy producer Nexen Inc., its largest overseas
acquisition, earlier this year.  Prior Sale  Cnooc last sold dollar bonds in April last year, raising $2
billion via an offer of securities due May 2022 and May 2042.
Sinopec’s $3.5 billion sale on April 18 is currently the second-
largest in Asia outside of  Japan , after a $5 billion offering
from Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. in November 2003. CNPC borrowed $2
billion on April 9 in three tranches which each had record-low
coupons.  Average yields for oil and gas businesses in the region
fell 18 basis points to  4.31 percent  in April, the most in seven
months, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. That compares
with  4.69 percent  for all corporates in the region.  Chinese firms  pay  an average 419 basis points more than
U.S. Treasuries for dollar-denominated debt, according to the
JPMorgan data. That’s down from a high last year of 749 basis
points in January. Asian issuers pay an average 285 basis
points, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  