-- Consumer Confidence Jumps as U.S. Home Values Climb: Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-04-30T20:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-rose-more-than-forecast-in-april.html
Consumer confidence unexpectedly
jumped in April, and the rebound in home values accelerated
earlier this year, showing the recovery in residential real
estate is buttressing the  U.S. economy .  The Conference Board’s sentiment  index  climbed to 68.1,
exceeding the highest estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists, data from the New York-based private research group
showed today. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of  home prices  in 20
cities rose 9.3 percent in February from the same month in 2012,
the biggest year-to-year advance since 2006.  “It’s pretty clear that housing is recovering,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics
Ltd. in Valhalla, New York, and the second-best confidence
forecaster for the past two years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “That’s a positive for growth. It boosts wealth and
confidence.”  Rising home and stock prices are helping repair  finances 
left in tatters by the recession, leading to gains in sentiment
that may limit any slowdown in household spending, the biggest
part of the economy. For now, an increase in the payroll tax and
cuts in federal outlays may be starting to pinch, prompting a
slackening in manufacturing that is restraining growth.  The MNI Chicago Report’s business  barometer , considered a
proxy for factory activity, fell to 49 in April, the lowest
level since September 2009, from 52.4 last month, other figures
showed today. A reading less than 50 signals contraction.  Second Half  “Ultimately, manufacturing will start improving again in
the second half of the year as fiscal drag starts to fade, but
for now, it’s still looking pretty sluggish,” O’Sullivan said.  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
another high, after the gain in confidence and as investors
weighed corporate earnings. The  S&P 500  advanced 0.3 percent to
1,597.57 at the close in in New York.  Elsewhere, inflation in the euro area dropped to a three-
year low in April and unemployment climbed to 12.1 percent in
March, the highest since records began in 1995, according to
figures from the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg. The data increase pressure on the  European Central
Bank  to cut  interest rates  later this week to spur growth.  The median estimate of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected the consumer confidence gauge would increase to 61.
 Forecasts (CONCCONF)  ranged from 54.5 to 66.5. The Conference Board revised
the reading in March up to 61.9 from a previously reported 59.7.
The measure averaged 53.7 in the recession that ended in June
2009.  Expectations Improve  The increase in the confidence gauge was led by a gain in
the measure of  expectations  for the next six months, which
climbed to a five-month high.  The share of households projecting their incomes will rise
over that time period advanced to the highest since April 2011.  “The fact that they feel a little bit wealthier will give
them a little more leeway,” said  Brian Jones , senior U.S.
economist in New York at  Societe Generale . Still, “you’re going
to have a spring lull, and growth will reaccelerate in the
second half of the year. I do think the labor market is
genuinely getting better.”  Today’s figures are in line with the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index. That measure in the week ended April 21 was close
to the highest since January 2008. At the same time, the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer  sentiment  fell
in April to a three-month low.  ‘Mixed Signals’  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  is among companies seeing a
lack of consistency from the American consumer.  “It seems like the economy is off to a great start and
then every time, about this time every year for the last two
years in the spring, we get mixed signals on  consumer confidence 
and  job creation  and things like that,” Chief Financial Officer
John Hartung said in an April 18 conference call.  Household spending in the first quarter increased at a 3.2
percent annualized rate, the biggest gain since the fourth
quarter of 2010, Commerce Department figures showed April 26.  At the same time, a report yesterday showed spending began
to cool late in the quarter. Purchases climbed 0.2 percent in
March after a 0.7 percent surge in the prior month, the Commerce
Department said. Economists project outlays in the current
quarter will grow at a 1.8 percent annual rate, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey from April 5 to April 9.  Hindering households is the two percentage-point increase
in the tax that funds  Social Security , which took effect at the
start of the year. Americans earning $50,000 a year are taking
home about $80 less a month.  More Equity  On a more positive note, the increase in real-estate values
is helping some homeowners recover  home equity . Home prices
adjusted for seasonal variations rose 1.2 percent in February
from the prior month, the biggest gain since October 2005, after
climbing 1 percent in January, according to today’s report from
S&P/Case-Shiller.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, according to the group. The panel includes
 Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the
index.  “Home prices continue to show solid increases,”  David Blitzer , chairman of the S&P index committee, said in a
statement. “Housing continues to be one of the brighter spots
in the economy.”  On the other hand, manufacturing, which makes up 12 percent
of the economy, is becoming a concern. The Chicago index today
showed measures of production, employment and inventories
slumped this month.  Orders Firm  One positive note was that orders held up, signaling last
month’s retreat may be short-lived.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge a measure
of total growth. Its members have operations across the U.S. and
abroad.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s monthly national
factory  index  probably also cooled this month, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed. The Tempe, Arizona-based
group’s figures are due tomorrow.  Manufacturers are more optimistic about sales and spending
this year than they were at the end of 2012, while service
providers were less upbeat, according to results of a semiannual
survey by the ISM issued today.  “We’re not seeing anything tailing off drastically,” said
 Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson Icap LLC in  Jersey
City , New Jersey, and the top forecaster for the MNI Chicago
Report. “We’re just fighting through another sluggish period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  