-- Copper Prices Falling on China Slowdown, Europe Concerns
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y
-- 2013-04-30T18:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/copper-prices-falling-on-china-slowdown-europe-concerns-1-.html
Copper prices are falling on
expectations of a slowdown in the Chinese economy and rising
copper stocks on the London Metal Exchange, said Raul Jacob,
chief financial officer of  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) , the largest
producer of the metal in Peru and Mexico.  Copper prices will rebound later this year on rising demand
from  Asia , which represents 60 percent of world copper
consumption, and reduced copper supply by labor stoppages and
technical problems, Jacob said.  “Even though we believe this metal’s fundamentals are
sound, its price has been affected by concerns about Chinese
growth, LME stock increases and macroeconomic worries related to
the U.S. fiscal deficit and  Europe ’s debt crisis,” Jacob said
today on a conference call. “We believe this is part of the
commodities cycle and a temporary event.”  Copper futures for delivery in July declined 1.3 percent to
$3.1855 a pound at 1:35 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . Prices
are down 6.2 percent this month, headed for the biggest drop
since October. LME-monitored global  stockpiles  have climbed to
the highest since 2003 according to Bloomberg data.  Profit Falls  Phoenix, Arizona-based Southern Copper, which is investing
$6.5 billion to almost double annual copper output to 1.2
million metric tons by 2017, will be poised to tap stronger
copper prices in the future, Jacob said. The company aims to
keep operating costs at 91 cents per pound of copper this year,
he said.  The company “is not considering” acquisitions and aims to
accelerate investments in the second half to meet its $1.8
billion capital expenditure target this year, Jacob said. Ore
grades at Buenavista,  Mexico ’s largest copper mine, will
stabilize next year after declining last quarter, he said.  Southern Copper April 26 announced first-quarter net income
fell 20 percent to $495.4 million, or 59 cents a share, matching
analysts’ estimates. The shares fell 0.3 percent to $32.80 at
12:34 p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  