-- Copper Users Press London Exchange to Reduce Warehouse Backlogs
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-04-30T15:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/copper-users-press-london-exchange-to-reduce-warehouse-backlogs.html
A group of industrial copper users
is pressing the London Metal Exchange to reduce growing queues
at warehouses that they say are contributing to supply
constraints and rising fees.  The group, which includes  Southwire Co . and  Encore (WIRE)  Wire
Corp., the two biggest U.S. manufacturers of electrical building
wire and cable, wrote to the LME this month asking the exchange
to make accessing the metal easier as U.S. premiums climb, said
Robert Bernstein, a partner at New York-based Eaton & Van Winkle
LLP, the firm representing the companies.  “We want to see whether we can resolve things without
legal action,”  Bernstein  said in a telephone interview. “This
is a situation that has now gotten sufficiently out of hand that
it should require the intervention of LME officials to see what
else they can do to bring the market back to a form of
equilibrium that’s fair to end-users.”  The group is awaiting response from the bourse.  “We are aware of market comment,” Miriam Heywood, a
spokeswoman for the LME, said in an e-mail. “The warehouse
system is under constant review, and we will communicate our
responses when it is appropriate to do so.”  While LME-monitored global  stockpiles  have climbed to the
highest since 2003, some of them are tied into so-called
financing accords and are unavailable. The clogs, along with
reduced scrap-metal supplies, a port strike in  Chile  and an
outage at Rio Tinto Group’s Kennecott Utah Copper mine have
combined to tighten supplies for immediate delivery, said Janet Sander, a vice-president at McKinney, Texas-based Encore.  U.S. Premiums  Orders to remove metal from LME warehouses touched a record
168,200 metric tons on April 25, bourse data show. Copper
premiums in the U.S., the second-biggest user, rose to 6 cents
to 7 cents a pound from 5.5 cents to 6.5 cents at the end of
March, according to London-based Wood Mackenzie Ltd. The
surcharge is added to the price of Comex futures in New York.  “All of this is just compounded together, and the bottom
line is that in order for you to buy spot copper, you’re going
to have to pay a little more now,” Sander said in a telephone
interview. “We’re either going to have pass it on or absorb”
the increase, she said.  Copper for delivery in three months fell 1.6 percent to
$7,039 a ton at 4:44 p.m. local time on the LME. Prices have
slumped about 11 percent this year.  A spokesman at closely held Southwire, based in Carrollton,
 Georgia , didn’t return a phone call and an e-mail seeking
comment on the matter.  Copper ETFs  Southwire this month asked a U.S. court to review a
regulatory decision that cleared the way for  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s
planned exchange-traded fund backed by copper. The company is
among industrial users who’ve said ETFs would leave less metal
available for manufacturers, creating shortages and boosting
prices. The company also opposed JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s JPM XF
Physical Copper Trust, the first U.S. exchange-traded fund
backed by physical metal, which won approval from the Securities
and Exchange Commission in December.  “We are voicing our concern about the warehouse backlogs
to the LME,” said Sander, who is Encore’s purchasing director.
“All options are open doors,” she said, declining to specify
what options the companies might pursue.  LME-registered copper stockpiles in U.S. warehouses are up
74 percent this year to 205,325 tons, and on April 26 reached
the highest in 13 months. About 86 percent of the inventories
were held in  New Orleans .  Consumer ‘Logjam’  “We’re open to seeing how they react and what they do,”
Bernstein said, referring to the exchange. “But it’s a
situation that seems to grow worse by the day. Premiums are
increasing, and consumers will end up paying more because of the
logjam.”  Consumers have said LME rules are also creating zinc
shortages. Buyers can wait as long as 400 days to get the metal,
which is used to galvanize steel, even as supply exceeds demand,
according to the European steel industry’s lobby group.  The lines are forming because the metal is stuck behind
orders from the same warehouses for aluminum, inventories of
which are near a record. There should be minimum delivery rates
for each metal in each warehouse, Brussels-based Eurofer said in
a report on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  