-- Obama Names Former Lobbyist Wheeler U.S. FCC Chairman
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-05-01T20:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/core-capital-s-wheeler-to-be-named-chairman-of-u-s-fcc.html
President  Barack Obama  named Tom Wheeler, a venture capitalist and former leader of cable and
wireless trade groups, to head the  U.S. Federal Communications
Commission , where he may focus on nurturing mobile technology.  Wheeler, 67, managing director at Core Capital Partners LP
in Washington, succeeds Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat
who has pushed to expand access to high-speed Internet service.  “Tom knows this stuff inside and out,” Obama said in
announcing the nomination today. “For more than 30 years, Tom
has been at the forefront of some of the very dramatic changes
that we’ve seen in the way we communicate and how we live our
lives.”  Wheeler  needs Senate confirmation before joining the FCC,
where he will guide policy responding to rapid change as
smartphones and high-speed data lines upend markets, with voice
traffic shifting from copper wires to airwaves and the Internet,
and video moving to the Web.  Mobile operators including largest U.S. wireless carrier
Verizon Wireless and No. 2  AT&T Inc. (T)  “should benefit from a
focus on their economic health” by a Wheeler-run FCC,  Paul Gallant , Washington-based managing director at Guggenheim
Securities, said in a note today.  Cable operators such as  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC)  may face reduced risk of the FCC seeking to regulate their
lines using rules written for telephone service, Gallant said.
Genachowski considered and abandoned such an approach after
companies said the move could lead to rate regulation.  Wireless, Cable  Wheeler would be “receptive to many wireless and cable
policy arguments, but would feel pressure from rivals and
critics” to demonstrate independence,  David Kaut , a Washington-
based analyst for Stifel Nicolaus, said in a note yesterday.  Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent, in an e-
mailed statement asked whether Wheeler would support the
“dangerous trend” toward greater media holdings by large
companies.  “Before the Senate votes on Mr. Wheeler’s confirmation,
the American people deserve to know where he stands,” Sanders
said. “I also am troubled that President Obama would appoint
the former head of two major industry lobbying associations to
regulate the industry.”  Michael Copps, a former Democratic member of the FCC who is
advising  Common Cause , a Washington-based advocacy group, said
in an e-mailed statement that Wheeler “has the opportunity to
expand on his experience as an industry lobbyist to make policy
that benefits all consumers and citizens.”  First Chairwoman  Mignon Clyburn, the commission’s senior Democrat, will be
acting agency head until Wheeler’s confirmation, Obama said.
Clyburn in an e-mailed statement thanked the president for
“this incredible and historic honor.”  “I am a firm believer that our government can be an
effective problem-solver with an important role to play in
opening doors of opportunity for all Americans,” she said.  The agency  established  by a 1934 law hasn’t had a woman
leader, Genachowski said in an e-mailed statement. He said
Clyburn has worked to promote competition and close the digital
divide, a term referring to a lack of high-speed  Internet
service , or broadband, for the poor.  Wheeler in 2008 helped draft technology policy for the
incoming Obama administration. He raised more than $500,000 for
Obama’s re-election in 2012, and from $250,000 to $500,000 for
the 2008 campaign, according to disclosures by the president’s
campaign committee.  AT&T, T-Mobile  In a 2011 blog posting, Wheeler said the U.S. could allow a
merger of Dallas-based AT&T and smaller rival, Bellevue,
Washington-based T-Mobile USA Inc., which started trading today
as T-Mobile US Inc. after buying MetroPCS Communications Inc.
AT&T withdrew the bid after opposition from regulators. Wheeler
said the FCC could have demanded the enlarged company commit to
rules that would become de facto standards for the wireless
industry and avert court challenges.  AT&T’s Senior Executive Vice President  Jim Cicconi  in an e-
mailed statement today called Wheeler “an inspired pick to lead
the FCC” where “the pace of technological change is clashing
with outdated laws, antiquated rules, and approaches more rooted
in the past than the present.” Wheeler in an April 2011  blog
post  called Cicconi “one of the smartest and shrewdest policy
mavens in the capital.”  The Washington-based trade groups Wheeler once headed
welcomed his selection in e-mailed statements.  Spectrum Auction  Michael Powell , a former Republican FCC chairman who is
president of the  National Cable & Telecommunications
Association , called Wheeler “an exceptional choice.”  Steve Largent , president of CTIA-The Wireless Association, said
Wheeler has “a keen understanding of how mobile wireless
broadband can drive our economy.”  Tasks that await Wheeler at the FCC include leading an
auction to free airwaves for use by high-speed wireless Internet
service, or mobile broadband. The auction would sell access to
airwaves voluntarily relinquished by television stations, which
would be paid for giving up their frequencies.  From  1992  to 2003, Wheeler was president of the Cellular
Telecommunications & Internet Association, as the CTIA was then
known. Members include the four biggest U.S. wireless companies,
 Verizon Wireless , AT&T,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile.  Wheeler was president of what was then called the National
Cable Television Association from 1979 to 1984, according to
Core Capital’s website. Members of the group headed today by
Powell include the largest U.S. cable company, Philadelphia-
based Comcast, and No. 2 Time Warner Cable, based in New York.  Since 2003 Wheeler has served on the board of Atlanta-based
 EarthLink Inc. (ELNK) , an Internet-service provider.  Core is a  venture capital firm  specializing in early stage
companies, including those focused on next-generation wireless
services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  