-- Corn Halts Rally as Farmers Sell; Soybeans Drop; Wheat Advances
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-04-30T19:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/corn-extends-biggest-gain-since-june-as-rain-slows-u-s-planting.html
Corn futures fell from a four-week
high on speculation that U.S. farmers boosted sales of grain
harvested in 2012 and that drier weather will help ease planting
delays for this year’s crop. Soybeans also dropped, while wheat
rose.  Average cash- corn  prices jumped 6.2 percent yesterday after
rain limited  planting  to the slowest pace since 1984, government
data show. Greg Grow, the director of agribusiness for Archer
Financial Services Inc., said some clients sold the grain after
the rally. Warm, dry weather in the western Midwest in the next
two days, and dry weather from  Kentucky  to  Michigan  through May
4, will firm soils for planting equipment before rain returns,
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Commodity Weather Group LLC  predicted
inn a report.  “There was an increase in corn sales after yesterday’s
rally,” Grow said in a telephone interview from Chicago. “The
forecast is not perfect for widespread planting progress, but
there will be scattered windows of opportunities for farmers to
get in their fields.”  Corn futures for delivery in July fell 1.5 percent to close
at $6.50 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
after touching $6.69, the highest since April 1. The grain fell
6.5 percent in April, the third consecutive monthly decline.  Prices also dropped on speculation that U.S. supplies will
be ample, even after a slow start to spring planting. Yesterday,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said only 5 percent of crops
had been  sown  in the nation’s main producing states, trailing
the five-year average of 31 percent. The U.S. is the world’s
biggest corn exporter.  Record Crop  The USDA said in February that corn production may rise 35
percent to a record 14.53 billion bushels. The agency will
update its supply and demand forecasts on May 10.  Delayed planting “is not enough to compensate for the
longer-term outlook of rising production and lackluster
demand,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts including Tobias Merath in Zurich wrote today in an e-mailed report.  Soybean futures for delivery in July slid 0.7 percent to
$13.99 a bushel on the CBOT. The price dropped 0.4 percent in
April, the third straight monthly decline.  Wheat futures for delivery in July rose 2 percent to $7.31
a bushel in  Chicago , capping a 6.3 percent gain in April.  The grain rose 5.6 percent over the past two days on
concern that unusually low temperatures forecast tomorrow from
 Nebraska  to  Texas  will damage wheat already under stress from
cold, dry weather since farmers planted seeds last October,
Randy Mittelstaedt, the director of research for R.J. O’Brien &
Associates in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  Production of hard, red winter wheat, the variety used to
make bread and flour, may fall 24 percent to 766 million bushels
from 1.004 billion a year earlier, Mittelstaedt said. That would
be the lowest since 2006, when U.S. farmers harvested 682
million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 