-- Craigslist Allowed to Sue App Developer Over Data Use
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-30T21:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/craigslist-allowed-to-sue-app-developer-over-data-use.html
Craigslist can sue platform
developer 3Taps Inc. for gaining unauthorized access to its
website, though it can’t pursue copyright-infringement claims
against the company for copying user posts, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in  San Francisco  today
denied 3Taps’ request to throw out claims by Craigslist, the
free online classified-advertising service, that it violated the
federal Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and other laws. He did
dismiss copyright claims against 3Taps involving user-created
posts, saying that except for a two-week period last year,
Craigslist’s terms of use didn’t grant it an exclusive license
over user postings.  “3Taps is quite pleased that the court dismissed the core
of Craigslist’s copyright infringement claims, confirming that
Craigslist had no legal basis to originally sue 3Taps or
threaten similar actions against other innovators on the ground
that Craigslist exclusively owns user-created content,” 3Taps
Chief Executive Officer Greg Kidd said in an e-mail.  Christopher Kao, a lawyer for Craigslist, didn’t return an
e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  On its  website , 3Taps calls itself a “data harvesting
platform dedicated to keeping public facts publicly
accessible.” The company collects, organizes and distributes
data for developer use.  Craigslist, based in San Francisco, sued 3Taps last year,
alleging it copied content posted on the website in real time in
violation of computer fraud, copyright and trademark law.  3Taps countersued, alleging Craigslist’s conduct violates
antitrust laws. Breyer granted Craigslist’s request to put those
claims on hold pending the outcome of its claims.  The case is Craigslist Inc. v. 3Taps Inc., 12-cv-03816,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in San Francisco at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  