-- Cypriot Lawmakers Approve Loan Agreement With Slim Majority
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-04-30T16:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/cypriot-lawmakers-approve-loan-agreement-with-slim-majority.html
Cyprus’s international rescue loan
deal was approved by a slim majority in the nation’s parliament
today, with 29 lawmakers voting in favor and 27 against.  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades agreed on March 25 to
a 10 billion-euro ($13.2 billion) loan from the euro area and
the International Monetary Fund in return for measures including
a tax on  bank  deposits of more than 100,000 euros at the
country’s two biggest banks, wage and pension cuts and the sale
of assets and gold. Those concessions were demanded by creditors
in a bid to shrink what European and IMF officials called an
oversized and unsustainable banking sector.  “Cyprus is going through difficult times,” Anastasiades
said before the vote as he urged lawmakers to approve the deal.
“What we’re called upon to do today is to adopt a loan
agreement that will allow our country to breathe and that will
give us the opportunity to overcome whatever problems we’re
facing in this crisis.”  Parliament Speaker Yiannakis Omirou announced the vote
result in comments televised live on state-run RIK TV.  Lawmakers in  Germany , the Netherlands, Austria and  Finland 
have already agreed to the Cypriot bailout. Cyprus will receive
its first loan installment in May, the European Stability
Mechanism, the euro-area’s bailout fund, said April 24. The
rescue funds will be used to cover fiscal needs, redeem long-
term debt and recapitalize financial institutions, it said.  Pay Cuts  Lawmakers earlier today approved a property tax increase
and further public-sector pay cuts as required by the troika of
the IMF, European Central Bank and European Commission. They had
already agreed on April 18 to other creditor demands including
raising the corporate tax rate to 12.5 percent and increasing
the tax on deposit interest to 30 percent from 15 percent.  Cyprus’s economy is expected to contract 10.9 percent in
2013 and by 4.8 percent in 2014 under a main scenario that only
takes into account economic measures that have been announced so
far, economists at Athens-based  Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  said in a
April 24 report. In an adverse scenario with the additional
impact of the credit crunch, corporate defaults and capital
controls, the economic contraction may reach 12.9 percent,
according to the report.  Capital controls, including restrictions on cash
withdrawals and transfers abroad, have been in place since banks
reopened on March 28 after a closure of almost two weeks.
Government decrees since then have eased the controls, without
lifting them, with the 10th decree on April 25 relaxing
restrictions on foreign clients of Cypriot units of overseas
banks.  For Cyprus to succeed in kick-starting its economy and to
emerge from its crisis as soon as possible, the country must
strictly adhere to all the commitments it has undertaken in the
loan accord, Anastasiades said April 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  