-- D.C. Suburbs Have Most Concentrated Mortgage Tax Breaks
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/d-c-suburbs-have-most-concentrated-mortgage-tax-breaks.html
The mortgage interest deduction
capital of the U.S. lies just outside the nation’s capital.  More than two of every five tax filers in the Washington
area’s  Maryland  suburbs of Bethesda-Gaithersburg-Frederick claim
the tax break, the highest percentage in the country, according
to a report by the Pew Charitable Trusts.  “The distribution of this tax benefit is uneven across the
states for many different reasons,” said Anne Stauffer,
director of  Pew’s fiscal federalism  initiative. “There are
these large variations, which mean that the impacts of any
change would actually be very different” across the U.S.  The mortgage interest deduction, long considered
politically untouchable in Congress, is being scrutinized as
lawmakers debate whether and how to curtail it as part of a
rewrite of the  tax code  that would lower marginal rates.
Changing the deduction could affect real estate agents and home
builders, along with the appliance and furniture industries.  Previous studies have demonstrated that the tax break,
which is available only to the one-third of taxpayers who
itemize their deductions, tends to benefit higher-income
households.  More than three-quarters of the $68 billion benefit in 2012
was claimed by households with annual incomes exceeding
$100,000, according to the congressional  Joint Committee on
Taxation .  High Income  The tax break tends to be concentrated in high-income areas
with relatively high property values and homeownership rates.
The Pew report shows the geographic disparities inherent in the
deduction.  Economists and bipartisan groups have suggested ideas for
curbing the deduction without eliminating it. Those include
lowering the $1 million cap on the amount of a loan that can be
deducted and preventing owners from claiming the tax break for
second homes.  “The key is really to focus the tax benefits more
carefully,”  Phillip Swagel , a public policy professor at the
 University of Maryland  who served in the Treasury Department
during  George W. Bush ’s presidency, told a House Ways and Means
Committee hearing last week.  The Washington region, filled with government workers and
contractors, is one of the wealthiest in the country.  Seven of the 10 counties with the highest median U.S.
income in 2011 surrounded Washington, according to the Census
Bureau. Census data also show that 14.1 percent of the region’s
households were in the nation’s top 5 percent,  ranking third 
among metropolitan areas.  Regional Rankings  The rest of the Washington metropolitan area, which Pew
researchers analyzed separately from the Bethesda-Gaithersburg-
Frederick region, ranks fourth in the mortgage interest study,
after the Minneapolis region and then suburbs in Illinois and
 Wisconsin  between Chicago and  Milwaukee .  When ranked by the average size of the mortgage interest
deduction claimed on tax returns, the Bethesda area comes in
fifth, at $6,775. Topping the list are four regions in
 California , led by San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara, where the
average tax filer deducted $7,659 in mortgage interest.  The metropolitan data are from 2007, the most recent
available from the  Internal Revenue Service , according to the
study by Pew, a non-profit group that does research in areas
such as environmental and health policy.  State-level data from 2010 put Maryland first and Virginia
third, both in the percentage of filers claiming the tax benefit
and the average size of the break.  North Dakota residents had the lowest average mortgage
interest deduction, at $1,192, which was 26 percent of the
average $4,580 in Maryland.  Just 15 percent of West Virginia residents deducted
mortgage interest in 2010, less than half the rate in
neighboring Maryland.  Maryland in 2011 had the country’s highest median income at
$70,004, 39 percent above the  national  average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  