-- Daimler Talking With Renault on Large Van Cooperation
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-30T09:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/daimler-talking-with-renault-on-large-van-cooperation.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Renault SA (RNO)  said they
are holding discussions to build a large van together as part of
a possible expansion of their existing partnership.  “We’re in early talks with Renault,” Uta Leitner, a
Daimler spokeswoman, said in a phone interview today from the
automaker’s headquarters in Stuttgart,  Germany . “No decisions
on possible production sites have been taken.” Renault
spokeswoman Raluca Barb confirmed the discussions.  The two automakers already share the underpinnings of a
delivery van, which Mercedes calls the Citan and Renault sells
as the Kangoo. The cooperation, which also includes Renault’s
Japanese alliance partner  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , started in 2010 to
build a four-seat model for Daimler’s Smart small car brand.  The two automakers declined to comment on a La Tribune
report that Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz brand may produce vehicles
at a Renault site in  France .  Renault is seeking to increase capacity utilization as the
manufacturer struggles to maintain profit with the European car
market sinking to a 20-year low. As part of a cost-cut deal with
workers, the manufacturer, based in the Paris suburb of
Boulogne-Billancourt, agreed to increase French production.  The deal with unions includes reducing the workforce in
France by 17 percent and freezing pay this year in exchange for
a pledge not to close any plants in the country for three years.
Renault announced last week it will build the next version of
Nissan’s Micra compact in France starting in 2016.  Demand Drops  Daimler currently works with  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in the large van
segment. The contract runs out at the end of 2016 and VW has
announced plans to develop a new Crafter model on its own. No
decision has been made on where the vehicle, which VW currently
assembles at a Mercedes plant, will be built, Eckhard Scholz,
head of VW’s commercial-vehicles unit, said last month.  Van demand in  Europe  sank 9.8 percent in the first quarter
to 347,517 vehicles, according to data from the ACEA industry
group.  Mercedes’s current large Sprinter van is produced at German
sites in Dusseldorf and Ludwigsfelde, as well as at locations in
the U.S., Argentina and China. The company is also preparing to
produce an older version of the model in  Russia  with local
manufacturer GAZ Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  