-- Delcath’s Chemotherapy Device Has Risks, FDA Staff Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-30T20:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/delcath-s-chemotherapy-device-has-serious-risks-fda-staff-says.html
Delcath Systems Inc. (DCTH) ’s experimental
drug-and-device combination for chemotherapy carries life-
threatening risks that may outweigh any benefit, U.S. Food and
Drug Administration staff said. The shares fell the most in more
than five years .  The Melblez Kit is associated with “a high treatment-
related mortality rate that in the best-case scenario would be
replicated in the post-marketing setting,” FDA staff said in a
 report  today ahead of a May 2 meeting of agency advisers to
discuss the product. The kit is intended to treat eye cancer
that can’t be surgically removed and has spread to the liver.  The system performs what New York-based Delcath calls
chemosaturation, using the device to inject a high dose of the
chemotherapy melphalan to the liver. In clinical studies, eight
people, or almost 7 percent, died from adverse reactions
including liver failure, hemorrhagic brain lesions and
gastrointstinal hemorrhage, FDA staff said. Of the patients who
received alternative care, none experienced fatal reactions.  Delcath fell 40 percent to 83 cents at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, the biggest decrease since October 2007. The company has
fallen 70 percent in the past year.  Patients who used the Melblez Kit in studies also
experienced more serious adverse reactions, including a
decreased ability of the bone marrow to make blood cells and
liver toxicity, FDA staff said.  The agency extended by three months its decision on whether
to approve the kit to Sept. 13 as it looks over information
clarifying bridging studies Delcath did to let the company
extrapolate data from foreign trials. Delcath generated $350,000
in revenue last year after receiving European approval in April
2011 to sell its Chemosat Delivery System.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  