-- Dortmund Holds Off Real Madrid to Reach Champions League Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-30T22:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/dortmund-reaches-champions-league-final-by-beating-real-madrid.html
Borussia Dortmund  withstood a late
rally from Real  Madrid  to reach the final of soccer’s  Champions
League  for the first time since 1997.  Goals from Karim Benzema and  Sergio Ramos  in the final
seven minutes last night gave Real a 2-0 win at the Bernabeu
Stadium in Madrid. It wasn’t enough though to overturn a 4-1
Dortmund advantage from the opener of the two-match semifinal
last week in  Germany .  Dortmund will face German champion Bayern Munich or
Barcelona in the final of Europe’s elite club competition May 25
at Wembley Stadium in London. Bayern takes a 4-0 lead into its
second game tonight in  Spain .  “They put a lot of pressure on us,” Dortmund midfielder
Kevin Grosskruetz said on the website of tournament organizer
UEFA. “However, we are a great club and deserved to go through.
I haven’t thought about Wembley yet. Let’s celebrate now and
think about the final tomorrow.”  Dortmund’s only other final appearance came 16 years ago
when it beat Juventus 3-1.  Real Madrid , which has won the
European Cup a record nine times, lost in the semifinals for the
third straight year.  Needing at least three goals to advance, Madrid held 59
percent of possession and had a 21-7 shot advantage without
managing to score until Benzema’s goal in the 83rd minute.
Dortmund hung on after Ramos added a second five minutes later.  “My players have given everything,” Real coach  Jose Mourinho  said on UEFA’s website. “If we had scored earlier, we
would have had a chance. The fans believed until the end, but we
didn’t make it.”  Early Chances  Real wasted two early chances as  Gonzalo Higuain  was
stopped by goalkeeper Roman Weidenfeller after being sent
through in the fourth minute and Cristiano Ronaldo shot wide.  Robert Lewandowski , who scored all the goals in Dortmund’s
opening win, was then stopped by Diego Lopez and Ronaldo sent a
volley straight at Weidenfeller at the other end.  Dortmund’s star midfielder Mario Goetze came off injured in
the 14th minute and was replaced by Grosskreutz. Mesut Ozil
fired wide after getting behind the defense as Real was unable
to turn a 9-2 advantage in shots in the first half into goals.  Lewandowski shot over goal after being set up early in the
49th minute, then drilled a ball off the underside of the
crossbar on a Dortmund counterattack moments later.  Madrid Subs  Mourinho went to his bench in the 57th minute, bringing on
Benzema and Kaka for Higuain and Fabio Coentrao. Lopez kept Real
alive by stopping Ilkay Gundogan, who was left alone six yards
(5.5 meters) out, and Lewandowski headed wide.  Ronaldo put Real’s first shot of the second half over the
goal in the 70th minute and Kaka sent a volley wide. Benzema
finally broke through with seven minutes left when he directed
in Ozil’s cross.  Weidenfeller then caught a header from Ramos and tipped
another shot over for a corner kick. Ramos pulled Real within a
goal of reaching the final when he fired a shot into the roof of
the net with two minutes remaining.  Ramos put a header wide in stoppage time and Dortmund was
able to see out the match to keep the prospect of an all-German
final in line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 