-- DreamWorks Animation Posts Quarterly Net of $5.6 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-05-01T20:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/dreamworks-animation-posts-quarterly-net-of-5-6-million.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , the
studio run by  Jeffrey Katzenberg , posted a surprise quarterly
profit and agreed to buy AwesomenessTV, a popular teen network
on YouTube. The shares rose the most in seven weeks.  First-quarter net income fell 39 percent to $5.58 million,
or 7 cents a share, from a year earlier, the Glendale,
California-based company said yesterday in a statement. Analysts
had projected a loss of 3 cents a share, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 1.1 percent to
$134.6 million, beating the $98.8 million average estimate.  DreamWorks Animation agreed to buy AwesomenessTV for $33
million in cash and as much as $117 million more through 2015 if
earnings targets are met, according to a statement today.
Katzenberg is diversifying the studio to be less dependent on a
release schedule of two or three movies a year. He has set up a
sister company in  China  to develop TV and live entertainment
projects and is reducing its workforce to cut costs.  “The fundamentals of the company are very strong,”
Katzenberg said in an interview. “We worked very hard to
diversify our businesses and our revenues and they’re starting
to pay off.”  DreamWorks Animation  rose  7.3 percent to $20.69 at the
close of  New York  trading. The shares have advanced 25 percent
this year, compared with a 14 percent jump for the Standard &
Poor’s 400 Midcap Index.  The first quarter benefited from higher home-video revenue,
including $22.8 million from “Madagascar 3:  Europe ’s Most
Wanted.”  ‘The Croods’  The company’s latest theatrical hit, “The Croods,” took
in $88.9 million at theaters in the U.S. and  Canada  by the end
of the quarter following its March 22 release, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo.  The film, made for $135 million,  ranks second  with $468.8
million in worldwide sales so far this year, behind “Oz the
Great and Powerful” by  Walt Disney  Co. A new film, “Turbo,”
is scheduled for release on July 17.  “The Croods” contributed $4 million of revenue in the
quarter, DreamWorks Animation said. Second-quarter results “are
expected to be driven by the performance of ‘The Croods’ at the
worldwide box office,” the company said.  Awesomeness Purchase  AwesomenessTV, through its Multi-Channel Network on
YouTube, has aggregated more than 14 million subscribers and 800
million video views, according to DreamWorks Animation. It’s
also expanding into TV and film, the company said.  Brian Robbins, founder and CEO of AwesomenessTV, will
assume an executive role at the studio to develop a DreamWorks
Animation branded digital family channel.  The company took an $87 million writedown in the fourth
quarter on its previous film, “Rise of the Guardians,”
released in November, after the movie failed to attract large
audiences. The film was more successful in home-video release,
contributing $9.6 million to the first-quarter results, the
company said.  “We had a movie in ‘Guardians’ that we were really proud
of and we expected it to be a success, and when it wasn’t, it
really hurt,” Katzenberg said. “I don’t think anybody in our
company lost confidence in our core business or our ability to
execute.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  