-- Leafs Return to Playoffs Boon for Rogers, BCE
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-30T13:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/leafs-return-to-playoffs-boon-for-rogers-bce-corporate-canada.html
The  Toronto Maple Leafs ’ return to
the National Hockey League playoffs for the first time in almost
a decade has sent ticket prices soaring and signals  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ’s purchase of the team with rival  BCE Inc. (BCE) 
is beginning to pay dividends.  The Leafs, the NHL’s most valuable club, meet the  Boston
Bruins  in the first round of the playoffs tomorrow, their first
post-season appearance since 2004. Team owner Maple Leaf Sports
& Entertainment Ltd. reacted by boosting ticket prices by 75
percent, with average prices on the resale market more than
twice as high as the New York Rangers.  Rogers and BCE joined forces to buy control of Maple Leaf
Sports for C$1.3 billion ($1.29 billion) in 2011 in a bet that
owning the hockey club and its television rights would help to
sell mobile phones and generate data revenue.  “They’ve made a big bet on content, so it certainly helps
investor perception to have people getting excited about the
Leafs in the playoffs,” said Stephen Gauthier, chief investment
officer at Montreal-based Fin-XO Securities Inc., which manages
about C$500 million, including Rogers shares. “Rogers is such a
big company now in terms of revenue that a first-round playoff
series isn’t going to have much of an impact. Still, it’s nice
to have.”  The Leafs have an estimated value of $1 billion, $250
million more than the  New York Rangers , Forbes magazine reported
in its 2012 survey of team values. Operating income in 2011-12
amounted to $81.9 million on revenue of $200 million, even as
the Leafs missed the playoffs for the seventh consecutive
season, Forbes said.  Cup Drought  That financial success hasn’t translated into on-ice wins:
The Leafs haven’t captured the Stanley Cup since 1967. Since
joining the NHL in 1917, Toronto has won 13 championships.  Even with that dry spell, the Leafs were such a sought-
after commodity that neither BCE nor Rogers could bear to let
the other own it outright. For BCE Chief Executive Officer
George Cope, the deal to buy MLSE, which also includes the
Toronto Raptors pro basketball team and the Toronto F.C. soccer
franchise, was the culmination of a string of transactions to
add fresh content that can be resold on smartphones, tablets and
laptops.  BCE also has an undisclosed minority stake in the  Montreal
Canadiens , acquired in 2009. The Canadiens, winners of a record
24 Stanley Cups, meet the  Ottawa Senators  in a first-round
series starting May 2.  Adds Dickey  Rogers CEO Nadir Mohamed isn’t content to own the Leafs. He
spent C$167 million last year to buy Score Media, which
specializes in smartphone content, and approved a spending spree
to bring top baseball players, including Cy Young Award winner
R.A. Dickey, to the Toronto Blue Jays team that Rogers also
owns.  Tickets for the first two Leafs’ home games are sold out
with no prices listed for possible future games on website
ticketmaster.com. Tickets in the lower bowl sold for as much as
C$1,377 and so-called “prestige” seats went for C$1,417, the
 Montreal  Gazette reported April 27.  Toronto has the most expensive home playoff ticket on the
secondary market, according to New York-based ticket-aggregator
TiqIQ.  First-round home games of the Maple Leafs cost an average
of $656.26 on the resale market, with no ticket costing less
than $170, TiqIQ says. Seats for the  Chicago Blackhawks  are the
next highest, averaging $389.58. Tickets at Madison Square
Garden to see the  New York  Rangers, the NHL’s second most
valuable franchise, average $308.22, TiqIQ data show.  Playoff Revenue  Each home game generates at least C$2 million in income
alone for teams such as the Maple Leafs and the Canadiens, said
 Bruno Delorme , a professor of sports marketing at Montreal’s
McGill and Concordia universities. NHL players aren’t paid
salaries during the playoffs, meaning that all ticket revenue
flows to the teams’ bottom line, said Delorme. Salaries on
average account for 60 percent to 70 percent of a team’s
operating costs, he said.  “For the owners, the playoffs translate into pure
profits,” Delorme said in a telephone interview.  BCE is “very happy to see four Canadian teams in the
 Stanley Cup  playoffs,” Jean-Charles Robillard, a spokesman for
the Montreal-based company, said in an e-mail. Toronto and
Montreal’s appearances in the playoffs “is good for our
business and for our employee team, who are obviously big hockey
fans. We’re looking forward to exciting playoffs.”  MLSE spokesman Jamie Deans didn’t return a message seeking
comment on playoff ticket prices yesterday. Rogers CEO Nadir
Mohamed and Rogers Media chief Keith Pelley were not available
for interviews, said Patricia Trott, a company spokeswoman  Sports Value  Mohamed reiterated to reporters last week the importance of
sports to the success of the Toronto-based company. It’s about
“having premium content, sports, being in our case our
wheelhouse and we’ll continue to execute on that,” he said.  The benefits of owning MLSE are measured in years, not
single playoff runs, said  Jeff Young , chief investment officer
at  NexGen Financial Corp (NFX) , a Toronto-based firm which manages
about C$1 billion and owns both BCE and Rogers shares.  Rogers fell 1.3 percent to C$49.38 at 9:57 a.m. in Toronto
and BCE was little changed at C$46.58. Before today, Rogers had
 climbed  11 percent this year as BCE gained 10 percent, compared
with a 1 percent decline for the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite
Index  “These are long-term strategic plays,” said Young. “Over
time you’d expect to see it manifested in a bunch of ways:
clearly increased data use, increased attractiveness of their
offering in Internet and wireless.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  