-- Heathrow Prices Capped as CAA Looks to Rein In Airport Charges
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-04-30T07:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/heathrow-prices-capped-as-caa-looks-to-rein-in-airport-charges.html
London’s  Heathrow Airport  will need
to cap airline charges at 1.3 percent below inflation over the
next five years, following a decade of price increases, the
U.K.’s  Civil Aviation Authority  said.  Charges at  Europe ’s busiest hub should be linked to the
U.K.’s retail price index minus 1.3 percent, the London-based
regulator said in a statement today. At  London Gatwick , the
world’s busiest single-runway airport, the CAA proposed a price
cap of RPI plus 1 percent for the five years to April 2019.  The U.K. regulator sets the maximum amount London’s three
largest airports - Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted - can charge
and must approve their five-year plans before they go into
effect.  Heathrow Airport Ltd.  in February proposed spending 3
billion pounds ($4.65 billion) between 2014 and 2019, bringing
the total amount spent on the hub since 2003 to 14 billion
pounds and driving a 41 percent increase in the average charge
per passenger over the next five years to 27.30 pounds in 2019.  “Protecting consumers and improving their experience is
the core focus of our regulatory decision-making,” CAA Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Haines said in a statment today.
Heathrow and Gatwick have “substantial market power” as
airlines cannot easily switch to other airports and still serve
London, the CAA said.  Almost four in five long-haul flights out of the U.K. start
at  London Heathrow  and continued investment is essential to
ensure the airport remains ahead of its European and Gulf
rivals, Chief Executive Officer Colin Matthews said in February.  Service at Risk  “Our first impression is that a 5.35 percent return on
capital will put passenger service at risk by not attracting the
necessary investment in Heathrow for the short, medium and long
term,” Heathrow said in an e-mailed statement today. The next
round of funding will go towards completing Terminal 2, adding
taxiways and retooling the airport’s baggage system.  The CAA should drop regulatory oversight of Gatwick, owner
Gatwick Airport Ltd. said in a statement today. The proposed
price control level of RPI plus 1 percent would limit the
airport’s ability to invest and is based on “unrealistic”
traffic growth, financing and efficiency assumptions, it said.  “The CAA must not hold us back through imposing heavy
handed regulation, red-tape in the form of a license and an
inflexible price control,” Gatwick CEO Stewart Wingate said in
a statement today.  Stansted,  London ’s third-largest airport, showed “the
weakest evidence of market power,” the CAA said, adding that
price controls could be warranted at a later date as capacity
around London becomes more constrained. The regulator’s final
proposals will be published in October 2013 and take effect
April 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  