-- Economist Krueger Says Online Courses May Boost Living Standards
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-04-30T19:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/economist-krueger-says-online-courses-may-boost-living-standards.html
President  Barack Obama ’s top
economist praised online educational courses as a “disruptive”
development that may improve U.S. living standards.  “If you think about which country is going to take
advantage of this tremendous progress that we can make in online
instruction, I don’t think any country is better positioned”
than the U.S., Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council
of Economic Advisers said today.  Krueger, speaking at the Bloomberg Washington Economic
Summit, said the U.S. benefits from “the best higher education
in the world” and “the most clever entrepreneurs.”  A Bloomberg Government study released April 2 concluded
that the rise of online courses promises to revolutionize higher
education. Widespread acceptance of online education may
restrain rising college costs, and as many as half of U.S.
colleges might disappear in the next 15 years because of
competition from online education, the study found.  Harvard University, Stanford University and the
 Massachusetts  Institute of Technology are among institutions
participating in MOOCs, or massive open online courses. Still,
only 2.6 percent of U.S. institutions offer such courses and an
additional 9.4 percent plan to, reflecting skepticism among some
academics as they explore how to charge fees and grant course
credit, according to a survey released Jan. 8 by Babson College
in Wellesley, Massachusetts.  College administrators who have teamed up with online
educational providers such as Coursera Inc. and EdX, say the
free courses have the potential to lower costs and provide
access to top U.S. professors.  Krueger, an economics professor currently on leave from
Princeton University, said online courses have a “tremendous
potential to raise living standards when we do find the format
that works well.”  About 6.7 million students took at least one online course
during the fall 2011 term, about 9 percent more than the
previous year and more than four times the number in 2002.
Almost a third of college students take at least one course
online.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 