-- EDF Gets Lower Gas Prices for Edison From Algeria’s Sonatrach
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-30T17:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/edf-gets-lower-gas-prices-for-edison-from-algeria-s-sonatrach.html
Electricite de France SA ,  Europe ’s
biggest generator, has obtained through arbitration lower prices
for natural gas in a contract between Italian unit Edison SpA
and Algeria’s Sonatrach.  The decision, which will allow Edison to recover past
losses, came on April 24 as part of a process started in 2011,
Thomas Piquemal, EDF’s chief financial officer, said on a
conference call on first-quarter sales. It will add 300 million
euros ($395 million) to Edison’s 2013 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization.  “The Italian market remains very difficult,” Piquemal
said. “The negative margin that we incur in our gas operations
in  Italy  is extremely significant.”  The cost of gas under long-term contracts is higher than on
the  spot market , which has prompted EDF and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA to
renegotiate the terms of agreements. In  France , the government
has put pressure on GDF Suez to rely more on spot market supply
in order to lower utility bills for consumers.  The decision on Sonatrach follows renegotiation of terms by
EDF on contracts with OAO Gazprom in 2011 and with Libya and
Qatar last year, Piquemal said today.  “Looking forward there are still prices to be renegotiated
in all those contracts,” he said. Edison’s Ebitda will be 500
million euros this year without further renegotiations compared
with what EDF considers to be a normal level of 1.1 billion
euros.  Edison could recover the 600-million-euro difference   from
new contracts with Libya, Qatar and  Russia , he said. An
agreement could come in 2013 or “most probably in 2014” if
arbitration occurs.  EDF reported a 12 percent gain in first-quarter sales after
taking over Edison and said profit will rise in the second half
on cost savings and improved atomic output.  EDF confirmed 2013 financial and nuclear output targets.
Full-year targets don’t include Edison, Piquemal has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  