-- EDF Sees Improved Second-Half Profit After Power Sales Increase
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-30T16:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/edf-sees-improved-second-half-profit-after-power-sales-increase.html
Electricite de France SA ,  Europe ’s
biggest generator, reported a 12 percent gain in first-quarter
sales after an Italian acquisition and said profit will rise in
the second half on cost savings and improved atomic output.  Revenue rose to 23.36 billion euros ($30.76 billion) from
20.84 billion euros a year earlier due to the consolidation of
Edison SpA, the Paris-based operator of French and U.K. nuclear
reactors said today in a statement. The increase was 4.7 percent
on a like-for-like basis.  EDF confirmed 2013 financial and nuclear output targets.  The utility, which is controlled by the government, faces
billions of euros of costs to improve safety at its 58 French
reactors after the country’s atomic authority tightened rules
following the 2011 meltdown at the Fukushima plant in  Japan . The
regulator told EDF yesterday it could continue to operate a
reactor at its oldest plant at Fessenheim as long as safety is
improved by the end of the year.  EDF expects growth of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization not including Edison in the second
half because of cost-cutting measures and improved French
nuclear output, according to today’s statement.  Sales in  France  increased 3.4 percent on a like-for-like
basis due to colder weather while nuclear output fell 2.6
percent as more reactors were halted for work. Revenue rose 6.8
percent on a like-for-like basis in the U.K. while it increased
12.5 percent in  Italy , EDF said.  Gas Contracts  “The fact that supply prices of long-term gas contracts
are higher than those on the  spot market  continues to penalize
the margins of the gas business” in Italy, EDF said. It
obtained lower prices on a supply contract with  Algeria ’s
Sonatrach on April 24. The new terms will add nearly 300 million
euros to Edison’s Ebitda this year, it said.  EDF in February lowered its outlook for annual spending in
order to improve finances. The utility’s reactors supply three-
quarters of France’s power output, making it the world’s most
nuclear-dependent country.  EDF has forecast Ebitda may hold steady or climb as much as
3 percent this year, excluding the Edison unit.  The company expects French atomic output of 410 terawatt-
hours to 415 terawatt-hours this year, and a busier schedule for
in-depth reactor inspections. Output fell to 405 terawatt-hours
last year from 421 terawatt-hours in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  