-- Medicare Should Pay for Patients, Not Treatments
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-04-30T22:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/medicare-should-pay-for-patients-not-treatments.html
The recent deceleration in U.S.
 health-care costs  appears to be at least partially structural,
and not entirely due to a still-lackluster economy. That offers
some hope that the slowdown will continue. Still, more needs to
be done to encourage the trend.  Two new bipartisan proposals for the next round of health-
care reform may point the way. Last month, the Bipartisan Policy
Center released a set of ideas for improving value in health
care. And just this week, the Engelberg Center for Health Care
Reform at the  Brookings Institution  put forward its own  set of
initiatives .  The Engelberg proposals -- spearheaded by Mark McClellan,
who ran the Medicare program under President  George W. Bush  --
have been embraced by health-care leaders including former
Health and Human Services Department Secretaries  Michael Leavitt 
and Donna Shalala, as well as former Congressional Budget Office
Directors Dan Crippen and  Alice Rivlin . (I am also part of the
Engelberg group.)  The proposals from the Engelberg group have four general
aims. First, the initiatives would expand the country’s
electronic infrastructure, promoting data exchange and more
evidence gathering on the costs and quality of various
treatments. Second, they would create incentives for providers,
partly by making an important change to Medicare and reforming
medical-malpractice rules. Third, they would redesign health
coverage to increase the value for consumers. And finally, they
would change the tax treatment of employer-provided insurance.  Medicare Payments  In this week’s column, I would like to focus on the reforms
to Medicare since I view them as the most important. And the key
change proposed within Medicare is the Medicare Comprehensive
Care payment reform. Under the Engelberg strategy, health-care
providers would receive a fixed payment for each Medicare
beneficiary, rather than being paid piecemeal for every test and
procedure. This comprehensive payment would be adjusted
according to the beneficiary’s health status and the quality of
care provided, giving doctors the incentive to avoid unnecessary
treatment.  Under the proposal, no later than 2023, the vast majority
of Medicare payments would be made in this way. Each year after
that, Congress would consider how the payment benchmark should
be updated -- rather than set payments for specific procedures,
as happens today.  The Medicare Comprehensive Care concept represents a
plausible path forward between two competing views of health
reform. It provides a mechanism for capping payments per
beneficiary, something many Republicans want. Yet unlike
premium-support proposals, which would direct federal money to
insurance companies, the payments would go to health-care
providers. That should be a crucial difference for Democrats.  Indeed, comprehensive-care payments can be seen as building
upon mechanisms encouraged by the  2010 health-reform law  such as
bundling and accountable-care organizations. Importantly,
though, they are explicitly intended to become the dominant form
of Medicare reimbursement over the next decade, giving some
precision and certainty to the shift away from fee-for-service
reimbursement. (The comprehensive-care payment, by the way,
could either be one annual amount per patient, so that it would
be similar to an accountable-care organization, or it could be
one amount for each case of treatment that a given patient
requires, making it similar to a bundled payment.)  The Engelberg proposals for reforming Medicare payments
include much more, but if I had to pick one change, it would be
this one.  Given the partisan divide in Congress, I don’t hold out too
much hope that the comprehensive-payment strategy will become
law anytime soon, just because it makes sense and has support
from thought leaders from both parties. Given the central role
of health costs in our fiscal future, however, we would be smart
to get rid of sequestration, which hurts short-term economic
growth but does little to reduce America’s long-term  budget
deficit . Instead, we should enact this type of Medicare payment
reform.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  