-- Legg Mason’s Net Income Falls 62% on Fund Redemptions
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-04-30T11:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/legg-mason-s-net-income-falls-62-on-fund-redemptions.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the Baltimore-
based money manager that appointed a new chief executive officer
in February, said fiscal fourth-quarter profit fell 62 percent
as client withdrawals from its stock and bond funds continued.  Net  income  declined to $29.2 million, or 23 cents a share,
in the three months ended March 31 from $76.1 million, or 54
cents, a year earlier, the firm said today in a statement.
Fifteen analysts in a Bloomberg survey had  expected  earnings per
share of 20 cents.  The company named Joseph A. Sullivan as CEO in February,
ending a five-month search for a leader to reverse five years of
client redemptions and calm restive fund affiliates. Legg Mason,
whose assets peaked at $1 trillion in 2007 as investors flocked
to funds managed by top-ranked managers such as Bill Miller,
oversaw $665 billion at the end of March. Clients pulled a net
$3 billion from stock and bond funds in the quarter, compared
with $15.1 billion in the prior three months.  “There are some signs that the flow story or organic
growth story is making some progress although I would still
certainly characterize it as a work in progress,” Michael Kim,
an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, said
in an interview before the results were announced. “Some
affiliates are doing better and some continue to suffer from
performance and/or positioning headwinds.”  Higher Dividend  In January, the firm said it was folding Miller’s Legg
Mason Capital Management division into its ClearBridge
Investments equity unit as assets tumbled to $7 billion from
about $70 billion in 2007. Chief Financial Officer Peter
Nachtwey said last month the firm may close some of its 32
offices and reduce the 400 funds it offers.  Earlier this month, Legg Mason said it would take an  $8.5
million expense  in the quarter for the cost of separation
agreements for Ron Dewhurst, the former head of global
investment managers, and Thomas Lemke, general counsel and head
of governance. Legg Mason also will take a charge of $45 million
to $55 million in the quarter related to reducing its office
space, which will eventually result in annual savings of $10
million, the company told analysts in February.  Legg Mason raised its quarterly  dividend  last week by 18
percent to 13 cents a share.  The company reported results before the start of regular
U.S. trading. The  stock  increased 22 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with the 18 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 20-member index of custody banks and asset managers. Legg
Mason has  fallen  about 77 percent since reaching a peak of
$136.40 in February 2006.  Assets Increase  The firm’s assets increased 3.3 percent from a year earlier
to $664.6 billion, which includes about $5 billion from its
March acquisition of fund-of-hedge-funds unit Fauchier Partners.
Stock assets, which generally earn higher fees than fixed-income
funds, fell 1 percent to $161.8 billion in the year ended March
31. Bond assets, managed mostly by Western Asset Management Co.,
rose 2.5 percent to $365.1 billion and money funds climbed 11
percent to $137.7 billion.  Industrywide, investors deposited $21.5 billion into U.S.-
registered equity mutual funds that buy U.S. stocks in the first
quarter, while putting $69.1 billion into taxable bond funds,
according to  data  from research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Sullivan, who led the firm on an interim basis after CEO
 Mark Fetting  stepped down on Oct. 1, faces a push for greater
independence by some of Legg Mason’s eight investment
affiliates. Sullivan has indicated he’s more open to working
with the units, which include fixed-income manager Western Asset
and equity managers such as ClearBridge Investments and Royce &
Associates. Legg Mason’s affiliates operate independently with
separate revenue-sharing agreements.  Legg Mason reported a loss of $453.9 million, or $3.45 a
share, for the three months ended Dec. 31, as redemptions and
declining assets forced the company to write down assets tied to
the 2005 takeover of Citigroup Inc.’s asset-management business
and to its Permal hedge-fund unit. It was the biggest quarterly
shortfall since it posted a $1.5 billion loss at the end of
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  