-- Telefonica Sells Stake in Central America Assets to Cut Debt
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-04-30T08:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/telefonica-sells-stake-in-central-america-assets-to-pare-debt.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s largest
phone company, agreed to sell a 40 percent stake in its Central
American assets to closely held  Corporacion Multi Inversiones  to
raise $500 million to pare debt.  As part of the agreement, Telefonica will create a new
company to hold the businesses in Guatemala, El Salvador,
Nicaragua and  Panama , the Madrid-based company said in a
statement today. The transaction implies a valuation of 6.5
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, based on 2012 figures, it said.  It’s “positive for the company as it helps to reduce debt
by selling those assets at a higher-than-expected valuation,”
said Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at  Banco de Sabadell SA (SAB)  in
 Madrid . “Still, it’s a small deal with a limited impact.”  After an $85 billion acquisition spree over a decade
increased debt and triggered rating cuts, Chief Executive
Officer Cesar Alierta last year began selling assets and has
suspended dividend payments. As pressure from rating companies
eased following the sale of a stake in its German business,
Telefonica has halted plans for an initial public offering of
its Latin American business, which generated about half of the
company’s 62.4 billion euros ($81.6 billion) in sales last year.  Telefonica  shares  were little changed, trading at 11.16
euros at 9:26 a.m. in Madrid, valuing the company at 50.8
billion euros.  Other Sales  Telefonica also plans to sell part of its 70 percent
holding in the Colombian division in an IPO as early as this
year, people familiar with the matter said this month. The phone
carrier is considering sale options in  Europe  that range from
fixed-line operations in  Germany  to its assets in Ireland,
according to people familiar with the plans.  The Central American deal involves a variable payment of as
much as $72 million depending on future development of the
assets, the company said. Telefonica, which also operates in
Costa Rica, entered the region in 1998 during the privatization
of the telecommunications sector in El Salvador.  Telefonica offers services such as fixed telephone,
broadband and mobile in Central America. Last year’s revenue
climbed 24 percent to 672 million euros while operating income
before depreciation and amortization fell 15 percent to 140
million euros. The Oibda margin shrank to 20.9 percent from 30.5
percent a year earlier.  Corporacion Multi Inversiones , a family-owned company
founded in 1920 in  Guatemala , operates in 19 countries in three
continents, according to today’s statement. Its assets range
from fast-food restaurants and real estate to renewable energy
and finance, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  