-- Emerging Stocks Climb to Six-Week High as Brazil Rallies
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-30T21:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/emerging-stocks-rise-to-one-month-high-on-technology-earnings.html
Emerging stocks rallied to a six-
week high, led by consumer shares, as investors speculated
central bank stimulus will boost demand for riskier assets.
 Brazil ’s Ibovespa rose a second day as Embraer SA surged.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR)  soared 17 percent in Mumbai as its
parent said it will increase its stake in the company, while
 Hermes Microvision Inc. (3658) , a Taiwanese maker of electronics parts,
jumped to a record in Taipei as profit climbed. Russia’s Micex
Index gained for the first time in four days as OAO Sberbank and
VTB Group advanced. Planemaker Embraer added 6.6 percent in Sao
Paulo after announcing a $840 million jet order.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 1.2 percent to
1,039.45, extending its monthly advance to 0.4 percent. Euro-
area inflation slowed more than economists forecast, data
showed, and most economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict
the European Central Bank will cut interest rates this week. The
U.S. Federal Reserve will consider renewing its commitment to
bond buying at a two-day meeting that started today.  “It’s time for at least a bounce,” Bruce McCain, who
helps oversee more than $20 billion as chief investment
strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland ,
said by phone. “A lot of the weakness in emerging markets is
certainly traced from  Europe ,” he said, adding that a rate cut
by the ECB would be positive for developing nations.  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose as a
measure of consumer-staple stocks added 2 percent. The broad
gauge has lost 1.5 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent
increase in the MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks.
The emerging-markets measure trades at 10.8 times 12-month
 projected  profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 14.4 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund gained 1.4 percent to $43.29, the highest level since March
12. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, lost 2.1 percent to 18.53.  The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  jumped 1.9 percent in Sao Paulo, paring its
fourth monthly loss. Embraer rallied the most among the world’s
largest airplane manufacturers after saying it will sell 30
regional jets for about $840 million to United Continental
Holdings Inc.  Mexico ’s IPC Index gained 0.8 percent.  Russia’s Micex Index added 1.7 percent, paring a third
monthly drop, as OAO Sberbank and VTB Group advanced at least
4.5 percent. Benchmark gauges in Turkey and Poland rose, while
Hungarian shares jumped 2 percent in the biggest advance among
major emerging-market indexes.  Indian Shares  India ’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  rose, completing the biggest monthly
advance since November. Hindustan Unilever jumped to a record
after the world’s second-largest consumer goods producer said it
will spend up to $5.4 billion to boost its stake in the local
unit to 75 percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index added 1.2 percent in
Hong Kong as Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s No. 1
supplier of the light metal by market value, increased 1.7
percent. Mainland equity markets are closed through May 1 for
public holidays. Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index rose for the first time in
three days. Taiwan’s Taiex Index advanced 0.8 percent. Hermes
surged 6.7 percent after first-quarter net income jumped 93
percent from a year earlier.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 282 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  