-- Empire State Building IPO Opponents Lose Buyout Challenge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-30T18:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/empire-state-building-ipo-opponents-lose-buyout-challenge.html
Investors opposed to a deal to take
 New York ’s iconic  Empire State Building (ESB)  public failed to
persuade a state court judge to declare illegal a plan to buy
them out for $100 a share.  State Supreme Court Justice O. Peter Sherwood in  Manhattan 
today denied the motion. Stephen Meister, an attorney for the
opponents, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail request for
comment on the ruling. He indicated yesterday that he expected
Sherwood to deny the motion and said he planned to appeal the
ruling and seek some form of emergency relief, such as a stay.  The proposal for potentially the second-biggest initial
public offering of a U.S. real estate investment trust on record
has faced challenges by investors, and both sides are fighting
to bring the few remaining votes to their side.  “I hope the Meister law firm and the investors who brought
this compelling case win on appeal,” said Richard Edelman of
Solana Beach,  California , a grandson of an original unit-holder.
“The owners of the Empire State Building did not approve the
REIT proposal after the initial 60-day voting period. Now, after
90 days, the answer is still ‘no.’”  Empire State Realty Trust Inc., as the new company would be
called, is seeking to raise about $1 billion for the REIT, which
would include the 102-story tower and 20 other properties the
Malkin family supervises. Only the 2006 debut of  Santa Monica ,
California-based Douglas Emmett Inc. was bigger in the industry,
at $1.6 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Five Lawsuits  Investors filed five class actions, or group lawsuits, in
New York state court last year, accusing the company and Malkin
Holdings LLC, supervisor of the firm that holds title to the
tower, of breaches of fiduciary duty. The trust announced a
$55 million settlement of the cases in November.  Sherwood gave preliminary approval to the settlement in
February and denied a motion by Andrew Penson, owner of
Manhattan’s Grand Central Terminal, and the other investors
opposing the deal to intervene in the case, while letting them
argue their claim that the $100 buyout provision is illegal. A
final hearing on the settlement is scheduled for May 2.  Peter Malkin , Malkin Holdings’ chairman, and his son
Anthony, its president, said on April 3 that shareholders
representing about 75 percent of the skyscraper’s 3,300
ownership units had voted in favor. They need 80 percent to move
ahead and have been calling holdouts individually to urge their
support.  ‘Approval Threshold’  “We are pleased by the court’s ruling and are proceeding
with our solicitation with the intention of closing as soon as
we reach the approval threshold,” Hugh Burns of Sard Verbinnen
& Co., a spokesman for Malkin Holdings, said in an e-mail. “Far
more investors support this transaction than oppose it. We are
focused on delivering the majority what they want as quickly as
possible.”  The Malkins said last month they would leave voting open
until Sherwood rules on the $100-a-share buyout or until the May
2 hearing on the class-action settlement. Opponents can avoid
being bought out if they change their vote to “yes” within 10
days after receiving written notice that the 80 percent approval
has been achieved, a time frame Meister called “impermissibly
short.”  Income Stream  The dissidents say a conversion to a REIT would mean giving
up a reliable income stream that should rise as renovations at
the skyscraper are finished. The Malkins have said their plan
would give unit-holders liquidity, regular dividends and greater
growth opportunities. Some investors are also questioning more
than $300 million in shares the Malkins would potentially
receive under the deal.  Investors have claimed that the $100 buyout provision
coerces them to vote in favor of the REIT because their units
are potentially worth more than $300,000 each.  At the end of 2012, the skyscraper was about 69 percent
occupied, with such tenants as  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and Coty Inc., according to the
building’s annual report.  The case is Meyers v. Empire State Realty Trust Inc.,
650607/2012, New York state Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  