-- Employment Costs in U.S. Climbed at Slower Pace in First Quarter
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-04-30T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/employment-costs-in-u-s-climbed-at-slower-pace-in-first-quarter.html
Employment expenses in the U.S. grew
at a slower pace in the first quarter, signaling the job market
will not contribute to inflation.  The employment cost index increased 0.3 percent, the
smallest gain since the third quarter of 2011 and less than the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, following a revised 0.4
percent gain in the prior quarter, the Labor Department reported
today in  Washington . The smallest gain in benefit costs on
record may be partly influenced by an error in the data for
sales and office workers, according to the report.  Slow economic growth and unemployment that remains higher
than levels prior to the recession are allowing employers to
hold the line on worker pay and other costs. Limited wage growth
in turn is making it more difficult for households to step up
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy.  “There’s a lot of slack in the labor market and the
economy’s recovering only slowly,” Guy Berger, an economist at
RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said before the
report. “There’s very little upward pressure on compensation
for American workers.”  The median forecast in the Bloomberg survey of 45
economists called for a 0.5 percent rise in the employment cost
index, which measures companies’ costs of wages, benefits and
employer-paid taxes such as  Social Security  and Medicare.
Projections ranged from increases of 0.3 percent to 0.7 percent.  Wage gains climbed 0.5 percent last quarter after a 0.3
percent increase in the previous three months, today’s report
showed. Benefit costs advanced 0.1 percent, matching the gain in
the first quarter of 1999 as the smallest in data going back to
1982.  Data Removed  The increase in benefit costs followed a 0.6 percent rise
in the last three months of 2012. Data covering sales and office
workers were removed from the calculation when an error was
found in the information, the report said. Only a fraction of
the slowdown in benefit costs can be attributed to the error,
Labor said.  Employment costs rose 0.9 percent per quarter on average in
the five years before the recession began in December 2007.  For private-sector employees, wages climbed 0.5 percent,
more than the fourth quarter of last year. Pay for state and
local government workers advanced 0.2 percent. Wages for all
workers were up 1.6 percent from the same quarter a year ago.  Compared with the same three months in 2012, benefit
expenses were up 1.9 percent.  The Labor Department is forecast to report a 150,000
increase in payrolls on May 3 after a gain of 88,000 in March,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. With
slow growth and few signs of inflation, Federal Reserve policy
makers probably will continue their policy of injecting money
into financial markets when they meet this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  