-- Merck’s HPV Vaccine May Protect Girls With Fewer Doses
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-04-30T20:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/merck-s-hpv-vaccine-may-protect-girls-with-fewer-doses.html
Two doses of  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s human
papillomavirus vaccine may be just as effective in younger girls
as the recommended three doses given to older teens and women to
help protect them against the virus that causes cervical cancer,
a Canadian study found.  Girls ages 9 to 13 years who received two doses of Gardasil
had antibody levels that were not worse than females ages 16 to
26 years who received three doses, according to research today
in the  Journal of the American Medical Association .  Today’s study is the first to look at the effects of
reducing the doses of Gardasil, which protects against four
strains of HPV, the virus that causes genital warts and cervical
cancer, to see if the vaccine is still effective, the authors
wrote. More studies are needed before the recommendations for
vaccine doses should be changed, said Simon Dobson, the lead
study author.  “The public health question is, is there enough
information in this study to say that a two-dose schedule for
young girls is all right. The answer is not quite yet,”  Dobson ,
a clinical associate professor in pediatric infectious diseases
at BC Children’s Hospital at the University of British Columbia
in  Vancouver , said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The project was funded by ministries of health in British
Columbia,  Nova Scotia  and  Quebec . Merck Laboratories Inc. did
antibody tests at no cost.  More Research  Studies are needed to look at how long girls who receive
two doses of the vaccine maintain their immunity to the virus
and whether a third booster shot might be needed as they get
older, Dobson said. Research is also needed to determine whether
two doses given to 9- to 13-year-olds works as well as three
doses in preventing HPV infections.  HPV is the most common sexually transmitted infection and
is the main cause of cervical cancer, according to the  U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . About 12,000 U.S.
women get cervical cancer each year. In order to prevent
cervical cancer in adults, the HPV vaccine needs to be given
before a person becomes sexually active. In the U.S., the CDC
recommends vaccination with  Gardasil  for girls and boys ages 11
and 12, but it is also approved for those ages 13 to 26.  Gardasil Sales  Gardasil generated more than $1.6 billion in  2012 sales  for
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck, the company reported
in a regulatory filing. Cervarix, a HPV vaccine from London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , had about $428 million in  2012 sales ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Merck declined 1.7 percent to $47 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 15 percent this year.  Researchers in the study looked at 830 females in  Canada .
Girls ages 9 to 13 received either three doses of Gardasil or
two doses of the vaccine, while young women ages 16 to 26 years
received three doses of the vaccine. The blood antibody levels
to HPV were then analyzed.  The study showed the antibody levels to HPV after three
years in girls who received two doses of the vaccine were no
worse than those of young women given three doses. The research
also found that the antibody levels differed over time between
the girls ages 9 to 13 who were given two doses versus three
doses.  Dobson said more research is needed to better understand
those findings. Those results might not be negative because it
could be that the body doesn’t need much antibody to be
protected against the virus.  Reducing Shots  Jessica Kahn, who wrote an accompanying editorial in the
journal, said reducing the number of shots from three to two may
help make it easier for kids to get the correct number of doses.
Many girls and boys don’t return to get all three shots. Two
doses of the vaccine may also make it more affordable,
particularly for  developing countries , she said.  “It’s an important study and it shows encouraging
evidence, it’s preliminary evidence, that a two-dose vaccine
series possibly could be effective in the future,” said  Kahn , a
professor of pediatrics at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital
Medical Center in  Ohio , in an April 29 telephone interview.
“It’s a little too early to change clinical practice based on
these findings. It’s one piece of the puzzle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  