-- Merkel to Unveil CDU Election Platform on June 24 as Last Party
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-04-30T14:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/merkel-to-unveil-cdu-election-platform-on-june-24-as-last-party.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
unveil her Christian Democratic Union’s campaign platform on
June 24, the last political leader to outline a program in an
election-year tradition reserved for the ruling party.  The timing of the presentation, coinciding with a CDU
convention in Berlin less than three months before the ballot,
is a custom that emphasizes Merkel’s main remit to rule, Axel
Baeumer, a party spokesman, said today in a phone interview. The
policy launch will take place in the last parliamentary week
before the summer recess.  “The ruling party or coalition is elected to govern to the
end of the legislative period and the CDU will fulfill that
mandate,” said Baeumer. “The CDU anticipates a relatively
short and hot phase of campaigning that may kick off as late as
the start of September.”  Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partner, fighting to re-
qualify for parliament in the Sept. 22 election, was the first
party to detail its platform, pledging to defend the euro on
March 9. While the CDU leads the main opposition Social
Democrats by 10-19 percentage points in polls, the electoral
calculus dictates that each must rely on a coalition partner to
govern. With the result still too close to call, the greatest
challenge for parties may lie in motivating traditional
supporters in the few weeks before the election.  ‘Old Allegiances’  “We’ve seen a marked surge in non-voters rather than
swing-voters over the last decade,” Peter Matuschek, chief
political analyst at pollster Forsa in Berlin, said in an
interview. “Amid a stalemate in support for the main groups,
it’s essential that they go all out to rekindle old allegiances
in the closing weeks of the campaign.”  Support for the CDU and its Christian Social Union sister
party in Bavaria rose one percentage point to 40 percent, an
Emnid poll showed April 28. The Free Democrats dropped a point
to 4 percent, below the 5 percent threshold needed to win seats.
The SPD had 27 percent and the Greens 14 percent, or 41 percent
combined.  Both the SPD and the Greens, co-rulers of  Germany  from 1998
to 2005, published election programs this month that pledge tax
increases amid a perceived widening of an income gap between
Germany’s less-well-off and wealthier citizens. The focus on
redistributing wealth was blasted by industry and the ruling
coalition.  The Left Party, a post-communist group that derives most of
its support in eastern Germany, will publish its manifesto on
June 14 in the city of Dresden. The party dropped a point in
Emnid’s latest poll to 7 percent. Emnid polled 2,440 voters on
April 18-24. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  