-- Mets Lose in 15 Innings After Bullpen Blows Harvey’s Shot at 5-0
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-30T05:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/mets-lose-in-15-innings-after-bullpen-blows-harvey-s-shot-at-5-0.html
The  New York  Mets lost to the Miami
Marlins 4-3 in 15 innings after their bullpen blew two leads,
including one that cost Matt Harvey the chance to become the
third pitcher in franchise history to go 5-0 in April.  The Marlins pulled out their seventh win in 26 Major League
Baseball games this season by scoring two runs in the bottom of
the 15th after the Mets had taken a 3-2 lead in the top half of
the inning in Miami.  Rob Brantly had a run-scoring single to tie the game for
Miami before Nick Green brought home the winning run with a
sacrifice fly off Shaun Marcum, the Mets’ ninth pitcher of the
game, which lasted five hours, 31 minutes.  The Mets took a 2-1 lead into the bottom of the ninth
inning, giving Harvey a chance to join Dwight Gooden and Pedro Martinez as the only pitchers in Mets history to log 5-0 records
in April. Harvey allowed one run in 5 1/3 innings.  Miami rallied to force extra innings against Mets reliever
Bobby Parnell, however, with Justin Ruggiano scoring the tying
run on a sacrifice fly by Green.  After five scoreless extra innings, the Mets took a short-
lived 3-2 lead on a run-scoring infield single by Ruben Tejada.
It was the Mets’ lone hit with a runner in scoring position, as
they went 1-for-18 in that category and their batters struck out
16 times.  “It’s tough,” Mets manager Terry Collins told reporters.
“Matt got us to where we needed to get, we just can’t drive any
runs in.”  Yankees Lose  The New York Yankees had their four-game winning streak
snapped with a 9-1 loss to the Houston Astros. Carlos Corporan
had four hits, including a home run, and drove in four runs for
the Astros, who halted a nine-game road losing skid.  Houston, whose 8-18 record is better than only the Marlins,
finished with 17 hits and scored seven runs off Yankees starting
pitcher Andy Pettitte over 4 1/3 innings.  In other scores, the San Francisco Giants beat the  Arizona 
Diamondbacks 6-4, the Atlanta Braves topped the Washington
Nationals 3-2, the Detroit Tigers defeated the Minnesota Twins
4-3 and the Cincinnati Reds edged the St. Louis Cardinals 2-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  