-- Letta Urges Party to Be Brave Like Berlusconi in Rivals’ Pact
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-30T11:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/letta-urges-party-to-be-brave-like-berlusconi-in-rivals-pact.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
urged his allies to embrace the deal that brought them to
government with rivals and take inspiration from the strength of
Silvio Berlusconi, their adversary-turned-partner.  “You get scared and don’t make these choices if you’re
scared of your own identity, if you think you have a weak
identity,” Letta said today in his first speech as premier in
the Italian Senate. “I don’t think Silvio Berlusconi is someone
with a weak identity, unless I have misunderstood his
character.”  Letta, 46, is in the Senate for a confidence vote to
install his government before he heads to Berlin to meet German
Chancellor Angela Merkel later today. Merkel, who came to power
in 2005 with the support of a broad coalition, may be in a
position to give Letta pointers on keeping his alliance intact.  Investors and European leaders got a first look at  Italy ’s
new compromise government yesterday when Letta set out his
economic-growth program and won a confidence vote in Italy’s
lower house of parliament. He reaffirmed Italy’s commitment to
budget rigor and proposed tax cuts for business, consumers and
homeowners, without giving full details about how the plan would
be funded.  “It’s clear that this government will have a difficult
balancing act to perform,” said Riccardo Barbieri, chief
European economist at Mizuho International Plc. Letta’s plan may
require savings of about 10 billion euros ($13 billion),
according to Barbieri.  Bond Advance  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 2 basis points to 3.89
percent at 1:42 p.m. in Rome, after ending yesterday at a two-
and-a-half year low. The difference between yields on similar
maturity German bunds narrowed 1 basis point to 2.7 percentage
points.  Italy is struggling through its second year of recession
and bears the second-largest debt load in the euro area, after
 Greece . Letta, who emerged as a leader in Parliament only last
week, is taking over for Mario Monti, who guided Italy through
the  European debt crisis  by raising taxes and prodding Merkel
into endorsing collective action in the European Union.  “In  Europe  and internationally, Italy will find strategies
to boost growth without compromising the necessary process of
restructuring of public finances,” Letta said yesterday in a
speech to the lower house of parliament, the Chamber of
Deputies.  Merkel, 58, called Letta yesterday to congratulate him on
his appointment and invite him Berlin. The two heads of
government didn’t speak in detail about Italian policy, said
Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman.  Letta came to power this week after uniting his Democratic
Party and Berlusconi’s People of Liberty to end the eight weeks
of parliamentary deadlock that followed inconclusive elections
Feb. 24-25. His embrace of Berlusconi, the billionaire, three-
time ex-premier, was a reversal after the Democratic Party ran
against People of Liberty in the election campaign this year and
shunned a deal with the group after the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  