-- Europe to Be Cooler Than Usual for Third Month: Forecasters
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-04-30T10:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/europe-to-be-cooler-than-usual-for-third-month-forecasters-say.html
Most of  Europe  will be cooler than
normal for a third month in May while the Nordic region will be
warmer than average, according to weather forecasters.  Below-average sea surface temperatures in the North
Atlantic will probably limit any temperature increases in
central Europe and the U.K., Bradley Harvey, an operational
meteorologist at MDA Information Systems LLC, said by e-mail.
Meteorologists at Deutscher Wetterdienst, WSI Corp., Meteogroup
U.K. Ltd. and MetraWeather also forecast below-normal
temperatures.  “There is a signal for higher-than-average pressure to
persist close to the U.K. or close to northwest Europe,” Matt Hugo, a forecaster at MetraWeather, said by e-mail. “This may
lead to a cool north or northwesterly air mass becoming
established across central and northern areas of Europe around
the middle of May.”  European power and natural  gas prices  typically decline in
the summer months as increased daylight hours boost solar
generation and demand for heating drops. Gas storage levels
across Europe fell to a record on April 14, supporting prices in
the coming months as operators refill depleted stocks,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  said last week.  The average temperature in the U.K. will be 10 degrees
Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit) through May 14, according to a
GFS model supplied by MetraWeather at 11:42 a.m. London time.
That compares with a seasonal norm of 11.2 degrees for the
coming week.  Wind, Solar  In Germany, the average temperature will be 11.9 degrees
through May 14, the data show. The seasonal norm, based on
records from 1981 to 2010, is about 13 degrees Celsius,
Christian Herold, a meteorologist at DWD, said by telephone from
Offenbach, Germany.  The country generated 16.2 terawatt-hours of its power from
wind and solar in the first three months of this year, down 17
percent from a year earlier, according to data from the
Muenster-based  International Economic Forum for Renewable
Energies , the nation’s energy-research institute.  Wind generation in  Germany  is forecast to increase from May
3 and solar production is expected to improve in the seven days
from May 6, said Stephen Davenport, a senior energy
meteorologist in London at MeteoGroup.  Power generation from solar panels in Germany could rise to
25,000 megawatts on single days, Patrick Hummel, a Zurich-based
analyst at UBS AG said in a research note last week. The price
for power to be delivered in May dropped as much as 2 percent
today to a record 31.75 euros a megawatt-hour, according to
broker data compiled by Bloomberg. The contract is headed for a
9.5 percent loss this month.  Temperatures are predicted to be above average in
Scandinavia and some neighboring countries through May 11,
according to MetraWeather’s Hugo.  July Temperatures  Southern Europe and the Nordic region will be warmer than
average in June, with the rest of the continent cooler than
usual, WSI said. All of Europe, except the U.K. and western
parts of the mainland, will be warmer than normal in July,
according to WSI.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in  London  at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  