-- Euro Falls From One-Week High Versus Dollar Amid Bets on ECB Cut
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-04-30T12:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/euro-falls-against-dollar-amid-ecb-interest-rate-cut-speculation.html
The euro dropped from a one-week
high against the dollar as the euro area’s jobless rate rose to
a record in March and inflation slowed, adding to signs the
region is struggling to emerge from recession.  The common currency fell versus most major peers amid bets
the  European Central Bank (EURR002W)  will lower its key interest rate when
policy makers meet May 2. The Federal Reserve starts a two-day
meeting today. The yen rose, paring a seventh straight monthly
decline against the dollar, the longest losing streak since
2001. Norway’s krone dropped as retail sales stalled in March.  “People are selling the euro, and the excuse is that the
unemployment rate was not very good,” Douglas Borthwick, a
managing director and head of foreign exchange at Chapdelaine
FX, a unit of Tullett Prebon Plc, in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “People also believe that there’s an
increased possibility you could see some type of interest-rate
cut, although the euro has had rate cuts priced into it for
pretty much the last year.”  The euro declined 0.2 percent to $1.3073 at 8:46 a.m. New
York time after rising to $1.3121, the strongest since April 19.
It has advanced 2 percent this month. The common currency slid
0.3 percent to 127.66 yen. The Japanese currency added 0.1
percent to 97.62 per dollar, having weakened 3.5 percent since
the end of March.  The ECB will cut its  main refinancing rate  by a quarter-
percentage point to a record 0.5 percent, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Thrashing Around’  “The market is really just thrashing around ahead of all
of the big central-bank news later in the week,” said Adam Cole, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada in London. “The market seems to be pretty much priced
for a cut,” he said.  Consumer prices in the 17-nation bloc increased an
annualized 1.2 percent in April after climbing at a 1.7 percent
pace a month earlier. The median estimate of 38 analysts in a
Bloomberg  survey  called for a drop to 1.6 percent. The
unemployment rate in the region rose to a record 12.1 percent in
March from 12 percent a month earlier.  The euro has gained 1.5 percent in the past month, the best
performance after the New Zealand dollar’s 1.8 percent increase,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The dollar fell 0.8 percent and
the yen tumbled 4.5 percent.  Monthly Slump  The yen’s gains today pared a monthly slump of at least 2.6
percent against all its 16 most-traded peers as unprecedented
stimulus measures announced by the Bank of  Japan  on April 4
spurred investors to sell the Japanese currency. Demand for the
Japanese yen was also sapped as the MSCI World Index of stocks
rose 2.5 percent this month.  The U.S. central bank is buying $85 billion of bonds each
month in its third round of its quantitative-easing strategy to
put downward pressure on borrowing costs. While Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said after the central bank’s previous meeting in March
that further labor-market gains were needed to consider reducing
monetary easing, minutes showed officials discussed slowing the
pace of buying.  The Norwegian krone snapped a four-day advance against the
dollar after a report by the Oslo-based statistics office showed
retail sales excluding motor vehicles and petrol stations were
unchanged in March, after rising 0.5 percent in February. Sales
fell an annual 4.2 percent.  The krone weakened 0.2 percent to 5.8226 per dollar, paring
its monthly gain to 0.4 percent. It was little changed against
the euro at 7.6119.  Kiwi Falls  New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, slid against
the majority of its most-traded counterparts after the
statistics bureau said home building approvals fell 9.1 percent
in March compared with the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of economists for an increase of 2 percent.  The “unambiguously weaker-than-expected” data spurred
selling of the so-called kiwi, said Mike Jones, a foreign-
exchange strategist at Bank of New Zealand in Wellington.  The New Zealand dollar slid 0.1 percent to 85.63 U.S.
cents. It traded at NZ$1.2076 per Australian dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  