-- Dollar Drops on Weak Data as Fed Meets; Euro Gains on ECB Bets
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-30T21:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/euro-reverses-decline-against-dollar-in-trading-in-new-york.html
The dollar fell versus 14 of its 16
most-traded peers as business activity in the U.S. unexpectedly
shrank for the first time in more than three years amid bets the
 Federal Reserve  won’t slacken its bond buying under quantitative
easing.  The euro climbed against the dollar, reversing earlier
losses, amid speculation that action by the  European Central
Bank  on May 2 will bolster the 17-nation region’s economy. The
yen gained versus the greenback, paring its seventh straight
monthly loss, as U.S. Treasury 10-year note yields touched the
lowest this year. The Fed opened a two-day policy meeting.  “What I’d look for is continued signaling that we’ll
continue to buy bonds at approximately the current pace, and
that the economy is only recovering gradually,”  Nick Bennenbroek , the head currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co .
in New York, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Lunch Money” with Julie Hyman. “If you get those kinds of
signs, it’s going to be a relative non-event. They will probably
weigh on the dollar against growth-sensitive currencies.”  The dollar lost 0.5 percent to $1.3168 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time and touched $1.3186, the weakest level since April
17, after gaining 0.3 percent earlier. It declined 2.6 percent
this month.  The Japanese currency added 0.3 percent to 97.45 per dollar
after weakening 0.4 percent earlier. It last fell for a seventh
month against the greenback in 2001. Against the euro, the yen
declined 0.2 percent to 128.32 today after appreciating 0.7
percent earlier.  Yields Fall  Treasury 10-year  yields  fell as low as 1.64 percent, the
least since Dec. 12. That narrowed the gap with comparable
Japanese government bond yields to 1.05 percentage points, the
least in two weeks, curbing the dollar’s allure over the yen.  “The disinflationary tendencies that are building into the
U.S. and the risk that the debate shifts to expanding rather
than tapering QE has conspired to keep the U.S. under
pressure,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London , said in a phone
interview. “The fact we’ve now seen U.S. 10-years testing the
lows of the year is keeping the  U.S. dollar  on the defensive.”  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $24 billion, compared with $19 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $5 billion, the largest
share of trades at 21 percent. Euro-dollar options were the
second most actively traded, at $4.1 billion, or 17 percent.  Below Average  Dollar-yen options trading was 55 percent below the average
for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day, and
euro-dollar options trading was 31 percent below, according to
Bloomberg analysis.  A gauge of currency-market volatility fell to the lowest
level since Jan. 31. The JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index , based on
three-month futures options on Group of Seven nations’
currencies, ended the day at 8.79 percent, the lowest level
since Jan. 30. It has averaged 9.07 percent in 2013.  India ’s rupee rose versus most of 31 major peers after the
country said it will cut a levy on foreign investment in rupee-
denominated government and corporate bonds to attract overseas
capital. The rupee gained 0.8 percent to 53.8088 per dollar.  The Czech koruna dropped against the euro as Credit Suisse
Group AG said previous gains to the strongest level in six weeks
may prompt the central bank to weaken the currency. The Czech
National Bank meets May 2. The koruna declined 0.5 percent to
25.804 to the shared currency.  ECB Bets  The ECB will cut its  main refinancing rate  by a quarter-
percentage point to a record 0.5 percent, according to
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The euro fell earlier after data showed consumer prices in
the 17-nation bloc increased an annualized 1.2 percent in April,
versus a 1.7 percent pace a month earlier. Analysts in a
Bloomberg  survey  forecast a drop to 1.6 percent. The jobless
rate in the region rose to a record 12.1 percent in March from
12 percent a month earlier.  The shared currency reversed losses “because the market is
optimistic the ECB will do something beyond the rate cut,”
Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The
battle is being fought over what kind of additional stimulus the
ECB is likely to provide. The more the market anticipates
additional stimulus through credit channels and so on, the
stronger the euro will trade.”  The euro has gained 1.7 percent in the past month versus
nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the best performance. The dollar
fell 1 percent and the yen tumbled 5.8 percent.  BOJ Stimulus  The yen’s gain today pared its monthly slump against the
dollar to 3.3 percent. The currency has slid as unprecedented
stimulus announced by the  Bank of Japan  on April 4 spurred
investors to sell it.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell to a two-month low after the MNI
Chicago Report’s business  barometer  dropped to 49 in April, the
lowest since September 2009. A reading of less than 50 signals
contraction. The  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey was 52.5.
The currency index, which  Intercontinental Exchange  uses to
track the greenback against its peers at six major U.S. trade
partners, sank as much as 0.7 percent to 81.598.  The Commerce Department said April 26 the economy grew at a
2.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter, trailing a
Bloomberg survey’s forecast for 3 percent.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of bonds a month in the third
round of its quantitative-easing strategy to put downward
pressure on borrowing costs. While Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
after the central bank’s March meeting that further labor-market
gains were needed to consider reducing monetary easing, minutes
showed officials discussed slowing the pace of buying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  