-- Teva’s Plan B Wins Approval for Over-the-Counter Sales
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-01T23:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/teva-s-plan-b-wins-approval-for-over-the-counter-sales.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
won U.S. approval to sell the Plan B One-Step emergency
contraceptive without a prescription on pharmacy shelves to
girls as young as age 15.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Petach Tikva,
Israel-based Teva to expand access of its so-called morning-
after pill after previously denying the company’s request to
make it available to all females of reproductive ages, the
agency said today in a  statement . A federal judge on April 5
ordered the FDA to make emergency contraception available
nationwide without limits within 30 days.  The pill and its generic copies have been kept behind drug
store counters and sold without a prescription to women 17 and
older. Government statistics show that more women are turning to
emergency contraception, even as reproductive rights become
embroiled in controversy after the 2010 Affordable Care Act
required some employers to pay for preventive services.  “This is an important step forward,”  Planned Parenthood ,
a health-care provider and advocacy group for reproductive
rights, said in a statement. “This decision will eliminate some
of the biggest barriers and hurdles that women face in getting
emergency contraception when they need it.”  Teva will make Plan B One-Step available at retail outlets
that have a pharmacy on site and generally place it in the
family planning or female health aisles, the FDA said. A code on
the pill’s package will prompt a cashier to verify a customer’s
age before it can be sold.  ‘Significant Milestone’  “For the past decade, emergency contraception has been
available to millions of women to reduce the chance of an
unplanned pregnancy following birth control failure or
unprotected sex,” Marty Berndt, a vice president at Teva
Women’s Health Inc., a U.S. subsidiary, said in a statement.
“Today, we welcome the FDA’s decision to provide extended and
improved access to this important product, a significant
milestone for women.”  The FDA in December 2011 was set to approve sales of Plan B
One-Step to women of all ages without a doctor’s order, when
Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  overruled
the decision. The action was the first such reversal of an FDA
decision by a presidential administration.  The contraceptives prevent pregnancy by inhibiting
fertilization and are most effective when taken within 24 hours
of intercourse.  Greater Access  “Research has shown that access to emergency contraceptive
products has the potential to further decrease the rate of
unintended pregnancies in the U.S.,” FDA Commissioner Margaret A. Hamburg, said in the agency’s statement.  The FDA said its decision to approve Teva’s application is
“independent” of the court case and not intended to respond to
the judge’s decision. The Justice Department today filed an an
appeal to the judge’s order.  Teva’s application for wider over-the-counter sales of Plan
B was pending before the judge’s ruling, the FDA said.  Planned Parenthood said it’s still pushing for the FDA to
lift all restrictions to emergency contraception.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  