-- Quad Capital Trader Was Customer in Apple Trade, FT Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-30T22:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ex-quad-capital-trader-was-customer-in-apple-trade-ft-says.html
A trader at a New York hedge fund
was the customer in an unauthorized $1 billion purchase of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  stock that led to the failure of a  Connecticut  brokerage,
the Financial Times reported.  Quad Capital trader Harlan Sender was suspended from the
firm after a probe of his Oct. 25 order was begun, the newspaper
said. The transaction led to the guilty plea of former Rochdale
Securities LLC trader David Miller.  Miller earlier this month pleaded guilty to conspiracy and
wire fraud in connection with the trade. He also entered into a
partial civil settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the agency said. Miller, scheduled to be sentenced
on July 8, faces as long as 25 years in prison.  The government alleged that Miller placed an order for 1.6
million shares of Apple for a customer who wasn’t named in court
filings. The customer claimed to have sought only 1,625 shares,
according to the criminal complaint.  Stamford , Connecticut-based
Rochdale was left shouldering a loss on the shares when Apple’s
stock didn’t perform as Miller had hoped, according to court
papers.  “This defendant participated in a fraudulent scheme in
which he would either reap huge profits through the unauthorized
purchase of approximately $1 billion of Apple stock or, if he
faced huge losses, explain it away as simple human error,” U.S.
Attorney David B. Fein in Connecticut said at the time.  ‘Every Question’  Sender cooperated with the government’s probe, Quad said in
a statement. He has been asked to rejoin Quad, the FT said.  “Mr. Sender answered every question put to him by the
government and our understanding is there are no more questions
that will be asked of Mr. Sender,” Sender’s attorney, Sean
Casey, said in a phone interview.  Quad said federal prosecutors have no further questions for
the firm. Tom Carson, a spokesman for Fein, who announced his
resignation today, said an investigation into the trade is
continuing.  Rochdale suffered a $5.3 million loss as a result of the
trade, causing the 37-year-old firm’s assets to fall below
regulatory limits, according to the SEC. It eventually ceased
operations, according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  