-- Ex-Sberbank Manager Tells Court Workplace Insults Common
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-04-30T14:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ex-sberbank-manager-tells-court-workplace-insults-common.html
A former OAO Sberbank manager whose
workplace comments are at the center of a U.K. sex-bias claim
testified he wasn’t motivated by gender when he referred to a
female employee as a drug user and that workplace insults were
common at the Moscow-based bank.  David Longmuir’s testimony in a  London  court yesterday was
his first opportunity to offer a defense in a discrimination
suit filed by Svetlana Lokhova, a former equity saleswoman at
the lender’s London unit. Lokhova’s claim against him and the
bank is the longest running and most complex bias case this year
among a burgeoning number of hostile work environment lawsuits
in the U.K. financial services industry.  Sexual-discrimination litigation, which can exceed the
standard 70,000-pound ($108,000) cap on U.K. employment tribunal
cases, is increasingly involving banks and their employees who
make comments in e-mails or instant messages, said Jo Keddie, a
lawyer at Winckworth Sherwood LLP in London.  “Unfortunately there are far too many instances of female
traders and brokers in the banking sector being treated in a
demeaning manner in situations where they are often outnumbered
by male counterparts,” Keddie, an employment lawyer who has
represented bankers, said in an e-mail.  Longmuir, who before leaving the bank last year was head of
U.K. equity sales, worked as Lokhova’s supervisor. He told the
tribunal yesterday that he sent e-mails to colleagues and
clients containing false references to drug and alcohol use and
described her as “mad Svetlana.”  “I regret saying these things,” said Longmuir, who left
the bank last year. He alleged that workplace insults were
common, and that she used vulgarities to describe him as well.  “I hope she regrets saying some of the things she said
about me,” he told the tribunal.  Neil McLeod, a spokesman for Lokhova, declined to comment
on Longmuir’s allegations. Sberbank spokesman Paul Marriott and
Longmuir declined to comment after the hearing.  Most Complex  Lokhova’s case is scheduled to last more than two months
and take testimony from as many as 15 witnesses.  Lokhova, who rejoined Sberbank in 2011 after resigning the
previous year, subsequently went on leave in January 2012
because of stress and never returned, according to documents
from her lawsuit. The London office of the bank was formerly
part of Troika Dialog, which was bought by state-owned Sberbank
in January 2012.  Longmuir testified that he wasn’t targeting Lokhova because
of her gender.  “We can see it was perhaps an office where we were rude
about each other,” he testified.  Asked if the Lokhova matter had contributed to his
departure from Sberbank, Longmuir said he needed a break for
personal reasons.  “This case weighed on me,” he said. “It was one of the
things I found unjust about” working in the financial industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  