-- Ex-UBS Executive Convicted of Paid Sex With Underage Girl
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-04-30T10:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ex-ubs-executive-convicted-of-sex-with-underage-prostitute.html
Former  UBS AG (UBSN)  Executive Director
Juerg Buergin was convicted of two charges of having paid sex
with an underage prostitute in Singapore, with the judge saying
that mistaking a minor’s age isn’t a defense.  Singapore’s laws impose a higher standard of care to
prevent the sexual exploitation of minors, subordinate court
Judge Eddy Tham said today. Buergin, who could be jailed for as
long as seven years and fined for each charge, will be sentenced
on May 8.  Buergin, 41, had pleaded not guilty with his lawyer arguing
that the then 17-year-old girl and her pimp had conspired to
deceive the Swiss national that she was 18. Prosecutors, who
have charged 51 men for sex with the prostitute, said the
relevant  Singapore  law makes it an absolute liability offense.
Buergin is the first of the men to plead not guilty and stand
trial.  Prosecutor Kavitha Uthrapathy asked for a deterrent
sentence of at least six months for each charge as Buergin had
showed no remorse by standing trial.  Selva Naidu, Buergin’s lawyer had urged the judge to
consider a shorter sentence in line with the other 18 men who
have been jailed for as long as 16 weeks for sex with the same
girl. Buergin hasn’t decided if he will appeal, Naidu said.  Luxury Hotels  Buergin, now a businessman, left UBS in February 2012,
about two months before he was charged. He testified in his
defense that he couldn’t remember if he had sex with the
underage prostitute at the Shangri-La Hotel in September 2010
and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in January 2011.  He had sought the services of at least 10 other escorts
from the same pimp who were between 20 and 43 years old, his
lawyer had said during the trial to show that he hadn’t been
seeking younger prostitutes.  Tang Boon Thiew, the pimp who arranged the escorts
including the underage girl known as Chantelle, testified that
he wasn’t aware she was under 18 when he first introduced her to
Buergin.  “It is also irrelevant if he was a victim of deception
practised on him by the pimp or the minor,” Judge Tham said in
his judgment on Buergin.  The woman, now 20, came across as a credible and truthful
witness in her testimony that they had sex on two occasions and
had no reason to embellish the case against Buergin, Tham said.  Singapore has seen a recent spate of high-profile criminal
cases involving sex-related charges. Earlier this month, three
Lebanese soccer referees were charged with accepting sexual
favors in return for fixing a match. The Southeast Asian city’s
former civil defense chief is fighting charges of trading
contracts for sex.  The criminal case is Public Prosecutor v Buergin Juerg.
DAC13762/2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  