-- Exchanges Win Dismissal of Market-Data Pricing Rule Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-04-30T19:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/exchanges-win-dismissal-of-market-data-pricing-rule-case.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) , Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. and other exchanges can set prices for proprietary market
data, a U.S. appeals court ruled, saying the Dodd-Frank
financial reform law limits its right to review Securities and
Exchange Commission decisions on the issue.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  rejected arguments
by NetCoalition, a group of Internet companies, and the
 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  that the
court still had authority to step in when the SEC accepted the
rates the exchanges set for their data.  Under Dodd-Frank “the language is ‘not ambiguous in any
sense relevant here; and this court simply is not at liberty to
displace, or improve upon, the jurisdictional choices of
Congress,” U.S. Circuit Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson said,
writing for a three-judge panel.  The coalition and Sifma had sought court review, contending
that the exchanges were charging too much for the market data
their members purchased. They argued that the SEC failed to
properly investigate the exchange-set pricing and that the court
should order the agency to reject it.  Bloomberg LP is a member of the NetCoalition.  “We’re gratified by the court’s decision and we will
continue to provide our customers with high-quality data at
reasonable rates in this competitive market,” Joseph Christinat, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, said by phone.  Decision Welcome  “We welcome the court’s decision,” NYSE Euronext
spokesman  Richard Adamonis  said by phone.  NetCoalition will continue to fight the exchanges’ fees,
its attorney, Roger Blanc, of Wilkie, Farr & Gallagher LP, said.  “This a procedural decision, not a decision on the
merits,” Blanc said in a phone interview. “They’re basically
charging monopoly rents for market data and those charges are
paid by investors.”  The case is NetCoalition v. U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 10-1421, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 