-- Mexico Yields Fall to Record After Carstens Comment; Peso Rises
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-30T14:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/mexico-yields-fall-to-record-after-carstens-comment-peso-rises.html
Mexican bond yields tumbled to a
record a day after central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said
policy makers will consider cutting borrowing costs if annual
inflation slows to within the target range.  Yields on peso-denominated benchmark debt due in 2024 fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.49 percent at
9:02 a.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was the biggest decline on a closing basis since
March 12 and extended the drop this month to 52 basis points.
The peso appreciated 0.4 percent to 12.1553, boosting its rally
in April to 1.5 percent.  Carstens said in an interview yesterday with Radio Formula
that the central bank would consider lowering the target lending
rate if annual inflation slowed to less than 4 percent, the
upper end of policy makers’ target range of 3 percent, plus or
minus 1 percentage point. Consumer prices increased at a 4.72
percent annual pace in the first half of April.  “The bias is to cut, there’s a willingness to cut,”
 Benito Berber , a Latin America strategist at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said in a telephone interview from  New York . “If the
central bank will ultimately cut, eventually there’s going to be
a rally.”  The central bank’s board left the target lending  rate  at a
record low 4 percent on April 26 after cutting the benchmark by
a half-percentage point on March 8.  Carstens said in the interview yesterday that inflation
will probably slow to within the 2 percent to 4 percent target
range in the second half of the year.  “Perhaps once we’re in this circumstance there’s a
possibility to consider an additional movement,” Carstens said.
“But while this inflationary hump, so to speak, doesn’t ease,
and we don’t have the certainty that it will ease, it’s
difficult to carry out an additional movement on  interest
rates .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  