-- Exxon Mobil Ends Masters Tournament Sponsorship as UPS Signs on
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-04-30T17:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/exxon-mobil-ends-masters-tournament-sponsorship-as-ups-signs-on.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is ending its
top-level sponsorship of the  Masters Tournament , while  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  joins the partner rolls of golf’s first
annual major championship.  Daimler AG’s  Mercedes-Benz (DAI) , an international sponsor of the
Masters since 2008, will move up to replace Exxon Mobil as one
of three global sponsors of the tournament, joining
International Business Machines Inc. and AT&T Inc.  UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, will
take over Mercedes-Benz’s previous role and join Rolex as
international sponsors.  Exxon spokesman Alan T. Jeffers said the company was
leaving “after nine successful years” as it “continually
evaluates and modifies our sponsorship and advertising
requirements based on business needs.”  Billy Payne , executive director of Augusta National Golf
Club, which stages the tournament each April in Augusta,
Georgia, didn’t disclose a reason for Exxon Mobil’s departure in
a press release announcing the new sponsorships.  Exxon Mobil joined the Masters for the 2005 tournament
after the club went without sponsors in 2003 and 2004 to protect
its corporate partners from protests against Augusta National’s
then-all-male membership.  Terms of the latest agreements weren’t disclosed.  A Masters sponsorship is among the most exclusive in
sports, as the tournament limits television commercials to four
minutes per hour. As part of the agreements, sponsors are given
access to private hospitality cabins built along the course’s
first and 10th holes.  UPS’s sponsorship comes four days after the Atlanta-based
company and the Teamsters union agreed on a five-year contract
covering 250,000 employees. A two-week Teamsters strike in 1997
cut UPS’s volumes as much as 6 percent and cost about $650
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  