-- Fannie to Share Data on 18 Million Mortgages to Woo Risk-Takers
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-04-30T17:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/fannie-to-share-data-on-18-million-mortgages-to-woo-risk-takers.html
Fannie Mae  will release performance
information for more than 18 million individual mortgages,
joining rival  Freddie Mac  in taking the step as the government-
controlled firms prepare to share risk with private investors.  The loan-level  data  being released covers 30-year, fixed-
rate mortgages sold to or guaranteed by the company between
January 2000 and March 2012, Washington-based Fannie Mae said
today in an e-mailed statement. McLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac said March 21 it would release similar information.  “Our goal is to enable better modeling and understanding
of the credit performance of Fannie Mae loans,”Andrew Bon Salle, an executive vice president at the company, said in the
statement. “Bringing private capital in to share some credit
risk will help lay the foundation for a stronger  mortgage 
finance system for the future.”  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the regulator
overseeing the conservatorships of Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
since they were seized by the U.S. in 2008, is seeking to reduce
their role in the residential-mortgage market, where government-
backed loans now account for more than 85 percent of lending. As
part of the effort, the FHFA has been directing the companies to
raise their bond-guarantee fees and put sharing risk on $60
billion of home loans among executives’  goals  for this year.  Mortgage Revival  Along with a nascent revival in sales of mortgage
securities without government backing, the risk-sharing is
poised to provide investors such as real-estate investment trust
 Invesco Mortgage Capital Inc. (IVR)  with new ways to make money by
wagering on homeowner defaults. The investors may earn higher
returns than found on other investments by agreeing to take the
initial losses on  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac loans.  “We believe this will be the beginning of a very
meaningful opportunity for Invesco Mortgage Capital for years to
come,” Richard King, the firm’s chief executive officer, said
on a Feb. 6 earnings call.  The FHFA has directed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to
structure their risk sharing deals this year in several ways.
The options include using private insurers, selling bonds with
both senior and junior classes and offering notes tied to loans
that remain in traditional mortgage securities.  The nature of the  data  released by Freddie Mac gave “some
information on the risk sharing structures that are being
contemplated,” Amherst Securities Group LP analysts led by
 Laurie Goodman  wrote last month in a report.  The Freddie Mac deals may be limited to fully documented
30-year, fixed-rate collateral, and investor losses will
probably be triggered when loans go six months delinquent,
rather than after foreclosures, the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  