-- Farage Says UKIP Has ‘Teething Problems’ as Candidate Suspended
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-30T10:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/farage-says-ukip-has-teething-problems-as-candidate-suspended.html
U.K. Independence Party leader
Nigel Farage said there had been “one or two teething
problems” over preparations for local elections after the Daily
Mirror newspaper pictured a UKIP candidate making a Nazi salute.  Farage, campaigning for the vote on May 2, said the photo,
which was posted on Facebook along with racist comments, “does
not look very pretty” although he denied it undermined the
party’s central message that Britain should withdraw from the
European Union. The candidate, who denies posting the comments
and says his Facebook account was hacked, has been suspended
pending an investigation, Farage said in a telephone interview.  “We have had, out of our 1,700 candidates, a handful who
have embarrassed us, mostly because they simply haven’t told us
the truth, but we are the only party in British politics who
actually forbid former members of the British National Party or
extreme organizations from even becoming members of UKIP, let
alone candidates and, in one or two cases, people haven’t told
us the truth,” Farage told BBC Radio 4’s  “Today”  radio
program.  “A huge amount of time and money has been spent on
researching every single UKIP candidate standing in these
elections,” he said. “I would speculate if the same amount of
scrutiny was put on the Labour and  Conservative Party , they
would find their own embarrassment.”  The local elections have drawn attention to UKIP’s policies
and created divisions in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives about how to deal with a threat that may divide
traditional Tory votes and give gains to Labour and the Liberal
Democrats.  ‘Ill-Advised’  In an interview with Sky News television on April 28, Ken Clarke, a Cabinet minister without portfolio, called UKIP a
“collection of clowns,” earning him a rebuke from Tory London
Mayor  Boris Johnson  in his Daily Telegraph newspaper column
yesterday for the “ill-advised insults.”  The mayor urged his Conservative colleagues to calm down
about the threat posed by UKIP, saying Farage, “with his pint
and cigar and sense of humor,” is regarded by most Tory voters
as a fellow Conservative.  “There is no doubt that the Conservative Party is losing
votes more heavily to UKIP than are either the Liberal Democrats
or Labour,”  John Curtice , a professor of politics at the
University of Strathclyde, wrote in a  study of the local
elections  published April 24. “On average recent polls suggest
that some 16 percent of those who voted Conservative in 2010 and
currently have a party preference would now vote UKIP.”  UKIP came second behind the Liberal Democrats in a special
election to the House of Commons in February, pushing the
Conservatives into third place.  Farage said today his party is considering whether to adopt
a policy of a “two-tier” flat tax ahead of national elections
in 2015. He also favors grammar schools, state-funded
institutions that select on the basis of academic ability, and
said he would revoke a nationwide smoking ban in public places
to allow pubs and restaurants to have separate smoking rooms.  “We are the modern, forward-looking party saying we want a
global future for Britain in the 21st century -- not to be tied
to this completely outdated European model,” Farage said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 