-- FBI Probes Georgia Water Plant Break-In on Terror Concern
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-04-30T15:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/fbi-probes-georgia-water-plant-break-in-on-terror-concern.html
The U.S.  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation is reviewing a break-in at a water treatment plant
75 miles (120 kilometers) northwest of Atlanta on concern that
the perpetrator intended greater harm such as terrorism.  Someone used keys to enter the Carters Lake Water Treatment
Plant in  Murray County  on April 26 and “tampered with” the
equipment controlling how much chlorine and fluoride is added to
the water, Sheriff Gary Langford said today by telephone.  The next morning, employees noticed the improper settings
and called the police, said  Steve Smith , general manager of the
 Chatsworth Water Works Commission  that runs the facility. The
FBI joined the Georgia Bureau of Investigation and local
authorities in a criminal investigation.  “Whoever it was knew how to work a water plant,” Smith
said. “Anytime you mess with the public water supply, it’s a
whole different matter” that warranted calling the FBI.  A do-not-drink advisory was issued as a precaution even
though the water with improper levels of chemicals is believed
to have been contained at the plant, which only operates on
alternate days and wasn’t running on April 26 when the break-in
happened, Smith said.  He said the facility’s chlorine equipment, which was in a
locked room, was turned too high and the fluoride gear in an
unlocked room was set too low.  All the locks have been changed and electronic keypads are
being installed, Smith said. The plant didn’t have video
cameras, although the water commission is considering adding
them, he said.  The FBI is concerned about the potential for greater harm
related to the break-in, although there weren’t any immediate
indications of that, said Stephen Emmett, special agent and
spokesman for the bureau’s Atlanta office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe at   asharpe6@bloomberg.net  