-- Fiat Industrial Cuts 2013 Goals on Iveco’s European Sales
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-04-30T14:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/fiat-industrial-cuts-2013-goals-on-iveco-s-european-sales.html
Fiat Industrial SpA (FI) , the truck and
tractor maker spun off from car manufacturer  Fiat SpA (F)  in 2011,
cut earnings and sales targets for 2013 as a recession in  Europe 
led to a first-quarter loss at the Iveco vehicle unit.  Revenue will rise as much as 4 percent, compared with a
previous forecast of 5 percent, Turin, Italy-based Fiat
Industrial said today in a statement. The trading profit margin
will amount to 7.5 percent to 8.3 percent of revenue, versus an
earlier range prediction of 8.3 percent to 8.5 percent.  Amid a recession in the 17 countries sharing the euro,
demand for commercial vehicles in Europe fell for a 15th
consecutive month in March.  MAN SE (MAN) , the region’s third-largest
producer, lowered its earnings forecast for 2013 on April 26
because of the contraction. Industrywide first-quarter sales of
trucks weighing more than 3.5 tons dropped 17 percent to 64,198
vehicles, according to the ACEA trade group.  “The news is clearly negative and not discounted,” said
Gabriele Gambarova, an analyst at Banca Akros in Milan. “Iveco
encountered more difficult market conditions.”  Fiat Industrial  dropped  as much as 5.1 percent to 8.59
euros, the biggest intraday decline since March 19, and was
trading down 4.7 percent at 4:20 p.m. in Milan, valuing the
manufacturer at 10.5 billion euros.  Missing Estimates  Trading profit, or earnings before interest, taxes and one-
time gains or costs, dropped 5.3 percent to 408 million euros
from 431 million euros a year earlier, the company said.
Earnings missed the 428 million-euro average of four analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The trading margin narrowed to
7 percent of sales from 7.4 percent.  MAN Chief Executive Officer Georg Pachta-Reyhofen said on
April 26 that he sees “no signs” of an economic recovery.
First-quarter operating profit at the Munich-based company’s
commercial-vehicle operations plunged 78 percent to 32 million
euros because of losses outside its Brazilian business.  Daimler AG, the global industry leader, posted a 69 percent
first-quarter earnings decline at its truck division. Operating
profit dropped 92 percent at  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and 19 percent at the
vehicle and services unit of  Scania AB. (SCVB)   Iveco reported a first-quarter trading loss of 9 million
euros, against profit of 63 million euros a year earlier,
because of “lower volumes, a more challenging pricing
environment in Europe, capacity ramp-up costs in Brazilian
operations and negative exchange rate impacts,” Fiat Industrial
said today. Deliveries fell 3.9 percent, led by a 16 percent
drop in medium-weight vehicles.  CNH’s Growth  Trading profit at the CNH farm-tractor and construction-
equipment division rose 12 percent to 411 million euros as sales
increased 0.7 percent to 3.8 billion euros. The Amsterdam-based
unit earlier today stuck to its forecasts for the year,
including a 5 percent increase of revenue.  “Somewhat surprisingly after CNH reiterated their
guidance, Fiat Industrial had to lower guidance for the group,
which implies that the weak truck performance is starting to
affect the overall operations,” said Erich Hauser, an analyst
for Credit Suisse in  London . “Iveco is spoiling the party.”  Fiat Industrial and CNH, in which the Italian company holds
88 percent, plan to combine, with the new entity listing its
shares in  New York  as Chairman  Sergio Marchionne  shifts the
manufacturer’s focus to the U.S. from Europe. The new company,
which Marchionne has said won’t keep Fiat in its name, will be
based in the Netherlands, further reducing ties to  Italy .  ‘Robust’ Company  A “merger with CNH and the New York listing may finally
attract the investor attention Fiat Industrial deserves,” Laura Lembke, a London-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a
report April 19, when she raised her recommendation on the stock
to overweight from equal weight. “Fiat Industrial has a robust
and structurally growing agricultural business and surprisingly
resilient Iveco margins.”  Fiat Industrial plans to begin  stock trading  in New York in
the third quarter, Marchionne said in January. The deal could
work as a “technical blueprint” for the combination between
Turin-based Fiat and its Chrysler division in the U.S.,
Marchionne, who is also chief executive officer of the two
carmakers, said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  