-- Flaherty May Name New BOC Head as Carney Departure Looms
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-04-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/flaherty-may-name-new-boc-head-as-carney-departure-looms.html
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  says
he will soon name a replacement for Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , leaving the new candidate with no more than about a
month to prepare for the job.  The new leader will have less time to get ready than
previous governors, with Carney leaving June 1 to take over the
 Bank of England  a month later. Flaherty said yesterday the
process of finding a replacement is drawing to a close.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg after Carney announced his
departure named Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem as the most
likely replacement. The second-most likely candidate is Export
Development Canada Chief Executive Officer Stephen Poloz,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a March 19 report. The Globe and
Mail newspaper said  Stanford University  finance professor
 Darrell Duffie  is also a candidate.  “The best thing they can do is get this thing announced as
soon as possible,” said  Michael Gregory , senior economist at
Bank of Montreal in Toronto. “The market is still figuring the
odds favor Tiff Macklem; the fact it’s taking a little longer
leads you to believe what’s going on is something other than the
obvious.”  Carney’s replacement will start less than five weeks from
today. In comparison, David Dodge was named governor on Dec. 20,
2000, 42 days before his term began, and Carney’s own
appointment was announced Oct. 4, 2007, 120 days before he took
over.  Bond Yields  The central bank has kept its  key lending rate  at 1 percent
since September 2010 in the longest pause since the 1950s, and
has said for a year that its bias is to increase borrowing costs
while peers such as the U.S. Federal Reserve have bought assets
to boost growth. The idea a new governor may drop the bias is
one factor holding down Canadian bond yields, said Ian Pollick,
RBC Capital Markets senior fixed income strategist.  “It’s going to hang over rates for a little while to come
until we get the announcement,” Pollick said in a telephone
interview from Toronto, noting that  yields  on two-year
 government bonds  are below the bank’s 1 percent overnight
interest rate target.  The previous two governor appointments have bypassed the
senior deputy, with  David Dodge  moving from the finance
department to take the helm in 2001, and again in 2008 with
Carney, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker.  “The last two outsiders -- Dodge and Carney -- were
successes, so maybe they want to try again,” said Stephen Gordon, an economics professor at Université Laval in Quebec
City.  Under the Bank of Canada Act, the governor must be a
Canadian citizen.  Policy Freeze  Macklem, 51, started at the central bank in 1984 and joined
its rate-setting panel in 2004 before being promoted to senior
deputy in July 2010. At a January  lecture , Macklem said the
bank’s monetary policy has been “effective” and keeping it
unchanged has been “the right thing to do.”  Poloz, 57, joined EDC, a government trade financing agency,
in 1999 as chief economist after three years with Bank Credit
Analyst Research in  Montreal  and 14 years at the central bank in
roles that included head of the research department.  Duffie, 58, is a finance professor at California’s Stanford
University, and most of his research is related to credit risk
and the prices of assets such as derivatives. Duffie earned a
doctorate in engineering economic systems from Stanford in 1984,
a master’s degree in economic statistics from Australia’s
University of  New England  and a bachelor degree in civil
engineering from the University of  New Brunswick  in 1975.  Short List  “Macklem has the qualifications to be the Bank of Canada
Governor but the government has said it’s looking at a short
list of candidates,” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at
 CIBC World Markets  in Toronto.  Flaherty didn’t name any candidates yesterday in Ottawa and
declined to say if the announcement is coming today.  “I said that we’re aiming at about the end of April, and
we’re about at the end of April, and the process is drawing to a
close,” Flaherty said. “It won’t be too long.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  