-- For 25 Cents, You Can Wash the Blood Off Your T-Shirt
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-30T22:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/for-25-cents-consumers-can-wash-blood-off-their-t-shirts.html
When a fire at the Tazreen garment
factory in  Bangladesh   killed  112 people in November, many
wondered what more it would take before something would be done
to improve labor conditions in the country, the world’s No. 2
clothing exporter.  The world didn’t have to wait long for the next test: the
collapse on April 25 of  Rana Plaza , an eight-story building
housing multiple factories. At least 382 people have died. In
total, more than 1,000 garment workers have been killed in
Bangladesh since 2005, according to the  International Labor
Rights Forum , an advocacy group.  Sewing clothes isn’t inherently dangerous. Deaths can be
prevented if factories adhere to basic fire and structural
standards. Can this happen in Bangladesh, where in 30 years the
garment industry grew from nothing to an  $18 billion a year 
business on the premise of cheap labor and minimal effective
regulation? It’s an example of the kind of tough challenge that,
increasingly, producers and consumers in a global marketplace
must jointly meet.  Yes, it would be ideal if the government firmly enforced
building codes and fire standards. But Bangladesh is one of the
world’s  poorest  countries. Don’t expect it to have a first-rate
enforcement regime. Moreover, owners of the small and medium
factories that are typically the most unsafe can’t afford to
make major improvements; to survive in the competitive world of
outsourcers, they generally operate on  slim profit margins .  Reaping Bargains  So who’s left? At this point, Western retailers and
consumers, who have the immediate wherewithal to effect change.
First-world consumers have been the chief beneficiaries of the
growth of garment manufacturing in Bangladesh and other
 developing countries . Americans are reaping bargains by
importing  more than 97  percent of what they wear. Since 1998,
women’s clothing costs have fallen 7 percent, and men’s have
fallen 8 percent. In the U.K., costs have dropped 20 percent
since 2005.  Creating safe  work conditions  in Bangladesh wouldn’t put
much of a dent in those savings. The  Worker Rights Consortium ,
an independent labor rights monitoring group, estimates that it
would cost $600,000 on average to elevate each of the country’s
5,000 factories to Western safety standards, for a total of $3
billion. If the $3 billion were spread over five years, it would
add less than 10 cents to the factory price of each of the 7
billion garments that Bangladesh sells each year to Western
brands. If the factory owner passed on that cost to the retailer
and the retailer passed it on to the consumer, with markups,
this could mean, perhaps, a 25-cent increase for the final buyer
per item.  These changes would hardly price Bangladesh out of the
market. Its garment workers are guaranteed a minimum wage of
only 18 cents an hour, less than half what the next cheapest
competitors, in  Cambodia , earn.  For global brand retailers, ensuring factories are safe is
not only right but also smart. Remember the consumer backlash
over conditions in Vietnamese factories that made Nike products?
During the 1990s, that  cost the company  sales and share value.
Major retailers caught up in the Rana Plaza collapse include
Associated British Food Plc’s Primark and Loblaw Cos.’ Joe
Fresh. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. was supplied by Tazreen. More
catastrophes could expose these companies to harsh scrutiny.
Certainly these tragedies are already provoking unusual labor
unrest that is disrupting production and hurting the bottom
line.  Raising Awareness  On the other hand, global brands that take steps to improve
working conditions can potentially charge a premium for their
wares: A 2009  study  undertaken at a major retail store in  New
York  suggested that companies could use “social labeling” to
charge from 10 percent to 20 percent extra and still expect
sales to rise.  Retailers can ensure factory improvements are made by
signing on to the  Fire and Building Safety Agreement  for
Bangladesh, a program promoted by workers’ rights advocates. The
agreement would establish a chief inspector -- independent of
companies, trade unions and factories -- to execute a safety
program. Audits of hazards would be made public. Corrective
actions recommended by the inspector would be mandatory.  Retailers would agree to pay factories enough so that they
could afford renovations, and retailers would be forbidden from
doing business with noncompliant facilities. These obligations
would be enforceable through the courts in retailers’ home
countries.  The inclusion of labor representatives on the  task force 
overseeing the agreement would build employee confidence in
factory safety. So would a clause establishing that workers make
up at least half the members of factory health and safety
committees.  So that the program will have sufficient leverage over
factories, it is to go into effect only after four retailers
have signed on. The German retailer Tchibo GmbH and PVH Corp.
have agreed so far. PVH did so only after it came to light that
its brand  Tommy Hilfiger  had resumed business with a Bangladesh
factory where 29 people were killed in a fire.  For the retailers that have held back, signing now offers
protection for Bangladesh’s workers and against such scandals.
Failing such reforms, the “Made in Bangladesh” label seems
likely to turn into a scarlet letter.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 