-- Ford Enters Myanmar With Yangon Dealer as U.S. Relations Improve
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-04-30T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ford-enters-myanmar-with-yangon-dealer-as-u-s-relations-improve.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  said it began
operating today in Myanmar, a country isolated for five decades
until the U.S. eased sanctions last year.  The automaker will open its first dealership in Yangon, the
former capital, in partnership with Capital Automotive Ltd., a
unit of Myanmar’s  Capital Diamond Star Group , Ford said in an e-
mailed statement. Initial models for sale include the F-series
and Ranger pickup trucks, Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford said.  Ford follows  India 's  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  and  Japan 's Suzuki 
Motor Corp. in setting up operations in Myanmar as the country 
enhances economic and political ties with Western nations 
following years of military rule. Ford, which will import 
models for sale in Myanmar from  Thailand  and the U.S.,
said its entry into the country is part of an “aggressive
expansion” in the Asia-Pacific region.  “We see tremendous potential and opportunity for Ford in
Myanmar,” David Westerman, Asia Pacific regional manager for
the company’s export and growth operations, said in the
statement. Through the partnership, Ford is “well-positioned to
fully realize the huge potential of this market over the long
term,” he said.  Myanmar President  Thein Sein ’s efforts to end five decades
of military rule have been rewarded with an easing of U.S. and
European sanctions.  The nation, bordering countries including China, India and
Thailand, has implemented policy shifts since Thein Sein took
office two years ago. The central bank scrapped a 35-year fixed
currency system in April 2012, and is moving to unify multiple
exchange rates for the local currency, kyat, that have
restricted transfers abroad and disadvantaged private exporters.  Tata Motors established its first dealership in Yangon on
April 7 to sell and service its trucks and buses. The Mumbai-
based company is setting up a heavy-truck assembly plant in
Magwe, central Myanmar, with a capacity to produce 1,000
vehicles a year initially, Tata  said .  Suzuki gained approval from Myanmar’s government to set up
a new production and sales subsidiary, and plans to make small
trucks in Yangon starting in May, the company  said  in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  