-- Ford Says Lincoln MKZ Set Monthly U.S. Sales Record in April
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-05-01T04:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ford-says-lincoln-mkz-to-set-monthly-u-s-sales-record-in-april.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , speeding the rollout
of the redesigned Lincoln MKZ sedan to revive its luxury line,
said the model’s April U.S. sales set a monthly record that
drove a gain of at least 10 percent for the brand.  “We should be right around the 4,000-unit sales mark for
MKZ,”  Jim Farley , executive vice president of Ford global
marketing and sales and Lincoln, told reporters yesterday on a
conference call. “This would be our strongest sales month ever
for MKZ and it will be a double-digit percentage increase for
Lincoln as a whole.”  Ford is counting on the MKZ, which features a chrome grille
inspired by eagle wings and an optional retractable glass roof,
to increase demand for Lincoln and contribute more to results in
 North America , where the company posted record profit and
margins last year. Lincoln first-quarter U.S. sales plunged 24
percent, the most of any brand with at least 100 sales.  The MKZ’s previous best month was 3,795 in December 2006.
Automakers including Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford report April
U.S. sales today. Ford may have led U.S. automakers with a 17
percent increase for the month, the average estimate of 11
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  MKZ deliveries have been improving after Ford ended an
arrangement where it was shipping its newest Lincoln model
through a second plant. The company’s factory in Hermosillo,
 Mexico , began sending all MKZs directly to dealers after several
weeks of shipping some of the cars to a second plant in  Michigan 
for finish work.  ‘Long Road’  “This is going to be a long road over the next months and
years coming for remaking Lincoln,” Farley, 50, said on
yesterday’s call. “It’s such an important journey for the
company. It will not only need to continue but accelerate for us
to continue to be competitive.”  The MKZs were put through additional quality inspections
and equipped with missing parts at the factory in Flat Rock,
Michigan, which allowed Ford to fix problems with the cars
without interrupting output of its surging Ford Fusion sedan.  MKZ inventory at dealers was at “very normal levels” in
the second half of this month, Farley said during an April 24
quarterly earnings call.  “You’ll see in our sales results that the product is being
extremely well received,” he told analysts and reporters last
week. “The hybrid mix is much stronger than we thought. The
sales on the coasts are much stronger than we thought, and we
should have a really great story to tell at the end of the
month.”  Date Night  Ford has introduced an online concierge service to the
luxury brand’s car-shopping process and “Lincoln Date Night,”
a test-drive program in which potential customers are treated to
dinner, to draw more buyers. Lincoln sales plunged to 82,150
last year from a peak of 231,660 in 1990.  “As a challenger brand,” Lincoln wanted to “release any
of those barriers to just try the product,” Farley told
reporters yesterday.  About 500 potential customers have taken part in the date
night program, he said. In the three weeks that the concierge
service has been available at Lincoln.com, “several hundred”
leads have been passed along to dealers, he said.  The MKZ is the first of four new models Lincoln has coming
over four years. Lincoln began selling the restyled MKZ in
January at a starting price of  $35,925 . About half of MKZ orders
being placed with dealers are for the hybrid version, which is
priced the same as the conventional model, Farley said.  Ford rose 0.4 percent to $13.71 at the close yesterday in
 New York . The shares have gained 5.9 percent this year, compared
with a 12 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  