-- Ex-FIFA President Joao Havelange Resigns After Bribes Found
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-04-30T16:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/former-fifa-president-havelange-resigns-after-payments-found.html
Former FIFA President Joao Havelange resigned from an honorary post with soccer’s ruling
body after a report said he received bribes from the
organization’s now-defunct marketing partner.  The 96-year-old Brazilian quit his position as “honorary
president” earlier this month, according to  a report  into
payments made by the ISL marketing company released today by
Hans-Joachim Eckert, a former German judge hired by FIFA to rule
on ethics breaches.  Havelange and two former executive committee members --
Ricardo Teixeira and South American federation president Nicolas Leoz -- were named as accepting “not inconsiderable amounts”
through “front companies in order to cover up the true
recipient.”  The report comes as FIFA prepares to meet next month in
Mauritius for its annual congress where delegates will be asked
to vote on governance changes.  FIFA  was forced to introduce new
rules after a backlash from sponsors, fans and other soccer
stakeholders following scandals in recent years.  During his two-decade tenure as FIFA president, Havelange
used the relationship with ISL to bring in sponsors including
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Adidas AG (ADS)  and McDonald’s Corp. for its
quadrennial World Cup. That tournament is worth around $5
billion now.  Blatter ‘Clumsy’  While Havelange and his former son-in-law Teixeira
improperly accepted payments from ISL in exchange for the rights
to the 2002 and 2006 World Cup broadcasts, the bribes didn’t
violate FIFA rules as the governing body didn’t set up a code of
ethics until 2004, at least four years after the pair last
accepted funds, Eckert, head of FIFA’s adjudicatory chamber,
said in a statement.  Ex-Brazilian soccer head Teixeira quit FIFA last year and
Leoz, who had led South American soccer since 1986, resigned
from his post, “citing personal reasons,” earlier this month.  The report cleared current FIFA president Sepp Blatter of
any criminal or ethical wrongdoing but described him as
“clumsy” for not being aware of the payments to Havelange
after ISL transferred 1.5 million Swiss francs ($1.6 million)
into a FIFA account for the Brazilian. Blatter was interviewed
by FIFA investigator Michael J. Garcia, a former U.S. attorney
for the Southern District of New York.  Loss of Credibility  “It is undisputed that the former chief accountant of FIFA
brought this to the attention of then-General Secretary Blatter,
and the former arranged for the return transfer to ISL,” Eckert
said. “President Blatter stated during his interview with Mr.
Garcia that he ‘couldn’t understand that somebody is sending
money to FIFA for another person,’ but at that time he did not
suspect the payment was a commission.”  Blatter’s conduct “may have been clumsy because there
could be an internal need for clarification, but this does not
lead to any criminal or ethical misconduct,” Eckert said.  Havelange appointed Blatter as FIFA’s general secretary,
the organization’s most senior administrative role, in November
1981 and the pair worked closely together until Blatter
succeeded Havelange as president in 1998. FIFA in 2004 paid 2.5
million Swiss francs compensation to ISL’s bankruptcy
administrators to end a dispute over the payments.  Sylvia Schenk, head of sport at anti-corruption watchdog
Transparency International, said Blatter has lost
“credibility” as FIFA president.  “Having watched this money transfer and having done
nothing, no one would call that clumsy,” she said. “He knows
what’s going on and doesn’t want to do anything.”  ‘Untold Damage’  Blatter released a statement after Eckert’s report
welcoming that he had been cleared of misconduct.  “I have no doubt that FIFA, thanks to the governance
reform process that I proposed, now has the mechanisms and means
to ensure that such an issue -- which has caused untold damage
to the reputation of our institution -- does not happen again,”
he said.  Guido Tognoni, who held a number of executive roles at FIFA
during his 13-year tenure, described Blatter as Havelange’s
“right hand” and the pair as “FIFA’s power couple for 20
years.”  “Blatter is the one person living today who knows the most
about FIFA’s history and what happened there,” Tognoni, who
headed FIFA’s media operations under Havelange, said in a
telephone interview. “I find it extremely surprising to hear he
doesn’t know about the bribes.”  Reputation Hit  FIFA’s reputation was hit in 2010 following the bidding
battle for the right to stage the 2018 and 2022 World Cups that
went to Russia and Qatar respectively. Teixeira and Leoz were
among the voters, seven of whom have left FIFA after either
being accused of graft or found to have breached anti-corruption
regulations.  “It is reasonable for people to have doubts and even more
doubts now about the decision at that time,” Schenk said about
the World Cup awards. “I can’t argue about that.”  The ethics report does not state the total sum ISL paid but
says the payments took place over eight years between 1992 and
May 2000. A separate report released by a Swiss court last year
said Havelange and Teixeira received at least $22 million
between them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  