-- GE Agrees to Pay $40 Million to Settle U.S. Investor Suit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-30T21:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ge-agrees-to-pay-40-million-to-settle-u-s-investor-suit.html
General Electric Co. agreed to pay
$40 million to settle shareholder claims that the company misled
them about the quality of its loan portfolio beginning in
September 2008.  GE, based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , settled claims against
the company, its chief executive officer,  Jeffrey Immelt , and
Chief Financial Officer  Keith Sherin , according to court papers
filed in  Manhattan  federal court yesterday. The plaintiffs are
led by the State Universities Retirement System of Illinois.  The investors sued in 2009, claiming the company had
overstated the value of holdings in its  GE Capital  unit,
including its subprime loan holdings. The suit also targeted
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other banks involved in GE’s
October 2008, $12 billion secondary stock offering. The
investors also claimed GE’s financial position threatened its
AAA  rating  and ability to pay its quarterly dividend.  Before the settlement can go into effect, Cote must grant
the Illinois pension fund’s request to represent a class of
investors who bought GE stock from Sept. 25, 2008, through March
19, 2009. Cote must also agree with the parties that the
settlement is fair and adequate.  ‘Best Interests’  “This settlement is in the best interests of shareowners
as we avoid diverting significant resources to a lawsuit that we
believe is without merit,”  Seth Martin , a GE spokesman, said in
a statement today.  In a pair of rulings, judges dismissed claims against the
banks and other defendants, allowing the case to go forward only
against GE, Immelt and Sherin on claims based on the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. The court found that the investors had
made a sufficient claim that Sherin knew some of his statements
about GE’s financial health in 2008 weren’t true.  “The second amended complaint has described a plethora of
reports which tracked on a regular and detailed basis the
quality of the assets to which Sherin’s remarks were directed,”
Cote said in a ruling last year. “It is highly implausible that
GE’s CFO would be ignorant of basic facts contained in these
reports about the quality of roughly one-third of GE Capital’s
assets.”  Joseph Tabacco Jr., a lawyer for the investors, didn’t
immediately return a phone message seeking comment on the
settlement.  The case is In re  General Electric Co. (GE)  Securities
Litigation, 09-01951, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  