-- Genes Found That May Protect Infants of Addicted Mothers
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-04-30T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/genes-found-that-may-protect-infants-of-addicted-mothers.html
Genes tied to addiction in adults
may help guide doctors to better treatments for infants born
withdrawing from narcotics, according to researchers who
identified the genetic link.  Babies exposed in the womb to opioid drugs who have certain
variations to two genes had less severe withdrawal symptoms than
those without the variants, according to a study in the  Journal
of the  American Medical Association . The babies left the
hospital sooner and needed fewer treatments, researchers said.  Drug withdrawal in newborns, called  neonatal abstinence
syndrome , affects about 22,400 babies each year who are exposed
in utero to opioid drugs like methadone and heroin, the authors
said. The study, the first to look at the link between genetics
and opioid withdrawal in infants, may help researchers find more
effective way to treat these babies, said Jonathan Davis, senior
study author and chief of newborn medicine at Floating Hospital
for Children at Tufts Medical Center in  Boston .  “Our goal is to identify the highest-risk babies early,
try to develop treatment strategies that will prevent some of
the withdrawal and try to get the babies home sooner,”  Davis 
said in an April 26 telephone interview. “These babies are so
uncomfortable and in the hospital for such a long time, we’re
talking millions and millions of dollars of health-care costs
for something that we have to try to prevent.”  Study Findings  Researchers looked at 86 mother-child pairs from July 2011
to July 2012. The babies were exposed to addiction treatments
 methadone  or  buprenorphine  while in the womb. They all had their
DNA analyzed.  The researchers found that infants with a variation of the
OPRM1 gene were in the hospital 8.5 days fewer than those who
didn’t have the variation. They also had a higher chance of not
needing any treatment. Those with a variation of the COMT gene
stayed about 10.8 fewer days in the hospital and had less
treatment. Both genes in their common form without variations
are associated with a higher risk of opioid addiction in adults,
the authors said.  Mothers who smoked or who took certain psychiatric drugs
also had babies who were at greater risk for withdrawal
symptoms, although there weren’t enough women in the study to
make the findings statistically significant, the authors said.
The results also suggested that breastfeeding may reduce
withdrawal symptoms, Davis said.  More studies are needed to duplicate these findings, Davis
said. The U.S. National Institutes of Health is starting a
larger study now, he said.  “What we’re hoping we’ll be able to do is take a few drops
of saliva from the mother or a few drops of blood and tell her
the possible risk and severity of her baby withdrawing from
prenatal exposure to narcotics,” Davis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  