-- GE Sues National Grid for Payment of Hudson Dredging Cost
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-30T19:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/general-electric-sues-niagara-mohawk-over-hudson-dredging-costs.html
General Electric Co. sued  National
Grid Plc (NG/) ’s Niagara Mohawk unit in federal court in New York
seeking costs associated with the government-ordered
environmental cleanup of the Hudson River.  The complaint seeks a declaration that National Grid, owner
of Britain’s power-distribution network, is responsible for
paying an “equitable share of all future response costs” that
Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric incurs in
connection with the dredging of river sediments to remove
polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs.  GE has incurred hundreds of millions of dollars in
dredging-related costs, including millions that it wouldn’t have
spent without the release of contaminated sediment and debris
left behind when Niagara Mohawk, or NiMo, removed the Fort
Edward Dam in 1973, GE said in its complaint filed April 26 in
 Albany .  “Plaintiff GE has contacted defendant NiMo regarding its
contribution to the presence of hazardous substances at the site
and has sought defendant’s cooperation in and contribution to
the dredging project,” GE said. “Defendant has failed to
cooperate with, pay for, or contribute in any way to the
dredging project.”  National Grid, based in  London , acquired Niagara Mohawk in
January 2002 for $8.9 billion.  GE Singled Out  “We’re going to defend our position, primarily on the
basis that we did not put the PCBs in the Hudson,” Steve Brady,
a spokesman for National Grid, said today in a phone interview.  “If you go back through time it’s been fairly clear that
the EPA singled out GE alone as being responsible for this,”
Brady said, referring to the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency. “We didn’t purchase, use or place the PCBs in the
Hudson and we really think we need to protect our customers. We
think it’s wrong for them to help pay for the remediation.”  Until 1977, GE operated two electrical capacitor
manufacturing plants along the Hudson that caused PCBs to enter
the river, according to its complaint. When it removed the Fort
Edward Dam, Niagra Mohawk removed only about 200 cubic yards of
sludge from behind it, leaving more than 1 million cubic yards
of silt, sludge and sediment contaminated by PCBs, GE said.  The case is  General Electric Co. (GE)  v. Niagara Mohawk Power
Corp., 1:13-cv-00473, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
New York (Albany).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 