-- Genworth Profit Doubles to $103 Million on Mortgages
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-30T21:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/genworth-profit-more-than-doubles-to-103-million.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the seller
of life insurance and long-term care coverage, said first-
quarter profit more than doubled as results improved at the unit
that backs home loans.  Net income  was $103 million, or 21 cents a share, compared
with $46 million, or 9 cents, a year earlier, Richmond,
Virginia-based Genworth said today in a statement. Operating
profit, which excludes some investing results, was 30 cents a
share, beating the 28-cent  average estimate  of nine analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. The U.S. mortgage-guaranty business posted
its first quarterly profit since 2007.  Chief Executive Officer Tom McInerney, who took the top job
this year, is benefiting as a recovering U.S. housing market
bolsters the company’s U.S. mortgage-insurance unit after losses
mounted as home prices crashed. Genworth has reached a deal to
sell its wealth-management business and is boosting prices for
long-term-care coverage as McInerney works to add capital.  “The new CEO is getting more familiar with the company,
and clearly has an understanding of what the pressing issues
are,” Edward Shields, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP, said in an interview before results were announced. “The
company is a turnaround story.”  Genworth has  rallied  about 63 percent in the past year,
beating the 14 percent advance of the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. It gained 18 cents to $10.21 in extended trading at 4:16
p.m. in New York.  Mortgage Insurance  At the U.S. mortgage-insurance division, operating profit
was $21 million, compared with a $44 million loss in the first
quarter of 2012. Genworth said operating profit from global
mortgage insurance was $102 million, compared with a $37 million
loss a year earlier when flooding in  Australia  and a regional
economic slowdown fueled foreclosures.  Mortgage insurers led by  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  have surged
as the U.S. scales back its role in the housing market and  home
prices  rise. The firms cover losses when homeowners default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, fell to
$32.90 a share from $33.62 on Dec. 31. Holding-company cash was
about $955 million as of March 31, compared with about $1
billion at the end of 2012.  McInerney said in February he’s focused on improving
results from long-term care, after fourth-quarter profit at the
unit dropped 75 percent. Genworth is working with regulators to
increase rates for the coverage that helps pay for home-health
aides or residence in nursing homes, he said.  Operating profit at the long-term care unit narrowed to $20
million from $35 million a year earlier. Fourth-quarter profit
from the coverage was $7 million as Genworth added to reserves
for future claims.  Interest rates near record lows have pressured results from
long-term care coverage, and insurers including  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  have retreated from the business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  