-- Geo-Led Junk-Bond Implosion Sparks Worst Losses: Mexico Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-04-30T13:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/geo-led-junk-bond-implosion-sparks-worst-losses-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s highest-rated  junk bonds 
are saddling investors with the biggest losses in  emerging
markets  as the nation’s homebuilders collapse.  Dollar-denominated notes sold by Mexican companies in the
BB category have lost 10.5 percent this month, versus a 0.82
percent return for similarly rated  developing-nation  debt,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG. Homebuilder bonds sank an
average of 31.7 cents on the dollar in April as Urbi Desarrollos
Urbanos SAB and Corp.  Geo SAB (GEOB)  defaulted on debt payments.  The homebuilder rout, coupled with phone company  Maxcom (MAXCOMCP) 
Telecomunicaciones SAB’s warning it may seek  bankruptcy
protection , threatens to damp Mexican junk bond sales that are
off to their fastest start in two years, according to Aberdeen
Asset Management and Oppenheimer & Co. The losses come at a time
when speculation Mexico will overhaul tax and energy laws
sparked a 3.04 percent gain in the government’s investment-grade
dollar debt this month and a 5.09 percent rally in its peso
bonds in U.S. currency terms, the most in the world after  New
Zealand .  “The whole story is about the homebuilders,” Siddhart Dahiya, who helps oversee $11.8 billion of emerging-market debt
as portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset Management, said in an
interview from  London . “Depending on how they treat their
bondholders in the future, it could have some impact on Mexican
issuers in general and high-yield issuers definitely.”  Geo Plummets  Geo’s $400 million of bonds due in 2022 tumbled 40.68 cents
to a record 44.84 cents on the dollar in April as the biggest
Mexican builder by the number of homes sold said it would miss
an interest payment and its cash decreased by 84 percent in the
first quarter. The company, which was stripped of its BB- rating
by  Standard & Poor’s , said this month it hired Fians Capital to
advise it on a possible restructuring  Geo’s slump is part of a rout in the homebuilding industry,
which has struggled to stem a cash drain fueled by a government-
subsidized program to promote urban apartments.  Alejandro Haiducovich, a Mexico City-based spokesman for
Geo, declined to comment on the performance of the company’s
bonds and the restructuring process, as did David Aguilar, a
press official for Urbi. Marena Rubio, a press official with
Homex, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Homex’s
performance in the market. It wasn’t possible to leave a
telephone message.  Bonds sold by Desarrolladora Homex SAB, which lost its BB-
from Fitch Ratings April 16, have also dropped. The company’s
notes due 2020 fell 25.82 cents in April to 59.08 cents on the
dollar.  ‘Distressed Cases’  Urbi (URBI*) , which fell out of the BB category before this month’s
slump, said April 19 it will use a 30-day grace period to make a
$6.4 million payment that was due that day on its 2016 notes,
four days after saying it hired Rothschild and other advisers to
review its finances and analyze options including a debt
restructuring. S&P cut Urbi’s credit rating to D on April 19, or
the equivalent of default.  Mexican junk-rated companies sold $1.76 billion of bonds
abroad this year, 19 percent more than the $1.49 billion issued
in the same period a  year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “In the last month, distressed cases have increased in
 Latin America  and that’s going to cut demand for the speculative
companies,” Omar Zeolla, a corporate credit analyst at
Oppenheimer, said in a telephone interview from  New York .  Maxcom Prospects  Maxcom, which is rated CC, said last week it may seek
bankruptcy protection after the carrier failed to persuade
enough debtholders to complete a swap of its bonds for notes due
in 2020. Only 61.93 percent of notes were tendered in the
exchange, below the 80 percent private equity firm Ventura
Capital Privado SA required to go ahead with its offer for
Maxcom shares.  The company’s notes due 2014 were trading at 67.98 cents on
the dollar yesterday.  Shamaila Khan, an emerging-market  money manager  at
AllianceBernstein LP, which oversees $443 billion of assets,
says that investors will remain positive on Mexico because the
selloff is largely concentrated in one industry.  ‘Pretty Positive’  “We’re still pretty positive on Mexico,” Khan said in a
telephone interview from New York. “It happened is specific to
a sector and to individual companies in the sector. We are not
really expecting major contagion.”  S&P said March 12 it may raise Mexico’s BBB rating because
the prospect for reforms that bolster finances and fuel growth
have improved under Pena Nieto.  Mexico’s economy will expand 3.5 percent in 2013, outpacing
that of Latin America for a second year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of Treasuries narrowed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 169 basis points at 9:32 a.m. in New York,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps dropped two basis points to
82 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if the issuer
fails to comply with debt agreements.  The peso gained 0.5 percent to 12.1454 per  U.S. dollar .  ‘Aggressive’ Losses  The debt restructurings of Geo and Urbi may begin to sour
some investors on Mexico if the homebuilders impose
“aggressive” losses in bondholders, according to Joe Kogan,the
head of emerging-market debt strategy at Scotia Capital Market.  Pena Nieto said on Feb. 11 that he will use the nation’s
subsidized-housing program to promote urban apartments, which
require longer planning, building and sales cycles than single-
construction housing and have caused homebuilders to boost debt
and bleed cash.  “If these homebuilders behave in ways that foreign
investors don’t like then it’s possible that people will start
talking about, ‘you know you really don’t want to be in Mexican
high yield because of what happens in a restructuring,’” Kogan
said in a telephone interview in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  