-- German Greens Chief Trittin Says Merkel’s Policy Bars Coalition
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-04-30T09:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/german-greens-chief-trittin-says-merkel-s-policy-bars-coalition.html
The co-leader of  Germany ’s Greens,
 Juergen Trittin , sharpened his party’s attack on Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats, saying policy differences
put them on “collision course” in federal elections this fall.  Trittin, one of his party’s two lead candidates for the
Sept. 22 vote, said the opposition Green stance on labor policy,
 climate change  and measures to get more women on company boards
were almost irreconcilable with those of Merkel’s CDU and its
Bavarian sister party, the CSU. Allying the parties in the face
of such a divide wouldn’t be “especially convincing,” he said.  “I’m not saying that this is impossible in either case,”
Trittin said in an interview in his parliamentary office in
Berlin yesterday. “However, regarding the issues that are on
the table now -- the minimum wage, women’s quotas, climate
protection law -- on all these points, the CDU, and above all
the CSU, want the opposite of what the Greens want.”  Less than five months before elections that will determine
the course of  Europe ’s biggest economy and whether crisis-
ravaged euro countries can ease up on budget cuts, the Greens
voted at a weekend convention to bet on an alliance with the
opposition  Social Democratic Party  of  Peer Steinbrueck  to stop
Merkel winning a third term.  Trittin, 58, who replaced Merkel as environment minister in
1998, serving in the post until 2005 in Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder’s SPD-Greens coalition, said that he plans to warn of
the impact of Merkel’s austerity-first crisis policy on a trip
to the U.S. next week. He said he’ll tell audiences at  Harvard
University  and the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington  that
Merkel’s approach is isolating Germany in Europe.  Merkel’s Minority  “I believe that the question of consolidation, and
overcoming the crisis exclusively by saving and cutting spending
has little chance of succeeding, and that’s a position that’s
becoming more and more a minority in Europe,” Trittin said.
“It’s our task to make clear that there’s a different position
in Europe and in Germany.”  During a five-day trip that starts May 6, Trittin said he
will meet with United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon,
former U.S. Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger  and officials
from the  International Monetary Fund .  The Greens and the IMF share a “very similar” view on how
to tackle the crisis, Trittin said. “Consolidation fails if you
focus exclusively on saving -- you also have to invest.”  Domestically, the Greens are gambling that a platform of
tax increases for those earning 60,000 euros ($78,400) and above
will appeal to average voters. Trittin rejected criticism of his
party’s tax plans as the reaction of those “defending their own
purses.”  Support Steady  Polls  suggest the Green message resonates thus far. Support
for the Greens was unchanged at 14 percent in a weekly Emnid
poll taken before the party convention and published yesterday.
That’s 4 percentage points higher than the party took at the
last election in 2009. With the SPD at 26 percent, up a point,
the two parties had a combined tally of 40 percent, not enough
to form a coalition after the election.  While Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc led with 40 percent, up one
point, her Free Democratic Party coalition partner dropped to 4
percent, less than one-third of its tally in 2009 and below the
5 percent threshold to win seats in parliament. The anti-
capitalist Left Party had 7 percent in the poll of 2,440 voters
conducted April 18-24. No margin of error was given.  Coalition-Building  If those poll results are replicated on Sept. 22, then the
Greens can either watch as Merkel forms a rerun of her first-
term “grand coalition” with the SPD, or they can become
potential kingmakers, either by allying with the Left in a
three-way tie-up with the SPD or by courting Merkel’s bloc.  Steinbrueck has said the SPD won’t form a coalition with
the Left. Trittin said it is the Greens’ push for “more
modernity, more fairness and for sustainability” that will
determine its openness to coalition-building.  “That’s why I think on these core points that we should
ally with a party that’s heading more or less in the same
direction, and that’s the SPD,” he said. For all the potential
for conflict, “there’s a fundamental common wish of both
parties to empower people to have a bigger share of what society
has to offer. We share this fundamental direction in policy,
whereas the other parties are going in another direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 