-- Spanish Bonds Advance Amid Central Bank Bets; German Bunds Rise
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-30T15:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/german-bunds-little-changed-before-euro-area-unemployment-report.html
Spain’s bonds rose, with 10-year
securities extending an eighth monthly gain, as investors sought
higher-yielding assets amid speculation central banks around the
world will extend stimulus measures to boost growth.  Two- and  10-year yields  fell to the lowest levels since
2010, narrowing the yield premium over German bunds, after a
report showed the nation’s economy shrank at a slower pace in
the first quarter. Italy’s  two-year yields  dropped to a record
as data showed euro-area inflation slowed in April more than
economists forecast, backing the case for the European Central
Bank to cut interest rates at its meeting this week. German 10-
year yields slid to the lowest since July.  “The rally in the periphery can run a bit further,” said
Rainer Guntermann, a rates strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “There is plenty of liquidity in the market with the
prospect of lower rates from the ECB as early as this week. The
pace of contraction in Spain has started to ease slightly.”  Spain’s two-year yield fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.70 percent at 4:37 p.m. London time,
after falling to 1.67 percent, the lowest level since April
2010. The 2.75 percent note due March 2015 rose 0.12, or 1.2
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,318) face amount, to 101.95.  The nation’s 10-year yield declined two basis points to
4.14 percent after dropping to 4.11 percent, the least since
October 2010. The rate has dropped 92 basis points this month,
the most since December 2011, while the eight-month streak is
the longest since January 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rate Forecast  The ECB will cut its main  refinancing rate  from the current
record-low 0.75 percent at its May 2 meeting, according to 44 of
70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Federal Reserve policy
makers may signal they are considering increasing stimulus at a
two-day meeting starting today, Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian said in an interview with Willow Bay
on Bloomberg Television.  Spain’s economy contracted 0.5 percent from the fourth
quarter, when it shrank 0.8 percent, the National Statistics
Institute said.  “It’s much less severe than the final quarter of last
year,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said in a radio
interview today. “All the leading indicators for the Spanish
economy are signaling recovery.”  Italy ’s  two-year yield  dropped as much as seven basis
points to 1.08 percent, the lowest level since Bloomberg began
compiling data on the securities in 1993.  Senate Approval  The nation’s Prime Minister Enrico Letta won the final
confidence vote needed to install his government before taking
his economic growth plan to Berlin to meet German Chancellor
Angela Merkel. The two leaders are due to hold a press
conference at 6 p.m. local time.  Letta, 46, won a majority in the Senate after a discussion
about his program that reaffirms Italy’s commitment to budget
discipline and calls for tax cuts for business, consumers and
homeowners.  Germany ’s  10-year bund yield  was little changed at 1.22
percent after falling to 1.18 percent, the lowest level since
July 23. Europe’s benchmark yield has decreased seven basis
points this month.  BNP Paribas SA recommends being selling bunds, strategists
led by  Patrick Jacq  in Paris wrote today in a note to clients.  “When it comes to the economic conditions in Europe, bad
news is priced in,” as is a cut in the ECB’s benchmark rate,
the analysts wrote. “We see little value at 1.20 percent.”  ‘Revised Upwards’  The euro region’s  annual inflation rate  fell to 1.2
percent, the lowest since February 2010, from 1.7 percent in
March, the European Union’s statistics office said today.
Inflation has been below the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling since
February. Economists had forecast a decline to 1.6 percent,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “The chances of an ECB cut this week have been revised
upwards,” Francesco Garzarelli, the London-based co-head of
macro and markets research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with
Francine Lacqua and Guy Johnson. “The market has been chasing
fixed-income, particularly in  Europe .”  Slovenia is selling two benchmark bonds denominated in
dollars, according to a person with knowledge of the offering,
who asked not to be identified before the transaction is
completed. The nation is offering five-year notes and 10-year
securities, the person said.  The bonds will not price today, pending a potential ratings
announcement, the person said.  The rate on Slovenia’s 5.5 percent dollar bond maturing in
October 2022 rose four basis points to 5.74 percent.  Spanish bonds returned 5 percent in April through
yesterday, set for the best month since December 2011, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian securities climbed 4.6
percent and German securities advanced 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  