-- Ghana to Boost Bond-Price Transparency With Exchange Reporting
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-04-30T09:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ghana-to-boost-bond-price-transparency-with-exchange-reporting.html
Ghana  plans to boost transparency
in bond trading by reporting prices for benchmark government
debt to the stock exchange, letting investors in West Africa’s
second-biggest economy see changes in the figures more quickly.  Central Securities Depository Ghana Ltd., which tracks
trades in government and central bank debt, is set to merge with
the Ghana Stock Exchange’s register by the end of June, Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Tetteh said in an e-mailed response to
questions in Accra, the capital, on April 24. By July, prices
will be sent to the bourse, bringing Ghana closer in line with
 South Africa  and  Nigeria , the continent’s two most liquid
markets, where bonds are traded over-the-counter with
transactions reported to the exchanges and price providers.  “The market must know what is happening,” Tetteh said.
“We are working with the stock exchange to stream our
information to them.”  Ghana’s benchmark three-month  borrowing  costs are the
second-highest among sub-Saharan African countries tracked by
Bloomberg at almost 23 percent. The nation’s bourse is the
world’s best performing equities gauge this year with a 45
percent gain, even as a lack of liquidity leaves investors
searching for ways to buy in. Two-, three- and five-year debt
are listed on the market while trading is done over-the-counter.
After the merger, 91- and 182-day Treasury bills and one-year
bonds may also be listed, while over-the-counter trading will
continue, Tetteh said.  Foreign Capital  Foreign investors can’t buy securities with terms below two
years on the primary market, although they can in secondary
trading, Adams Nyinaku, head of treasury at the  Bank of Ghana 
said on April 12.  Making government debt more transparently traded “should
provide a greater level of comfort to non-resident investors,
which could help increase foreign capital inflows,” Angus Downie, London-based head of economic research at  Ecobank
Transnational Inc. (ETI) , said in an e-mailed response to questions on
April 25.  Interest in Ghanaian issues has been rising, with almost
25,000 new accounts opened at the central bank’s depository in
the first quarter from about 12,000 in the same period a year
before, Tetteh said.  While greater transparency may boost demand, Downie said
there may still not be enough bonds to buy as the world’s
second-biggest cocoa producer struggles with a lack of
liquidity.  Illiquid Market  “The local market is relatively illiquid, and dominated by
buy-and-hold investors,” he said. “In practice there may not
be a significant boost to trading from this move.”  The merged depository may decide whether to list all
government and central bank securities on the  stock exchange  and
allow debt trading similar to the equities, Tetteh said.  “It does not matter whether the transaction is on the
exchange or through the over-the-counter market,” he said.
“The important thing is the current price at which the security
is trading should be available to the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  