-- Gold ETP Holdings Cap Record Drop as $17.9 Billion Wiped Out
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-05-01T11:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/gold-etp-holdings-cap-record-drop-wiping-17-9-billion-in-assets.html
Gold holdings in exchange-traded
products plunged 174 metric tons last month, the biggest drop
ever, as prices entered a  bear market  and wiped $17.9 billion
from the value of the funds.  Holdings in the ETPs slumped 7.1 percent in April to
2,275.84 tons, the lowest since October 2011,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  value  of the assets dropped to $108.1
billion. Investors pulled $10.23 billion from gold funds in the
first quarter, the most since at least 2000, when the data
begins according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.  The drop in ETP holdings underscores how some investors
have lost faith in gold as the traditional store of value, even
as central banks print money on an unprecedented scale to boost
growth. While prices have rebounded since touching a two-year
low on April 16, they fell 7.7 percent last month, the biggest
loss since December 2011, as the stock market rallied and
consumer costs remained stable.  “This is a capitulation by gold investors as equities were
winning and there were no signs of inflation,” Tom Winmill, who
helps manage $200 million of assets in Walpole,  New Hampshire ,
for Midas Funds, said in a telephone interview. “Many have seen
the reasons for holding gold fade.”  Gold futures for June delivery fell 0.5 percent to
$1,465.40 an ounce today on the Comex in  New York . Prices are
down 13 percent this year, heading for the first decline after
12 straight years of gains. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities is up 8.8 percent in 2013, while the dollar climbed 2.1
percent against a basket of six major trading partners.  Goldman View  Gold in New York capped its worst two-day slump in 33 years
on April 15, plunging 13 percent. The metal’s drop has been
“surprisingly rapid,” according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
The bank said April 23 it closed a bearish recommendation, while
saying further declines are still likely as investors’
conviction in the metal wanes.  About half the  holders  of the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest
bullion-backed ETP, are institutional investors, Deutsche Bank
AG said on April 26 in a report, citing Bloomberg data. The
institutions may continue to sell as they switch into equities,
the bank said.  Prices rebounded 4.2 percent last week, after four straight
declines, as demand surged from consumers buying coins and
jewelry. Billionaire  John Paulson  has stuck with his view that
the metal will climb as a hedge against inflation. He’s the top
holder of the SPDR Gold Trust.  Mint Sales  Gold-coin  sales  by the  U.S. Mint  in April climbed to the
highest monthly total since December 2009. Russia and  Kazakhstan 
boosted reserves for a sixth month in March, International
Monetary Fund data shows. Central banks will buy as much as 550
tons this year after boosting holdings by 534.6 tons last year,
the most since 1964, the World Gold Council estimates.  “The reasons why people were piling into gold have not
changed,” Douglas Groh, who helps manage $10 billion at
Tocqueville Asset Management LP, said in a telephone interview
from New York. “The long-term buyers are accumulating gold.”  Hedge funds  and other money managers have accumulated their
second-biggest bet against gold on record, holding 69,726 so-
called short contracts as of April 23, government data show. The
decline in ETP holdings remains the “key downside risk” for
prices in the near term, analysts at Barclays Plc including  Suki Cooper  said in a report.  Holdings in ETPs backed by silver slumped 1.4 percent in
April to 19,405.34 tons. Assets in funds backed by palladium and
platinum also declined.  “Participants exiting the market continues to represent
bearish sentiment,” said Erica Rannestad, an analyst at New
York-based CPM Group, a commodities researcher. “Many are
dumping gold as an investment alternative and moving part of
their money to stocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  