-- Gold Exchange-Traded Products Poised for Record Monthly Decline
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-04-30T03:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/gold-exchange-traded-products-poised-for-record-monthly-decline.html
Gold held in exchange-traded funds
and products backed by the metal is set for the biggest monthly
drop ever, after investors sold out of bullion on optimism the
global economy is recovering.  Assets in ETPs fell 168.22 metric tons to 2,281.62 tons as
of yesterday, heading for the biggest monthly drop on record in
tonnage terms, data compiled by Bloomberg show. At today’s price,
the decline in holdings is valued at about $8 billion. Gold for
immediate delivery fell 0.2 percent to $1,474 an ounce by 9:24
a.m. in  Singapore , set for a 7.8 percent slide in April in its
worst monthly loss since December 2011.  Gold tumbled into a  bear market  this month as equity
markets rallied on improving global growth and weakening
expectations for inflation. Prices plunged 14 percent in the two
sessions to April 15, the most since 1983, and hit a low of
$1,321.95 an ounce on April 16. Since then, spot bullion has
rebounded 11 percent, as a surge in physical demand offsets
record ETP outflows.  “We have seen a lot of selling in ETFs and recently we see
a lot of physical buying, so there has been some conversion from
ETFs into physical gold,” said Frederic Panizzutti, global head
of marketing and sales at bullion refiner MKS ( Switzerland ) SA.  Global holdings have dropped 13 percent this year as assets
held in the SPDR Gold Trust, the largest bullion ETP, tumbled 20
percent. SPDR gold assets slumped to 1,080.64 tons yesterday,
the lowest since September 2009, and are down 11.5 percent in
April.  John Paulson , the largest investor in the SPDR, has stuck
with his view that the metal will climb as a hedge against
inflation.  Retail Demand  The risk of further ETP outflows would subside if prices
recover to above the $1,500 level or equity markets underperform,
according to Barclays Plc. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
equities reached an all-time high yesterday and has more than
doubled from its 12-year low in 2009. The key question in the
near term is whether retail and jewelry demand can continue to
counter ETP outflows, Barclays analysts including Suki Copper
wrote in a note yesterday.  “At best, the outlook is mixed,” said Jeffrey Rhodes,
global head of precious metals at INTL FCStone Inc. “For the
first time in many years, you’ve almost got an equal number of
bulls as bears. The collapse in price happened right as we were
on the cusp of a major period of physical demand in  India  and
having had that washout over two days, it didn’t take long for
the physical market to come to the table.”  The plunge in  gold prices  has set off a purchasing frenzy
among coin and jewelry buyers from  China  to the U.S. Coin demand
from mints in the U.S. and  Australia  to the U.K. is soaring,
while the volume for the benchmark cash contract on the Shanghai
Gold Exchange was more than four times last year’s daily average
every day since April 16. Premiums to secure supplies in India
jumped to five times the level before the slump. China and India
are the world’s largest buyers.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Glenys Sim at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  