-- Grimsson Gives Progressives Mandate to Form Iceland Government
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-04-30T12:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/grimsson-gives-progressives-mandate-to-form-iceland-government.html
Iceland President Olafur Ragnar Grimsson gave the election runner-up Progressive Party a mandate
to form a new government after the group surged in popularity
amid promises to ease mortgage debt for consumers.  The party will be given the task of forming a government
because it was the biggest gainer in the April 27 election,
Grimsson said today in Reykjavik after meeting with Progressive
Party leader Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson. He will have until
late next week to negotiate, Grimsson said.  The Progressives jumped 9.6 percentage points to 24.4
percent in the election after pledging to writedown mortgage
debt for consumers. Grimsson unexpectedly chose the group ahead
the Independence Party, which was the election winner with 26.7
percent of the vote. They both will have 19 seats in parliament.  The two opposition parties attracted voters burdened by
high  inflation -linked mortgage debt and as unemployment hovers
at more than twice the level before the island’s economy
collapsed in 2008. The shift comes four years after Icelanders
took to the streets to oust an Independence Party-led government
and hand power to a Social Democratic-led alliance.  The government, which included the Social Democratic
Alliance and the Left Green Party, won a combined 23.8 percent.
The  Social Democrats  plunged 16.9 percentage points. A Bright
Future, a new pro-EU party, won 8.2 percent and the Pirates
garnered 5.1 percent. A party needs 5 percent to get into
parliament.  The Progressives have pledged to reduce consumer mortgage
debt by using proceeds from writedowns on 450 billion kronur
($3.8 billion) of domestic-currency assets held by the creditors
in the banks that failed in 2008.  Inflation spurred by krona losses has crippled households.
With more than 80 percent of private debt linked to consumer
prices, Icelanders are vulnerable to currency swings and owe
domestic lenders about 1.43 trillion kronur in loans indexed to
inflation. They’ve struggled to keep up debt payments as price
gains hover close to 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 