-- Guinea Bribe-Probe Defendant Cilins Ordered Held Without Bail
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-30T02:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/guinea-bribe-probe-defendant-cilins-ordered-held-without-bail.html
A French citizen with ties to  BSG
Resources Ltd.  who is charged with obstructing a U.S. grand jury
investigation into bribes paid to win mining rights in  Guinea 
was ordered held without bail by a federal judge.  Frederic Cilins was ordered today by U.S. Magistrate Judge
James Klindt in Jacksonville,  Florida , to remain in custody
because of concern he may try to flee if released. Cilins will
be transported from Florida to New York to face criminal
charges, Klindt said at a hearing.  Cilins, 50, submitted a false, unsigned affidavit in
support of his bid to win release on bail and presents a “grave
risk of flight,” prosecutors said in a court filing yesterday.  Cilins was described by Guinean Justice Minister Christian Sow as an agent of BSGR. He is accused of offering to pay a
cooperating witness to lie to the grand jury and to turn over
documents for him to destroy, according to an indictment filed
last week in federal court in Manhattan. BSGR is controlled by
billionaire Beny Steinmetz, who is  Israel ’s richest person,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cilins, who was arrested April 15 in Jacksonville, is
charged with five criminal counts. Prosecutors said he
“repeatedly attempted to obstruct the grand jury
investigation” in conversations and meetings with the witness.  In the affidavit Cilins filed to support his request for
bail, Cilins said he is the sole owner of two limited liability
companies that hold Florida properties being proposed for use as
security for a bond, Assistant U.S. Attorney Kelly Karase in
Jacksonville said in yesterday’s filing. Instead, the LLCs are
owned by Cilins and two other men, Michael Noy and Avraham Lev
Ran, who are tied to Cilins’s alleged crime, Karase said.  “There is simply no reason to believe that either of these
individuals would want the defendant to attend a trial at which
their own activities will be the subject of inquiry,” Karase
said in the filing.  Noy was heard on a wiretapped phone call discussing with
Cilins efforts to get a cooperating witness, who was the wife of
a dead, former top Guinean official, to sign a false document
that was to be submitted in the bribery investigation, the
government said. Lev Ran signed a contract that included
payments to the cooperating witness and transferred hundreds of
thousands of dollars to her in the U.S., according to the
filing.  Lev Ran couldn’t be reached for comment. Noy couldn’t be
located. Michelle Smith, a lawyer who represents Cilins, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on
today’s hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Cilins, 13-mj-00975, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  The Florida case is U.S. v. Cilins, 13-mj-01087, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Florida (Jacksonville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  