-- IAC Rises as Google Effect on Search Results Called Temporary
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-05-01T20:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/iac-profit-tops-estimates-as-about-com-aids-search-expansion.html
IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) , the owner of
websites from Match.com to  Newsweek /Daily Beast, rose to the
highest in six months after saying its search business is
overcoming the effects of a policy change by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  on
search results.  IAC climbed 1.1 percent to $47.57 in  New York , the highest
closing price since Nov. 1. The shares are little changed this
year, compared with an 11 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  A recalibration of the algorithm Google, the biggest
search-engine company, uses to find relevant websites caused IAC
properties such as Ask.com and About.com to appear lower in
results last quarter, hurting ad sales, Chief Executive Officer
 Greg Blatt  said today on a conference call. IAC’s adjustments
are moving its sites higher in the rankings, he said.  “We expect overall improvement throughout the year,”
Blatt said. “The policy changes do bring down our short-term
growth rates, and we’ve been clear about that, but we will grow
nicely nonetheless.”  IAC has expanded its search business, focusing on question-
and-answer sites with the $300 million acquisition of About.com
from New York Times Co. last year. The search division’s sales
last quarter rose 16 percent to $397.2 million, including $31.3
million from About.  Sales climbed 16 percent from a year earlier to $742.2
million, IAC said yesterday in a statement, below the $757.3
million average estimate of analysts, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “A lot of people are worried about search, particularly
toolbars,” said Kerry Rice, an analyst at Needham & Co. in  San
Francisco . “The revenue per query seemed to be down.”  Net income  climbed to $53.6 million, or 61 cents a share,
from $34.5 million, or 38 cents, a year earlier, the New York-
based company said. Profit excluding some items was 83 cents a
share, beating the 68-cent average estimate of analysts.  Newsweek Drag  The media portion of the business, which includes publisher
Newsweek/Daily Beast Co., had an operating loss of $8.8 million
in the period -- the first full quarter with Newsweek’s magazine
out of print. That compares with a $24.6 million operating loss
in the fourth quarter, which included $7 million in
restructuring expenses to shift Newsweek from a print magazine
to a digital-only publication. IAC doesn’t provide figures for
Newsweek specifically.  IAC Chairman  Barry Diller  regrets buying the magazine, he
told Bloomberg TV this week.  “It was a mistake.” Diller, 71, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. Publishing a weekly magazine when news has
become instantaneous is “a fool’s errand,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  