-- Iberdrola Said to Seek Lower Borrowing Costs on $4 Billion Loan
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-04-30T16:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/iberdrola-said-to-seek-lower-borrowing-costs-on-4-billion-loan.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE) , the Spanish utility
facing declining revenues in its domestic market, is seeking to
reduce borrowing costs under a 3 billion-euro ($4 billion) loan
pact signed in 2011, according to two people with knowledge of
the matter.  Iberdola is asking lenders to increase a 1.5 billion-euro
 credit line  and reduce the amount allocated to them in a more
expensive 1.5 billion-euro term loan portion of the financing,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The Bilbao, Spain-based company is
offering to pay a 0.25 percent fee to lenders on any commitments
they transfer, they said.  The term piece pays interest at 1.05 percentage points more
than the euro interbank offered rate and the revolving piece
pays initial interest at 0.7 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In a revolving line of credit, money maybe
borrowed again once it’s repaid; in a  term loan  it can’t.  Iberdrola is asking lenders to make available to it until
2015 the option to extend the maturity of the financing by one
year, said the people. Under the terms of the arrangement
Iberdola may exercise this option twice until June.  Officials in Iberdrola’s Madrid-based press office didn’t
immediately return a telephone call and an e-mail seeking
comment.  The company has also been in talks with banks to refinance
a 2.6 billion-euro revolving credit facility due December 2014,
two people said last month. That loan pays initial interest at
0.75 percentage points more than Euribor, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The utility is  rated  Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, BBB
by Standard & Poor’s and BBB+ by  Fitch Ratings , the second- and
third-lowest investment grade levels, Bloomberg data show.  Iberdola said April 24 that first-quarter profit beat
analyst estimates as growth in the U.S. and U.K. offset
declining income at home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  