-- IBM Raises Dividend 12%, Adds $5 Billion in Stock Buybacks
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-04-30T20:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ibm-approves-5-billion-for-repurchases-raises-dividend-12-.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the biggest computer-services company, boosted its
dividend 12 percent and approved $5 billion in stock buybacks,
rewarding investors after a disappointing earnings report.  The dividend of 95 cents a share will be payable on June 10
to shareholders of record on May 10, IBM said today from its
annual meeting in Huntsville,  Alabama . With the additional
buyback funds, IBM has $11.2 billion in its repurchase program.  Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty, who took the reins
at IBM in January 2012, is returning more cash to shareholders
after a rare earnings shortfall sent the stock tumbling 8.3
percent in one day. The company’s first-quarter profit, released
on April 18, missed analysts’ estimates for the first time since
2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  IBM  rose  1.7 percent to $202.54 at the close today in New
York. The shares have climbed 5.7 percent this year, compared
with a 12 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The Armonk, New York-based company also is making
management changes in the wake of the earnings report. Rod Adkins, the head of IBM’s hardware division, will become senior
vice president of corporate strategy, a person familiar with the
matter said last week.  Tom Rosamilia, who has been overseeing corporate strategy,
will take charge of the hardware business, reporting to  Steve Mills , senior vice president of software, the person said.  Execution Issues  Sales at the hardware division dropped 17 percent last
quarter, contributing to a broader slump at the company. Chief
Financial Officer Mark Loughridge told investors on a conference
call that the sales force was having “execution problems.”  Loughridge and IBM’s investor-relations team are taking
pains to show investors how the company is working through its
challenges,  Ed Maguire , an analyst at Credit Agricole Securities
in New York, said last week.  “What they were trying to do is be as open as possible
because they understand that disclosure is extremely important
for their stakeholders,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  