-- Imperial Tobacco Reports First Profit Decline in 17 Years
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-04-30T09:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/imperial-tobacco-profit-declines-as-conditions-worsen-in-europe.html
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) ,
 Europe ’s second-biggest tobacco company, reported the first drop
in earnings since it listed on the stock market 17 years ago
because of worsening conditions in Europe.  Adjusted operating profit fell 6.5 percent to 1.43 billion
pounds ($2.22 billion) in the six months ended March 31,
Bristol, England-based Imperial Tobacco said today in a
statement. That compares with the 1.4 billion-pounds average
 estimate  of four  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Per-share earnings growth for the year is expected at the
lower end of the company’s model of 4 percent to 8 percent, the
maker of Davidoff and West cigarettes said in the statement.
Business conditions were “difficult” in the European Union,
particularly in Spain, France and  Germany , where economic
pressures are “more pronounced,” it said. Chief Executive
Officer Alison Cooper pledged that the company will “strengthen
delivery in the second half and into 2014.”  Europe’s economic slump has also dented volumes at larger
competitors  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and Philip Morris
International Inc. Imperial, which flagged a probable drop in
first-half profit in January, is facing a threat to its business
from the prospect of a plain-packaging requirement in the U.K.,
where it’s the leader with about 45 percent of the market.  Cost Reductions  A change to U.K. law on packaging may be announced in the
Queen’s speech on May 8, the  Guardian newspaper  said on March 6,
citing an unidentified government official.  Imperial Tobacco  rose 0.2 percent to 2,303 pence at 10:20
a.m. in  London  trading.  In Australia, which introduced plain packaging on Dec.1,
there has been “no material impact on consumption,” Cooper
said on a conference call today, and “I don’t see any
disadvantage from being market leader” in the U.K.  Imperial plans to cut costs to make savings of about 300
million pounds a year by September 2018, including 30 million
pounds in the second half of this financial year to boost
earnings, Cooper said.  “The headwinds are turning into a longer and more severe
storm than we thought, hence they need the 30 million-pound cost
savings to deliver for the full year,” said  Erik Bloomquist , an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in London.  New Products  Imperial Tobacco is trailing rivals such as BAT and Philip
Morris International in developing so-called new-generation
products, which the companies say are less harmful because they
deliver nicotine without having to burn tobacco.  BAT plans to sell its first such product, which isn’t an
electronic cigarette, as early as next year, while PMI has
earmarked 2017.  Imperial has a division called Fontem Ventures that is
“looking at new consumer experiences which are adjacent to
tobacco, but not tobacco,” Cooper said. It’s too early to
reveal any details and “we should have something to talk about
next year,” she said.  Imperial’s lack of a pipeline “is a source of frustration
for many investors,” Bloomquist said. “It’s where the growth
is and many competitors are driving this very aggressively.”  The quantity of cigarette equivalent volumes sold by
Imperial Tobacco in the first half fell 5.9 percent.  Tobacco
companies  are relying on higher prices as well as growth in
 emerging markets  to offset declining consumption and rising
government levies in western Europe and  North America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  