-- India Group Said Top Bid for $6 Billion Mozambique Gas
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-30T11:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/india-group-said-top-bid-for-6-billion-mozambique-gas.html
State-backed  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. (ONGC)  and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  are the leading joint bidders for the
stake in a Mozambique gas field being sold by  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  and  Videocon Industries Ltd. (VCLF) , three people with knowledge
of the discussions said.  A deal may value the 20 percent holding in the Rovuma-1
offshore block at $5 billion to $6 billion, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private. ONGC and Oil  India , both controlled by India’s
government, are bidding together for the asset, and a successful
bid would be the largest Asian investment in  Africa  since at
least 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The valuation is not cheap, but it still makes sense
because Mozambique LNG could go a long way in supplying India’s
energy needs,” said Neelabh Sharma, an analyst at BOB Capital
Markets Ltd. in Mumbai, referring to liquefied natural gas.  A successful bid by the Indian group would mark the third
major Mozambique deal in less than a year by a state-controlled
Asian energy company, following transactions by  China  National
Petroleum Corp. and  Thailand ’s PTT Exploration and Production
Pcl. The acquisitions show Asian governments’ determination to
to supply some of the world’s fastest-growing economies with gas
reserves.  Total’s Withdrawal  Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest oil company, studied a bid
for the stake and decided not to make an offer, Chief Financial
Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere said last week, citing the
risk of cost overruns and project delays.  ONGC Chairman Sudhir Vasudeva, Oil India Chairman S.K.
Srivastava and Videocon Chairman Venugopal Dhoot didn’t answer
calls to their mobile phones seeking comment. Anadarko officials
didn’t return a call made outside normal office hours in
Houston.  Mozambique’s Indian Ocean coast holds fields which are
estimated to have enough gas to meet global demand for two
years, attracting investment from energy companies in Asia,
Europe and North America. Rovuma-1’s potential reserves are
greater than what Libya has in proven deposits, according to
data from The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko, the operator of
the block.  Increasing Confidence  The project is on track to be the largest-ever liquefied
natural gas development without a so-called supermajor energy
company leading the work, reflecting Asian players’ increasing
confidence in taking the lead. LNG plants need billions of
dollars in investment before they are able to super-cool gas
into a liquid to load it onto tankers for shipment.  At a planned capacity of 20 million tons annually, the
Mozambique project could be the world’s second-largest LNG
export site after Ras Laffan in  Qatar , where Exxon Mobil Corp.
is a partner.  ONGC shares fell 0.7 percent in Mumbai today to 327 rupees,
while Oil India gained 0.1 percent to 549.9 rupees.  The Indian group’s discussions with Anadarko and Videocon
aren’t exclusive, meaning the sellers could still accept a
higher offer from another company, one of the people said. A
deal could be announced within a few weeks pending government
approvals, another person said.  Natural Hedge  CNPC, China’s largest oil producer, last month agreed to
buy a 20 percent stake in Mozambique’s Area 4 for $4.2 billion
from  Eni SpA. (ENI)  The block, which neighbors Rovuma-1, may contain
75 trillion cubic feet of gas, or more than  Norway ’s existing
reserves, according to the Chinese company. Without sufficient
onshore supplies of its own, Asia consumes more LNG than any
other region, so owning the producing assets is a natural hedge
against rising prices.  With Mozambique’s per capita gross domestic product lower
than Rwanda’s, the stakes are high. The country has little
experience in managing mineral wealth and is still building
ports, roads and railway lines. Rio Tinto Group had to write
down 70 percent of its $4 billion investment in Mozambique’s
coal industry because of a lack of transport capacity and a drop
in the price of the fuel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  