-- India to Cut Tax on Rupee Debt to Attract Foreign Investment
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2013-04-30T12:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/india-to-cut-tax-on-rupee-bonds-to-attract-foreign-investment.html
India  will cut a levy on foreign
investment in rupee-denominated government and corporate bonds
to attract overseas capital and narrow the nation’s current-
account deficit.  In a speech in parliament today, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram proposed the so-called withholding tax,
charged on interest income, be reduced to 5 percent from 20
percent for foreign and qualified institutional investors. The
change will be applicable for two years starting June, he said.  The rupee surged the most in two weeks after Chidambaram’s
decision to ease the tax rules. The measures may lure foreign
investors, who are restricted to $75 billion of Indian debt, and
help finance the current account gap, said Jayesh Mehta,
managing director at the Indian unit of Bank of America Corp.
The shortfall in the widest measure of trade touched a  record 
$32.6 billion in the quarter ended Dec. 31.  “This measure is similar to the opening of the Indian
equity markets in the nineties,” Mehta, who’s also the  country
treasurer at the local unit of Bank of America, said in a phone
interview today. “I expect that by December, the $75 billion
limit for foreign holdings in government and corporate debt will
be filled up.”  The Indian currency closed 0.8 percent higher at 53.81
against the dollar in Mumbai, making it the best performer in
 Asia  today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indian debt returned 5.75 percent in 2013, compared with
2.9 percent on Chinese notes and 2.53 percent on Russian bonds,
according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. Brazilian
securities lost 1.52 percent, the data show.  Ease Inflation  “Reducing withholding tax on rupee bonds of Indian
corporates and  government securities  will attract overseas
lenders to put in more debt investments in India,” said Prabal Banerji, chief financial officer at  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) , based in
the western Indian city of Ahmedabad. “This will help ease
inflation and keep the  exchange rate  steady.”  Overseas investors  bought  $3.3 billion of government and
corporate debt so far in 2013, compared with $6.86 billion last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Indian companies
sold 792 billion rupees ($14.7 billion) of bonds in 2013, about
5 percent more than in the same period of 2012, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  