-- India May Consider Cutting Wheat Export Price to Boost Shipments
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-04-30T07:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/india-may-consider-cutting-wheat-export-price-to-boost-shipments.html
India , the world’s second-biggest
wheat grower, will consider cutting the export price to boost
shipments from state reserves amid forecasts for a record
harvest for a sixth year.  A panel of ministers headed by Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar will review the minimum price of 14,840 rupees ($274) a
metric ton that private traders need to bid for supplies from
the Food Corp. of India, Food Minister K.V. Thomas told
reporters in New Delhi today. The government is seeking to
export 5 million tons by June 30 and the ministers may consider
extending the deadline after the Food Corp. failed to get any
bids to ship the grain, he said.  Exports from India have slowed after a rally in domestic
prices, hampering efforts to make room in warehouses for an all-
time high harvest. A decline in global prices to a nine-month
low earlier this month on signs of a rebound in output from the
U.S. to  Australia  has also cut demand for Indian grain in
 Southeast Asia  and  Africa , according to Pravin Dongre, chairman
of the India Pulses & Grains Association.  “Unless India decides to export wheat at international
prices, the export campaign will slowly wind down to a very
negligible quantity,” said Dongre. “It’s better to export if
there is not enough place to store as it’s a national loss when
kept in open. It’s better to reduce your losses now than incur
expenses on storage.”  Expensive Supplies  Overseas sales may tumble to between 500,000 tons and 1
million tons in the year that began on April 1 from 5.3 million
tons in 2012-2013 should exporters not cut prices, Dongre said.
Indian wheat is $30 a ton more expensive than supplies from the
 Black Sea region , he said.  Wheat for July delivery climbed 0.3 percent to $7.185 a
bushel at 11:53 a.m. in Mumbai today, extending a 3.5 percent
advance yesterday. Futures tumbled to $6.5975 on April 1, the
lowest for a most-active contract since June 20 on forecast of
supplies outpacing demand.  State stockpiles in India climbed 21 percent to 24.2
million tons at the start of this month from a year earlier and
more than thrice the quantity needed as buffer and emergency
reserves, according to official data. The government may miss a
target to buy a record 44 million tons from growers in the
marketing year that began April 1 as private traders have
stepped up purchases, Thomas said. State agencies may now buy
about 40 million tons, he said.  Wheat has rallied 7.3 percent in Mumbai this month as
exporters competed with government agencies for supplies in the
market. The government increased the minimum price for the grain
by 5 percent to 13,500 rupees a ton.  Production in the year ending June may exceed the 94.9
million tons harvested a year earlier, Indu Sharma, director at
the state-run Directorate of Wheat Research, said April 8. The
agriculture ministry predicts the crop to drop to 92.3 million
tons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  