-- India’s Top Court Slams Government Interference in Coal Probe
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-04-30T07:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/india-s-top-court-slams-government-interference-in-coal-probe.html
India ’s  Supreme Court  rebuked
federal investigators for allowing the government to vet the
findings of a probe into alleged corruption in the award of coal
blocks, setting off parliament protests and demands for the
resignation of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh .  The top court said the decision by the  Central Bureau of
Investigation  to share the investigation report with the
government was “not ordinary” and said it would seek to free
the  Central Bureau of Investigation  from political interference.  “The investigation has to be independent without any
extraneous influence,” the three-judge bench headed by R.M.
Lodha said. “The very foundation of the investigating process
is shaken by political interference.”  Today’s court statement is the latest in a string of
embarrassments linked to charges of corruption that Singh has
faced for more than two years. A cabinet colleague resigned in
2010 to face trial for the 2008 sale of spectrum that the
nation’s auditor said was “arbitrary” and may have cost the
exchequer $31 billion. Singh was in charge of the coal ministry
for part of the period under the probe and has been personally
blamed by opposition parties for irregularities.  Indian shares fell after the court sought details from the
CBI. The S&P BSE Sensex was down 0.2 percent at 1:04 p.m. in
Mumbai after rising as much as 1.2 percent earlier.  “The market is worried about how much this will damage the
government,” said Alex Mathews, head of research at  Geojit BNP
Paribas Financial Services Ltd. (GBNP)  at Kochi in southern India.
“This threatens to create more political gridlock and
instability.”  ‘Cover Up’  India’s Comptroller & Auditor General told lawmakers in
August that the government’s policy of allocating coal mines
without auction favored some private companies and may have cost
as much as 1.86 trillion rupees ($34 billion) in potential
revenue.  The CBI, which is looking into allegations of graft in the
award of mining rights, told the  Supreme Court  on April 26 that
the status of the investigation was shared with the federal law
minister and two officials of the prime minister’s office and
coal ministry.  The top court’s observations today prompted opposition
lawmakers to demand both Singh and Law Minister Ashwani Kumar
quit. “This has been the most corrupt government since
independence,”  Sushma Swaraj , leader of the main opposition
 Bharatiya Janata Party , said in the lower house of parliament.
“It is not only indulging in corruption, it is trying to cover
it up.”  Swaraj said that while her party would not prevent passage
of the  finance bill  in parliament, there would be no other
cooperation on the government’s legislative agenda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  