-- Intuitive Salesman Says Robotic Surgeries Drove Salaries
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-30T23:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/intuitive-salesman-says-robotic-surgeries-drove-salaries.html
A former  Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG) 
sales representative testified that two-thirds of his salary was
based on how many robotic surgeries were completed in his
geographic territory.  Damon Daniels, who covered the northwestern U.S. for
Sunnyvale, California-based Intuitive, also told a state court
jury in Port Orchard, Washington, that he received bonuses for
additional machines bought by hospitals.  Intuitive, whose robots were used in more than 300,000 U.S.
operations last year, is in the third week of the first trial
over claims that the company marketed its da Vinci surgical
system too aggressively.  Josette Taylor alleged in her complaint that Intuitive’s
training was simplified to sell more robots, which led to errors
in removing the prostate gland of her husband, Fred Taylor, at
Bremerton, Washington-based Harrison Medical Center. He died of
heart disease in 2012, four years after the surgery, at age 71.  Daniels, who another witness said was in the operating
suite during Taylor’s prostatectomy, testified that he often
accompanied surgeons using the robotic system for the first
time, assisting with the console set-up, the positioning of the
specialized operating table and also answering questions.  Doesn’t Remember  Daniels testified that he doesn’t remember Taylor’s
surgery, doesn’t recall discussing the patient’s obesity with
the doctor who performed it, Scott Bildsten, and doesn’t recall
hearing about the patient’s post-surgical experience, which
included three weeks in the intensive care unit.  Daniels was also questioned by plaintiff’s attorney Richard
Friedman about whether Harrison Medical Center administrators
expressed concern about Taylor’s surgery and complications.  “I really don’t remember what happened after the case,”
Daniels said.  Under cross examination, Daniels said he only saw surgical
patients after they were “draped,” or laying on the table
after being prepared for surgery. He told defense attorney
Jeffrey Johnson he was unable to see or know a patient’s body
size.  Lawyers for Intuitive have argued that Taylor never should
have been a candidate for robotic surgery because of his
obesity, and that he didn’t regularly take his prescriptions to
control his heart-disease risks.  Simple Cases  Bildsten, a urologist, was specifically cautioned by
Intuitive that for his early procedures with the da Vinci -- at
least the first four to six surgeries -- he should choose simple
cases and patients with a low body-mass index, Intuitive has
said.  Taylor was 5 feet, 11-inches tall (180 centimeters), and
weighed 280 pounds (127 kilograms), giving him a body-mass index
of 39 -- a measurement that should have precluded robotic
surgery according to Intuitive’s training, the company said in a
court filing.  After seven hours of trouble with robotic surgery on Taylor
in September 2008, Bildsten and other doctors turned to
traditional surgery and then emergency care to repair a rectal
laceration. While Bildsten had performed 100 successful
prostatectomies using a traditional procedure, he hadn’t used
the da Vinci system on a patient unassisted.  During his day-long testimony, Daniels repeatedly said it
was up to a medical center to ensure its staff was ready to
operate the da Vinci system without supervision from more
experienced surgeons, called proctors.  During Bildsten’s two supervised prostate surgeries, the
number recommended by Intuitive, Daniels said Bildsten performed
the actual procedures while the proctor observed and made
comments.  Daniels said he never discussed patient criteria with
surgeons, saying that was a medical decision for physicians.  ‘Stalled Surgeons’  Daniels also testified today about “stalled surgeons” --
doctors who were reluctant to switch from traditional to robotic
surgery, and how he was encouraged to pursue them.  Jurors were shown internal Intuitive e-mails, including one
from Aug. 7, 2008, in which Daniels vowed to track down a doctor
at  Seattle ’s Swedish Medical Center “like a blood hound” after
the physician had turned down several dinner invitations and
didn’t return phone calls.  Daniels said he was once the top sales representative for
Intuitive in the world and that he was promoted to the position
of Field Sales Trainer to train sales representatives during his
last years with the company. He left Intuitive in September
2010. He now works for Neuronetics Inc., a medical-device
company specializing in treating depression, according to his
LinkedIn profile.  26 Lawsuits  Intuitive faces 26 lawsuits from people alleging injuries
tied to its da Vinci system, according to a regulatory filing
this month. The company also has entered into agreements with
some plaintiffs’ lawyers temporarily suspending the statutory
deadline for filing suits for other patients who say they were
hurt by robotic surgery, it said. Intuitive has seen a
“substantial increase” in such claims, according to the
filing.  In robotic surgery, a doctor sits at console several feet
from the patient and peers into a high-definition display. Foot
pedals and hand controls maneuver mechanical arms equipped with
surgical tools, guided by a 3D camera that shows the work as it
is done inside a patient.  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v. Intuitive Surgical
Inc., 09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of  Washington , Kitsap
County (Port Orchard).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  