-- Investors Spurn U.S. States as Revenue Sets Record: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-04-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/investors-spurn-u-s-states-as-revenue-sets-record-muni-credit.html
From Florida to  Michigan , states
are readying record budgets as tax collections are set to exceed
prerecession peaks. The achievement is going unrewarded in the
$3.7 trillion U.S. municipal-bond market.  Even as states’ fiscal health improves, investors in local
debt are bypassing the credits in favor of riskier securities as
the  Federal Reserve  keeps its benchmark overnight interest rate
 near zero . State general-obligations are on pace to trail the
rest of the market for the ninth straight quarter, the longest
stretch since 2007, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Tax revenue in the 50 states this year will surpass the
record of $670 billion from 2008, said Todd Haggerty, who tracks
budget issues for the Denver-based  National Conference of State
Legislatures . Still, with an average  credit rating  one step
higher than the typical muni obligation nationwide, state
securities aren’t appealing enough with local  interest rates 
falling toward  historic lows .  State borrowings “tend to yield less than the broader
market and we think the most positive driver of returns in 2013
for muni bonds is going to be yield,” said Michael Zezas, head
of muni strategy at Morgan Stanley in New York. “The relative
risk-reward is less favorable than other muni sectors.”  Healing Process  Florida  and Michigan join states including  Ohio  and  Texas 
charting record spending plans. The economic health of 44 states
improved in the fourth quarter amid growing employment and
personal income, according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation
of the States index. The gains were the most since 2006, the
year before the 18-month recession began.  Rising personal-income tax collections are driving much of
the spending increase, and taxes on sales and real estate
transactions are also up, said Haggerty at the NCSL.  “Most states are returning to that peak, which is why
projected budget levels are expected to go up,” he said in an
interview. “We’re seeing a gradual improvement.”  The recession reduced state general-fund revenue to about
$604 billion in 2010, according to the NCSL. The deterioration
fueled anti-spending sentiments in the 2010 elections, embodied
by the Tea Party movement as federal lawmakers debated the
health-care law.  Rally Lag  Even with the fiscal rebound, state bonds can’t keep up.
The average state borrowing yields about 1.45 percent, compared
with 2.18 percent for the rest of the market, Bank of America
index data show. The yield spread of about 0.73 percentage point
is close to the smallest since June 2010, showing the broader
market is outpacing state debt.  State general obligations have an average rating of Aa2,
the third-highest grade from Moody’s Investors Service, in Bank
of America’s index. The broad market is one level lower.  “Because they’re at the top of municipal credit, they tend
to trade on the expensive side, and yields are lower,” said
 Peter Hayes , head of munis at New York-based BlackRock Inc.,
which oversees $114 billion of local debt. “It may not be the
best way for people to maximize income, but for those who are
worried about safety and liquidity, state G.O.s are the best way
to express that.”  The Washington-based National Association of State Budget
Officers estimates that general-fund spending for fiscal 2014
will surpass its prerecession high.  Record-Setters  In Florida, which has a AAA credit rating from  Standard &
Poor’s , legislators are ready to vote on a $74.5 billion budget,
which exceeds by $855 million the previous high set seven years
ago.  In Ohio on April 18, the  House of Representatives  passed a
two-year $61.5 billion budget, which would be a record. In
Texas, where lawmakers approve a two-year spending plan, the
general-revenue budget will be a record, based on initial plans
from legislators.  Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder ’s proposed $50.8 billion
budget for 2013-14 would be the state’s largest ever. It
includes an all-time high $29.5 billion from state taxes and
fees. While the senate hasn’t completed its budget, the house
spending plan would be the largest ever, though it doesn’t
include money to expand Medicaid, as Snyder proposed.  Republicans hold the governor’s office and majorities in
the legislature in all four states.  The plan from Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican who
proposed a record-breaking $74.2 billion budget this year,
included about $730 million in new debt for highway and seaport
construction.  New Money  The state averaged $2.2 billion in new-money debt issuance
annually from 2002 to 2010. During Scott’s time in office, 2011
was the biggest year for new debt issuance, with $888 million.
House and senate lawmakers have proposed spending cash on
college construction, usually the biggest driver of state debt.  A former chief executive officer at  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) ,
Scott, 60, financed his own Tea Party group in 2009 before
spending $70 million of his own money to win the governor’s
office. His approval ratings have exceeded 39 percent just once
in 15 surveys of registered Florida voters since taking office,
according to Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University .  Scott, facing re-election next year, wants to spend $18.5
billion on education, a 7 percent increase from this year and
the most since 2007-08. Upon taking office in 2011, Scott asked
lawmakers to cut $3.3 billion from the prekindergarten through
university budgets.  Medicaid Reversal  In another reversal, the Florida governor now backs
Medicaid expansion in the face of opposition from lawmakers. He
is among several Republican governors pushing to expand
Medicaid, the federal program providing health-care coverage for
the poor. These governors have faced opposition from state
lawmakers in their own party. At least eight of 30 Republican
governors have backed Medicaid expansion.  “This is a growth budget,” Scott told reporters at the
Capitol this month.  Republican lawmakers in Florida, who have controlled the
legislature since 1996, propose spending more than Scott
requested. They plan to complete the budget by May 3, the last
day of the session.  In the new issuance market, the Iowa Finance Authority
plans to offer $1.2 billion in tax-exempt bonds today for a
fertilizer plant, in the biggest high-yield muni borrowing since
at least 1990.  The deal makes up about 20 percent of issuance this week,
the smallest supply wave since March.  New Jersey ’s postponed
$350 million general-obligation issue is set to price May 1 via
competitive sale.  Ten-year benchmark munis yield 1.75 percent, close to the
lowest since January. The tax-exempt bonds are still cheaper
than similar-maturity Treasuries, which yield 1.67 percent.  The yield ratio between the two securities is 105 percent,
close to the highest in about two weeks. The greater the figure,
the less expensive munis are compared with federal debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  