-- Iowa Cuts Yields in Record $1.2 Billion Junk-Debt Offer
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/iowa-authority-sells-record-1-2-billion-muni-junk-debt-offering.html
The Iowa Finance Authority reduced
yields on $1.2 billion of tax-exempt bonds being sold for a
fertilizer plant, the largest speculative-grade issue ever in
the $3.7 trillion municipal market.  The longest maturity in the tax-free sale is due in
December 2025. It was priced to yield 5.3 percent yesterday,
down 0.1 percentage point from earlier in the offering,
according to three people familiar with the sale. That put it
about 3.27 percentage points higher than benchmark munis
maturing in 12 years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Standard
& Poor’s  rates the securities BB-, three levels below investment
grade.  Individuals and institutions placed orders for the bonds on
April 30. Yields dropped by 0.075 percentage point on the
portion maturing in 2019 and 0.05 percentage point on the
segment due in 2022. Final pricing is expected as soon as today.  “Typically in high-yield, you’ve got senior living,
hospitals, real-estate and smaller project-finance deals,” Dan Toboja, vice president of muni trading at Ziegler Capital
Markets in  Chicago , said before the sale. “This is something
new, and people are excited.”  The borrowing is the largest this week and the biggest for
an Iowa issuer since at least 1974. It is benefiting from demand
for high-yield securities, which have earned 2.8 percent this
year, compared with 1.3 percent for the broader municipal
market, Barclays Plc data show.  Proceeds will fund a 320-acre nitrogen fertilizer plant
being built by Orascom Construction Industries,  Egypt ’s biggest
publicly traded company. The factory will be in Lee County, in
the southeast corner of the state.  The plant will provide as many as 3,500 construction jobs
for the county of 35,617, and 165 full-time jobs once it opens,
said Gary Folluo, a member of the county’s board of supervisors.
Lee County’s unemployment rate was 9 percent in February,
compared with 5 percent statewide, U.S. Labor Department data
show.  The deal comes two weeks after an explosion at a Texas
fertilizer plant killed 14 people, wrecked two schools and
destroyed a nursing home. The issuer released updated bond
documents prior to the sale that said the facility won’t make
solid ammonium nitrate, the most explosive type of nitrogen
fertilizer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  