-- Irish Central Bank’s Impairment Provisions Rise to $523 Million
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-04-30T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/irish-central-bank-s-impairment-provisions-rise-to-523-million.html
The Irish central bank’s provisions
for potential losses on investments and securities increased to
400 million euro ($523 million) last year, amid rising risks
posed by the euro area’s sovereign debt crisis.  Impairment provisions on investments and securities held
for monetary policy operations rose from 300 million euros in
2011, the Dublin-based bank said in its annual report published
today. It follows the bank’s annual review of investments and
monetary policy related portfolios such as the  European Central
Bank ’s former Securities Markets Program bond-buying plan and
covered bond purchase plan, it said.  “The estimation of the impairment charge is subject to
considerable uncertainty, which has increased in the current
economic environment,” the central bank said. “It is sensitive
to factors such as the market perception of debt
sustainability.”  The ECB ended the SMP, which allowed it to buy government
debt, and covered bond purchase programs last year in favor of
its so-called Outright Monetary Transactions plan as a way of
tackling the debt crisis. The OMT hasn’t been activated.  The decision to introduce the OMT “contributed to a
significant improvement in financial-market conditions in the
second half of 2012,” the central bank said.  2012 Profit  Yields on Ireland’s five-year bonds have narrowed to 2.38
percent from 5.7 percent before ECB President  Mario Draghi 
unveiled the bond plan in August. The sovereign has since sold
7.5 billion-euros of bonds, while its largest lenders  Bank of
Ireland Plc  and  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  also re-entered public
debt markets for the first time since 2010.  The central bank said it didn’t take an impairment charge
on 40.4 billion euros of extraordinary liquidity assistance to
former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. ELA was repaid on Feb. 7 as the
nationalized bank liquidated and the central bank agreed to swap
so-called promissory notes, used as collateral for the facility,
for long-term government-backed bonds. The bonds are held in the
bank’s trading portfolio.  The central bank’s full year profit rose to 1.44 billion
euros from 1.2 billion euros in 2011, before paying 1.15 billion
euros over to the Irish state. Profits were driven by interest
income from ELA and other monetary policy operations.  Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  passed 63,324 euros
of his 276,324 euros in remuneration for last year to the
 finance ministry . His salary was eclipsed by that of outgoing
Deputy Governor Matthew Elderfield’s 340,000 euro package.  Elderfield is in talks to join Lloyds Banking Group Plc in
a senior compliance post, a person with knowledge of the matter
said on April 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  