-- J.C. Penney May Need to Sweeten Bond Offer, Gimme Credit Says
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2013-04-30T22:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/j-c-penney-may-need-to-sweeten-bond-offer-gimme-credit-says.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  may need to pay
more than the 135 cents on the dollar it offered today to tender
bonds that can restrict the retailer’s debt load, according to
Gimme Credit LLC.  J.C. Penney’s 7.125 percent securities due November 2023
climbed to 144.75 cents on the dollar at 4:23 p.m. in New York
to yield 2.3 percent, an increase of 10 cents today and 32.5
cents yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The
company offered to buy back the notes for 130 cents on the
dollar and pay an additional 5 cents on the dollar if
bondholders consent to amending the indenture, according to a
statement today.  “It’s likely there will be at least one more round of
’sweetening’ the tender offer, considering how important this
tender is to the company’s financing plans,” Carol Levenson,
director of research at Chicago-based Gimme Credit, wrote in an
e-mail. “On the other hand, given the increase in the price
already (probably the most any corporate bond has ever increased
in two days barring some kind of ’positive event risk’ like an
acquisition by a better credit), you probably don’t want to be
too greedy.”  A make-whole price would cost Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney about 153 cents on the dollar, an amount the company
probably won’t pay, Carla Casella, a high-yield consumer, food
and retail analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note
yesterday.  Bond Jump  The $254.5 million in notes jumped after the company said
yesterday proceeds of a secured loan may be used to amend or
acquire the notes, an attempt to remove a provision that
restricts the amount of debt it incurs. The securities traded as
low as 83 cents in January to yield 9.69 percent.  If too few bondholders agree to amend the indentures, J.C.
Penney intends to defease the bonds to get around the
restrictive covenants, Levenson wrote.  To defease a bond, a company contributes cash or Treasury
securities to a trust fund to ensure interest payments over
time, thereby in effect eliminating the credit risk from the
company, said James Goldstein, a credit analyst at CreditSights
Inc.  Sales Slump  The retailer working to rebound from the lowest annual
sales in more than two decades received a $1.75 billion, five-
year term loan commitment from Goldman Sachs Group Inc., J.C.
Penney said yesterday in the statement. Proceeds may be used to
fund working capital requirements and “to amend, acquire or
satisfy and discharge” the 7.125 percent notes, J.C. Penney
said.  The securities are J.C. Penney’s only bonds with a so-
called incurrence covenant that can restrict future issuance if
the company’s ratio of net tangible assets to senior funded
indebtedness is below 200 percent. The ratio was 304 percent at
the end of last year, J.C. Penney said in a March 20 regulatory
filing. Note holders are being solicited to eliminate those
“restrictive” covenants, certain events of default and other
provisions, J.C. Penney said today.  The offer expires at 5 p.m. in New York on May 13, the
company said.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded J.C. Penney’s long-
term rating to Caa1 from B3, noting that while the new term loan
will bolster the company’s liquidity, it does not resolve long-
term performance concerns. It also will “greatly weaken JCP’s
capital structure at a time when its earnings are at precarious
levels,” the ratings company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in New York at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  