-- Japan Utilities Raising Prices Offer Abe Wrong Inflation
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-05-01T06:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/japan-utilities-may-raise-prices-as-reactors-sit-idle.html
Japan ’s power utilities reported
combined losses of about 1.6 trillion yen a year ago, the
equivalent of $20 billion at the time. Yesterday, they repeated
the performance.  On the face of it, the bad news for the companies looks
like a boost for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his 2 percent
inflation target in Japan as the utilities will probably raise
electricity tariffs. Except it’s the wrong kind of inflation.  “I have a hard time seeing the government declining the
move for higher tariffs, I don’t think they can,” said  Klaus Baader , chief Asia Pacific economist for Societe Generale SA in
 Hong Kong . “But this isn’t the kind of inflation we want in
Japan to break the deflation mindset. We’d like inflation that
is a reflection of higher wages, whereas this is pure cost
inflation that decreases purchasing power.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co. and eight other power utilities
reported combined losses of 1.59 trillion yen in the latest year
ended March 31, or $16 billion at current rates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tokyo Electric, operator of the stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant, was the last to report yesterday. It had a net
loss of 685.3 billion yen, almost six times its earlier
forecast. Kansai Electric, Japan’s second-biggest power company
by capacity, had a net loss of 243.4 billion yen.  Price Pressure  The shares of Tepco, as  Tokyo Electric  is known, fell 3
percent to close at 417 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, a 94
percent decline since the day before the March 11 disaster.
Kansai Electric rose 3.9 percent. Both companies released
earnings after markets closed yesterday.  The results add pressure on atomic utilities to pass on
rising fuel costs after the Fukushima disaster prompted the
shutdown of all but two of Japan’s 50 nuclear stations. Six have
already raised or are planning to increase electricity prices.  Tokyo Electric, which has about 30 million customers in
Japan’s biggest metropolitan area, raised household rates by
about 8.5 percent in September 2012.  That was to cover purchases of oil, natural gas and coal
needed in  power plants  switched on to replace nuclear reactors.
Osaka-based  Kansai Electric  and Fukuoka-based Kyushu Electric
Power Co. won the government’s approval to raise electricity
prices last month.  Further delays in restarting nuclear plants suggest the
three utilities may be forced to raise electricity prices again,
Hidetoshi Shioda, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc., said by phone yesterday.  Reactor Restarts?  Japan’s nine nuclear plant operators will be forced to pay
3.8 trillion yen more in combined fuel bills this fiscal year
compared with fiscal 2010 because of reactor shutdowns and a
weaker yen, according to an estimate by a government advisory
board released last month.  Japan remains mostly nuclear-free as reactors undergo
checks and upgrades after the Fukushima earthquake and tsunami
cast doubt on the safety of atomic energy. Power companies must
meet new safety requirements, which will take effect in July,
before restarting their reactors.  Shikoku Electric Power Co.’s Ikata No. 3 reactor may be
restarted in October, the first resumption among the nation’s 48
idled nuclear units, Shioda wrote in a report last month. That
may be followed by Kyushu Electric’s Sendai No. 1 and No. 2
reactors in November and Hokkaido Electric Power Co.’s Tomari
No. 1 and No. 2 units in December, Shioda wrote.  Safety Checks  “Japan’s idled reactors will be restarted sooner or later
as there seems to be a consensus among Japanese government
officials about the need for doing so,” Shioda said yesterday.  Prime Minister Abe has said the country will restart the
nuclear reactors once their safety is assured. Some reactors may
resume in autumn after the nuclear watchdog carries out safety
assessments,  Kyodo News  reported, citing Trade and Industry
Minister Toshimitsu Motegi.  Tepco “will do its best to avoid a further price increase
as the move will throw cold water on the mood that the economy
is going up” though it is uncertain when it can restart its
idled reactors, President Naomi Hirose told reporters yesterday.  The following table shows the reported losses of Japan’s
nuclear plant operators for fiscal 2012 and their forecasts for
this financial year. Figures are in billions of yen.  Sources: Tokyo Electric, Chubu Electric, Kansai Electric,
Chugoku Electric, Hokuriku Electric, Tohoku Electric, Shikoku
Electric, Kyushu Electric, Hokkaido Electric  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  