-- Japan Crisis in 2023 Awaits, University of Tokyo Professor Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-30T20:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/japan-crisis-in-2023-awaits-university-of-tokyo-professor-says.html
Japan  will face a fiscal crisis in
about a decade unless the nation undertakes fiscal consolidation
in the “medium term,” according to Takatoshi Ito, a  University
of Tokyo  professor and former member of the prime minister’s
council of economic and fiscal policy.  Ito, also a former deputy vice-minister for international
affairs at Japan’s Ministry of Finance, spoke today at a
conference at  Columbia Business School  in  New York .  On Japan’s debt ratio:  “In the medium term, it is recognized that we need the
fiscal consolidation, basically cutting back fiscal deficits and
lowering our debt-to-GDP ratio. Japan has already the highest
debt-to-GDP ratio, about 200 percent.”  “ Greece  went bust when their debt to GDP ratio was 160
percent.”  “It’s kind of a miracle why the Japanese fiscal situation
is not into crisis yet. I’ve done some calculation on when the
Japanese crisis will come, and that’s 2023.”  “So we have 10 more years to change the course of the
Titanic. But in the medium term we need consolidation for
sure.”  On Japanese government bond yields rising after the  Bank of
Japan ’s latest easing program:  “It’s just confusion, I would say. I think the bond
dealers do not understand why the Bank of Japan is making so big
a change.”  “One part of the BOJ change was to lengthen the maturity
of bonds that they’re buying.”  “This redistribution and addition of those purchases was
not well communicated in the first week, so that the rates were
jumping up and down. I think that has been communicated better,
and I’m sure that will settle down.”  “When the economy becomes really strengthened, then rates
should go up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  