-- Japan Exchange Boosts Dividend Outlook as Profit Misses Estimate
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-04-30T03:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/japan-exchange-boosts-dividend-outlook-as-profit-misses-estimate.html
Japan Exchange Group Inc. (8697)  reported
net income that missed analyst estimates in its first full-year
earnings report after the merger of the Tokyo Stock Exchange
Group Inc. and Osaka Securities Exchange Co. The shares, which
tripled this year through April 26, fell as much as 3.8 percent
after the announcement.  Net income for the year through March 31 was 10.9 billion
yen ($111 million), missing the 11.2 billion yen estimate of
seven  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg while beating the
exchange’s forecast of 9.5 billion yen profit in announced in
January. The exchange forecast an 19 percent increase in profit
to 13 billion yen for the current fiscal year ending March 31,
2014. The bourse also raised its dividend outlook to 95 yen this
year, up from 80 yen the previous year.  Japan Exchange, created through the merger of the Tokyo and
Osaka bourses to cut costs amid slumping volume and increased
international competition, has received a boost as government
policies to defeat deflation spurred a record rally in the
country’s stocks. The daily  volume  of shares traded on the first
section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange averaged about 3.3 billion
shares since November, compared with about 1.9 billion shares in
the same period a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shares of Japan Exchange have “risen sharply, buoyed by
higher equities trading volumes and market expectations that the
rally in Japanese shares is set to extend,” wrote  Takehito Yamanaka , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG which initiated
coverage on the stock with a neutral rating on April 23. “For
trading volume to rise further, not only expectations of
economic recovery but also solid evidence that the recovery is
entrenched will likely be necessary.”  The shares rose 3.1 percent to 12,250 yen at the trading
break, its highest since its merger this January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  