-- Jawbone Buys Fitness-App Maker BodyMedia for $110 Million
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-04-30T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/jawbone-buys-weight-loss-gizmo-maker-bodymedia-s.html
Jawbone, the maker of wireless
audio and fitness-tracking devices, is buying BodyMedia Inc. for
$110 million, according to people with knowledge of the deal’s
price.  The acquisition of Pittsburgh-based BodyMedia is aimed at
bolstering Jawbone’s lineup of wearable health-monitoring
products, said the people, who declined to be identified because 
the information isn’t public. The deal with BodyMedia, which 
makes a weight-loss armband that counts calories by measuring 
skin temperature and sweat levels, was announced today.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  are said to be
developing wristwatch-style devices that will offer some
computing functions, while  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is touting Glass, a
spectacles-style gadget that responds to audio commands and has
a small display at eye level. Jawbone and other makers of
wearable computing products will introduce an array of new
devices for this year’s holiday shopping season, according to
 Stephen Baker , an analyst at NPD Group Inc.  “There’s going to be a rush of wearable computing products
this holiday, so companies are jockeying for position,
especially before the big guys do their announcements,” said
Baker, who is based in  Port Washington , New York.  Jawbone, which makes Bluetooth headsets and speakers along
with a fitness-tracking bracelet called Up, has raised about
$210 million in venture  funding  since the San Francisco-based
company was founded in 1999.  Christine Robins, BodyMedia’s chief executive officer, and
Travis Bogard, Jawbone’s vice president of product management
and strategy, declined to discuss terms of the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  