-- Judge Rules to Destroy Blood Bags Sought by Doping Agency
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-04-30T17:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/judge-rules-to-destroy-blood-bags-sought-by-doping-agency.html
A Spanish judge rejected a request
by anti-doping authorities to hand over as many as 200 blood
bags belonging to cyclists and other athletes, ordering that
they be destroyed instead.  The ruling by Judge Patricia Santamaria came after a trial
of Eufemiano Fuentes, a sports doctor who gave transfusions to
Tour de  France  riders to boost their performance. The bags were
found in his possession, and the  World Anti-Doping Agency  was
among groups looking to identify the athletes involved in so-
called blood-doping, which is banned in sports.  Montreal-based WADA wanted to take disciplinary proceedings
against athletes who haven’t faced sanctions as a result of a
2006 investigation in  Madrid  called “Operacion Puerto,” or
Operation Mountain Pass. As few as a dozen of the 58 cyclists
that police linked to the doping ring, and no one from other
sports, have received bans.  Santamaria’s decision was based on a Spanish privacy law, a
court official said by telephone. WADA has 10 days to appeal her
ruling.  The judge also handed a one-year prison sentence for a so-
called crime against public health to Fuentes, who often treated
riders in hotel rooms at races. He worked with  Lance Armstrong ’s
former U.S. Postal Service teammate  Tyler Hamilton  among other
elite riders.  In  Spain , a first-time offender doesn’t serve jail time for
a sentence of two years or less.  Four-Year Ban  Fuentes also got a four-year ban from working as a sports
doctor. Jose Ignacio Labarta, a former cycling team official,
received a four-month prison sentence. Former team managers
Manolo Saiz and Vicente Belda were cleared of wrongdoing, as was
Fuentes’s sister Yolanda.  The ruling isn’t “completely satisfactory,” Ana Munoz,
head of the Spanish anti-doping agency, told a news conference.
“There are some acquittals I don’t agree with.”  She said she will make a new request to the judge to hand
over the blood and continue to purse athletes with links to the
doping ring. WADA said in an e-mail it had no immediate comment
about the ruling.  During the trial, Hamilton testified he paid Fuentes as
much as 50,000 euros ($65,450) a year to extract and later
transfuse half-liter bags of blood during the season. He said
the aim was to get a performance boost by increasing the body’s
volume of oxygen-carrying red blood cells that raise stamina.  2003 Tour  Hamilton said Fuentes performed the extractions and
transfusions about 15 times between 2002 and 2004 when he was on
the CSC and Phonak teams. He said after one transfusion he got a
fever and his urine was black.  Former Spanish rider Jesus Manzano blamed a transfusion of
an incorrectly stored blood bag for keeling over on a mountain
climb at the 2003 edition of the  Tour de France . Santamaria
rejected Manzano’s claim of 180,000 euros in damages from
Fuentes and the other defendants.  Fuentes had testified that he had never risked the health
of any athlete whom he treated.  The sports doctor’s attorney Tomas Valdivielso told the
court that Manzano’s collapse was a result of sun stroke.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  