-- Katten, Sullivan & Cromwell, WilmerHale: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/katten-sullivan-cromwell-wilmerhale-business-of-law.html
Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP opened a
Houston office led by former Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP
partner Mark Farley, who is one of eight lawyers hired to expand
its environmental and workplace safety practices.  “One of our practice’s priorities has been to expand into
the health and safety arena of accident investigation. We
couldn’t have found a better fit to complement our regulatory
and government affairs environmental work,” Chuck Knauss, co-
head of Katten’s environmental practice, said in a statement.  Farley, who will head the firm’s new workplace safety
practice, is joined by three more attorneys from Pillsbury
Winthrop in Houston.  Tom Kiehnhoff, former Assistant U.S. Attorney in  Texas  who
was most recently at Reaud, Morgan & Quinn LLP in Beaumont,
Texas, will also join the Houston office as a partner.  Three new partners focused on environmental matters will
join Katten’s Austin, Texas, office. The three, previously of
Baker Botts LLP, include Sara Marquis Burgin, who concentrates
on water quality issues; Whit Swift, who focuses on state and
federal air quality regulatory compliance and permitting; and
Kevin Collins, a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Texas with
environmental and government investigations experience.  Farley has been a lead attorney on some of the largest
industrial accidents in the U.S., including the investigation of
BP’s “safety culture” in the 2005 Texas City Refinery
explosion, the firm said. He also handles high-risk internal
probes and crisis response for environmental health and safety
matters.  Katten’s other environmental practice co-chairman, Steve
Solow, a former Justice Department environmental crimes section
chief, said the expansion is meant to meet the growing needs of
the firm’s environmental clients. “The federal government has
made clear its increased attention to industrial safety and that
workplace and environmental safety are a priority, dedicating an
enormous amount of time and resources to it,” he said in a
statement.  Katten has more than 600 attorneys at 13 offices in the
U.S.,  London  and  Shanghai .  Deals  Bayer to Acquire Conceptus for $1.1 Billion to Add Contraceptive  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents  Bayer AG (BAYN) , which agreed
to buy  Conceptus Inc. (CPTS)  for about $1.1 billion in cash to add a
permanent contraception device to complement the German
company’s offerings in women’s health. Latham & Watkins LLP
advises Conceptus.  The S&C New York-based team advising Bayer includes
partners Matthew G. Hurd, co-head of Sullivan & Cromwell’s
health-care and life sciences group, corporate/mergers and
acquisitions; Nader A. Mousavi; intellectual property; and
Ronald E. Creamer Jr., tax.  Latham’s corporate team led from the firm’s Silicon Valley
office with partners Michael Hall, Peter Kerman, Josh Dubofsky
and Robert. Additional partners on the deal included: Kirt
Switzer and Grace Chen, tax; James Metz, benefits and
compensation: Karen Silverman and Joshua Holian,  antitrust;
J.D. Marple; technology transactions; John Manthei, regulatory
matters; and Gregory Rodgers, capital markets.  Jones Day advised Bayer on antitrust matters.  Conceptus holders will receive $31 a share in cash, the
companies said in a statement yesterday. The price is 20 percent
above the April 26 closing level for Mountain View, California-
based Conceptus of $25.90. Conceptus rose the most in a year in
U.S. trading.  Revenue for Conceptus’s Essure contraceptive, a pair of
flexible metal and fiber coils inserted in the fallopian tubes,
jumped 22 percent in the first quarter. The planned acquisition
comes at a time when sales of Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer’s
Yaz and Yasmin oral birth-control pills are falling because of
competition from low-priced copies. Bayer also sells the Natazia
pill and intrauterine devices such as Mirena.  For more, click here.  Moves  Brown Rudnick Tech Co-Chairs Join WilmerHale in Boston  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP has added two
high tech lawyers, David Gammell and Edwin Pease, former co-
chairmen of the emerging technologies and venture capital
practice at Brown Rudnick LLP, as partners in the corporate
group in  Boston .  “Dave and Ed have built impressive emerging technology and
venture capital practices and we are excited that they have
chosen to continue to grow their practices by leveraging our
broad-based platform,” Mark Borden, chairman of WilmerHale’s
corporate group, said in a statement.  Gammell specializes in advising startups and venture-backed
companies, venture capital firms, buyers and sellers in mergers
and acquisitions, and both private and public companies in tech
transfer and licensing matters, joint ventures and partnerships,
the firm said. Pease focuses his practice on advising startups
and venture-backed companies, venture capital funds, and buyers
and sellers in mergers and acquisitions, according to the
statement.  “WilmerHale is a leader in the startup and venture capital
market,” Gammell said in a statement. “Its deep corporate
expertise, coupled with the breadth of practice areas it offers,
are unmatched.”  WilmerHale has 1,000 lawyers at 14 offices in the U.S.,
 Europe  and Asia.  Bankruptcy  Sullivan & Cromwell, Hogan Lovels Advise on Kodak Pact  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, led by partner Andrew Dietderich,
is advising  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the bankrupt photography pioneer,
in its spinoff of imaging businesses to its U.K. pension plan in
a deal that settles $2.8 billion in claims. Hogan Lovells LLP
advised the Kodak Pension Plan on the agreement, led by London
pensions partner Katie Banks.  Additional S&C partners on the deal include corporate
partners Stephen Kotran and Inosi Nyatta.  Hogan Lovells U.S. partner Christopher R. Donoho III
advised on business restructuring and insolvency matters along
with John H. Booher and Michael J. Silver on mergers and
acquisitions matters and Elizabeth M. Donley on commercial
matters.  Kodak’s personalized- and document-imaging businesses will
be spun off to the pension plan, Kodak’s largest  creditor  in the
bankruptcy case, for $650 million, the company said yesterday in
a statement.  Kodak, based in Rochester, New York, plans to file today in
court its plan to exit bankruptcy protection. The spinoff
agreement settles about $2.8 billion of claims by the pension
plan against Kodak, according to the statement.  Kodak said this month that it had a deal to sell document-
imaging assets to Japanese office-equipment company  Brother
Industries Ltd. (6448)  for about $210 million. It said it will withdraw
the request filed in court seeking permission to proceed with
the sale.  The company is selling businesses to shrink and fund its
shift into commercial printing and packaging after seeking
Chapter 11 protection in January 2012.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-
bk-10202, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  Greenberg Traurig Settles Heller Ehrman Suit for $4.9 Million  Greenberg Traurig LLP agreed to settle a malpractice suit
with defunct law firm Heller Ehrman LLP for $4.9 million.  Heller alleged that Greenberg had a conflict of interest
when it was retained by the firm for the bankruptcy proceedings
because the firm also represented Bank of America, which was the
law firm’s lender and claimed an interest in its assets.  Greenberg took the position that the claims were without
merit, asserting that the scope of its engagement was narrower
than alleged, according to court documents.  The settlement was a result of mediation before Ralph R.
Mabey, a retired bankruptcy judge. It will be considered for
approval before judge Dennis Montali on May 31.  Heller Ehrman filed under Chapter 11 in December 2008. A
reorganization plan was court approved in 2010.  News  Obama Says Nominee Foxx to Press on Transportation Agenda  President  Barack Obama  said  Charlotte , North Carolina,
Mayor Anthony Foxx will press ahead as transportation secretary
with the administration’s goals to rebuild and expand the
nation’s infrastructure.  Obama yesterday said he’s nominating Foxx, 41, to replace
Ray LaHood, a Republican who has led the Transportation
Department since the start of the president’s first term.  Foxx, a former Hunton & Williams LLP litigator, has been
“one of the most effective mayors Charlotte has ever seen” and
the city’s resurgence is due, in part, to his emphasis on
investments in transportation projects, Obama said at the White
House.  Foxx’s nomination, which is subject to Senate confirmation,
comes as Obama is rounding out his second-term Cabinet. He also
is close to filling two key positions on his economic team by
choosing Mike Froman, currently the deputy national security
adviser for international economics, as U.S. trade
representative and Chicago businesswoman Penny Pritzker as
commerce secretary, according to people familiar with the
matter.  For more, click here  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  