-- Knicks’ Resale Demand for Clincher Is Low as Fans Seek More Wins
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-30T16:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/knicks-resale-demand-for-clincher-is-low-as-fans-seek-more-wins.html
Tickets to the  New York Knicks ’
possible first playoff series-clinching win at Madison Square
Garden in 14 years are a relative bargain as their fans’ playoff
expectations rise.  The Knicks hold a 3-1 lead in their best-of-seven first-
round meeting with the  Boston Celtics  and can close it out
tomorrow night in New York. The average resale ticket price is
$555.82, according to the secondary market ticket aggregator
 TiqIQ .  While that’s the priciest of any National Basketball
Association postseason game so far this year, the least
expensive tickets, at $155, are going for about $15 less than
they were at the same point prior to Game 2 at the Garden. There
are also more than 4,000 tickets available the day before
tipoff, meaning fans wanting to see a series clincher at home
may find good deals on game day, according to Chris Matcovich, a
spokesman for New York-based TiqIQ.  “I think these numbers show that Knicks fans are looking
ahead to the next round a bit,” Matcovich said in an e-mail.
“This tends to lead me to believe that prices might drop more
as game approaches, with fans unwilling to spend $150-plus now,
thinking that there are more playoff games ahead.”  New York hasn’t won a playoff series since 2000, when it
beat the  Toronto Raptors  and  Miami Heat , wrapping up both on the
road before falling to the  Indiana Pacers  in the Eastern
Conference finals.  Last Time  The Knicks’ last series-clinching win at home was on June
11, 1999, when they beat Indiana 90-82 in Game 6 to advance to
the NBA Finals. Allan Houston scored 32 points and Latrell Sprewell added 20 for New York, while Pacers guard Reggie Miller
was held to eight points on 3-of-18 shooting. The Knicks were
beaten in five games by the  San Antonio Spurs  in the Finals.  If New York gets by the Celtics, it will face either the
Pacers or  Atlanta Hawks , who are tied at 2-2.  With the New York Rangers qualifying the for the National
Hockey League playoffs, it’s the third straight year both
 Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG)  tenants reached the postseason.  Laura Martin , a Needham & Co. analyst who has a “buy”
rating on MSG shares, said the company’s teams break even during
the regular season and generate about $5 million per postseason
level they reach.  “Essentially, owning a sports team is an option to get
into the playoffs and make money,” Martin said in a telephone
interview.  Needham raised its target price for MSG shares to $66 from
$55 on April 25 as MSG drew closer to completing its $1 billion
arena renovation, which lowers risk and increases free cash
flow, Martin said. Shares of MSG were up $1.84 to $59.81 at
12:20 p.m.  “It’s very hard to put these into the models ahead of time
because it’s so hard to predict how far they’ll go in the
playoffs,” Martin said in a phone interview. “The further they
get, the more the earnings estimates have to rise upwards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  