-- Aussie Dollar Rises to Almost 2-Week High Before Fed Meeting
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-04-30T07:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/n-z-dollar-falls-after-building-permits-drop-aussie-holds-gain.html
The Australian dollar rose to the
highest in almost two weeks against its U.S. counterpart before
the  Federal Reserve  opens a two-day meeting amid speculation it
will maintain bond purchases for the foreseeable future.  The so-called Aussie rose against most of its major peers
as Asian stocks gained and data showed private sector credit
increased in March. Demand for New Zealand’s dollar was limited
after the nation’s building approvals unexpectedly declined,
easing pressure on the Reserve Bank to tighten monetary policy.  “There could be more reserve diversification flowing into
currencies like the Australian dollar,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh ,
a strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  Singapore . “The
general consensus is that the Fed is going to remain fairly
dovish. The question is not whether or not quantitative easing
is going to be maintained, but if it’s going to be stepped up,
and that’s played a part in the  U.S. dollar ’s recent selloff.”  The Australian dollar touched $1.0372, the highest level
since April 17, before trading 0.1 percent higher than yesterday
at $1.0358 as of 5:08 p.m. in Sydney, trimming its monthly slide
to 0.6 percent. The currency rose 0.2 percent to NZ$1.2105.  New
Zealand ’s dollar slid 0.1 percent to 85.57 U.S. cents.  Australian  government bonds  rose, with the yield on 10-year
debt falling one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.09
percent, after touching 3.077 percent, matching the lowest since
Nov. 19. The three-year rate dropped as low as 2.57 percent, a
level unseen since Dec. 3.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks climbed 0.8 percent,
following a 0.7 percent gain in the MSCI World Index yesterday.  FOMC Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will release a statement
after the meeting ends tomorrow. The Fed is buying $85 billion
of bonds each month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.
While Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after the previous meeting
on March 20 that further labor-market gains were needed to
consider reducing monetary easing, minutes showed officials
discussed slowing the pace of buying.  “We’ll probably see the Fed back off from the tapering
talk that we saw from the last set of minutes,” said  Mike Jones , a foreign-exchange strategist at  Bank of New Zealand  in
Wellington. “That notion has been priced into markets over the
past week or so, and that’s why we’ve seen the U.S. dollar
struggle a little bit.”  New Zealand’s dollar has strengthened 6.2 percent this
year, the best performer among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The U.S. dollar gained 2.4 percent in the same period, while the
Aussie rose 2 percent.  Credit Expansion  In  Australia ,  private sector credit  increased 0.2 percent
in March from a month earlier, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
said in a report today. That compared with the median
economists’ estimate of 0.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  New Zealand  building approvals  tumbled 9.1 percent in March
from the previous month,  retreating  from a five-year high. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was a 2
percent gain.  “The approvals data was unambiguously weaker than
expected,” said Bank of New Zealand’s Jones. “The Aussie-kiwi
cross has already come down a long way, so just in the short
term, we are seeing a bit of profit taking.”  For the month, the kiwi has strengthened 2.8 percent
against the Aussie, the biggest advance since July 2011, and
gained 2.3 percent versus the dollar.  New Zealand’s  business confidence  fell this month.
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said a net 32.3
percent of companies polled expect the economy will improve in
the next 12 months, compared with 34.6 percent in March. The net
figures subtract pessimists from optimists.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler said on
April 24 that the central bank didn’t want to see excessive
housing demand compromising financial or price stability,
according to an RBNZ statement.  Benchmark interest rates are 2.5 percent in New Zealand and
3 percent in Australia. Swaps show traders expect an 17 basis-
point  increase  in New Zealand interest rates over 12 months,
compared with 56 basis points of  cuts  in Australia, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  