-- National Credit Union Administration Suits Put on Pause
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a n   M a r g o l i e s
-- 2013-04-30T01:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/national-credit-union-administration-suits-put-on-pause.html
Eight lawsuits by the  National
Credit Union Administration  Board aimed at recouping losses on
mortgage-backed securities were halted by a federal judge
pending an appeals court ruling.  U.S. District Judge John Lungstrum in Kansas City, Kansas,
today put the litigation on hold until the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in Denver rules on a challenge by RBS Securities Inc. to another
judge’s decision last year denying its request to dismiss a
lawsuit by the board.  NCUA, an Alexandria, Virginia-based federal agency
responsible for recovering losses to minimize costs to its
industry-funded stabilization fund, sued units of Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and other
banks, claiming they used misleading documents to sell the
securities to  credit unions  that later failed.  “The court concludes that a stay is appropriate in each of
these cases,” Lungstrum said in his order today.  RBS is appealing a July 2012 ruling by U.S. District Judge
Richard D. Rogers in Topeka, Kansas. Lungstrum’s order today
cited Rogers’s grounds for allowing RBS to take its appeal mid-
case to support his decision.  “The appeal may materially advance the ultimate
termination of expensive and complex litigation,” Lungstrum
said.  A second, related appeal is also before the Denver-based
court.  Depending on how the appellate court rules, some defendants
may ultimately have all of the claims against them dismissed, he
said.  Lungstrum did allow the parties in the cases to finish
filing papers involving any pending bids to dismiss the
lawsuits. On April 8 the judge narrowed the issues in a case
NCUA brought against Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC.  The case is National Credit Union Administration Board v.
RBS Securities Inc., 11-cv-02340, U.S. District Court, District
of Kansas ( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  