-- New York Times Tops USA Today to Become No. 2 U.S. Paper
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-04-30T20:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/new-york-times-leads-major-newspapers-with-18-circulation-gain.html
The  New York Times (NYT)  posted an 18
percent gain in daily circulation, vaulting it past  USA Today  as
the second-largest U.S. newspaper, according to figures released
today by the  Alliance for Audited Media .  The Times’ average daily circulation rose to 1.87 million
in the six-month period ending March 31, the alliance said in a
statement.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Wall Street Journal remained the No. 1
paper in the U.S., with its circulation climbing 12 percent to
2.38 million. The Gannett Co.-owned USA Today dropped to third
after daily readership slipped 7.9 percent to 1.67 million.  Daily readership of U.S. newspapers altogether declined 0.7
percent in the six-month period from a year earlier while Sunday
editions, which draw the most advertising dollars, were down 1.4
percent, according to the AAM. Even so, more people are reading
news online, which accounts for 19 percent of total circulation,
compared with 14 percent last year.  The  New York  Times has seen a surge in online subscribers
since the company instituted a so-called paywall in 2011,
prompting readers to pay for online access. The AAM’s daily
circulation figures include people who read the paper on a range
of devices, including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle.  “These gains can largely be attributed to the continuing
popularity of the Times’ digital subscription packages,” New
York Times Co. said in a separate statement.  Double Counting  The company also is being helped by relatively new
reporting rules at the AAM that let publishers count subscribers
multiple times if they read a paper on different devices. For
instance, a person who accesses the Times on a personal
computer, a smartphone and a tablet in a single day would be
counted as three readers. While the Times’ digital readership
stands at 1.13 million, the publisher only had 676,000 paying
online subscribers as of the end of March.  Times Co. shares fell 0.1 percent to $8.86 at the New York
close. They have climbed 3.9 percent this year, compared with a
12 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company announced plans last week to create more
digital products and services, aiming to make up for tumbling
advertising sales. The new offerings, such as a lower-priced
online packages and specialized subscriptions that focus on
areas such as politics and technology, will be rolled out in
late 2013 or early 2014.  The publisher is targeting potential customers “numbering
in the many hundreds of thousands,” Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Thompson  said in an interview at the time.  The Times’ current pricing plans range from $15 to $35 a
month, depending on how many devices the reader plans to use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  