-- Newtown Families Urge New Jersey to Lower Gun Capacity
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-04-30T21:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/newtown-families-urge-new-jersey-to-lower-gun-capacity.html
Families of schoolchildren slain by
a gunman in Newtown,  Connecticut , urged  New Jersey  lawmakers to
include a reduction in the size of ammunition magazines as part
of their response to the shootings.  The appearance today at the Capitol in Trenton came before
a Senate committee backed seven  gun-control  measures. The
Assembly approved a 22-bill package in February, including one
that would lower the magazine capacity of semiautomatic weapons
to 10 rounds from 15. The Senate package doesn’t include that
measure. Democrats control both houses.  “Have the courage to stand up for what you know is
right,” Nicole Hockley urged New Jersey lawmakers. Her 6-year-
old son, Dylan, was killed in the Newtown massacre.  Federal lawmakers and U.S. states are reconsidering gun
laws in response to the Dec. 14 Newtown shootings, which claimed
the lives of 26 children and educators at an elementary school,
plus gunman Adam Lanza and his mother.  Lanza showed up at the school with 10 30-round ammunition
magazines. Hockley said she will always wonder whether the death
toll would have been lower had Lanza been forced to pause more
often to reload.  The politics of gun control are intruding on campaign
season in New Jersey, where Governor  Chris Christie  and all 120
legislators are up for re-election in November. Christie, a 50-
year-old Republican, is seeking a second term.  Christie Response  In his response to Newtown, Christie this month proposed
expanded background checks for gun purchases, parental consent
for minors to buy violent video games and making it easier for
doctors and courts to commit “potentially dangerous” people to
mental-health institutions against their will. He also supports
a ban on the Barrett .50-caliber sniper rifle and identical
models.  Christie’s plan doesn’t address the magazine issue in New
Jersey, which has the third-strictest capacity laws in the U.S.,
according to a release from his office. Forty-three states have
no capacity laws, according to his office.  Senate President Steve Sweeney, a Democrat from West
Deptford, said in a statement that New Jersey’s existing limit
on clip size “has been effective” for 20 years.  “What we must focus on now is preventing guns from getting
into the hands of those who should not have them,” Sweeney
said. “That means addressing issues of mental health,
background checks, illegal guns and straw purchases.”  ‘Shameful Day’  Senate Majority Leader Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat from
Teaneck, said she will continue to press the members of her
chamber to support the capacity reduction and hopes for approval
by the end of the year.  “I can’t say ’signed into law,’” she said, in a reference
to Christie. His spokesmen, Colin Reed and  Michael Drewniak ,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
whether he would support a smaller magazine capacity.  New Jersey’s proposed laws won’t prevent “someone bent on
evil,” according to  Scott L. Bach, executive director of the
New Jersey Rifle and Pistol Clubs and a board member of the
 National Rifle Association , the nation’s biggest gun-rights
organization.  “Criminals and madmen do not follow laws,” Bach told the
Senate Law and Public Safety Committee before it released the
bills for a Senate vote.  Defending Herself  Nora Craig, a U.S. Navy veteran and farmer from  Franklin
Township , New Jersey, told the panel it was her job, not that of
lawmakers, to defend herself with legally owned firearms.  “If my dogs don’t get them, I will,” she said of
trespassers on her property.  The  U.S. Senate  on April 17 defeated a plan for expanded
background checks for gun purchasers. Some Newtown family
members joined President  Barack Obama  in the White House  Rose
Garden  after the Senate’s vote as the president called the
defeat  “all, in all, a shameful day for  Washington .”  “What happened in Newtown can happen in any town,” Nelba
Marquez-Greene said today as she called for a reduction in
magazine capacity. Her 6-year-old daughter, Ana, was killed in
Newtown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  