-- Nigerian Human Rights Body Probes Alleged Civilian Killings
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-04-30T16:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/nigerian-human-rights-body-to-probe-alleged-civilian-killings.html
Nigeria’s National Human Rights
Commission is investigating the clashes between troops and
Islamist fighters in the northeastern town of Baga which may
have killed 185 civilians.  “In order to understand what happened, it is necessary to
undertake an independent and credible assessment,” Anselm
Odinkalu, chairman of the commission, said in an e-mailed
 statement  yesterday.  Baga residents buried at least 185 bodies, Lawan Kole, a
local government official in the Kukawa area council, said last
week. The fighting began April 19 after a military patrol was
attacked near a mosque where Islamist militants from the Boko
Haram group hid weapons in the past, according to Austin
Edokpaye, a spokesman for the joint military  task force  in the
region.  As many as 200 civilians died when security forces enraged
by the killing of a soldier retaliated, the  New York  Times
reported today, citing people who fled the violence, relief
workers, civilian officials and human-rights organizations it
didn’t identify. Chris Olukolade, a spokesman for the  Defense
Ministry , denied the allegations in a phone interview today from
Abuja, the capital.  Nigeria is Africa’s top oil producer and the continent’s
most populous nation.  Bomb Attacks  The U.S. State Department and international rights groups,
such as  Human Rights Watch  and  Amnesty International , have
criticized the Nigerian military and police for using excessive
force as they battle Boko Haram. The militants have carried out
gun and bomb attacks in the mainly Muslim north and in Abuja,
the capital, that have killed hundreds of people since 2009.  Maina Ma’aji Lawan, a senator representing the area at the
Nigerian National Assembly, said on April 27 that 228 people
were killed during the clashes and more than 4,000 houses were
burnt. He spoke to reporters in Maiduguri after visiting three
graveyards in Baga.  According to the military, only six civilians were killed
while one soldier and 30 Boko Haram fighters died in the
fighting.  “We still believe and we have good reason to believe that
no soldier could have done that level of atrocity,” Olukolade
said. Boko Haram is known to retaliate against people who expose
their activities, he said.  President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s office said on April 21 that
the government will investigate whether the military complied
with rules of engagement.  “This is quite a trying moment for this country in terms
of security,”  Agence France-Presse  quoted Jonathan as saying
yesterday. “We have challenges from the south to the north,
from the east to the west.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  