-- N. Korea Holds Factory Officials Citing Unpaid Wages
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-05-02T00:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/north-korea-holds-south-s-factory-officials-citing-unpaid-wages.html
(Corrects average Gaeseong wages in seventh paragraph.
This story was first published on April 30.)  North Korea  refused to allow seven
South Koreans to leave a shuttered industrial park until a
dispute involving unpaid wages and bills is settled, prolonging
the dispute over the jointly-run project.  Of the 50 managers remaining at the Gaeseong zone, 43
crossed the border at midnight for the first time in nearly a
month,  South Korea ’s Unification Ministry said in a text
message. The North has blocked access since April 3 and South
Korean President Park Geun Hye last week decided to pull out.  The seven will be able to depart once unpaid wages,
corporate taxes and phone bills for the month of March are
settled, according to a ministry official who declined to be
named, citing government policy. The South was not able to pay
after the North rejected an April 10 request for a cash truck to
enter Gaeseong, the official said.  A final withdrawal will sever one of the last channels of
cross-border contact and shutter a plant that has been an
important source of income for North  Korea . The departures come
amid weeks of tension since Kim Jong Un’s regime in February
conducted an atomic test in defiance of international sanctions
and threatened preemptive nuclear strikes against its enemies.  “North Korea is being illogically stubborn, demanding
payment while not allowing cash deliveries into Gaeseong,” said
Cho Bong Hyun, a research fellow at the IBK Economic Research
Institute in Seoul. “Ultimately any resolution to Gaeseong-
related issues will require a general mood for dialogue and that
won’t happen until some sort of a concession is made on the
nuclear issue.”  Checking Claims  Five of the seven remaining officials are from the Gaeseong
management committee, and will discuss the payment issue with
North Korean counterparts, the ministry official said. The other
two are from South Korea’s second-largest mobile operator  KT
Corp. (030200) , who are staying behind to operate the phone lines and
facilitate communication between Gaeseong and Seoul.  The seven will need at least two more days to check the
balance sheets of all 123 South Korean companies with North
Korean claims, the official said. South Korean companies on
average pay up to $8 million per month to nearly 54,000
laborers, the official said, declining to disclose how much the
North is demanding.  No soldiers or military units are stationed near Gaeseong,
South Korea’s Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said,
while adding that the North still has missile launchers on its
eastern coast since deploying them around April 4.  ‘Inevitable’ Decision  North Korea recalled all of its workers from the factory
park on April 8 to protest U.S. and South Korean joint annual
military drills, which conclude today. Park’s decision to
withdraw the workers was “inevitable” after North Korea
refused to engage in talks over the facility, Unification
Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae said April 26.  Agreements between the two Koreas have “burst like a
bubble,” Park said at a meeting yesterday with senior advisers,
according to a statement on her website. “Who in the world will
want to invest in North Korea now?”  Companies at the complex, about 10 kilometers (six miles)
north of the demilitarized zone on the border between the two
countries, have produced more than $2 billion of goods since
Gaeseong opened in 2005, according to Unification Ministry data.
North Korea generates $100 million in annual profits at
Gaeseong, while South Korea makes quadruple that amount,
according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of
North Korean Studies in  Seoul .  Supplies Blocked  North Korea hasn’t allowed supplies of food or medical
equipment into the complex since April 3. Gaeseong has remained
open during previous periods of tension, including tests of
nuclear weapons and missiles in both 2006 and 2009, and the 2010
deaths of 50 South Koreans in a ship sinking and the shelling of
a South Korean border island by the North.  South Korean companies operating in Gaeseong have urged the
government to break the impasse and provide compensation to help
revive their businesses.  The  Export-Import Bank of Korea  revived its pledge to
expand financial aid to companies running plants in the complex,
the state-run lender said in an e-mailed statement April 27,
without giving details. The bank has provided 300 billion won
($271 million) of aid, including lower lending rates and higher
ceilings on loans, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  