-- Nuance Plunges After Profit, Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-04-30T21:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/nuance-plunges-after-profit-sales-miss-estimates.html
Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN) , a maker
of speech-recognition software, plunged 18 percent after
reporting fiscal second-quarter profit and sales that missed
estimates.  The shares fell to $19.04 at the close in  New York , the
lowest since March 19. Profit excluding some items was 34 cents
a share on sales of $484 million, the Burlington, Massachusetts-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts on average had
estimated profit of 40 cents on revenue of $514.8 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The earnings miss and stock slump could prompt Nuance’s
shareholders to replace management, or even consider a breakup
or a sale of the business, said  Daniel Ives , an analyst at New
York-based FBR Capital Markets & Co. Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  earlier this month disclosed a 9.3 percent passive stake
in Nuance, spurring speculation that he may seek significant
changes in how the company operates.  “The big question on investors’ minds is -- is this the
right management team?” said Ives, who rates the shares
outperform. “There’s a lack of confidence investors have in the
management’s execution. It puts the heat in the kitchen in terms
of the activist situation.”  Icahn didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  “I think you have to call it a mess,” said Tom Roderick,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  Chicago  who has a hold
rating on the stock.  Nuance, which specializes in audio software for the health-
care industry and for mobile devices, also announced a $500
million stock-buyback program. The company in February reduced
its full-year 2013 earnings forecast as new technology curbed
use of older transcription services.  “Our share buyback program announced today underscores our
confidence in the business and our focus on  shareholder value  as
we expect growth to accelerate in fiscal 2014,” Nuance Chief
Executive Officer Paul Ricci said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  