-- NYSE Euronext Profit Gains as Revenue Rises, Costs Fall
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-04-30T14:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/nyse-euronext-profit-gains-as-revenue-rises-costs-fall.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the U.S. exchange
operator being bought by Intercontinental Exchange Inc.,
reported first-quarter earnings that met analyst estimates as
trading revenue increased and operating expenses declined.  Net income rose 45 percent to $126 million from $87 million
a year earlier, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. Earnings excluding some items were 57 cents a share,
compared with the  56-cent mean estimate  of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The 13 projections ranged from 53 cents to 58 cents.  Earnings at the 220-year-old NYSE rose for the first time
in five quarters as the company reduced expenses.
Intercontinental Exchange, a 12-year-old energy and commodity
futures bourse, agreed in December to acquire NYSE, the owner of
the largest American equity exchange, in an $8.2 billion deal
set to close in the second half of this year.  “We see this expense-driven beat as a positive as NYSE is
delivering on the one clear front within its control in a still
uncertain trading environment,” Chris Allen, an analyst at
Evercore Partners Inc. in New York, wrote in a report today.  Cutting Costs  NYSE  shares  were little changed at $38.66 as of 10:28 a.m.
New York time today. They’ve gained 23 percent this year, almost
twice the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index of 26 companies.
 Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) , known as ICE, slipped less than 0.1
percent to $161.74. The company has risen 31 percent in 2013,
the second most in the index.  NYSE has been cutting  costs  in a plan known as Project 14
meant to eliminate $250 million of expenses by the end of 2014,
after European regulators barred the exchange from a planned
merger with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  in February 2012. Chief Financial
Officer Michael Geltzeiler said on a conference call with
analysts today that the company expects 2013 expenses to be
lower than the $1.525 billion forecast.  Net revenue from derivatives increased 14 percent to $201
million as volume rose. Equity trading revenue, excluding
regulatory fees and liquidity payments, fell 5.6 percent to $287
million, NYSE said today.  Operating expenses excluding merger costs, exit costs and
some charges for fair value adjustment dropped 6.2 percent to
$380 million.  Trading Volume  U.S. exchange-listed equity trading  volume  averaged 6.35
billion a day last quarter, down 6 percent from the first three
months of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Options trading
in the U.S. slowed to a daily average of 15.9 million contracts
last year from a ninth-consecutive record of 18.1 million in
2011. It has increased to an average 16.6 million so far in
2013, data from the Chicago-based OCC show.  The company will discuss with Intercontinental Exchange
plans for its NYSE Technologies unit when the merger is
completed, Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said on the
call today. The company has held talks with at least two parties
over a sale of the unit, according to the Financial News
yesterday, which cited two unidentified people with knowledge of
the discussions.  “We have always conducted these partnership discussions,”
Niederauer said today. “We are working with ICE to explore how
we will leverage this important business post-merger.”  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., NYSE’s smaller equity-exchange and
U.S.-listings rival, on April 24 reported  first-quarter earnings 
that exceeded estimates as revenue from information services and
technology increased. Analysts project Atlanta-based
Intercontinental Exchange will say tomorrow that earnings
declined 3 percent, while Deutsche Boerse, based in  Frankfurt ,
said yesterday that profit fell 26 percent as trading volume
declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  