-- Obama Pledges Boston Bombing Review for Warning Signs
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   L a r r y   L i e b e r t
-- 2013-04-30T20:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/obama-pledges-boston-bombing-review-for-warning-signs.html
President  Barack Obama  said “we
want to leave no stone unturned” in a review to determine
whether warning signs were missed by U.S. authorities before the
Boston bombings.  “We won’t know that until that review is completed,”
Obama said during a news conference today at the White House.
“Based on what I’ve seen so far, the FBI performed its duties.
Department of  Homeland Security  did what it was supposed to be
doing.”  Members of Congress have questioned the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation’s decision to close a 2011 inquiry into Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who later became a suspect in the bombings. Russian
intelligence agencies had told the FBI that he had become
radical and asked for information about him. The Central
Intelligence Agency also was provided with the information and
alerted other U.S. agencies.  The FBI searched U.S. terrorism and crime databases,
conducted interviews and found nothing incriminating, and the
Russians didn’t respond to requests for more information,
according to U.S. officials who asked not to be identified
discussing intelligence matters.  While Obama described the review as being conducted by
 James Clapper , the director of national intelligence, it was
initiated and is being performed by inspectors general for U.S.
intelligence and  law enforcement  agencies, according to
Clapper’s spokesman.  ‘Independent Review’  “This is not an investigation,” spokesman Shawn Turner
said today in an e-mailed statement. “This is an independent
review of information-sharing procedures. It is limited to the
handling of information related to the suspects prior to the
attack.”  Clapper “believes that every agency involved in collecting
and sharing information prior to the attack took all the
appropriate steps,” according to Turner.  The watchdog offices for the intelligence community, the
Department of Homeland Security and the FBI are conducting the
review, he said.  U.S. authorities have said Tsarnaev and his younger brother
Dzhokhar, 19, detonated two homemade bombs near the marathon’s
finish line on April 15, killing three people and injuring more
than 200. Tamerlan Tsarnaev died after a shootout with police.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has been charged with two capital counts,
including use of a weapon of mass destruction. He could face the
death penalty if convicted.  ‘Hard Stuff’  Obama said tracking terrorists in the U.S. who “may not be
part of any kind of network” is “hard stuff.”  “One of the dangers that we now face are self-radicalized
individuals who are already here in the  United States ,” Obama
said.  The president also reiterated at the news conference his
position that more investigation is needed on whether chemical
weapons have been used by the regime in  Syria . He also said he
would push anew to close the U.S. prison at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, and called on Congress to negotiate with him on a long-
term deficit reduction deal.  Obama repeated his previous praise of how law enforcement
agencies performed after the Boston bombing, and he said  Russia 
has been “very cooperative” since the attack.  “There are still suspicions sometimes between our
intelligence and law enforcement agencies that date back 10, 20,
30 years, back to the  Cold War ,” Obama said. “But they’re
continually improving.”  Flight Alert  Members of Congress say they want to know what happened
when Tamerlan Tsarnaev boarded a flight to Russia from  New
York ’s John F. Kennedy International Airport in January 2012.  Because of the FBI investigation, Tamerlan was listed in a
government database called the Treasury Enforcement
Communications System, maintained by  U.S. Customs  and  Border
Protection , part of the Homeland Security Department. That
system alerted Customs to the trip, according to two people
briefed on the matter who asked not to be identified because the
bombing investigation continues.  At issue is what Customs and Border Protection officials
did with that information. Ultimately, the FBI agent who
investigated Tamerlan should have been alerted, the two people
said. It’s not clear whether the information would have caused
the FBI to renew its inquiry.  Information Sharing  One of the people said a Homeland Security official who’s
part of an FBI-led terrorism task force -- created after the
2001 attacks so that law enforcement and intelligence agencies
could share information -- was informed. Lawmakers are looking
into whether that official communicated the information to the
FBI.  Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  faulted
the Obama administration over its handling of the information
from Russia.  “Both the FBI and CIA were warned by the Russians about a
radical Islamist in our midsts,” Graham said today in a
statement. “Once enrolled in the system as a potential terror
suspect, the older brother was able to travel back to Russia
unimpeded by DHS or any of our intelligence agencies.”  The House and Senate panels overseeing homeland security
have asked administration officials to explain their handling of
information before the attack and indicated they plan hearings
on the issue.  Russia’s internal security bureau “warned United States
agencies that Tamerlan Tsarnaev planned to travel from
 Massachusetts  to the Caucasus,” a trip the Russian agency
“feared might accelerate his radicalization and lead to
terrorist activities,” Republican members of the House Homeland
Security Committee said in April 27 letters to Clapper, Homeland
Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  and FBI Director  Robert Mueller .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert in Washington at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  