-- Obama Trims 21-Page Health Insurance Application to Three
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-04-30T16:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/obama-trims-21-page-health-insurance-application-to-three.html
People who apply for health
insurance through the U.S. government starting in October face a
lot less red tape than anticipated.  The Obama administration cut the length of the 21-page
application by as many as 18 pages to simplify the process for
those looking to gain health coverage from the Affordable Care
Act. The  applications , posted online today by the government,
are three pages for individuals and seven pages for families.  The administration is struggling to meet the Oct. 1
deadline for opening health insurance exchanges in all 50 states
as some governors decline to cooperate and Republicans in
Congress withhold funding. Drafts of the applications drew
criticism from consumer advocacy groups such as Families USA
that said the length would discourage people from signing up and
become another setback for the law.  “We were concerned that it was long and cumbersome,” said
 Ron Pollack , executive director of Families USA, which supports
the health law. “It’s very important that the application and
enrollment process is consumer-friendly so that as many people
get enrolled as possible.”  The new forms ask people to provide basic personal
information, including sources of income and dependents. An
optional appendix lets people designate an agent such as an
insurance broker to submit the application.  “The shorter, just-the-facts applications will help
empower consumers to make the health-care decisions that are
right for them, their families and their budget,” Anne Filipic,
the president of Enroll America, a nonprofit group trying to
educate consumers on the health law, said in a statement.  The health law is projected by the  Congressional Budget
Office  to expand insurance coverage to about 27 million
Americans who don’t get it through their jobs starting Jan. 1.
Open enrollment for 2014 plans begins in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  