-- Obama Says U.S. Needs ‘Facts’ on Syria Chemical Weapons
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-05-01T01:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/obama-says-u-s-needs-facts-on-syria-chemical-weapons.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
won’t rush to intervene in Syria without solid evidence that
Bashar al-Assad’s regime used chemical weapons even as the
administration reviews contingencies for a response.  The intelligence assessments that chemical munitions were
used in Syria alone aren’t sufficient to trigger a stronger U.S.
response, Obama said yesterday at a White House news conference.
While saying the Defense Department has prepared a list of
options, Obama declined to specify what course the U.S. may take
if the reports are confirmed.  “What we now have is evidence that chemical weapons have
been used inside of Syria, but we don’t know how they were used,
when they were used, who used them,” Obama said. “If we end up
rushing to judgment without hard, effective evidence, then we
can find ourselves in a position where we can’t mobilize the
international community to support what we do.”  The U.S. is enlisting the United Nations and its NATO
allies in investigating what the intelligence reports said was
the use of small amounts of sarin nerve gas. The revelation last
week of the assessment escalated calls from some members of
Congress for the U.S. to take further steps, such as imposing a
no-fly zone over  Syria  or providing arms to aid rebels battling
Assad’s forces.  Obama’s remarks were made on the same day a car bomb in
central Damascus killed at least 13 people, Syria’s state
television reported.  Arms Considered  Obama is reviewing the possibility of sending arms to the
Syrian rebels and may make a decision within weeks, the
Washington Post reported citing unnamed administration
officials. The U.S. is still seeking a negotiated end to the
conflict and is pressing the Russian government to cut off its
support of the regime, the Post reported.  Obama said that confirmation that chemical weapons were
used by the regime “means that there are some options that we
might not otherwise exercise that we would strongly consider.”  The U.S. is consulting with its allies about sending rebels
communication equipment, armor, night-vision goggles and
vehicles to aid their fight, Caitlin Hayden, spokeswoman for the
White House National Security Council, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Obama ‘has directed his national security team to identify
additional measures so that we can continue to increase our
assistance,’’ she said. “We continue to consider all other
possible options that would accomplish our objective of
hastening a political transition.”  Congressional Pressure  Republican Senators John McCain of  Arizona  and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina have been among the most vocal critics
of Obama’s approach in Syria, and yesterday they said the
president was trying to “defend the indefensible.”  “The uncertainty and ambiguity of our policy toward Syria
has contributed to our current crisis,” they said in a joint
statement. “It will not be long before Assad takes this delay
as an invitation to use chemical weapons again on an even larger
scale.”  The senators said the U.S. has a wide range of military
options short of sending troops into Syria and called on Obama
to “articulate exactly” the nation’s strategy and goals.  Most Americans continue to reject the notion that the U.S.
has a responsibility to do something about the fighting in
Syria, according to a CBS News/New York Times poll taken April
24-28. Sixty-two percent said the U.S. doesn’t have a
responsibility to intervene, while 24 percent saw a
responsibility to do something.  UN Investigation  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has renewed
his plea for access to Syria to investigate suspected chemical-
weapons use, as he prepared to meet in New York with the head of
his investigative team.  “A credible and comprehensive inquiry requires full access
to the sites where chemical weapons are alleged to have been
used,” Ban said in an April 29 statement. “I again urge the
Syria authorities to allow the investigation to proceed without
delay and without any conditions.”  Syria’s ambassador to the UN, Bashar Ja’afari, said western
countries are trying to frame his government on charges of using
chemical weapons, and insisted the UN first investigate his
government’s allegation that rebels used chemical weapons.  “Capitals that are directly involved in the bloodshed of
the Syrian people,” are pursuing a plan to “implicate” the
Syrian government “on a false basis with regard use of chemical
weapons,” Ja’afari told reporters at the UN in New York.  Putin Consulted  Obama consulted April 29 with Russian President Vladimir Putin about the situation in Syria. The U.S. has been urging
Russia to bring more pressure on Assad to step down. Putin’s
government has resisted supporting any intervention in Syria and
has defended the regime there against UN censure.  Yesterday’s car bombing in Damascus came a day after Prime
Minister Wael al-Halaqi survived a bomb attack in the capital.  More than 70 people were wounded in the explosion in the
Marjeh district, according to the Syrian television report. The
device detonated at the gate of the country’s old Interior
Ministry building, the Coventry, England-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights said in a statement.  Syrian rebels have targeted high-ranking government
officials in their two-year fight to topple Assad from power.
The anti-Assad uprising has killed more than 70,000 people since
it started in March 2011, according to UN estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  