-- Obama Focuses on Senate Republicans to Reach Budget Deal
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-04-30T16:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/obama-focuses-on-senate-republicans-to-reach-budget-deal.html
While most of Washington is focused
on confrontations over gun control and immigration law, the
White House is quietly exploring the possibility of striking a
deal with lawmakers to rein in the budget  deficit .  President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff  Denis McDonough 
went to Capitol Hill last week for meetings with more than a
dozen Republican senators on  deficit-reduction  proposals,
according to White House and Senate aides.  Obama, who has held a pair of dinners with Republican
senators over the past two months, is betting on finding a
middle ground for a fiscal deal in the Senate even as House
Republican leaders map out a strategy that could heighten the
risk of a U.S. default later this year.  “I’ve had some good conversations with Republican senators
so far,” Obama said today at a White House news conference. He
said he’s seen a “genuine desire” from many of them to move
past “Washington dysfunction” on the deficit. “Whether we can
get it done or not, you know, we’ll see,” he said.  The meetings are intended to break a two-year stalemate
between the administration and congressional Republicans over
the nation’s finances that has hindered efforts to spur the
economy after the worst recession in seven decades. A so-called
grand bargain to curb the long-term deficit has proved elusive,
with Democrats resisting cuts to Medicare and  Social Security ,
and Republicans opposing tax increases.  “The odds are not exceedingly high” for an agreement,
said  David Plouffe , a former senior Obama adviser who left the
White House in January. Still, Plouffe said, discussions about a
comprehensive debt deal “have a firm heartbeat again.”  Program Cuts  Amid concern among some Republican senators over reductions
in  defense spending  if the impasse continues, the administration
signaled its willingness to negotiate by proposing a budget that
includes changes to the health and retirement  programs  for the
 elderly  in exchange for rolling back tax breaks that primarily
benefit the wealthy and corporations.  “There are just enough” Senate Republicans alarmed by
automatic cuts in national security spending to allow the plan
to work, said William Hoagland, a former Republican staff
director of the Senate Budget Committee. “The strategy from the
White House is to isolate the House and build pressure on the
House.”  Obama also has met with Senate Democrats and House members
of both parties.  Same Strategy  The administration’s focus on sounding out Senate
Republicans open to a budget deal mirrors a strategy from last
December, when it forged a deal with those lawmakers to raise
taxes for high-income earners. After it passed the Senate, the
Republican-run House cleared the agreement.  The White House interprets House Speaker  John Boehner ’s
actions in December as tacit acceptance of a Senate-first
strategy in attempting a deal, said a Democrat familiar with the
administration’s thinking.  Last week the House Ways and Means Committee approved a
measure intended to ensure that U.S. government bondholders will
continue to be paid and that Social Security benefits won’t be
interrupted even if a stand-off over raising the nation’s
borrowing limit causes a cash crunch.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, the top
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said today he’s
“worried” about a replay of the summer of 2011, when a
standoff over raising the debt limit led Standard and Poor’s to
downgrade the U.S. credit rating.  No Solution  Republicans have “come up, at least for now, with the
cockamamie idea that you’re going to pay some of your bills but
not all of your bills,” he said at the Bloomberg Washington
Summit. “That’s not a solution.”  Boehner can’t corral Tea Party Republicans to support a
bipartisan compromise to raise the debt ceiling,  Van Hollen 
said. “I’m very nervous that, despite what I think are the
speaker’s good intentions to avoid a showdown, he can’t see his
way to putting on the table a decent way out.”  Congress voted at the end of January to suspend the
nation’s  $16.4 trillion  debt limit until May 19, temporarily
removing the risk of a default. The Treasury Department can ward
off a default for several months beyond that by shifting money
among government accounts, possibly to as late as September.  While the administration may be courting Senate
Republicans,  House Republicans  are preparing to seize on the
need to increase the nation’s borrowing authority to extract
cuts to programs such as Medicare without tax increases.  Starting Early  They are considering a strategy to act early, with
legislation that would authorize a debt-limit increase on their
preferred terms in the hopes it would step up pressure on the
White House and Democratic-controlled Senate, aides said.  “We’re starting very early and making it clear that unless
the president wants another fiscal cliff fiasco, we’re
determined to avoid that,” Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas
Republican, said in an interview.  Still, the refusal by House Republicans to consider higher
taxes, even in return for reductions in Medicare and Social
Security spending, may set up another fiscal showdown.  In 2011, lawmakers fought for months over raising the
nation’s debt limit. Obama signed the increase into law on Aug.
2, 2011, the day the Treasury Department warned that U.S.
borrowing authority would expire.  Investors Unrattled  Credit markets weren’t rattled by the 2011 standoff, as
yields on  10-year Treasury (USGG10YR)  notes declined to 2.61 percent on
Aug. 2 from 3.18 percent on July 1, 2011, and continued to fall
to 1.88 percent at year-end. The benchmark 10-year yield was at
1.67 percent at 11:45 a.m.  New York  time today, down 0.09
percentage points since Dec. 31.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating for the
first time on Aug. 5, 2011, citing the partisan gridlock over
the debt-limit standoff. Stock investors got rattled, with the
benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index falling 16.8 percent
between July 22, when talks on a broad deal faltered, and Aug.
8, the first trading day after the downgrade.  This time, the White House and Democratic congressional
leaders view Republicans’ potential ultimatum on the debt
ceiling as a “false threat,” said  Steve Elmendorf , a
Democratic lobbyist and former congressional aide with close
ties to the Obama administration and party leaders.  Plouffe, now a commentator for Bloomberg Television, said
House legislation tying an increase in the debt ceiling to cuts
in Medicare and Social Security isn’t going to generate public
pressure on the White House.  Bad Politics  “I couldn’t think of a worse political position than, ‘We
would tank the global economy unless you allow us to cut
Medicare too deeply,’” he said.  The White House is using a period in which Washington is
focused on revising immigration policy to strengthen ties with
senators who could form a middle ground on a deficit plan,
Elmendorf said. Success on immigration might spill over to the
fiscal fight.  “Problem No. 1, which is going to take up everybody’s time
and attention until June at least, is to get the immigration
bill passed,” he said. “So the focus is going to be on
creating the relationships and atmosphere where you can do this
fiscal deal. The focus is not going to be on negotiating a
deal.”  The White House believes settling the partisan fight over
budget deficits is Obama’s best chance of achieving priorities
such as more money for infrastructure, medical research and
education, and gives Republicans an opportunity for a tax
overhaul that lowers rates by reducing breaks, Elmendorf said.  Boehner Rule  Boehner’s spokesman,  Michael Steel , said the  Ohio
Republican  is “talking with members, and the American people,
about the best way to increase the debt limit consistent with
the Boehner rule,” which he said demands spending cuts equal to
or greater than the amount of a debt-limit increase. “No
decisions will be made anytime soon,” Steel said.  The administration’s effort to sound out Senate Republicans
diverges from its strategy in fiscal negotiations in 2011, when
Obama concentrated on talks with Boehner. Their efforts to reach
a broad deal including tax increases and cuts in federal
programs for the elderly broke down.  The two sides staved off a default with an agreement that
included automatic spending reductions, known as sequestration,
that began March 1. If no action is taken, the sequestration
will cut $1.2 trillion in spending over nine years.  High Earners  When talks between Boehner and the White House on a budget
accord also collapsed last December, the administration reached
a deal with Senate Republicans to raise taxes for couples
earning more than $450,000 per year while extending expiring
income-tax cuts for other Americans.  Many House Republicans went along, and that’s what the
administration is counting on again, said Elmendorf.  “Boehner doesn’t want to be in a room cutting a deal with
them,” he said. “He would rather be presented with a deal and
then make a decision about whether or not he wants to sell it to
his members.”  Still, House leaders are moving ahead with plans to propose
a bill authorizing a debt increase. The measure may include cuts
to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Republicans are also
looking for a way to attach a demand for a tax overhaul to a
bill, according to a Republican aide familiar with the talks who
asked not to be named because the options haven’t been made
public.  While Obama has said he won’t agree to conditions placed on
a debt limit increase, House Republicans say they’re determined
to use the measure to get concessions.  ‘Barter Framework’  “The president is not going to get a straight vote to
raise the debt ceiling,” said Representative Tom Cole, an
Oklahoma Republican. “It is just not politically possible.
There has to be some barter framework that involves significant
deficit reduction.”  Republicans are seizing on elements of Obama’s  budget
proposal  this month as a sign that Congress and the White House
can find common ground if Obama drops his demand to raise taxes.  A proposal by Obama to change the formula for calculating
cost-of-living increases for Social Security is a “positive
step forward,” House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, said at a Christian Science Monitor
breakfast this month.  New Revenue  The president’s budget blueprint also renews his request to
raise $580 billion in revenue over 10 years by limiting
deductions and closing tax breaks for top earners. He seeks
adoption of the Buffett rule, named for billionaire investor
 Warren Buffett , to impose a minimum tax on households with more
than $1 million in annual income. The plan would limit tax-
favored retirement accounts of some private-equity executives
and self-employed professionals at $3.4 million.  Republican leaders are planning to spell out the steps and
timing of a tax-system overhaul as a trigger for increasing the
borrowing limit. Their goal is to reduce tax breaks and use the
resulting revenue to lower rates.  Representative Jim Himes, a Connecticut Democrat who is
vice chairman of the self-described “moderate, pro-growth” New
Democrat Coalition, said Republicans are “in a real bind on
this issue.”  The party, he said, is split between the anti-tax Tea Party
members determined to fight, and lawmakers sensitive to
complaints from the business and financial community that a
repeat of the debt-limit standoff two years ago would damage the
economy.  Himes said at a Bloomberg Government breakfast last week
that the White House is “dead serious” that Obama won’t “be
held hostage by the debt ceiling.” Still, he said, “I do
believe a deal gets done” that includes Social Security and
Medicare changes and revenue from reducing tax breaks as long as
both sides are protected by “face-saving mechanisms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington D.C. at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at   jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 