-- Obama Pledges to Redouble Effort to Close Guantanamo
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-04-30T20:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/obama-pledges-to-redouble-effort-to-close-guantanamo.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
mount a renewed effort to close the Guantanamo Bay prison camp
in Cuba, where scores of prisoners have been on a hunger strike.  “I’m going to go back at this,” Obama said at a White House
news conference today. “I’ve asked my team to review everything
that’s currently being done in Guantanamo, everything that we
can do administratively, and I’m going to re-engage with 
Congress to try to make the case that this is not something 
that’s in the best interest of the American people.”  Obama’s campaign promise to close the prison camp foundered
in his first term after opposition in Congress. Many lawmakers
opposed transferring Guantanamo prisoners to U.S. sites, and
other countries were often reluctant to accept prison transfers.  The chairman of the House Armed Services Committee,
Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon, signaled today he is
prepared to fight the proposal again.  “The president faces bipartisan opposition to closing
Guantanamo Bay’s detention center because he has offered no
alternative plan regarding the detainees there, nor a plan for
future terrorist captures,” the California Republican said in a
statement.  Hunger Strike  A hunger strike that began in February with a handful of
prisoners has now grown to about 100, said Army Lieutenant
Colonel Todd Breasseale. The camp holds 166 prisoners, he said.  About 40 additional Navy medical personnel arrived at
Guantanamo last weekend to assist with caring for inmates on the
hunger strike, said Lieutenant Colonel Samuel House, a prison
spokesman.  As many as 21 of the 100 inmates on strike have lost enough
body weight to be approved for feeding through a tube that’s
inserted through their noses, House said.  “The bottom line is we will not allow them to die of
starvation,” he said.  Obama used a question about the hunger strike to make a new
pitch for closing a camp that sprang up on the Guantanamo Bay
Naval Station as an ad hoc location to house suspected
terrorists captured in  Afghanistan  in the aftermath of the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks.  “It is critical for us to understand that Guantanamo is
not necessary to keep America safe,” Obama said. “It is
expensive. It is inefficient. It hurts us, in terms of our
international standing. It lessens cooperation with our allies
on counterterrorism efforts. It is a recruitment tool for
extremists. It needs to be closed.”  ‘No-Man’s Land’  Keeping “over 100 individuals in a no-man’s land in
perpetuity” is not a sustainable policy, Obama said.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , chairman of the Senate
intelligence committee, asked the administration to review the
status of 86 prisoners who had been previously cleared for
transfer to other countries.  “The fact that so many detainees have now been held at
Guantanamo for over a decade, and their belief that there is
still no end in sight for them, is a reason there is a growing
problem of more and more detainees on a hunger strike,” the
California Democrat said in a statement.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat who heads the
Judiciary Committee, today endorsed Obama’s call for
Guantanamo’s closing.  ‘Deteriorating Situation’  “In the years since Congress first blocked resolving this,
the reasons for closing it have only multiplied,” Leahy said in
a statement. “The deteriorating situation at Guantanamo,
including the ongoing and expanding hunger strikes by prisoners
-- many of whom have never been convicted of any crime and are
eligible for release -- is disturbing and unacceptable.”  Obama contrasted the Guantanamo prisoners, many of whom
have yet to be charged with a crime, with terrorists recently
convicted in federal courts for plots that included an attempt
to detonate bombs in Times Square and on a plane bound for
 Detroit .  “We’ve got a whole bunch of individuals who have been
tried who are currently in maximum-security prisons around the
country,” Obama said. “Nothing’s happened to them. Justice has
been served. It’s been done in a way that’s consistent with our
Constitution, consistent with due process, consistent with rule
of law, consistent with our traditions.”  If Guantanamo isn’t closed, he said, “It’s going to get
worse. It’s going to fester.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  