-- Oil States Rises After Jana Discloses 9.1% Stake: Houston Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-04-30T14:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/oil-states-rises-after-jana-discloses-9-1-stake-houston-mover.html
Oil States International Inc. (OIS) , a
provider of housing at oilfields, rose to the highest in its
history after activist investor Jana Partners LLC disclosed a
stake and said it’s talked with management about strategic
changes.  The company, based in Houston, increased 16 percent to
$88.54 at 10:46 a.m. in New York. The shares earlier climbing as
much as 18 percent to $90.38, the highest intraday since the
company began trading in 2001.  Jana acquired a 9.1 percent stake in Oil States and spoke
with management about separating the company’s well-site
services unit and creating a real estate investment trust for
the oilfield housing business, the investment fund led by  Barry Rosenstein  said yesterday in a federal filing. The New York-
based hedge fund also prompted Marathon Oil Corp. and McGraw-
Hill Cos. to consider spinoffs and has campaigned for changes at
Agrium Inc.  “It has always been the plan of Oil States management to
turn the accomodations business into some type of yield, return-
of-capital vehicle,” James Wicklund, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG in  Dallas , who rates the shares a hold and owns
none, said today in a telephone interview. “That’s a fairly
large stake for an activist to take, and their point is, Let’s
do it now or investigate doing it now.”  REIT Structure  Oil States provides housing for workers in the Canadian
oil-sands projects, Australian mining regions and in some parts
of the U.S.  The accomodations unit is expected to provide 53 percent of
the company’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization this year, Wicklund said. It had sales of $297
million in the first quarter, Oil States said last week in an
earnings statement.  The accomodations unit may be valued as much as $5.5
billion under a REIT structure, Stephen Gengaro, an analyst at
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  New York , wrote yesterday in a note
to investors.  Oil States’ Chief Financial Officer Bradley Dodson said on
an April 26 call that the company has considered and so far
rejected strategic options for its accomodations unit.  Patricia Gil, a spokeswoman for Oil States, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  