-- Thomson Reuters Falls as Severance Charge Leads to Loss
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-04-30T20:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/thomson-reuters-beats-estimates-as-tax-legal-divisions-gain.html
Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) , a provider
of news and information services, fell after reporting a net
loss including severance charges.  The shares  dropped  less than 1 percent to $33.49 at the
close in New York after earlier sliding as much as 3.1 percent.  Thomson Reuters is relying on its smaller divisions for
growth as demand for financial-data products such as Eikon
stalls, with Wall Street customers still recovering from the
2009 recession. Tax and accounting revenue gained 6 percent to
$317 million, while legal sales rose 3 percent to $794 million,
the New York-based company said today in a statement.  Excluding acquisitions and discontinued businesses, total
sales contracted 1 percent in the quarter. In the financial and
risk division, which includes the data products, revenue fell 2
percent to $1.68 billion.  Investors appear to be taking back some of the gains in the
stock, which rose to a 20-month high yesterday, according to Tim Casey, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  “There’s a bit of profit-taking in the run-up in the
quarter,” he said in an interview after the earnings report.
“The first quarter is seasonably the smallest quarter for the
company.”  The soft economy has prompted Chief Executive Officer Jim Smith to rely on cost-cutting to improve profitability. He
announced in February the company would eliminate 2,500 jobs, or
about 4 percent of its workforce, with the firings coming from
the financial and risk division.  Severance Costs  The company recorded severance costs of $78 million, or 8
cents a share. With that charge,  Thomson Reuters  reported a net
loss of $31 million, or 4 cents a share, compared to net income
of $294 million, or 35 cents, a year earlier.  Sales from ongoing businesses reached $3.1 billion.
Analysts estimated $3.15 billion on average.  Excluding some items, profit of 38 cents a share beat
analysts’ expectations of  32 cents  on average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company reiterated its 2013  forecast  for revenue growth
rate in the low single digits and a profit margin of 26 percent
to 27 percent, adjusted for interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News ,
competes with Thomson Reuters in providing financial news and
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  