-- London Assembly Says U.K. Airport Capacity Enough If Better Used
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-04-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/london-assembly-says-u-k-airport-capacity-enough-if-better-used.html
Britain has enough airport capacity to
cope with its needs if it is utilized properly, the  London
Assembly  Transport Committee said in a report published today.  Heathrow, which uses 99 percent of its runway capacity,
could serve 20 million more passengers every year without the
need for a new runway if bigger airplanes are used, the cross-
party panel said in its  submission  to an independent inquiry
into airport capacity.  “The  Airports Commission  must examine whether better use
of existing airport capacity could be an intelligent, cost-
effective alternative to building new airports or runways,”
Transport Committee Chairwoman Caroline Pidgeon said in an
e-mailed statement. “Currently London sees 130 million
passengers traveling through our airports each year. The
challenge for the government and decision-makers is to find the
best way to support the U.K.’s economy globally while ensuring
Londoners are not adversely affected by worsening noise and air
pollution.”  The Airports Commission was set up by Prime Minister
 David Cameron  to delay a decision on Heathrow expansion until
after the 2015 general election. Led by  Howard Davies , a former
chairman of the Financial Services Authority, the panel will
produce an interim report later this year. It should consider
the effect better transportation to airports could have on
attracting passengers away from Heathrow, according to the
Transport Committee.  The excess capacity at London’s other airports means new
runways are not needed, it said. In the summer of 2012, 12
percent of runway slots at Gatwick were not used, 47 percent at
Stansted and 51 percent at Luton.  Stansted Scope  Stansted told the committee it could attract 1.5 million
more passengers a year if the train journey to central London
was cut to 30 minutes from the current 45.  The Transport Committee also raised concerns about London
Mayor  Boris Johnson ’s proposal for a new hub airport in the
Thames estuary to the east of London. The economic impact of the
resulting closure of Heathrow, an increase in airplanes flying
over central London and how the 80 billion-pound ($124 billion)
cost would be met would need to be considered by the Airport
Commission alongside the dangers of birdstrike from thousands of
migratory birds in the estuary, it said.  “If the Airports Commission finds that there is a need to
increase airport capacity, it should rule out the expansion of
 Heathrow airport ,” it said. “It should also make clear
in its interim report its criteria for shortlisting any other
options, which should cover cost and funding; how the option
would meet local demand for  air travel ; the effects on Heathrow;
airspace implications; and the potential environmental
impacts.”  ‘Not Certain’  The development of routes from London to  emerging markets 
is influenced by the location of each of its airports and this
should be investigated by the review into airport capacity,
according to the report. The committee is “not certain” that
demand for air travel will increase as much as previously
predicted and said London’s airports may not reach capacity
until 2040 rather than 2030.  “Each airport in London, including Heathrow, serves a
geographically distinct local market and it is this market which
is a major influence on where airlines fly to,” the committee
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  