-- Hong Kong’s Richland Capital Management Shuts Two Hedge Funds
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-04-30T07:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/hong-kong-s-richland-capital-management-shuts-two-hedge-funds.html
Richland Capital Management Ltd., a
Hong Kong-based asset manager set up in 2006, is closing down
its two  hedge funds , said Chief Investment Officer  Alex Au .  Richland has sold all the stocks in the Richland Asia
Absolute Return Fund and the Richland Emerging Opportunities
Fund, he said in a telephone interview today. He declined to
give a reason for the decision taken a month ago.  The two funds managed about $120 million as of March 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Au declined to give
more recent asset figures. Richland also advises investments for
private clients and a decision has yet to be made on the future
of that business, he added.  Hedge fund liquidations globally hit a post-2009 high of
873 last year as investors directed the bulk of new money to the
largest companies in the $2.4 trillion industry, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. Managers overseeing at
least $5 billion drew two-thirds of the $15 billion of fresh
capital in the first quarter, it said.  Richland Asia Absolute Return Fund returned 6.3 percent
this year through March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The pool that bets on rising and falling stocks
without taking a view on market direction has generated positive
annual performance in each full year since its December 2006
inception, the data showed.  Richland Emerging Opportunities Fund, set up in 2007 with a
focus on  China , gained 18 percent this year through March and 13
percent last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
made money in two of the last five full years, according to the
data.  Asia-focused hedge funds  returned  an average 5.8 percent in
the first quarter and 10 percent last year, according to
Singapore-based data provider Eurekahedge Pte.  Reuters reported Richland’s fund liquidation earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  