-- Lonmin Shuts Down Marikana Platinum Furnace After Incident
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-04-30T15:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/lonmin-shuts-down-marikana-platinum-furnace-for-at-least-a-month.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-largest
platinum producer, said it shut down its Number Two furnace at
Marikana in northwestern South Africa following an unspecified
incident, meaning that two furnaces at the site are offline.  “The incident has happened at a time when Lonmin had just
shut down the Number One furnace for its planned upgrade of the
hearth and shell,” Lonmin said in a statement today.  Repairs to the Number Two furnace will take 30 to 40 days,
Lonmin said. Three Pyromet furnaces, accounting for 50 percent
of the company’s capacity, continue to operate, it said. The
stock dropped 5.7 percent to close at 269 pence in  London .  It’s too soon to assess what the overall impact will be,
Ben Davis, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd., said in an e-mail
response to questions. “If the furnace is down for an extended
period, it could lead to issues given the inefficiencies of the
smaller Pyromet smelters.”  Lonmin on April 26 reported a fatality at the Merensky
section of its K3 shaft at Marikana and halted production for an
investigation. A six-week walkout last year at the Marikana
operation, about 170 kilometers (106 miles) northwest of
Johannesburg, resulted in the loss of an estimated 110,000
ounces of platinum production, the company said Nov. 9.  “The timing of this incident is unfortunate given that the
Number Two furnace essentially acts as a form of backup to the
Number One furnace, which has itself just been shut down as part
of a planned 90 day maintenance program,” said Justin Froneman,
a Johannesburg-based analyst with Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s
securities unit who maintains a buy recommendation on the stock.  Marikana is in the Rustenburg region, which holds the
world’s largest platinum reserves. Police shot dead 34
protesting miners at the mine on Aug. 16 during a strike over
wages. The company appointed Ben Magara, executive head of
engineering and capital projects at  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. (AMS) , the biggest platinum producer, as chief executive officer
starting July 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  