-- OCI May Move Shares To Amsterdam After Settling Dispute
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e ,   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-04-30T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/orascom-construction-to-pay-7-billion-pounds-in-egypt-tax.html
Orascom Construction Industries’s
settlement of a tax dispute in  Egypt  will help a move backed by
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder  Bill Gates  to transfer its shares to
Amsterdam, EFG-Hermes Holding SAE and VTB Capital said.  Egypt’s biggest publicly traded company agreed to pay about
7 billion Egyptian pounds ($1 billion) over five years to settle
the tax dispute on the sale of its cement unit to  Lafarge SA (LG)  in
2007, Amsterdam-based parent OCI NV said yesterday. The payments
will start in May and end in 2017. OCI NV shares had the biggest
increase since the company’s Dutch public offering in January.  OCI attracted $2 billion in commitments from a group of
investors including Cascade Investment LLC, Gates’s personal
investments vehicle, to help finance the move to Amsterdam,
which it said would lower borrowing costs and boost its global
profile. Yesterday’s settlement prompted Cairo-based investment
bank Pharos Holding to raise Orascom to buy from hold, saying
the construction and fertilizer company would proceed with an
offer to investors to buy its Cairo-listed shares or swap them
with  OCI NV (OCI)  stock.  “The settlement is very important in that it puts a
concrete figure for allowing OCI to put the tax case behind it
and move on,” Digvijay Singh, Dubai-based head of Middle East
equity strategy at VTB Capital, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. One reason for the agreement “was to do a sort of a
club deal whereby they would be able to proceed with mandatory
tender offer along with the settlement of tax case,” he said.  Capital Gains  Orascom has been in talks with tax officials to settle a 14
billion-pound claim stemming from the 2007 sale of its unit. The
company has said it didn’t pay taxes on the deal because it
listed the unit two months prior to the sale. Egypt doesn’t have
a  capital gains  tax.  Under the settlement, Orascom will make a 2.5 billion pound
payment in mid-May and 900 million pounds in December, the
company said yesterday. Six equal installments of 450 million
pounds will follow before two final payments of 500 million
pounds in 2017. The company said 182 million pounds of existing
tax credits will be deducted from the total amount of 7.1
billion pounds.  The Egyptian Tax Authority determined that “there was no
 tax evasion  by the company and is exonerating management and the
company from any wrongdoing related to the transaction,”
according to OCI’s statement. The board and management
“concluded that a prolonged legal process would not be in the
best interest of the company’s stakeholders,” the company said.  ‘Viewed Positively’  Egyptian authorities lifted a travel ban on OCI’s Chief
Executive Officer  Nassef Sawiris  and his father, Onsi, after the
agreement, state-run Ahram Gate website reported yesterday,
citing prosecution spokesman Mostafa Dewidar.  “A settlement is something that should be viewed
positively by all parties,” said  Wael Ziada , Cairo-based head
of research at EFG-Hermes, Egypt’s biggest investment bank. “It
means the company will be able to move forward with its business
plan, especially the tender offer” to transfer the shares to
Amsterdam, he said by phone.  OCI NV shares surged 7 percent at $30 in Amsterdam
yesterday. OCI NV is a fertilizer producer, and engineering and
construction contractor. The fertilizer unit owns and operates
plants in the Netherlands, the U.S., Egypt and  Algeria , and the
company employs more than 90,000 people in 35 countries,
according to the statement.  ‘Front-Loaded’  “The fact that they are paying over a five-year period,
despite paying in a front-loaded manner, is positive,” Ziada
said. “There are two reasons for this: the negative prospects
for the Egyptian pound and that OCI earns the bulk of its
revenues in dollars.”  The Egyptian pound has weakened more than 11 percent to
6.9345 a dollar since the central bank started limiting access
to the U.S. currency in December to stem the worst decline in
foreign reserves in at least 15 years.  Shares of  Orascom Construction , which accounts for a
quarter of the value of the benchmark gauge, have dropped 7.5
percent this year compared with a 4.9 percent decline in Egypt’s
benchmark EGX 30 Index. The Egyptian Exchange canceled all of
today’s trades on the stock.  Orascom has been trying to secure regulatory approval to
transfer its Cairo-listed shares to NYSE Euronext Amsterdam.
With the tax settlement, the company said it “expects to
proceed with its filing” for a mandatory offer for the Cairo
shares.  Orascom said in February that 99.9 percent of minority
shareholders approved a plan giving them the option of
exchanging their stakes for stock in OCI NV or selling them for
280 pounds apiece.  “As we end the prolonged period of uncertainty, the
company will now regain its focus on growth initiatives,”
Sawiris, OCI’s chief executive officer, said in the company’s
statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  