-- Morton’s Steakhouse Should Face Suits Over Buyout, Lawyer
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-04-30T17:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/morton-s-steakhouse-should-face-suits-over-buyout-lawyer.html
Morton’s Restaurant Group Inc.
directors shortchanged investors by selling the steakhouse chain
to billionaire restaurateur Tilman Fertitta for $116.6 million
in 2012 instead of holding out for a higher bid, a lawyer
argued.  Houston-based Morton’s executives should have taken the
company off the market until someone topped Fertitta’s $6.90-a-
share bid for the group of 68 high-end steakhouses, said
Jonathan Stein, an attorney for Morton’s shareholders suing over
the deal.  Morton’s directors “relied on too many faulty processes
here,” Stein said as he urged Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine today to reject the company’s bid to have the cases
thrown out. Strine said he would rule later on whether
shareholders can proceed with their lawsuits over the deal.  Morton’s investors contend in court filings directors gave
preferential treatment to Fertitta’s “inferior” bid to hasten
the chain’s sale. Fertitta is chief executive officer of
Landry’s Inc., which has a history of acquiring  restaurant
chains . In 2011, Houston-based Landry’s agreed to buy McCormick
& Schmick’s Seafood Restaurants Inc. for about $131.6 million.
Landry’s also owns the  Rainforest Cafe  and  Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. 
chains.  ‘Red Flag’  A lawyer for Morton’s directors countered investors
couldn’t show the board botched efforts to shop the company for
the highest price or stood to improperly gain from the deal.  Morton’s board “put a big, red flag up that said we’re
ready to sell this company,” Greg Varallo, one of the company’s
attorneys, told Strine at a hearing in Wilmington, Delaware,
today. Directors made “the entirely rational decision” to
spend nine months entertaining offers before accepting
Fertitta’s bid, he added.  Morton’s, which opened its first restaurant in  Chicago  in
1978, said in 2011 it was exploring a possible sale to boost
 shareholder value  as the U.S.’s economic uncertainties raised
questions about future revenue growth.  Morton’s was taken private by New York-based buyout firm
Castle Harlan Inc. for $71.2 million in 2002 after a bidding
contest with billionaire financier  Carl Icahn . The company sold
shares to the public four years later. Castle Harlan, which
holds more than 27 percent of Morton’s stock, was its largest
shareholder, according to court filings.  Bid Cut  Fertitta, who closed the deal in February 2012, took the
chain private again in the $116.6 million deal after cutting his
bid twice, investors contend in court filings. Castle Harlan
officials wrongfully pushed Morton’s directors to approve the
deal quickly so they could cash out their investment,
shareholders allege.  Disgruntled investors also allege Morton’s original
financial adviser, Jefferies Group LLC, wound up providing
financing to Fertitta as part of the deal and at created a
conflict of interest. Fertitta of “aiding and abetting” the
Morton’s board breach of their legal duties to shareholders.  The directors’ lawyers dismissed investors’ claims that the
sale to Fertitta amounted to a “fire sale” and said the
company brought in another financial adviser after Jefferies’
bankers agreed to provide financing to the buyer.  “The challenged transaction was negotiated at arm’s-length
by Morton’s independent and disinterested directors, with the
assistance of two sets of financial advisers,” the board’s
attorneys said in a March 22 court filing.  Fertitta’s lawyers said in their court filings the
restaurateur only agreed to accept financing from Jefferies if
Morton’s directors agreed to it.  The case is In re Morton’s Restaurant Group Inc.
Shareholders Litigation, Consolidated 7122,  Delaware  Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  