-- How Guerrilla Marketers Made People Into Their Platform
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S e r a z i o
-- 2013-04-30T14:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/how-guerrilla-marketers-made-people-into-their-platform.html
Back in 2006, a year still young in
the Web 2.0 era, Laura and Jim set off cross-country in their
new RV and chronicled the journey on a blog. They pitched camp
in Wal-Mart lots across the heartland and posted photos and
vignettes from the road, including chipper portraits of the
employees they encountered along the way.  What went largely  unsaid  was that a public-relations firm
representing Wal-Mart Stores Inc. had sponsored the entire trip.
They were “Wal-Marting Across America,” as the blog was called,
on the retailer’s dime.  Modern marketers desperately want to fit in -- into our
blogs, our Twitter feeds, our YouTube uploads and our status
updates. Social media, they suspect, conveys authenticity. And
no quality is more coveted for advertising than authenticity. A
30-second commercial comes off as affected, but a Facebook
posting seems artless.  Hoping to capitalize on this perception, companies are
turning to guerrilla marketing like this -- word-of-mouth
campaigns, increasingly via social media, in which putatively
objective people happen to suggest a certain product they’ve
tried and loved. According to one  estimate , 85 percent of the
biggest marketers in the U.S. are now using some sort of word-of-mouth component in their campaigns. BzzAgent, the largest
provider of such services, at one point boasted a half-million
volunteers who were reporting back to the company on such
conversations.  PR Pioneers  These strategies owe a distant debt to the pioneers of
public relations, like Edward Bernays. As Stuart Ewen recounts
in “PR! A Social History of Spin,” Bernays organized “organic”
movements and staged pseudo-events to seem spontaneous, hoping
to give a bottom-up sheen to top-down marketing campaigns by
politicians and corporations.  For instance, by orchestrating a “Torches of Freedom”
march, where early feminists held cigarettes aloft to symbolize
equality aspirations, Bernays managed to yoke women’s liberation
to the tobacco industry’s aims. In another sly example, Bernays
persuaded physicians to recommend a particular bacon brand to
their patients. He was also part of the U.S. government’s “Four-Minute Men” project, which enlisted community leaders nationwide
to sermonize before movie showings in support of entering World
War I. Much like today’s BzzAgents get bullet-point anecdotes to
accompany their free samples, “Four-Minute Men” worked the
crowds with suggested talking points.  The crux of spin, then as now, is to plant persuasion
through an intermediary who seems neutral and trustworthy. As
Bernays wrote, some 80 years ago, “If you can influence the
leaders, either with or without their conscious cooperation, you
automatically influence the group which they sway.”  The success of this strategy wasn’t lost on other
marketers. The use of “brand evangelists” goes as far back as
the 1920s, when Macy’s cleared out an inventory of white gloves
by hiring elegant women to don them on subway trains to stir up
conversation.  Avon  and Tupperware have used women’s friendships
and social capital to push their products for almost as long as
the companies have existed.  And teens have long been exploited for “peer-to-peer
marketing.” In the 1930s, young girls were recruited and paid to
scream themselves into a tizzy to hype up  Frank Sinatra . Two
decades later, Hires Root Beer targeted popular girls to
introduce their classmates to the soda at parties and to record
their feedback. Converse, in the 1980s, started “seeding” its
sneakers among the “in-crowd” at California high schools.  An Evolution  In the past decade, however, “ real-life  product placement”
has exploded, partly because we’ve gone from consuming content
mostly produced and distributed by media professionals, to
content co-created and spread by amateurs. And the more of our
lives we spend on Twitter and Facebook, the more marketers will
try to reach us there. As Ted Murphy, the founder and chief
executive officer of one “social media influencer” firm,
emblematically explained to me, “This is the natural evolution
of marketing. If you’re saying that media is moving to the
people, well, if the people are now creating all the media, then
the people become the platform.”  And as the people become the platform, the marketing
industry is undergoing some profound shifts. Most visibly, the
roles of advertising and public relations are blurring. The
vibrant and participatory online culture that has developed in
the past decade -- a landscape of Pinterest boards, WordPress
journals, TripAdvisor reviews and YouTube commentary -- means
that clients are demanding more and more word-of-mouth and
social-media campaigns from their public-relations reps. And as
those campaigns supplement, or even replace, conventional
advertising, independent PR firms have become  ripe acquisition
targets .  The crucial question for the future of the business (and
culture) is whether these social-media spaces can retain the
feeling of authenticity that marketers find so valuable. Buzz
marketing is fueled by the slick logic of “social capitalism,”
in which friendship becomes a commodity like any other, and
online influence gets sized up for exploitation. But as much as
certain management gurus like to gush, no one wants to be
friends with a brand.  ( Michael Serazio  is an assistant professor of communication
at Fairfield University and the author of “ Your Ad Here: The
Cool Sell of Guerrilla Marketing .” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Michael Serazio at  mserazio@fairfield.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  