-- Lloyds Quarterly Profit Jumps as Loan Impairments Subside
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-04-30T15:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/lloyds-quarterly-profit-jumps-as-loan-impairments-fall-correct-.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, posted a near-threefold increase in
first-quarter profit as impairments for souring loans dropped by
more than analysts estimated.  Pretax profit before exceptional items rose to 1.48 billion
pounds ($2.3 billion) from 497 million pounds in the year-
earlier period, beating the 1.03 billion-pound median estimate
of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Provisions fell 40
percent to 1 billion pounds, the London-based bank said in a
statement today. Analysts had  forecast  1.1 billion pounds.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio’s attempts to
return the 39 percent government-owned bank to full-year profit
have been hampered by more than 12.1 billion pounds of losses
tied to the collapse of the  Irish real  estate market and the
rising cost of compensating clients who were sold payment-
protection insurance they didn’t need. The lender today made no
additional provision to the 6.8 billion pounds it has already
set aside for PPI redress.  “The  balance sheet  is steadily improving,” said Cormac Leech, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London  with a buy
rating on the shares. “The fact they can do as well as they
have in this environment shows their market dominance.”  Lloyds rose 1.6 percent to 54.33 pence in London trading,
for a market value of about 39 billion pounds. The  stock,  which
has climbed 13 percent this year, still trades for less than the
61 pence the government paid for its holding when it bailed out
Lloyds in 2008 following its takeover of HBOS Plc.  Net Interest Margin  The bank posted a net profit of 1.53 billion pounds in the
first quarter, compared with a 5 million-pound loss in the year-
earlier period. Underlying revenue rose 3 percent to 4.89
billion pounds in the first three months, beating the 4.63
billion pound estimate of Credit Suisse Group AG analysts
including Carla Antunes-Silva.  Lloyds said it reduced assets at its non-core unit by 6.3
billion pounds in the first quarter to 92.1 billion pounds,
putting it ahead of its target to reduce assets by 20 billion
pounds this year. The firm said it expects the unit to shrink to
less than 70 billion pounds by the end of 2014.  The net interest margin, the difference between the bank’s
income from lending and its cost of funding, widened to 1.96
percent in the first quarter from 1.95 percent a year ago. While
that was below the bank’s target of 1.98 percent for 2013, the
lender said today it still expects to meet that goal this year.  “We delivered a significantly improved” performance,
Chief Financial Officer George Culmer told reporters on a
conference call today. “The group’s core business is strongly
capital-generative. Our transformation is ahead of schedule.”  Cost Targets  Horta-Osorio is cutting expenses to strengthen the bank’s
balance sheet and said costs had fallen 6 percent to 2.4 billion
pounds in the quarter. Lloyds said it expects to reduce expenses
to 9.2 billion pounds this year, about 2 billion pounds less
than in 2010 and twice the lender’s initial target.  The bank has eliminated more than 35,000 jobs since the
bailout and announced plans to close more than half of its 30
overseas units to focus on Britain. Culmer said today the lender
isn’t planning further job reductions.  “We remain confident in achieving our existing guidance,”
Horta-Osorio, 49, said in the statement. The lender expects a
“substantially reduced” impairment charge for 2013.  Capital Talks  Lloyds said it had not yet been told by regulators if it
needs to bolster  capital . The  Bank of England  last month called
on lenders to raise 25 billion pounds of additional capital to
cover bigger potential losses on commercial real estate,
possible fines for mis-selling and stricter risk models.  Lloyds’s core Tier 1 capital ratio under the latest rules
set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , a measure of
financial strength, remained at 8.1 percent in the period. The
bank expects the measure to increase to 9 percent by the year-
end and more than 10 percent by the end of 2014.  Claire Kane, a London-based analyst at Royal Bank of Canada
with an outperform rating on Lloyds, said in a report that those
capital targets should make a 2014 dividend “more likely.”  In the meantime, Lloyds has been selling assets to bolster
capital. Last month, it sold a 20 percent stake in wealth
manager St. James’s Place Plc and it is weighing a sale of its
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership unit.  Including the proceeds from asset sales and a 776 million-
pound gain from the sale of  government securities , Lloyds’s
statutory pretax profit jumped to about 2 billion pounds in the
quarter from 280 million pounds.  Co-Operative Bank Plc this month pulled out of an agreement
to buy 632 Lloyds branches European regulators are forcing the
bank to sell following its bailout to comply with government-
assistance rules. Lloyds said today it will cost about 1.3
billion pounds to prepare the branches for an initial public
offering in the middle of next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  