-- Lloyds Hires Ireland’s Elderfield as Compliance Director
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-04-30T10:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/lloyds-hires-ireland-s-elderfield-as-compliance-director.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, said it hired Irish central bank Deputy
Governor Matthew Elderfield as its director for conduct and
compliance.  Elderfield, 47, will start the job in October, Lloyds said
in a statement today. He will be responsible for developing the
London-based lender’s conduct strategy and overseeing all
compliance and conduct activities, it said.  “After a very rewarding experience in Ireland in
challenging circumstances, I look forward to applying my
regulatory experience to this new opportunity,” Elderfield said
in the statement. “This is an important time of change in the
U.K. financial services industry, with the formation” of the
Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority.  Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  hired
Elderfield, a British citizen, in 2010 to help oversee the
reconstruction of the country’s banking system after the real
estate bubble burst. He had served as chief executive officer of
the Bermuda Monetary Authority between 2007 and 2009 and spent
eight years at the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.  Lloyds has accumulated 12.1 billion pounds ($19 billion) of
loan losses in Ireland since its 2008 takeover of HBOS Plc,
whose precursor Bank of Scotland Plc entered the Irish mortgage
market in 1999. Lloyds injected about 8 billion euros ($10
billion) of capital into the Irish unit between 2008 and 2010,
when it let its local banking license lapse and subsumed the
loans into the London-based parent.  Elderfield, who received a 340,000-euro annual salary at
the central bank in Dublin, led two rounds of stress tests of
Ireland’s domestic lenders, requiring taxpayers to commit as
much as 64 billion euros of capital to banks. On his watch, the
state took over five of the six biggest lenders, which are still
wrestling with the legacy of the crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  