-- Pakistan Terrorist Attacks Before General Elections: A Timeline
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-04-30T10:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/pakistan-terrorist-attacks-before-general-elections-a-timeline.html
Following is a list of terrorist
attacks before the general elections scheduled for May 11.  April 30: Abdul Fatah, independent candidate from Baluchistan,
is shot dead in Jhal Magsi.  April 29: A bomb explodes near an election office of the  Awami
National Party  in Charsadda, killing one person and injuring 15.  April 29: A suicide bomber blows himself up near a bus stand in
 Peshawar , killing 9 and injuring 43. Two employees of the Afghan
consulate are among the dead.  April 28: A bomb strapped to a bicycle explodes outside the
office of independent candidate Nasir Khan Afridi in Peshawar,
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, killing three and injuring 20.  April 28: An election convoy of Awami National Party is targeted
with a remote-controlled bomb, leaving one dead and 13 injured
in Swabi, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa.  April 28: A bomb explodes near election offices of Khursheed
Begum from the Awami National Party and independent candidate
Noor Akbar Khan in Kohat town of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province,
killing five and injuring 23.  April 27: Awami National Party’s local leader Ghazi Gul is shot
dead by gunmen near his residence in Karachi.  April 27: Two attacks within minutes of each other near
Muttahida Qaumi Movement’s office in Karachi leave at least
three dead and 27 injured.  April 27: A bomb explodes at a corner meeting of  Pakistan 
Peoples’ Party in Karachi killing at least two and injuring 15.  April 26: A bomb attack on an election rally in Pakistan’s
commercial hub of Karachi kills nine people and injures 24.
Attack targets Awami National Party election candidate Bashir
Jan.  April 26: Hand grenades are hurled and rockets fired at a rally
of Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam (F) party in Bolan district, Baluchistan.  April 25: Bomb fitted into motorcycle explodes in front of
Muttahida Qaumi Movement’s office in Karachi, killing 6 and
injuring 8.  April 25: A hand grenade is hurled at the election office of
Pakistan Peoples’ Party in Nushki, Baluchistan, injuring two
people.  April 24: Five bombings in the southwestern city of Quetta in
two days kill six and injure 52.  April 23: Bomb attack in Karachi near a roadside camp of the
Muttahida Qaumi Movement kills 2 and hurts 15.  April 23: Pakistani police find a car packed with explosives
near the Islamabad residence of former military ruler  Pervez Musharraf , where he is being kept under house arrest.  April 17: Awami National Party’s Farooq Khan escapes unhurt
after a bomb blast targeted his vehicle in the northwestern city
of Charsadda.  April 16: A bomb blast near a political rally for the Awami
National Party in Peshawar kills at least eight people and
injures 40.  April 16: A roadside bomb targeting a regional chief from former
premier  Nawaz Sharif ’s party kills at least four, including the
son and brother of Baluchistan provincial president Sardar
Sanaullah Zehri.  April 14: Syed Masoom Shah, an election candidate of the Awami
National Party, is injured along with three other people in a
blast at a rally in Charsadda. In another incident, a local
leader of the same party is shot dead in the northwestern Swat
Valley.  April 11: Fakhrul Islam, a candidate of the Muttahida Qaumi
Movement, is killed in a gun attack in Hyderabad.  April 3: Adnan Aslam, a candidate from the Pakistan Peoples’
Party, is killed in a gun attack in Karachi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween A. Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  