-- Palestinian Kills Israeli Settler, Israel Strikes in Gaza
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-04-30T16:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/palestinian-kills-israeli-settler-israel-strikes-in-gaza.html
A knife-wielding Palestinian killed
an Israeli settler in the  West Bank  and  Israel  carried out a
deadly air strike on a Gaza Strip man it linked to a rocket
attack.  The two incidents occurred within hours of each other,
though they were not directly related, Israeli security
officials said. The attack at the Tapuach road junction was the
first time in more than a year that an Israeli civilian was
killed in the West Bank.  Underscoring the tense atmosphere, the army called up about
2,000 reserve soldiers today for a snap, weeklong drill along
Israel’s northern border with Lebanon.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said the Palestinian man
in Gaza, Haitham al-Mishal, was targeted because of his
involvement in an April 17 rocket attack on the resort town of
Eilat, north of  Egypt ’s Sinai border, which caused no injuries
or damage. “We will not accept the sporadic firing of rockets
from either the Gaza Strip or Sinai,” Netanyahu said in an e-
mailed message.  Jihadi Militant  Gaza also borders Sinai, and Israel says militants there
have infiltrated the Egyptian territory to attack Israeli
targets. The army said in a statement that al-Mishal operated
with jihadi militant Islamic organizations “and over the past
few years has been a key terror figure.”  Three other Palestinians were injured in the air strike,
said Ashraf al-Qedra, a spokesman for the Hamas-run Health
Ministry in Gaza City.  In the West Bank, Evyatar Borovsky, a resident of the
Yitzhar settlement, was stabbed by Salam Zaghal, who grabbed his
gun and opened fire at Israeli security forces, police spokesman
 Micky Rosenfeld  said in a telephone interview. Security forces
shot back at the Palestinian man and arrested him, Rosenfeld
said.  Yitzhar settlers and Palestinians who oppose Israel’s
occupation of the West Bank, the core of their hoped-for state,
have clashed multiple times.  Borovsky, a father of five, was an actor and
improvisational comic who was studying to be a clown who works
in hospitals, his father, Baruch, told Channel 2 television. His
assailant, Zaghal, was recently released from an Israeli prison
where he served three years for “terrorist activities,”
Rosenfeld said, without elaborating.  The army drill had been in planning for months and was not
directly connected to mortar attacks along the frontier with
 Syria , Israeli Defense Forces spokesman Yoav Mordechai told  Army
Radio .  “The IDF needs to be prepared for an array of threats,”
Mordechai said, identifying Lebanon, Syria and Gaza as possible
future battlefields.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  