-- Palm Oil Trims Third Monthly Decline as Soybeans Rally on Demand
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-04-30T05:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/palm-oil-trims-third-monthly-decline-as-soybeans-rally-on-demand.html
Palm oil  gained, paring a third
monthly decline, after soybeans rallied as demand for U.S.
supplies increased on slowing exports from  Brazil , poised to be
the world’s largest grower this year.  The contract for July delivery advanced as much as 1.3
percent to 2,302 ringgit ($759) a metric ton on the Bursa
Malaysia Derivatives, before ending the morning session at 2,281
ringgit in Kuala Lumpur. Futures are headed for a 4.1 percent
decline in April.  Soybeans, which can be crushed to make  soybean oil , rallied
to a one-month high in  Chicago  today on speculation that demand
for U.S crop will increase as supplies from Brazil slowed.
Growers in Brazil sold 66 percent of the 2012-2013 crop,
compared with 75 percent a year ago, research firm Safras &
Mercado said yesterday. Palm and soybean oils are the most
consumed edible oils in the world.  “ China  is turning its demand to U.S. because it’s not able
to get it from Brazil because of the congestion at ports,” said
Prathamesh Mallya, an analyst at AnandRathi Commodities Ltd. in
Mumbai. “Soybeans will continue to remain volatile and probably
that is where palm oil will take further cues.”  Soybeans for July delivery advanced as much as 0.4 percent
to $14.15 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the highest
price for the most-active contract since March 28. Soybean oil
for July delivery was little changed at 49.46 cents a pound.  Demand for palm oil may pick up in the months ahead of
Ramadan in July, said Mallya. Consumption of cooking oils
usually increase during the Muslim fasting month as communal
meals boost demand.  Exports from Malaysia fell 4.3 percent to 1.31 million tons
in April from a month earlier, surveyor Intertek said today.
Reserves have dropped 17 percent to 2.17 million tons in March
from a record 2.63 million tons in December, according to
Malaysian Palm Oil Board data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  