-- Panel Seeks Clarity on Scotland’s Foreign Policy
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-04-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/panel-seeks-clarity-on-scotland-s-foreign-policy.html
Scottish nationalists pushing for
independence in a referendum next year need to clarify their
foreign-policy plans, a panel of U.K. lawmakers said.  The Scottish National Party government in Edinburgh has not
thoroughly analyzed the diplomatic and external-security
networks Scotland would need and assumes other nations would
help it out if it ran into difficulties on international
relations, the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee said
in a report published in  London .  “There are some quite worrying gaps in the Scottish
government’s foreign-policy vision and certain assumptions are
being made which don’t seem to be based on concrete evidence,”
the committee chairman, Richard Ottaway from U.K. Prime Minister
David Cameron’s Conservative Party, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “No one is doubting that Scotland could be a
fully fledged member of the international community, but there
is a real and urgent need for more information about the risks
and costs involved.”  The Scottish government should take advice on a range of
international legal positions, including membership of the
European Union, opt-outs from international agreements and
membership in international bodies, the committee said. Joining
the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
would not necessarily be straightforward, it said.  “There is a pressing need for more clarity and more candor
about what Scots would lose and what the Scottish government
could realistically deliver in foreign-policy terms with the
resources available to it,” the panel said. “As the Edinburgh
Agreement makes clear, Scots will hold their destiny in their
own hands in September 2014. It is  Scotland ’s decision to make,
no one else’s. The Scottish people do, however, have a right to
have the full facts, not just aspirational policies, at their
disposal before they make that decision.”  Backing for independence fell to 30 percent of respondents
between March 20 and April 2 from 33 percent in February, a TNS
BMRB survey found. Those in favor of remaining part of the U.K.
dropped one percentage point to 51 percent. The number of people
saying they don’t know how they will vote rose to 19 percent
from 15 percent.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  