-- Paris Saint-Germain to Fight Man. United for Ronaldo: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-04-30T09:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/paris-saint-germain-to-fight-man-united-for-ronaldo-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
web.  Ronaldo Battle  Manchester United  will have to see off a bid from Paris
Saint-Germain should it want to re-sign  Cristiano Ronaldo ,  the
Sun said.   PSG has already made an offer for the Real Madrid forward,
and United is preparing a bid of 65 million pounds ($100
million) plus a player, most probably Portuguese winger Nani,
the newspaper said. United sold Ronaldo to the Spanish team for
80 million pounds in 2009.  United is working with sponsor Nike Inc. to formulate a
deal for the player if he wants to leave Madrid, the Sun said.  Carroll Replacement  West Ham will target Everton striker Nikica Jelavic after
deciding it would be too expensive to keep on-loan forward Andy Carroll, who is valued at 17 million pounds by Liverpool, the
Daily Mirror said.  The Hammers tried to sign Jelavic when he left Rangers, but
lost him to Everton. The Croatian’s goalscoring has slowed this
season, the Mirror said.  Turkey for Clichy?  Galatasaray wants to sign Manchester City defender  Gael Clichy  as the Turkish side tries to strengthen a squad that
includes former Chelsea striker Didier Drogba, the  Daily Mail
said.   Although the 27-year-old Clichy still has two years
remaining on his contract and wants to stay in England,
Galatasaray will tempt him to join, the newspaper said. The team
is also targeting Bayern Munich’s  Arjen Robben , the Mail said.  Schneiderlin Sought  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger will bid 10 million pounds
for Southampton midfielder Morgan Schneiderlin,  the Sun said .  The Gunners’ coach wants the 23-year-old to replace the
often injured Abou Diaby, the newspaper said. Arsenal has
recruited Theo Walcott and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain from
Southampton in recent years.  Terry Exit?  Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  wants to make Brazilian
defender David Luiz captain to replace  John Terry  in another
sign the English player is on his way out of  Stamford  Bridge,
 the Daily Star said .  The 26-year-old Luiz is part of the Russian billionaire’s
plan to move on older players including the 32-year-old Terry,
the newspaper said. Luiz is captain if Terry,  Frank Lampard  and
Petr Cech aren’t in the team, the Star added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  