-- Paul Krugman’s Proud War on Fools, Knaves and Lunatics
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-04-30T22:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/paul-krugman-s-proud-war-on-fools-knaves-and-lunatics.html
Could I say a word about  Paul Krugman ?
A recent  blog post  by the eminent economist and  New York  Times
columnist struck me as out of the ordinary, even for him.
Krugman was responding to critics who accuse him of seeing
everybody who disagrees with him as either a fool or a knave. He
says that’s not right: Many of those who disagree with him are
sociopaths.  “The point is not that I have an uncanny ability to be
right; it’s that the other guys have an intense desire to be
wrong,” he says. “And they’ve achieved their goal.”  Before I examine this mindset and where it leads, I should
mention my boundless admiration for Krugman as a scholar. As a
young economist many years ago, I was in awe of his ability to
examine an economic problem in a new way and find something
simple and crucial that others had missed. He did this again and
again. A remarkable talent, humbling to watch.  These days, when I read his column or his blog posts (such
as one on April 29, which boasted that he’s more  popular  on the
Web than celebrity gossip), I sometimes feel as though I were
watching  Albert Einstein  on the Cooking Channel. Is this, I
wonder, the best use of his gift?  He would say it is, I’m sure, and the reason is the danger
posed by the fools, knaves and sociopaths who disagree with him
about fiscal policy and the proper role of government. Nothing
is more urgent than to confront this threat, he believes, which
demands all hands on deck as long as it persists. Krugman sees
his mission as telling people the truth -- or as much of it as
they can handle -- so the liars and lunatics don’t have it their
way all the time. This might not be enough to save us, but it’s
his duty to try.  Guiding Opinion  As readers of this column won’t need reminding, I think
Krugman’s been right about U.S. fiscal policy -- the stimulus
was too small and it’s being withdrawn too soon. But he’s wrong
about many of the people who disagree with him and about the
best way to guide opinion. He’s enormously influential with
those who need no persuading, which is to say not very
influential at all. He would have more influence where it would
actually make a difference if he developed -- or at least could
feign -- some respect for those who aren’t his disciples.  Krugman says his opponents are motivated by politics. “Am I
(and others on my side of the issue) that much smarter than
everyone else? No. The key to understanding this is that the
anti-Keynesian position is, in essence, political. It’s driven
by hostility to active government policy and, in many cases,
hostility to any intellectual approach that might make room for
government policy.”  Talk about lack of self-awareness. Does Krugman imagine
that he isn’t motivated by politics? His own views are equally
driven by support for active government policy; in many cases,
they are also driven by support for any intellectual approach
that might make room for such government policy. Like any
politician, he expresses certainty where he knows there is
doubt. He’s more than happy to simplify and exaggerate as the
cause demands.  And that’s fine. Vigorous debate on the subject is not just
desirable in a healthy polity but also essential. Reverence for
scientific niceties belongs in academic journals, not the public
square. But it shouldn’t need saying that reasonable people can
disagree about how big a role the government should play in
society, and about where the burden of proof should lie in
discussing proposals for more or less government intervention.  Radiating Contempt  A line has been crossed when the principal spokesmen for
contending opinions have no curiosity whatsoever about their
opponents’ ideas and radiate cold, steady contempt for each
other. That’s dangerous. Civil society depends on a minimum
threshold of tolerance and mutual respect. Fall too far below
it, and the seething paralysis you see in  Washington  could soon
be the least of your concerns. This is America’s biggest
political problem -- and Krugman’s not part of the solution.  Meanwhile, for the side that thinks it has the better
arguments, naked contempt for dissenters is plain bad tactics.
That isn’t how you change people’s minds. Better to fire up the
base with a little demagoguery (such as calling conservatives
racist, as Krugman is wont to do) than reach out to the
uncommitted? I don’t think so. The enthusiasm you inspire on
your side is canceled out by an equal and opposite reaction on
the other. Krugman stirs up the right in much the same way that
 Rush Limbaugh , for instance, inflames the left. Granted, if
you’re going to have a spokesman, better a Nobel laureate than a
talk-radio clown. The fact remains that Krugman’s weary disdain
for roughly half the country is self-defeating.  Really, I just wish he’d meet a wider range of people. It’s
true that the modern  Republican Party  includes a growing number
of extremists who have no interest in the kind of discussion I’m
recommending. In their case, attempts at outreach would be so
much wasted breath. But if Krugman got out of his bubble a bit
more, he’d find that the other half of the country contains no
more than its fair share of knaves, fools and lunatics -- and a
lot of thoughtful, public-spirited Americans whose views on the
proper scale and scope of government are different from his, yet
worthy of respect.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 