-- Pell Grants Shouldn’t Pay for Remedial College
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P e t r i l l i
-- 2013-04-30T22:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/pell-grants-shouldn-t-pay-for-remedial-college.html
Everyone, from President  Barack Obama 
to U.S. Representative Paul Ryan to Bill Gates, seems to have an
idea for  improving  the Federal Pell Grant Program for higher
education.  Worthy though some of these efforts may be, none reveals
the crux of the problem: A huge proportion of this $40 billion
annual federal investment is flowing to people who simply aren’t
prepared to do college-level work. And this is perverting higher
education’s mission, suppressing completion rates and warping
the country’s K-12 system.  About two-thirds of low-income community-college students
-- and one-third of poor students at four-year colleges -- need
remedial (aka “developmental”) education, according to  Complete
College America , a nonprofit group. But it’s not working: Less
than 10 percent of students who start in remedial education
graduate from community college within three years, and just 35
percent of remedial students earn a four-year degree within six
years.  What if the government decreed that three years hence,
students would only be eligible for Pell aid if enrolled in
credit-bearing college courses, thus disqualifying remedial
education for support?  One could foresee various possible outcomes. Let’s start
with the positive. Ambitious, low-income high-school students
would know that if they want to attend college at public expense
(probably their only option), they would first need to become
“college-ready.” This would  provide  a clear sign and incentives
for them to work hard, take college-prep classes and raise their
reading and math skills to the appropriate level.  Better Preparation  To be considered successful, the high schools serving these
young people would need to get their college-bound students to a
college-ready level, not just get them to graduation. They might
offer more college-prep courses, especially for those pupils
with the most promise, and  make sure  the teachers are up to the
task.  Likewise, state officials concerned about college
completion would be prodded to ensure that their high schools
produce college-ready graduates, maybe boosting graduation
standards accordingly. Better yet, they might start to include
college matriculation and graduation rates in their high-school
accountability systems.  As for colleges, without a federal funding stream for
remedial education, many would decide to become more selective,
only admitting students who are ready for credit-bearing
courses.  This would probably raise the academic tenor of the
institution, for students and professors alike. And with fewer
students using Pell aid, we could afford to make each grant more
generous, removing financial barriers that force well-prepared
low-income students to leave before graduation, or not to come
at all.  In sum, disqualifying the use of Pell grants for  remedial
education  would substantially reduce the gap between the number
of students entering higher education and the number completing
degrees.  Yes, there are obvious downsides. Most significantly, many
students wouldn’t be able to afford remedial education and thus
would never go to college in the first place. Millions of
potential Pell recipients -- many of them minorities -- might be
discouraged from even entering the higher-education pipeline.
Such an outcome seems unfair and cuts against the American
tradition of open access, as well as second and third chances.  Then again, it’s not so certain that these individuals are
better off trying college in the first place. Most don’t make it
to graduation.  Job Training  Many would be more successful in job-training programs that
don’t require college-level work (or would be better off simply
gaining skills on the job). Georgetown University’s Center on
Education and the Workforce  estimates  that more than a third of
jobs today only require a high-school diploma or less. While
these jobs won’t make young people rich, they will keep them out
of the grip of poverty, and can propel them to new
opportunities.  Furthermore, it isn’t fair to spend scarce dollars on
students who aren’t prepared for college; those dollars could
instead be used by needy students who are ready. It would be
better to place our bets on low-income individuals who are most
likely to succeed by boosting the maximum value of a Pell grant.
(At $5,500 a year, it’s worth much less today than when Congress
created the program decades ago.)  Perhaps the greatest risk is that colleges would respond to
the new rules in a perverse manner: by giving credit for courses
that used to be considered  “remedial.”  This would be the path of
least resistance. Everyone could keep doing what they were doing
before, with a wink and a nod, but would further dilute the
value of a college degree.  It’s hard to know how many institutions would be willing to
disregard academic integrity in such a way; one could imagine it
being a lamentably large number. It would be incumbent on
government agencies and watchdog groups to shame colleges that
attempt to take this route.  On balance, withdrawing Pell subsidies from remedial
courses appears promising enough to try. Congress should require
the Education Department to create a demonstration program in
which colleges and universities volunteer to eliminate their
remedial courses and, in return, their qualified low-income
students become eligible for more-generous Pell-grant money,
thus reducing their own financial-aid obligation.  Perhaps offer the deal to an entire state. Study what
happens. My guess is that it would have a salutary effect on the
K-12 system, on higher education and on college-completion
rates. Let’s find out.  (Michael Petrilli is executive vice president of the Thomas
B. Fordham Institute and a research fellow at Stanford
University’s Hoover Institution. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Petrilli at  mpetrilli@edexcellence.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 