-- Perth Mint Works Through Weekend on Highest Demand Since ’08
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   J a k e   L l o y d - S m i t h
-- 2013-04-30T09:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/perth-mint-works-through-weekend-as-gold-demand-surges-on-price.html
Australia ’s Perth Mint, which
refines nearly all of the nation’s bullion, said that demand has
jumped to the highest level in five years after prices plunged,
with the factory kept open through the weekend to meet orders.  There’s been strong interest, including from the U.S., with
buyers speculating that the metal will rebound from the decline,
Ron Currie, sales and marketing director, said in a phone
interview from Perth.  Bullion plunged 14 percent in the two sessions to April 15,
the most since 1983, spurring buyers to boost physical holdings.
Billionaire  John Paulson , the biggest investor in the largest
 exchange-traded product  backed by bullion, reiterated his
bullish view on prices. Coin sales by the U.S. Mint are set for
the highest month since December 2009, while premiums to secure
supplies in  India  rose to five times the level before the slump.  “We haven’t seen levels like this since the 2008 global
financial crisis,” Currie said yesterday. “Compared to March
sales, April sales have doubled or tripled,” he said, without
providing figures.  Gold for immediate delivery fell 0.4 percent to $1,470.42
an ounce at 5:13 p.m. in  Singapore . While prices have gained 11
percent from a two-year low on April 16, they are still heading
for the biggest monthly loss since December 2011.  Increased physical purchases may help to offset declining
holdings in ETPs, which are on course for a  record contraction 
in tonnage terms this month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Holdings have contracted 168 tons in April as prices
entered a  bear market .  ‘All Weekend’  The  U.S. Mint  said on April 23 it suspended sales of coins
weighing a 10th of an ounce after  demand  more than doubled from
a year earlier. The mint has sold 209,500 ounces of gold coins
so far in April from 62,000 in March, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The U.K. Mint said purchases tripled in April.  “We worked all weekend to keep the factory running to make
more stock and that was only to fill orders,” Currie said from
the facility founded in 1899. “We’re being inundated with
people buying products.”  Paulson told clients that central-bank buying and demand in
 Asia  will support the metal in the near term, according to a
letter from Paulson & Co. obtained by Bloomberg. The hedge-fund
manager began investing in gold in 2009 for protection against
eventual inflation and currency debasement as central banks
pumped an unprecedented amount of money into the global economy.  “We’re seeing people are coming into the market because
the price has come down, they think they can afford it now and
expect that it will go up again,” Currie said. “The U.S. has
got the money to purchase metal and is doing so as a hedge,” he
said, referring to individual investors. “It’s extremely busy
for us in the U.S.”  Russia and  Kazakhstan  boosted official  gold reserves  for a
sixth month in March, International Monetary Fund data show.
Central banks will buy as much as 550 tons this year after
increasing holdings by 534.6 tons last year, the most since
1964, the World Gold Council estimates. 