-- Pfizer Lowers 2013 Forecast After Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-30T20:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/pfizer-lowers-2013-forecast-after-sales-miss-analyst-estimates.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, reduced its 2013 profit forecast after first-quarter
sales missed analyst estimates. The shares had their worst one-
day loss since August 2011.  Full-year earnings excluding one-time items may be $2.14 to
$2.24 a share as foreign currency rates weigh on results, New
York-based Pfizer said today in a statement. The forecast cuts
by 6 cents the  range  provided by the company in January. First-
quarter net income surged 53 percent to $2.75 billion, or 38
cents a share, from $1.79 billion, or 24 cents, a year earlier.  Sales for the pneumococcal vaccines Prevnar and the
erectile dysfunction drug Viagra were less than analyst
estimates, leading total revenue to fall about $440 million
short of expectations, at $13.5 billion.  It was “clearly not a great quarter,” said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with International Strategy & Investment
Group in New York, in a note to clients today. “However, it
appears that the company will attribute a large portion of the
miss, but not all, to one-time factors such as U.S. buying
patterns and foreign exchange.”  Pfizer shares fell 4.5 percent to $29.07 at the close in
New York. The stock has  gained  27 percent in the last 12 months.  Exchange Rates  Exchange rates for foreign currency including the Japanese
yen trimmed 4 cents off the full-year forecast, Pfizer said. The
other 2 cents were tied to the initial public offering of  Zoetis
Inc. (ZTS) , the animal health unit, the drugmaker said. Excluding
certain items, earnings were 54 cents a share, 1 cent below the
average of 17 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors have been closely watching whether Pfizer may
split in half after shedding two non-drug units over the last
year, into separate brand-name and generic drugs businesses.
Such a split is “perhaps the last big lever management has left
to pull,”  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said before the earnings were released.  Pfizer has been working to remake itself after it lost
exclusive sales rights to Lipitor in 2011, the anti-cholesterol
pill that was once the world’s top-selling medicine with almost
$13 billion. The company won U.S. marketing approval in the past
six months for two new potential blockbusters, the rheumatoid
arthritis pill Xeljanz and the blood thinner Eliquis.  Pfizer may bring an experimental breast cancer treatment to
market under an accelerated approval program offered by U.S.
regulators. Called palbociclib, data released in December showed
the drug stopped disease progression for more than two years in
165 patients.  $5 Billion Drug  The compound may generate as much as $5 billion a year if
approved by regulators, according to Seamus Fernandez, an
analyst with Leerink Swann & Co.  Pfizer divested its animal health and infant nutrition
businesses over the last year, part of Read’s strategy to create
a more-focused business.  While a further divide “would create a certain, nontrivial
amount of dis-synergies, investors would nonetheless likely
reward this bold action with a higher valuation,” Anderson said
in an April 10 note to clients.  Pfizer didn’t provide sales figures for Eliquis, which is
being co-promoted with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , or Xeljanz.
Bristol-Myers, based in New York, last week said its sales from
the drug were $22 million, about half of what analysts had
projected.  Lyrica, Prevnar  Pfizer’s biggest  products  are the pain pill Lyrica and the
two pneumococcal vaccines sold under the name Prevnar 13 and
Prevnar 7. Lyrica’s revenue increased 12 percent to $1.07
billion. Sales of Prevnar-13, the newer vaccine, fell 11 percent
to $846 million, which the company said was caused by irregular
government ordering patterns.  While Lipitor no longer has patent protection, Pfizer has
managed to hold on sales of the drug in the face of generic
competition. The pill generated $626 million, more than analyst
estimates of $530 million, and remains Pfizer’s fifth-biggest
product. Viagra sold $461 million, less than estimates of $513
million.  Zoetis, the animal health unit that Pfizer spun out in a
February initial public offering, also reported first-quarter
earnings today.  Net income  rose 26 percent to $140 million, or 28 cents a
share, from $111 million, or 22 cents, in the same period a year
earlier, Zoetis said. Earnings excluding one-time items were 36
cents, topping by 3 cents the average of 13 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue rose 4.1 percent to $1.09 billion, helped by a
boost in sales of products for companion animals in the U.S. and
other regions, the Madison, New Jersey-based company said today
in a statement. Profit this year will be $1.36 to $1.42 a share,
Zoetis said. Fourteen analysts had estimated $1.38 a share,
according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The first quarter looks excellent and guidance is
solid,” Schoenebaum, the ISI Group analyst, wrote today in a
note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  