-- Pfizer Reviewing Idea of Potential Split, CFO Says
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-30T20:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/pfizer-reviewing-idea-of-potential-split-cfo-says.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, will analyze over the next eight months whether it
will split itself into brand name and generics businesses, Chief
Financial Officer Frank D’Amelio said.  Pfizer hasn’t made a final decision on whether to break up
the New York-based company and an official divide wouldn’t
happen until at least 2016, Chief Executive Officer Ian Read
said today. In the meantime, Pfizer is working to figure out
whether its  emerging markets  operations would benefit from being
organized more like its business in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan 
where the company has distinct brand and generics units,
D’Amelio said today in a telephone interview.  This “is a study year,” D’Amelio said. “What we don’t
want to do is take the positive out of what the model’s already
generating.”  Talk of a possible split has dominated company conference
calls with analysts since Read floated the idea last year. Such
a break up is “perhaps the last big lever management has left
to pull,” Tim Anderson, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said before Pfizer earlier today announced its first-
quarter earnings.  D’Amelio said feedback hasn’t been unanimous, or final.
“If you talk to investors, I think you’ll get mixed comments,”
he said. “There’s never a subject where I think the investment
community is all-in one way or the other.”  Lipitor Sales  Pfizer has been working to remake itself after it lost
exclusive sales rights in 2011 to Lipitor, the cholesterol
treatment that was once the world’s top-selling medicine with
almost $13 billion. The company won U.S. marketing approval in
the past six months for two new potential blockbusters, the
rheumatoid arthritis pill Xeljanz and the blood thinner Eliquis.  Earlier today, Pfizer reduced its  forecast  for 2013 profit
excluding certain items after first-quarter sales missed
analysts’ estimates. Pfizer shares fell 4.5 percent to $29.07 at
the close in New York, their worst one-day loss since August
2011.  Judson Clark, an analyst Edward Jones & Co. who has a buy
rating on the stock, said he’s neutral on the idea of a split.  “It’s almost a one-time resetting,” Clark said. “I can’t
imagine every five or 10 years they’re going to spin off their
drugs that are in life-cycle management. I don’t know if this is
a recurring way to create shareholder value.”  The key decision is whether the brand-name and generics
businesses can exist inside Pfizer separately and still create
value, or whether a formal split is necessary, Read said.  “The first order of business is to find a way we can
separate them and give the management as much authority and
independence as necessary,” Read said today on a conference
call. “I believe it’s worth creating that separation
internally, because I believe it creates focus and management
focus and improves the performance of those two businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  