-- Pimco Sees M&A as ONGC Returns to Dollar Offerings
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y ,   F i o n   L i   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-04-30T05:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/pimco-sees-m-a-as-ongc-returns-to-dollar-offerings.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  sold $800
million of debt in its first dollar bond sale since 1986 as
 India ’s largest energy explorer starts its biggest push to boost
the nation’s energy security.  The state-owned company’s overseas unit,  ONGC Videsh Ltd. ,
issued $500 million of 10-year notes yesterday at 210 basis
points over U.S. Treasuries and $300 million of five-year debt
at a premium of 190 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. China National Petroleum Corp. and  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (386)  sold 2023 notes this month at around 160.  “The region’s energy appetite can only expand over the
secular horizon as these economies continue to develop and
standards of living rise,” Raja Mukherji, Hong Kong-based head
of Asian credit research at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in an e-mail interview yesterday. “To meet increasing
demand, many Indian oil and gas companies have not only become
frequent buyers of foreign assets, they have also regularly
tapped the international  capital markets .”  Indian companies including  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  have
more than tripled overseas debt sales this year to $8.8 billion
as borrowing costs fell to record lows, providing ONGC a
platform as it mounts bids for assets from  Azerbaijan  to
Kazakhstan and Mozambique to fuel Asia’s third-largest economy.
Pimco, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, expects most of
the new fundraising will be primarily used for overseas mergers
and acquisitions, according to Mukherji.  ‘Makes Sense’  The latest bond sale will help ONGC Videsh, which invests
in and operates the parent’s assets abroad, refinance an $870
million bridge loan that it took to fund the purchase of a stake
in an oil field and related pipeline in Azerbaijan in March. The
acquisition will increase the New Delhi-based company’s overseas
reserves by 9 percent and production by about 11 percent.  “Our revenue from this field will be in dollars, so for us
borrowing in that currency makes sense,” D.K. Sarraf, managing
director at ONGC Videsh, said by telephone yesterday. “We are
coming to the dollar-bond market after many years and may return
if we need money for other acquisitions.”  China National Petroleum sold $2 billion of notes April 9
in three tranches that each had record-low coupons, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s largest oil company’s
offering included $750 million in  10-year (GIND10YR)  securities with a 3.4
percent coupon. China Petroleum & Chemical, Asia’s biggest oil
refiner, raised $3.5 billion April 18 in the second-largest sale
of dollar bonds in Asia outside of Japan. This included $1.25
billion of 10-year debt at 3.125 percent, the data show.  ‘Cheaper Rates’  Average dollar  yields  for Indian issuers touched an all-
time low of 3.805 percent March 18 and are at 3.92 percent, HSBC
Holdings Plc indexes show. A similar  gauge  for all Asian debt is
at 3.46 percent.  “Chinese companies are able to borrow at cheaper rates
because China has a lower risk than India and a better  credit
rating ,” Hemant Dharnidharka, the head of credit research at
SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore, said in in a phone interview
yesterday. “ONGC Videsh’s yield is still attractive.”  China’s bond risk is lower than India’s. The cost to insure
government notes from Asia’s largest economy using five-year
credit-default swaps was at 72 basis points last week in New
York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. A similar gauge for  State Bank  of India,
considered a proxy for the sovereign, was 200.  Junk Outlook  China is rated Aa3, by Moody’s Investors Service and AA-,
the fourth highest investment grade, by Standard and Poor’s.
India is ranked Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P, the lowest
investment grades. ONGC is rated Baa2 by Moody’s and BBB- by
S&P. CNPC and China Petroleum & Chemical are assessed at Aa3 by
Moody’s, the fourth-highest non-speculative rank.  S&P and Fitch Ratings last year said that India’s credit
ratings may be downgraded to junk, citing slowing growth and
current-account and budget deficits. The nation’s gross domestic
product rose 5 percent in the fiscal year ended March 31, the
weakest pace since 2003, the statistics agency estimates.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government cut fuel
subsidies in September, opened up industries including aviation
and retailing to foreigners and reduced taxes on companies’
overseas debt to boost investment and economic growth. Singh’s
biggest policy push in a decade was complemented by monetary
easing by the  Reserve Bank  of India, with two interest-rate cuts
this year.  Lower Rates  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will lower the RBI’s
7.5 percent repurchase rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, at a May 3 review, according to 25 of 31
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Singh and Subbarao’s policies
have helped India’s sovereign bonds rally the most among the
four-largest  emerging markets , including Brazil, Russia and
China.  Indian debt returned 5.2 percent in 2013, the second
highest in Asia, compared with 13.5 percent for the  Philippines ,
according to HSBC indexes. The yield on 10-year government notes
in India dropped 29 points this year to 7.76 percent, offering
an  extra yield  of 610 basis points over similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries. The rate touched a 33-month low of 7.738 percent
April 23. The rupee rose 0.1 percent today to 54.191 against the
dollar.  “Last year, the sentiment had been bad for a while for
India, so spreads were wide and companies held back,” Philipp Good, who helps manage $2 billion of global bonds in Zurich at
Fisch Asset Management Ltd., said in an interview yesterday.
“It seems like the downgrade pressure is less imminent at the
moment, but we remain cautious on the sovereign and therefore on
the corporates too.”  Reliance, GAIL  Reliance Industries and state-owned  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  are
among Indian energy companies that have acquired at least $10.3
billion of overseas oil and gas asset in the past five years
compared with $90.7 billion by Chinese firms, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ONGC, which is mandated by the government to help meet the
nation’s fuel needs, plans to spend 11 trillion rupees ($203
billion) by 2030 to increase production at home and abroad.
Demand in Asia’s second-biggest energy consumer is forecast to
more than double by 2035, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration. India imports 80 percent of its oil
requirements.  “In general, among Asian national  oil companies , we prefer
the ones with large upstream assets, limited exposure to
downstream assets, and flexibility to access funding,” said
Pimco’s Mukherji.  ONGC Targets  Efforts to buy global assets are gathering momentum after a
lull following ONGC’s completion of the $2.2 billion purchase in
2009 of Imperial Energy Corp., a U.K. company with fields in
Siberia where production declined quickly.  The explorer announced in November a $5 billion acquisition
of a 8.4 percent stake in Kazakhstan’s Kashagan project, touted
as the biggest oil find since the 1960s when it was discovered
beneath the Caspian Sea in 2000. Kazakhstan’s government is
considering preempting that deal, and selling the stake to a
Chinese company instead, people with direct knowledge of the
matter said this month.  ONGC and partner  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  are also among bidders
proceeding to a second round in the sale of a stake in a
Mozambique  gas field  that could be worth at least $5 billion,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  ‘Becoming Attractive’  Companies may benefit from Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram’s efforts to woo capital to fund the nation’s record
current-account deficit.  Chidambaram, who estimates that the nation needs more than
$75 billion by March 2014 to bridge the gap in the broadest
measure of trade, met investors in the U.S. and Canada this
month. He completed a tour of the world’s biggest financial
centers that included similar visits to  Hong Kong , Singapore and
Europe earlier this year.  “Indian corporate debt is becoming attractive,” said
Dharnidharka of SJS Markets. “The finance minister himself has
been pitching the nation to foreign investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  