-- Pimco Shunning Longer Gilts Misses Dynamite Returns: U.K. Credit
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-05-01T11:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/pimco-shunning-longer-gilts-misses-dynamite-returns-u-k-credit.html
The world’s biggest bond fund is
missing out on some of the best returns in global debt markets
as it shuns the longest-maturity gilts, having branded Britain a
“must to avoid” in 2010.  Investors buying U.K. government securities due in 10-years
or more in January 2010 would have made a 43 percent return
through yesterday, compared with 16 percent for global sovereign
debt of all maturities, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross 
said then that gilts were “on a bed of nitroglycerine.” The
firm is still avoiding U.K. bonds due in more than 10 years,
says Michael Amey, a London-based  money manager  at Pimco.  Britain’s debt outperformed Treasuries and German bonds
since the end of 2009 as  Bank of England   purchases  to stimulate
the economy and a government pledge to tame the deficit enhanced
their appeal as a refuge from the euro area’s financial crisis.
While Gross said in 2010 the high amount of U.K. debt and the
central bank’s ability to devalue its currency presented “high
risks,” Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  says falling
yields show market confidence in the government.  “They made this big call in 2010 that gilts were deemed to
be nitroglycerine and of course since then yields have been
falling steadily,” said Robin Marshall, a director of  fixed
income  at Smith & Williamson Investment Management, which
oversees about $20 billion. “We’re quite happy to hold 20-, 30-
year paper. It’s hard to make an argument against gilts based on
the fact they do have monetary sovereignty.”  Total Return  Excluding currency adjustments, only the government debt of
South Africa,  Hungary , Poland, Ireland and  New Zealand  has
offered investors a better return since Gross’s comments,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The South African
securities returned more than 50 percent, versus 30 percent for
the U.K.  Gross’s $289 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s
largest mutual fund,  outperformed  82 percent of its peers in
2010 with an annual gain of 8.8 percent. The fund beat 30
percent of its rivals in the following year, and bettered 95
percent in 2012 when it returned more than 10 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Real Yields’  Pimco does own British  government bonds , preferring those
maturing in five-to-10 years and 10-year inflation-linked debt,
according to Amey.  “We have a relative-value view on gilts against other
markets but we still own gilts,” Amey said in an interview in
London on April 25. “There are parts of the world where real
yields -- so, yield after inflation -- remain positive. We will
allocate to those markets in preference to the U.K. and other
developed markets.”  The 30-year  gilt yield  was at 3.02 percent as of 7:20 a.m.
 New York  time, down from 4.41 percent on the day before Gross’s
Jan. 26, 2010 comments. The average yield over the past decade
was 4.19 percent and it reached a record-low 2.76 percent on
June 1.  The so-called  real yield  on 30-year gilts, the yield after
subtracting the consumer-price index, was at 0.21 percent today,
compared with as high as 1.02 percent on Oct. 17.  ‘Derisory’ Returns  “All these government bond markets suffer from the obvious
fact that real yields are negative, that returns are derisory,”
Kit Juckes, global strategist at Societe Generale SA in London
said in a phone interview. “People may not like it, they might
wish they could get higher yields, but if you’ve got lots of
people who would like to buy at higher yields, eventually
someone will just come in and buy anyway.”  Amey said he prefers the debt of  Mexico , which has a 30-
year  real yield  of about 1.08 percent, and Brazil. Pimco said
April 24 that it reduced its holdings of Spain’s and  Italy ’s
government debt starting in March after buying the securities
last year. Spanish and Italian bonds generated returns of 14
percent, and 12 percent, respectively from August to the start
of last month, according to the EFFAS indexes.  Baring Asset Management, which oversees about $50 billion,
is concerned the outperformance of gilts may be drawing to an
end, according to Dagmar Dvorak, the director of fixed income
and currencies in London.  “Gilts have done really, really, well compared to other
markets, but going forward we think that the market is
expensive,” she said in a phone interview on April 29. “The
long-term trend for yields in the U.K. should be going up. What
we’ve done over the course of this year is switch some of our
nominal holdings into inflation-linked bonds.”  Haven Appeal  The U.K.’s debt to gross domestic product ratio climbed to
90.3 percent last year from 79.4 percent in 2010, according to
data published by the  International Monetary Fund  last month.
That compares with 106.5 percent in the U.S. and 82 percent in
 Germany  in 2012.  “I can’t promise the road ahead will always be smooth, but
by continuing to confront our problems head on, Britain is
recovering and we are building an economy fit for the future,”
Osborne said on April 25 after data showed the nation escaped a
triple-dip  recession .  The chancellor, who is sticking with spending cuts to
control Britain’s debt load, told  BBC Television  in December
that low  interest rates  demonstrated investor confidence in the
U.K. Gross said in an interview with the Financial Times
published on April 22 that the U.K. and almost all of  Europe  had
erred by believing that fiscal austerity would boost growth.  BOE Stimulus  Fitch Ratings  cut Britain’s top credit grade on April 19,
citing a weaker economic and fiscal outlook, the second company
to do so within two months. Minutes of the Bank of England’s
April meeting showed six of the nine policy makers saw risks to
inflation expectations as weighing against further monetary
stimulus after the central bank bought 375 billion pounds ($583
billion) of securities to push down borrowing costs.  Even so gilts have climbed since the downgrade by Moody’s
Investors Service in February.  The securities remain a haven for investors amid concern
that the euro-area recovery risks stalling and a new government
in Italy may prove unstable, according to  Sam Hill , a fixed-
income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in London.  “It’s certainly difficult to see such returns being
repeated but the difficulty in the short term is that there is
still an awful lot of  risk aversion  and an awful lot of asset
purchases going on by other central banks,” Hill said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It’s difficult to say that
there will be a reversal in yields any time soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  