-- Platinum Equity Merges 2 Casting Firms Into New Supplier
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-04-30T15:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/platinum-equity-merges-2-casting-firms-into-new-supplier.html
Platinum Equity LLC, billionaire
Tom Gores’  Beverly Hills , California-based private-investment
firm, said it combined two makers of auto chassis parts into
Chassix, with $1.2 billion in annual revenue.  Robert Remenar, who left as chief executive officer of
Chinese-owned Nexteer Automotive Corp. last year to run
Platinum’s Diversified Machine Inc., will also lead Chassix.  Platinum acquired Diversified Machine, a maker of aluminum
and ductile-iron castings, from  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  in December
2011, and SMW Automotive LLC in January 2012. The combination
creates a company with 3,600 employees and a customer list that
includes major global automakers.  “This part of the industry underwent a lot of
rationalization in the downturn,” Remenar said in an interview.
“We’re reinvesting in the industry with a scale and scope
that’s somewhat unique for Chassix compared with our
competitors.”  Chassix, which will be based in Southfield, Michigan, has
25 locations in eight countries. Of the 3,600 employees, 1,200
are based in 10 facilities in Michigan, Remenar said.  The company gets about 70 percent of its revenue making
steering knuckles and control arms. It makes parts out of
ductile iron and aluminum. Its customers include  Fiat SpA (F) ,
Chrysler Group LLC,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  Fiat and Chrysler
combined are Chassix’s largest customer and no automaker makes
up more than a third of the Chassix’s revenue, Remenar said.  Remenar, who started in the automotive industry in 1985
with then-General Motors Corp.’s Saturn division, was CEO of
Nexteer from October 2009 until 2012. He was president of the
former Delphi Corp.’s steering division, as Nexteer was known
when it was part of the GM spinoff, since 2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  