-- Porsche Says 12 More Hedge Funds Withdraw U.S. Appeal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-04-30T16:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/porsche-optimistic-of-prospects-german-investor-lawsuits.html
Porsche SE, the family-controlled
holding company that owns a majority stake in carmaker
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said an additional 12 hedge funds dropped a U.S.
court appeal in a market manipulation suit.  A total of 24 funds have now withdrawn their appeal of an
earlier court decision dismissing the case, the Stuttgart,
Germany-based holding company said in a statement today. Eight
plaintiffs continue to contest the ruling.  Porsche said earlier today at the company’s annual general
meeting that it’s confident of keeping the upper hand in the
lawsuits, many of which have now shifted to a German court.  “We’re optimistic about our prospects,” Martin Winterkorn, chief executive officer of both Porsche SE and
Volkswagen AG, said at the meeting in Leipzig, Germany. “We
continue to view all pending lawsuits against Porsche SE as
unfounded.”  Porsche is fighting investors’ legal complaints in  Germany ,
the U.S. and the U.K. about the strategy it used to buy control
of VW more than four years ago. The Stuttgart, Germany-based
company may be able to consolidate most of the litigation in its
home country now that Elliott International LP and 23 other
hedge funds have dropped a U.S. court appeal.  Public prosecutors in Stuttgart separately are looking into
allegations against Porsche’s former CEO Wendelin Wiedeking and
former chief financial officer Holger Haerter. Earlier this year
investigations were widened to members of the company’s
supervisory board.  Porsche SE Supervisory Board Chairman Wolfgang Porsche said
at the meeting today that prosecutors have started
investigations against him and others who were supervisory board
members in 2008. He said he mandated Daniel M. Krause as lawyer
and views all legal claims against him as “unfounded.”  Information Dispute  The lawsuits and investigations by prosecutors center on
 investors ’ claim that Porsche, which was mainly a sports-car and
sport-utility vehicle maker at the time, failed to inform
shareholders about its takeover plan for Volkswagen.  The funds including Elliott International agreed to
withdraw their suit at the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York,
and will instead focus on a parallel German case.  The legal wrangling scuttled a planned merger between the
two companies. Volkswagen completed the acquisition of full
control of the Porsche sports-car business in August, ending a
seven-year saga that saw VW turn the tables on the manufacturer
of the 911 model following the failed takeover attempt.  Elliott International’s case is among a number of lawsuits
at the court in Braunschweig, Germany, with plaintiffs seeking
more than 4 billion euros ($5.23 billion) combined. The decision
in the Elliott International case doesn’t end U.S. litigation.
The eight remaining funds are continuing a separate case in U.S.
federal court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Leipzig at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  