-- Portugal Home Appraisals Drop to Lowest in More Than Four Years
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-04-30T11:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/portugal-home-appraisals-drop-to-lowest-in-more-than-four-years.html
Home valuations by Portuguese banks
may continue to drop as lenders require more collateral and make
getting a mortgage more difficult, according to Ricardo Reis,
Cushman & Wakefield Inc.’s head of valuations in  Portugal .  Appraisals of houses and apartments fell 6.9 percent in
March from a year earlier to an average of 981 euros ($1,283) a
square meter, the lowest since September 2008, according to data
compiled by Portugal’s National Statistics Institute.  “Lenders are now asking for more collateral from clients,
making it more difficult for the borrowers to obtain
mortgages,” Reis said by e-mail. “A lower bank valuation
reflects the overall drop in property prices and may require
potential home buyers to come up with more money to purchase the
property due to a lower loan-to-value required by the banks in
order to reduce their risk.”  The value of a property typically determines the amount a
bank would have to lend for a purchase. Lower appraisals protect
lenders from getting stuck with an asset that’s worth less than
the mortgage. Home appraisals are usually carried out by
independent companies hired by banks, according to Reis.  The drop in home values in Portugal and most of  Europe 
looks set to continue amid declining household earnings and
diminished bank lending,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a report
yesterday. In the Netherlands,  Italy  and Portugal “we expect
that falling household incomes in addition to mortgage lending
constraints will continue to depress  home prices ,” S&P said.
The ratings company looked at nine countries and found housing
markets are only strengthening in in Germany and the U.K.  Strict Lending  Portuguese banks remained strict in their requirements for
providing loans to individuals and companies in the first
quarter, the Bank of Portugal said in an April 24 report.  Lenders are also selling large portfolios of real estate
and sometimes offer “considerable discounts that may also weigh
on home prices” in the future, Reis said.  Portuguese home prices fell 6 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2012 from a year earlier, Eurostat  data  show. The decline was
the fourth-biggest in the euro area after  Spain , Slovenia and
the Netherlands, according to Eurostat.  The amount of money invested in Portuguese real estate
declined 38 percent in 2012 from the previous year to 125
million euros, the lowest in the last decade, according to
broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  