-- Portugal Evades Second Tap of Aid for Bank Needs: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-04-30T07:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/portugal-evades-second-tap-of-aid-for-bank-needs-euro-credit.html
Portugal ’s banks are defying a
prediction by Moody’s Investors Service that the nation would
need to tap bailout funds a second time to refinance lenders.  The government is raising taxes and cutting spending to
meet the terms of its 78 billion-euro ($102 billion) rescue by
the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. As part
of the plan, Portugal injected 5.6 billion euros into banks that
aren’t state-owned, helping its financial industry cope with
higher capital requirements and a rise in bad loans as the
economy shrinks for a third year.  “With recession extending through the middle of 2014 and
bad loans peaking later that year or in 2015, the risk of a
series of capital increases at banks is very limited,” said
Andre Rodrigues, an analyst at Caixa Banco de Investimento.  The  Portuguese government  forecasts the economy will
contract by 2.3 percent this year before growing 0.6 percent in
2014. The jobless rate will climb to 18.2 percent in 2013 and
18.5 percent next year. Portugal’s  10-year (GSPT10YR)  borrowing cost
dropped to 5.73 percent last week, its lowest level in more than
two years, and traded at 5.8 percent at 8:45 a.m.  London  time,
compared with an average of 8.4 percent in the past year. The
 yield premium  to German bunds has narrowed to 462 basis points
from 511 at the start of the year.  Bad loans rose to a record 6.7 percent of total loans in
February, up from 6.5 percent the previous month, according to
Bank of Portugal data, with most of the increase attributable to
companies failing to pay their debts.  Moody’s Doubts  “Despite the effort that has been made to improving the
capital for banks, amid the deterioration of the economic
environment, asset quality and profitability are going to
continue to suffer,” Moody’s analyst Pepa Mori said in an
interview in Lisbon on April 10. Mori estimates the country’s
lenders may need an additional 8 billion euros in capital, with
only about 6 billion euros left from the aid package.  Portuguese businesses are among those in the euro area with
the largest “debt overhang,” according to the  International
Monetary Fund ’s Global Financial Stability Report published
April 17. This may in turn hurt bank’s asset quality, the report
showed.  Stress Tests  “Even in a scenario of rising bad loans and sovereign
risk, Portuguese banks look resilient compared to peers in the
periphery,” analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London wrote in a note to clients April 19. “Our stress tests
show Portuguese banks can manage a rise in bad loans of over 50
percent, and a widening in sovereign spreads.”  Banco Espirito Santo SA, Portugal’s second-biggest non-
state bank by assets, would be able to offset a 30 to 40 percent
a year increase in bad loans with earnings alone, Lee Tyrell-
Hendry, one of the authors of the RBS report, said in a
telephone interview.  Portuguese banks had a core tier 1 capital ratio of 11.5
percent at the end of 2012, according to the Bank of Portugal,
in line with that of the biggest banks in  Europe  by market
value, according data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In the short time, Portuguese banks’ headline  capital
ratios  in the European context look pretty solid,” said Benjie Creelan-Sandford, an analyst at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in London.
“My concern is in the medium term, I think the banks will have
a problem in repaying the state for the hybrid instruments.”  Bond Aid  To help refinance lenders, the state subscribed to
contingent convertible bonds sold by the banks that convert into
equity if a capital ratios drop below pre-defined levels. Banco
Comercial Portugues SA plans to repay the state by the end of
2016, while Banco BPI SA targets repayment by mid-2017. BPI CEO
Fernando Ulrich said in an April 25 interview that the bank
could pay earlier if regulatory  capital requirements  changed.  “Regulators went too far” in calls for increases in
banks’ capital after the 2008 financial crisis, Jose Maria Ricciardi, CEO of Banco Espirito Santo SA’s investment banking
unit, said in a Bloomberg Television interview with Guy Johnson
April 18. “It’s better to invest more in supervision than
asking still more capital for the banks.” Espirito Santo didn’t
resort to state aid to increase its capital ratios.  “The Portuguese banks are now very well capitalized and
now they are beginning to come back to the markets and liquidity
is better than before,” Ricciardi said. “What the banks now
need is the improvement of our economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  