-- Portland Gasoline Premium Jumps as Tesoro Startup Said Delayed
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-04-30T19:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/portland-gasoline-premium-jumps-as-tesoro-startup-said-delayed.html
Spot gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
a benchmark for the U.S. Northwest, rose to the highest level
against futures in more than two months as the start of units at
 Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s Anacortes refinery was said to be delayed.  The return of equipment involved in a two-month turnaround
at Tesoro’s 125,000-barrel-a-day plant was delayed from earlier
this month because of unplanned repairs on a crude reformer, a
person with knowledge of the work said. The crude unit is
running at reduced rates and the fluid catalytic cracker was
expected to be restarted yesterday, the person said.  Conventional gasoline in Portland advanced 5 cents to a
premium of 20 cents a gallon against gasoline futures traded on
the New York Mercantile Exchange at 1:33 p.m. East Coast time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest
level for the fuel since Feb. 26.  Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at Tesoro’s headquarters in San
Antonio, said by e-mail today that the Anacortes refinery is
performing planned maintenance.  “We do not anticipate any impact upon our ability to
fulfill product supply commitments,” she said.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel in Portland climbed 0.25 cent
versus ULSD futures on the Nymex to a premium of 2.75 cents a
gallon, a one-week high.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles weakened 1
cent to 3.75 cents a gallon below ULSD futures, a four-month
low. The same fuel in San Francisco was unchanged at 5.75 cents
below futures.  Carbob Prices  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles gained
2 cents against Nymex gasoline futures to a premium of 7 cents a
gallon. Carbob in San Francisco was unchanged at 9.5 cents a
gallon above futures.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s 150,000-barrel-a-day Torrance refinery
in Southern California was scheduled to shut process equipment,
including a crude unit, a coker and an alkylation unit, for
about 23 days of planned repairs in early May, a person with
knowledge of the schedule said March 5.  San Francisco Carbob’s  premium  to the fuel in Los Angeles
narrowed for the second straight day, declining 2 cents to 2.5
cents a gallon, the smallest differential in almost three weeks.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles widened for the
first time in three days, gaining 16.5 cents to $13.96 a barrel
at 2:52 p.m.  New York  time. The spread, a rough indicator of
refinery margins, is down 52 percent from this year’s high of
$29.09 a barrel on Feb. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  