-- Prisoners Lose TV While Gaining Uniforms in U.K. Overhaul
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-30T08:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/prisoners-lose-tv-while-gaining-uniforms-in-u-k-overhaul.html
Justice Secretary Chris Grayling
said prisoners in England and  Wales  will be forced to wear
uniforms and lose automatic rights to watch television unless
they can show they are engaging in rehabilitation programs.  “It’s about us setting an appropriate regime,” Grayling
told Sky News television today. “I think when somebody arrives
in prison, they shouldn’t be able to wear their own clothes.
They shouldn’t have a TV in their cells. They should demonstrate
over the first week or two in prison that they’re willing to
engage in rehabilitation programs, sign on for training courses,
start doing work in the prison laundry so they’re doing
something positive and not if they’re saying that they won’t
engage.”  The announcement is the latest in a series of law-and-order
measures designed to appeal to core Conservative voters and
distance the Tories from their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners before a general election set to be held in 2015.  Grayling is aiming to reduce reoffending levels by making
male prisoners ready for work once they are released. He will
also ban subscription television channels and access to DVDs
with violent or sexual content.  The latest statistics released by the justice ministry
showed there were 83,637 prisoners in  England  and Wales in
February. Ministry forecasts show the prison population could
hit 90,900 by 2018.  Prisoners who cause damage will also be charged for the
costs of repairs, Grayling said, adding that other sanctions
include restricting access to cash and reducing time in the jail
gym.  Tough Policies  Grayling, who took over from Ken Clarke in October, has
already announced that the U.K. will introduce mandatory life
sentences for two-time sex offenders and amend the law so people
who fight back against burglars won’t face prosecution if they
use reasonable force. Home Secretary Theresa May said victims of
antisocial behavior will be able to pick the punishment for
their tormenters.  Separately, the opposition  Labour Party  published
statistics today showing more than 10,000 serious violent crimes
were dealt with informally last year by police.  Police used so-called “community resolutions,” which
include an apology or compensation to the victim, instead of
prosecutions and cautions, according to data from 33 police
forces in England and Wales that responded to a freedom-of-
information request. Not every police force responded.  Labour’s home affairs spokeswoman,  Yvette Cooper , said in
an e-mail the figures are “extremely serious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 