-- Trafigura Buys Second Forties Lot; Buzzard Oil Field to Restart
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-04-30T16:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/trafigura-buys-second-forties-lot-buzzard-oil-field-to-restart.html
Trafigura Beheer BV bought a second
cargo of North Sea Forties crude in as many days as the
differential narrowed to the least in almost a week. Vitol Group
sold Russian Urals grade at the smallest discount in more than
eight months, in the Mediterranean.  Production at the Buzzard oil field will resume tomorrow
after operations were halted yesterday, according to the
platform’s operator Nexen Inc.  North Sea  Trafigura purchased Forties lot F0522 from Vitol Group for
loading May 21 to May 23 at a discount of 35 cents a barrel to
Dated Brent, a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts pricing window showed. That compares with
yesterday’s deal between the two companies at minus 40 cents and
is the highest price since April 24.  The cargo was advanced by seven days, making it the 10th
Forties consignment for loading in May to be brought forward,
including two into April, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified as the
information is confidential.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days narrowed by 1 cents to a discount of 35 cents a
barrel to Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for June settlement traded at $102.14 a barrel on the
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the window, compared
with $103.44 in the previous session. The July contract was at
$101.79 at the same time today, a discount of 35 cents to June.  The proportion of Buzzard in Forties fell to 41 percent for
the week to April 28, the lowest since March 17, BP Plc said
today on its website. That’s just before an incident curtailed
activity at the 160,300 barrel-a-day field.  “A release of steam from the Buzzard platform triggered
the low-level gas alarm at 8:10 p.m. yesterday, so as a result
the Buzzard field was shut in,” Karen Fordyce, an Aberdeen,
Scotland-based spokeswoman for Nexen, said by phone today. “As
the release has been identified, we are now working on a
resolution and production is set to be restarted by tomorrow
afternoon.”  Mediterranean/Urals  Vitol sold 80,000 metric tons of Urals for loading May 21
to May 25 to OAO Lukoil’s Litasco at 15 cents a barrel less than
Dated Brent on a delivered basis to Augusta,  Italy , the Platts
survey showed. That compares with an April 19 trade at minus 40
and is the narrowest since Aug. 20, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
shrank by 10 cents to 15 cents a barrel, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the narrowest since Jan. 24. In northwest
Europe, the  discount  was at 68 cents a barrel compared with
$1.07 at the close of the previous session. That’s the smallest
since Nov. 6, the data show.  OAO Surgutneftegas sold three Urals cargoes for loading in
the Baltic region in May to Talmay Trading via tender, according
to two people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend rose 14 cents to $3.45 a
barrel more than Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s the most since April 10.  Refiners in Asia will increase imports of West African
crude for loading in May to the highest in four months as  India 
boosted purchases of Nigerian grades to the most in 11 months.  Asia bought 58 cargoes totaling 1.743 million barrels a day
from  Angola , Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Congo,
Gabon,  Ghana  and Democratic Republic of Congo, according to a
survey of seven traders and an analysis of loading plans
obtained by Bloomberg News. That compares with 1.737 million in
April and is the most since January exports of 1.802 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  