-- Raptor Drug Wins U.S. Approval to Treat Rare Disease
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-30T20:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/raptor-wins-fda-approval-for-drug-to-treat-metabolism-error-1-.html
Raptor Pharmaceutical Corp. (RPTP)  won
U.S. approval for its drug to treat a rare metabolic disorder
that attacks the kidneys.  The drug called Procysbi, previously known as RP103, may
generate sales of $77 million in 2015, according to the average
of two analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Raptor, based
in Novato, California, said in a statement today it will receive
a $25 million payment from investment firm HealthCare Royalty
Partners for the approval.  Procysbi treats nephropathic cystinosis, which affects
about 3,000 people worldwide, including 500 in the U.S., the
 Food and Drug Administration  said in a statement. The disease is
an inherited condition in which the body accumulates the amino
acid cystine within the cells, according to the  National
Institutes of Health .  The condition is usually diagnosed in the first year of
life and can be fatal in the first decade, Raptor  said . Children
with nephropathic cystinosis usually experience poor growth,
vision problems and severe kidney damage.  Raptor gained 5.3 percent to $6.90 at the close in New
York.  Procysbi is a delayed-release version of cysteamine, the
active ingredient in  Mylan Inc. (MYL) ’s Cystagon. Raptor’s drug worked
as well as Cystagon in a clinical trial with fewer doses and
higher tolerability related to gastrointestinal side effects,
the company said in a July 2011 statement.  “Sustaining appropriate levels of cysteamine in the body
is the key to maintaining organ function and lowering the
likelihood of kidney transplantation,” Craig Langman, head of
kidney diseases at Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children’s Hospital of
 Chicago , said today in the statement released by Raptor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  