-- Real Madrid Will Struggle With Stadium Plan, Ex-President Says
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-04-30T10:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/real-madrid-will-struggle-with-stadium-plan-ex-president-says.html
Real  Madrid , the world’s richest
soccer club by sales, will struggle to redevelop its stadium
because of Spain’s faltering economy, ex-president Ramon Calderon said.  Real President Florentino Perez, chairman of Spanish
builder Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA, wants to add
a hotel and shopping center to the Santiago Bernabeu stadium.
Calderon, his predecessor, says investors are resisting the
effort because of the country’s six-year economic slump.  “Real Madrid’s plan is paralyzed because nobody wants to
invest in Spain,” Calderon said by telephone. The 4,000 luxury
seats at the stadium are only half full this season, he said.
“It doesn’t make sense to invest now.”  In September, Perez announced a shortlist of four architect
firms including Norman Foster’s Foster + Partners to remodel the
facade. Those companies have been asked to complete a viability
study by mid-June, while the team makes its own calculations.
Barcelona, the second-richest team by sales, canceled a redesign
of its Camp Nou stadium in 2010 to reduce spending.  Real, led by former World Player of the Year Cristiano Ronaldo, will try to overcome a 4-1 deficit to Borussia Dortmund
in tonight’s Champions League semifinal in the Bernabeu.  Perez used the 584 million-euro ($764 million) sale of Real
Madrid’s training ground in 2001 to pay team debts and bankroll
so-called “galactico” signings such as midfielders Zinedine Zidane and David Beckham. The additions helped boost ad revenue
that pushed the club past Manchester United as the biggest team
by sales in 2005 in Deloitte AG’s annual rich list.  Earlier Fundraising  Perez got permission in 2011 from the city to use public
land where the arena faces Madrid’s main avenue, Paseo de la
Castellana. European Union regulators are looking into
allegations that the record nine-time European champion Real
benefited from state aid under the deal, Antoine Colombani, a
spokesman for the European Commission, said April 3.  An “outdated” shopping center at the back of the site has
survived for years on passing business from the stadium,
according to Luis Espadas, head of Capital Markets at Savills in
Spain.  Reyal Urbis SA (REY) , a developer which sought bankruptcy
protection in February, paid Real Madrid 1 million euros to
lease the complex for the year through June 2011, according to a
team statement. In 2011, Reyal Urbis extended the lease through
July 2015.  Real Madrid can bring in sales from outside Spain to boost
revenue and finance player signings, said Eugenio Martinez, a
former HSBC Holdings Plc banker who sought to stand against
Perez in 2009. Emirates airline said April 14 it’s in talks
about a shirt sponsorship deal with Real worth about 30 million
euros.  Look Outside  “The business isn’t in Spain, it’s outside” for Real
Madrid, Martinez said in an e-mail. “The future is in Asia,
 Africa  and Latin America.”  Real Madrid’s net income fell 23 percent to 24.2 million
euros in the year through June 2012, according to  an earnings
statement on the team website . Sales increased sales 7 percent
to 514 million euros.  Last December, the El Confidencial website reported that
Real Madrid planned to issue 250 million euros of high-yield
bonds backed to finance the redesign. Perez wasn’t made
available to comment on the stadium plan.  Delayed  Viktoria Ruepke, a spokeswoman for  Germany ’s GMP Von Gerkan
Marg & Partner, one of the other shortlisted architects, said by
phone the announcement of the winning bid had been delayed,
without giving a reason. A Foster + Partners official in Madrid
declined to comment.  Spanish retail sales fell 10.9 percent in March, compared
with a year earlier, the National Statistics Institute said
yesterday. Even amid a slump, shopping center operators would be
interested in running a complex at Real’s stadium, Espadas said.
Perez may be able to carry through the plans because of his
experience and the team’s cachet, he added.  “If someone can push it through, it’s him,” Espadas said.
“There are a lot of shopping centers outside Madrid but not
many with a prime location like this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  