-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Declines to Year’s Low
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-04-30T21:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/treasuries-lag-behind-stocks-as-el-erian-says-fed-may-act.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell
to the lowest level this year as a report showing reduced
business activity in April reinforced speculation the  Federal
Reserve  won’t scale back unprecedented monetary stimulus.  Treasuries headed for a third monthly gain amid speculation
the Fed will affirm its commitment to bond purchases at a two-
day meeting starting today. The benchmark 10-year note pared
gains as Apple Inc. plans to sell $17 billion in bonds.
Volatility reached a record low.  “There really are clear signs of the economy weakening,”
said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of  Nova
Scotia  in  New York , one of 21 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed. “There’s very little chance of them announcing any
type of tapering” of monetary stimulus.  The benchmark 10-year  yield  was little changed at 1.67
percent at 5 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent note due in February 2023 traded at
102 30/32.  The yield fell as much as four basis points today, reaching
the lowest level since Dec. 12. It has dropped 18 basis points
this month, the most since June.  Bond Returns  U.S. government securities returned 1.1 percent in April as
of yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  gained 1.7 percent including reinvested
dividends, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The U.S. will announce the size of three securities sales
tomorrow. Bond dealers including Bank of America Corp., Morgan
Stanley, Jefferies LLC, and HSBC Holdings Plc forecast that the
Treasury will maintain the size of its offerings in May at $32
billion for three-year notes, $24 billion for 10-year debt and
$16 billion for 30-year bonds.  The 10-year break-even rate, a measure of inflation
expectations derived from the difference between yields on
conventional  U.S. debt  and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, was at 2.34 percentage points, down from a 2013 high
of 2.6 percentage points on Feb. 4. It touched a 2013 low of
2.25 percentage points on April 18.  “Falling inflation has helped the Treasury rally,” said
 Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $2.1 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York. “We appear to be very fixed in a mind numbing range
between 1.65 and 1.85 percent on 10 year notes as we are dealing
with weaker than expected economic data in the U.S. and a rate
of growth that might be sinking below trend.”  Economic Slowing  The MNI Chicago Report’s business barometer fell to 49 in
April, the lowest since September 2009, from 52.4 last month.
The median forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
52.5.  The difference between the yields on two-year and 10-year
notes, called the yield curve, was 1.46 percentage points,
approaching the 2013 low of 1.42 percentage points reached April
23, indicating the market is priced for slower economic growth..  Treasuries pared gains as Apple prepares to sell bonds.  “The market having to have to digest that supply weighs on
some Treasuries,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and head of
Treasury trading in New York at CIBC World Markets Corp. market.
“The slow growth story is keeping us near these levels.”  As companies sell debt, they enter into so-called rate lock
agreements, in which they bet on Treasury prices falling to
guard against higher yields. Once the debt is sold, the bets are
ended.  Price Swings  Fed (FDTR)  purchases have held down both yields and volatility.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index  measuring price
swings set a record low of 49.24 basis points today. The average
for the past year is 62.96 basis points.  The Fed purchased $5.1 billion of securities maturing
between April 2017 and December 2017 today, according to the New
York Fed’s website.  The central bank is  buying  $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage debt a month to support the economy by putting downward
pressure on borrowing costs. It spent $2.3 trillion on Treasury
and mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 in the first two
rounds of its policy known as quantitative easing.  Several Fed officials said the central bank should begin
tapering its bond-buying program this year and stop it by year-
end,  minutes  of their March 19-20 meeting showed.  U.S. employment and manufacturing expanded less in March
than economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted, while
retail sales and durable goods orders dropped. Gross domestic
product expanded at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, less than the 3 percent expansion forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “For now, there’s a really good tone to the Treasury
market,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe Generale SA in
New York, a primary dealer. “All the talk of the Fed tapering
has been pushed back to early next year --or later rather than
sooner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  