-- Ricin Found in Mississippi Suspect’s Studio, FBI Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-30T21:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ricin-found-in-mississippi-suspect-s-studio-fbi-says.html
Traces of ricin were found on items
recovered from the former martial arts studio of a man charged
with mailing the toxin to President  Barack Obama , according to
an FBI affidavit.  Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent Stephen E.
Thomason’s April 26 affidavit, initially filed with a criminal
complaint against James Everett Dutschke, was ordered unsealed
today by a U.S. Magistrate Judge S. Allan Alexander in Oxford,
Mississippi.  Dutschke’s studio was searched on April 24, according to
Thomason’s statement  “Tests performed on removed items preliminarily tested
positive for the presence of ricin,” Thomason said.  Envelopes containing the deadly substance were mailed to
Obama, U.S. Senator Roger Wicker of Mississippi and a
Mississippi state court judge.  Dutschke, 41, of Tupelo, Mississippi, was arrested on April
27, four days after federal prosecutors dropped charges against
Paul Kevin Curtis, 45, of Corinth,  Mississippi .  Curtis and members of his family told the FBI that Dutschke
and Curtis “have known each other for several years and have
had a contentious personal relationship which has manifested
itself in e-mail traffic and social media postings,” according
to Thomason.  The envelope addressed to the president was intercepted at
a federal mail facility before reaching the White House.  ‘Must Die’  It included a note saying in part, “Maybe I have your
attention now. Even if that means someone must die. This must
stop. To see a wrong and not expose it is to become a silent
partner in its continuance. I am KC and I approve this
message,” Thomason said in his affidavit.  George Lucas, a federal public defender representing
Dutschke, declined to comment on the affidavit.  Dutschke is charged with knowingly producing a biological
agent for use as a weapon, the maximum punishment for which is
life in prison, the FBI said in an April 27 press statement.
Dutschke is being held pending a bail hearing set for May 2.  The case is U.S. v. Dutschke, 13-mj-00020, U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Mississippi (Oxford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  