-- Rockets Avoid NBA Sweep; Brooklyn Nets’ Win Extends Playoff Run
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-30T05:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/rockets-avoid-nba-sweep-brooklyn-nets-win-extends-playoff-run.html
The Houston Rockets avoided being
swept out of the National Basketball Association playoffs with a
105-103 victory against the Oklahoma City Thunder, while the
Brooklyn Nets and Atlanta Hawks also had postseason wins.  Chandler Parsons had 27 points, 10 rebounds and eight
assists for the Rockets, who trail three games to one in their
best-of-seven Western Conference series. Houston, after back-to-
back three-point losses, held on for the victory last night as
Serge Ibaka missed a potential game-tying layup for the top-
seeded Thunder as time expired.  “We were never going to give up no matter how much we were
down,” Parsons said in a televised interview. “There was no
chance we were going to let another one slip away.”  The Nets also avoided postseason elimination by pulling
away for a 110-91 win against the  Chicago  Bulls behind a 28-
point, 10-rebound effort from Brook Lopez.  The Bulls have a 3-2 lead in the Eastern Conference series
and can advance to the second round with a win May 2 in Chicago.  The Hawks evened their first-round series against  Indiana 
with a 102-91 win against the Pacers. Josh Smith had a career
playoff-high 29 points to lead the Hawks, who sent Indiana to
its 13th straight loss at Philips Arena in Atlanta.  The Golden State Warriors will seek to advance to a second-
round matchup against the San Antonio Spurs when they visit the
Denver Nuggets tonight with a 3-1 lead in their Western
Conference series. The Warriors have won three straight games
since losing the opener.  Clippers-Grizzlies  Today’s second playoff game is also in the West, where the
Los Angeles Clippers host the Memphis Grizzlies with the teams
tied at two games apiece. The home team has won each of the
first four games.  The Rockets withstood a 38-point performance by Oklahoma
City’s Kevin Durant and the absence of injured point guard
Jeremy Lin in recording their first win of the postseason.  Houston erased a seven-point deficit by outscoring the
Thunder 38-24 during the third quarter and then held on for the
win. Oklahoma City’s last chance to send the game to overtime
ended when Reggie Jackson’s running shot in the lane came up
short in the closing seconds and Ibaka missed an uncontested
layup after grabbing the rebound of Jackson’s shot.  Ibaka fell to the court on his back and covered his face
with his hands after failing to convert the tying basket.  Omer Asik had 17 points and 14 rebounds for the Rockets,
who visit Oklahoma City for Game 5 tomorrow.  Nets’ Win  The Nets kept their season alive by outscoring the Bulls
25-7 over the final eight minutes to break open a one-point
game. Andray Blatche came off the bench to score 10 of his 13
points in the fourth quarter for the Nets, while Deron Williams
took advantage of the absence of Bulls starting point guard Kirk Hinrich by scoring 23 points and handing out 10 assists.  Lopez is the first Nets player to score 20 or more points
in five straight postseason games since Vince Carter in 2007.  “‘I would have been surprised if our guys didn’t respond
the way they did,” Nets coach P.J. Carlesimo told reporters.
“It just would have been out of character for the way they’ve
played all year.”  The Nets, who are 6-0 in Game 5s played at home, are
seeking to become the ninth team in NBA history to overcome a
3-1 deficit in a best-of-seven series. The last was the 2006
Phoenix Suns against the Los Angeles Lakers.  The Hawks evened their series by outscoring the visiting
Pacers by 16 points during the second quarter and then holding
on for the victory. Kyle Korver added 19 points off the bench
for Atlanta, while Al Horford had 18.  “You’re not going to win on another team’s floor when you
have a 35-19 quarter,” said Paul George, who led the Pacers
with 21 points and 12 rebounds.  The series heads back to Indianapolis for Game 5 tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  