-- Same-Sex Marriage Rules Hamper Wall Street’s Recruiting
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-04-30T16:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/same-sex-marriage-rules-hamper-wall-street-s-recruiting.html
U.S. restrictions on same-sex
marriage are making it harder for  Wall Street  to attract some
foreign workers, said executives including R. Martin Chavez, who
leads equities trading for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The rules don’t allow citizens and permanent residents to
sponsor same-sex partners for immigration to the U.S., according
to Rachel Tiven, executive director of Immigration Equality, who
moderated a panel of executives yesterday at the annual summit
of  Out on the Street , an advocacy group for Wall Street’s
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender workers.  Chavez, a 49-year-old U.S. citizen, cited his own story as
an example of the potential hurdles those restrictions create,
saying they almost forced him to leave the country. He married
his partner last year, which proved to be problematic when they
tried to replace his partner’s student visa.  “We got married in the state of  New York ,” Chavez said at
the event, which was held at Goldman Sachs’s Manhattan
headquarters. “You’d think this would be a wonderful thing,
except we ended up in this crazed paradox where because we were
married in the state of New York, that created the presumption
of his attempt to immigrate, which meant he would not be
eligible for a student F-1 visa.”  Because of the Defense of Marriage Act, a 1996 law that the
U.S. Supreme Court is reviewing, the marriage doesn’t give
Chavez’s partner the right to immigrate or obtain a green card
permitting him to live and work in the country.  Considered Retirement  After several months of interviews and paperwork, Chavez’s
husband received a new visa. In the meantime, Chavez said he
spoke to Goldman Sachs executives about moving his role to
 London  if his husband wasn’t allowed back into the U.S. He also
considered retiring from his job running the largest equity-
trading business in the world and moving abroad.  Chavez, who said he was the only openly gay employee at
Goldman Sachs when he joined in 1993, leads the equities
division with Michael D. Daffey and Paul M. Russo. He was named
to the firm’s management committee earlier this year.  While the issue affects only a limited number of employees,
it can result in significant costs for companies that have to
move workers out of the U.S. or in lost productivity from
dealing with an employee’s or partner’s immigration status,
Alisa Seminara, associate general counsel for  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
said at the event.  Seminara cited another example of a senior executive who
was supposed to start a local financing business in the U.S.
Because of issues bringing his partner to the country, the
executive had to work in London and build his team there,
Seminara said.  Marriage Hurdle  Gay-marriage activists have celebrated the growing number
of states that allow same-sex unions, yet because the federal
government doesn’t recognize such marriages, they can create
hurdles for immigration, said Jennifer Werner, senior manager of
the financial-services advisory practice at Ernst & Young LLP.
Immigration lawyers advised her not to marry her long-time
partner, who was in the middle of an eight-year wait to obtain a
green card, Werner said.  The immigration issues will probably be remedied if the
 Supreme Court  strikes down DOMA, which defines marriage as a
heterosexual union and prohibits gay spouses from claiming
federal benefits, Tiven at Immigration Equality said. The court
may rule on the case by the end of June. Activists are also
pushing for inclusion of same-sex rights in an immigration bill
being debated in Congress, Tiven said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  