-- Sands Adds Kung Fu Panda To Woo Families In Macau Casinos
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-04-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/sands-adds-kung-fu-panda-to-woo-families-in-macau-casinos.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928)  is giving Shrek
and Kung Fu Panda a home at its Macau gambling resorts.  The casino operator controlled by billionaire  Sheldon
Adelson  has entered into a licensing agreement with  Dreamworks
Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  to use those and other cartoon characters at
three resorts in Macau’s Cotai area, the Asian equivalent of the
Las Vegas strip.  Sands and competitors including  Galaxy Entertainment Group
Ltd. (27)  are adding shopping malls, spas and entertainment shows to
woo middle-class, family-oriented Chinese visitors who provide
wider margins in the world’s largest gaming hub. The premium
mass segment has a “huge growth potential” and casino
companies will gain from expanding family entertainment,
Templeton Emerging Markets Group Chairman Mark Mobius said this
month.  For Dreamworks Animation, the deal will be part of efforts
to diversify revenue, Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg , said in an interview, without disclosing financial
details. The Glendale, California-based company will receive
licensing fees.  “The collaboration gives us a very nice home base here in
one of the most important markets in the world and it’s a great
branding opportunity,” saidKatzenberg who in 1994 founded the
studio with film director Steven Spielberg and billionaire music
executive  David Geffen .  The studio reported a fourth-quarter loss in February after
its only new film in the period, “Rise of the Guardians,”
failed to connect with moviegoers.  Asian Expansion  Dreamworks Animation in February also said it will cut 350
jobs this year to reduce costs and better compete in the crowded
market for family movies.  The partnership with Sands will be its first non-movie
project in Asia. Sands China’s resorts will use Dreamworks
Animations’ characters on its parades, entertainment shows,
swimming pools and hotel suites starting this summer.  Dreamworks Animation signed a similar alliance with the
Miami-based  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL)  in 2010, bringing
characters from the silver screen on board to Royal Caribbean
cruise ships.  More than 28 million  tourists  visited Macau last year, with
60 percent of them from China. New attractions coupled with
added hotel rooms and China’s improved high-speed rail
connections are drawing more mainland visitors to Macau, the
only place in China where casino gambling is legal.  Casino
revenue  climbed 14 percent to $38 billion in the hub last year.  Sands’ competitor  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  offers
visitors the House of Dancing Water featuring motorcycle stunts.
China Rouge, an private lounge at Galaxy’s resort, draws club-
goers with Parisian cabarets and lavish Shanghainese decor.  “China is the fastest-growing, greatest place of
opportunity on planet earth,” Katzenberg said. “I am confident
this is only the beginning of something much bigger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  