-- Saudi Prince Says Crude Capacity Will Rise to 15 Million Barrels
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-04-30T14:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/saudi-prince-says-crude-capacity-will-rise-to-15-million-barrels.html
Saudi Arabia plans to raise
production capacity to 15 million barrels a day by 2020 from
12.5 million barrels a day now, a Saudi prince said, reviving
talk of a higher internal target.  The new capacity will allow the kingdom to be able to
export as much as 10 million barrels of crude a day, Prince Turki Al Faisal, 68, a former head of intelligence, said in an
April 25 speech at Harvard University that was posted on the
university’s website yesterday.  Saudi Arabia’s oil minister  Ali al-Naimi  told reporters in
March last year that the kingdom doesn’t plan to boost capacity
beyond 12.5 million barrels a day, though it has the ability to
do so if needed. The country first announced its plans to raise
daily capacity to 15 million barrels in a speech delivered by
al-Naimi in 2008, weeks before Brent crude reached a record $147
a barrel as OPEC’s spare capacity shrank.  The desert kingdom maintains the largest portion of spare
capacity within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, producing about 9 million barrels a day last month,
and keeping 3.5 million barrels a day unused.  Khalid Al-Falih, chief executive officer of Saudi Arabian
Oil Co., or Saudi Aramco, said in November 2011 that the state-
run company had no plans to increase daily capacity beyond 12.5
million barrels and was focused on developing the Manifa oil
field to compensate for declines at other deposits.  Aramco started pumping crude from Manifa this month and
plans to produce 500,000 barrels a day of Arabian Heavy crude
from the field by July and 900,000 barrels by the end of 2014.
Al-Naimi said in June 22 that year that oil from five “mega”
fields could be used to boost capacity. The country raised its
capacity to about 12.5 million barrels a day in 2009, from 10
million barrels, and has kept it at that level since then.  Strategic Goal  The country’s strategic goal is to maintain sufficient
spare  oil production  capacity to offset global crude-supply
interruptions, Prince Turki said in his speech this month. It
has an unused 2.5 million barrels a day of capacity, which is
enough to “almost instantly replace all of  Iraq ’s oil
exports,” he said. Iraq overtook  Iran  last year to become the
second-largest producer in OPEC, trailing only Saudi Arabia. The
prince made his remarks in a speech entitled “Saudi Arabia’s
New Foreign Policy Doctrine in the Aftermath of the Arab
Awakening.”  Saudi Arabia’s policy is also to meet rising domestic
energy needs through renewable energy and natural gas, where
possible, to free up oil for export, Prince Turki said. The
country currently meets 40 percent of its energy needs through
gas, said Prince Turki, who also served as an ambassador to U.S.
until 2007.  Separately, al-Naimi is speaking today at an event in
 Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  