-- Scene Last Night: Women of Goldman, Calvert, BMO Capital
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-04-30T18:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/scene-last-night-women-of-goldman-cavery-bmo-capital.html
“You get ahead -- good reviews,
promotions -- and at some point you can lean in and have your
head chopped off,” Barbara J. Krumsiek, chief executive of
Calvert Investments Inc. said in an interview last night at the
Financial Women’s Association Annual Dinner.  In a ballroom at the Grand Hyatt, the association honored
Krumsiek as Private Sector Woman of the Year. She shared the
dais with the Visionary Woman of the Year, Betsy West, executive
producer of  Storyville Films ; the Public Sector Woman of the
Year, Judith Rodin, president of the Rockefeller Foundation; and
Representative  Carolyn Maloney , Democrat of  New York .  “Women are half of the population, they should be half of
financial services employees, half corporate CEOs and half of
Congress,” Maloney said.  Women from Goldman Sachs Inc.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi  UFJ Ltd. and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, to name a few,
filled the tables. BMO Capital Markets Corp. matched $25,000 in
donations made at the event, resulting in $86,000 raised for
educational scholarships.  One of the association’s scholarships went to Kamellia
Saroop who works at BMO. Saroop was unable to attend “because
she’s working,” said Deirdre Drake, a managing director at the
firm.  The association was founded in 1956 by eight women denied
admission to the Young Men’s Investment Association. Today it
has about 800 members, said Joyce Sullivan, founder and CEO of
SocMediaFin Inc. and a board member.  Startling Time  Krumsiek became an association member in 1989, when she was
around 37.  “That’s the most startling time,” she said. “You
accomplish during the meritocracy part of your career, and then
all of a sudden things aren’t working that used to work. You get
stuck. You realize a career is an obstacle course, not a
ladder.”  One of her legacies is helping develop an association
curriculum called “Beyond Competence,” about managing
difficult bosses and subversive subordinates.  Topics in high circulation in the room last night -- thanks
in part to Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg ’s
book “Lean In” -- were mentoring and sponsorship.  “I think mentoring is misunderstood and overrated,”
Krumsiek said. “It’s a two-way street, it’s about helping each
other. And these relationships can’t last an entire career.
Sometimes you move past your mentors.”  As for sponsorship: “If you add value in your company, you
will be sponsored,” she said. Four out of her seven direct
reports are women, she said.  Working Revolution  Excerpts from honoree West’s documentary “Makers: Women
Who Make America” gave a sense of the revolution that led women
into the workplace. It featured an interview with Muriel Siebert, the first woman to own a seat on the New York Stock
Exchange.  Min Lu, who works in the audit department at  Credit Suisse (CSGN) ,
was moved. “I see how much we take for granted,” Lu said
during a “networking break” at the dinner. “I’ve been leaning
in out of personal motivation. Now I feel I have an obligation
to lean in for the women who fought so hard before me.”  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Philip Boroff and Jeremy Gerard on
 theater , Hephzibah Anderson on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 