-- Scottish Government Plans Restrictions on Wind Farm Locations
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-04-30T16:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/scottish-government-plans-restrictions-on-wind-farm-locations.html
Wind farms will no longer be
allowed in  Scotland ’s wildest countryside and will have to be
built farther from villages, towns and cities under restrictions
proposed by the Scottish government.  The new  National Planning Framework  and the draft  Scottish
Planning Policy  will ban the construction of wind farms in
national parks and specially designated scenic areas covering 19
percent of the land, Planning Minister Derek Mackay said in an
e-mailed statement today.  “We need to ensure developments go in the right place,”
Stuart said in the statement. “The proposals will be used to
guide future development that will help Scotland achieve its
ambitious renewable energy targets and also increase protection
for our country’s most environmentally important areas.”  Scotland is the windiest country in  Europe , and Scottish
First Minister  Alex Salmond ’s flagship industrial policy is to
generate all of Scotland’s electricity from renewable sources by
2020 in a bid to reduce  carbon emissions .  The new planning policy refers to increased environmental
protection for Scotland’s wild lands covering 31 percent of the
country. Scottish Natural Heritage will draw up the maps
defining those areas.  The decision to exclude large areas of the countryside
suitable for wind farms could slow progress toward meeting
Scotland’s renewable energy targets, Jenny Hogan, policy
director of industry body Scottish Renewables, said in a
 statement  on the organization’s website.  As part of the new framework the government wants to build
two carbon-capture-and-storage facilities at Peterhead and
Grangemouth. Aerospace industry development should be centered
in and around Prestwick airport, the government proposed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  