-- Scotland’s Largest Fund Managers Increase Assets by Most in Year
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-04-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/scotland-s-largest-fund-managers-increase-assets-by-most-in-year.html
Scotland ’s four largest money
managers, who oversee almost $1 trillion between them, increased
their assets by 7.4 percent in the first three months of 2013,
the biggest quarterly increase in at least a year.  The combined funds of  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) ,
 Standard Life Investments , Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership and  Baillie Gifford & Co.  rose to 631.4 billion
pounds ($982 billion) at March 31 from 587.8 billion pounds at
the end of 2012, company filings and statements over the past
week show. They were 12 percent higher than a year before.  Among the four, whose industry in Edinburgh goes back
almost two centuries, Aberdeen and Baillie Gifford posted the
largest increases in assets with 9.8 percent gains. Aberdeen’s
funds topped 200 billion pounds for the first time and cement
its position as Scotland’s biggest money manager. Scottish
Widows reported the smallest increase.  “Investor appetite for risk has improved,” Aberdeen Chief
Executive Officer Martin Gilbert said in an April 29 statement.
“Healthy new business flows are reflected in strong growth.”  It’s the first time in at least four quarters that the
Scottish companies’ assets under management grew more slowly
than world stock markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from the reports. It’s the third straight quarter that
they have outperformed broad bond indexes.  The rise in assets compares with a 15 percent rise in pound
terms for the MSCI World Index, a benchmark of global stocks,
over the first quarter. The Merrill Lynch Global Broad Index of
bonds with a maturity of between seven and 10 years rose 4.8
percent in sterling terms, including currency gains.  Scottish Widows  All four managers reported a rise in assets in the first
quarter, as  Scottish Widows  Investment posted its biggest
quarterly advance in a year. While still the laggard, the firm
reported an increase of 3.5 percent to 146.7 billion pounds.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  is considering selling the
Edinburgh-based company to increase capital, according to four
people with knowledge of the talks.  Aberdeen, which has a cautious outlook on markets, is
“highly unlikely” to buy Scottish Widows Investment, Gilbert
said two days ago when the company reported earnings.  Standard Life Investments, Edinburgh’s largest money
manager, posted a 6.8 percent increase in assets, to 179.1
billion pounds. For the first time it now oversees more than 50
percent of its funds for third-party clients. When  Standard Life
Plc (SL/) , Scotland’s largest insurer, made it a separate business in
1998, the firm managed 5.9 billion pounds for external
customers, according to its website.  Baillie Gifford  Assets at Baillie Gifford, which is owned by its partners
and the smallest of the four, rose to 93.3 billion pounds in the
first quarter, it said in an e-mailed statement. That was 19
percent higher than a year ago.  The following is a list of the fund companies and their
assets under management in billions of pounds as of March 31,
Dec. 31 and March 31, 2012. The data comes from quarterly or
annual statements from each company. 