-- Shell Said to Name Pickard Head of Operations in Arctic Region
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-30T03:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/shell-said-to-name-pickard-head-of-operations-in-arctic-region.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest oil company, plans to name  Ann Pickard  as head of its
Arctic operations, moving her from the helm of the Australian
business, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Pickard, a former Shell executive in Nigeria who became
chairwoman of Shell’s Australian business in 2010, is set to
start in the new position on June 1, according to the person who
asked not to be named because the details haven’t been made
public. Andrew Smith, vice president of Shell’s refining and
marketing business, will replace Pickard in Australia, the
person said.  A phone call and e-mail to Shell spokeswoman Rachael Power
in Perth, seeking comment from the company and from Pickard and
Smith, weren’t immediately answered.  Shell, which has spent about $4.9 billion over seven years
preparing for Arctic exploration, halted plans in February to
drill in  Alaska ’s Arctic waters this year after one of its rigs
ran aground. In March, the U.S. Interior Department said The
Hague-based company must file detailed plans before it can
resume drilling and that rules specific to the Arctic were
needed for oil and gas exploration off the coast of Alaska.  Pickard’s planned appointment was reported earlier today by
the Australian Financial Review, without citing anyone.  Shell expects to invest about $30 billion in Australia over
five years on oil and gas exploration and development, including
the Prelude floating LNG project, the company said in 2011.
Shell is also a partner in  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Gorgon LNG venture
and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ’s proposed Browse project.  Fortune magazine said in November 2008 that Pickard, a
Wyoming native, may have had the most dangerous executive
position in the oil industry as the Lagos, Nigeria-based
regional executive vice president for  Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  