-- Should We Kill the Federal Election Commission?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-30T16:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/should-we-kill-the-federal-election-commission-.html
Caroline Hunter’s six-year term on
the  Federal Election Commission  expires today. If recent history
is any guide, what will happen next is ... nothing. Of the six
seats on the FEC, which interprets and administers the nation’s
election laws, one is vacant and the others are occupied by
commissioners with expired terms. It’s tempting to conclude from
this that inertia dominates the FEC but that would be mistaken:
The commission is more destructive than mere inertia could
possibly allow.  The most recent effort to instill even rudimentary
accountability at the agency took place four years ago, in May
2009, when President  Barack Obama  nominated labor lawyer  John Sullivan  to a seat. Sullivan’s nomination sank in senatorial
quicksand, and he never made it to the FEC. His nomination
represents the bulk of the Obama administration’s work in the
field of campaign finance reform.  Given its propensity for deadlock, with the panel’s three
Republicans pitted against its three (and now, due to vacancy,
only two) Democrats, the FEC is arguably the most dysfunctional
agency in the federal government. As  Bloomberg News  has
 reported , some political organizations don’t even bother to
report their political ad spending to the FEC, in blatant
defiance of federal law. We owe the lack of disclosure by super-
PACs not to the U.S. Supreme Court’s Citizens United  decision ,
which expressly called for disclosure, but to a  rogue ruling  by
the FEC that flouted the clear intent of campaign finance law.  Last June, Obama political adviser  David Axelrod  said the
president would push for campaign finance reform in a second
term. “I hope that when we win this election,” Axelrod said,
“one thing we can do is bring some common sense back to our
system.”  If Obama is serious about campaign laws and ethics, he must
confront the void at the FEC. He can start by nominating new
commissioners who at least nominally support the FEC’s mandate
to enforce the nation’s campaign laws. Such nominations would
surely generate a fight in the Senate, where Republican leader
 Mitch McConnell  has long been the most vocal and vehement
opponent of campaign finance regulation and, not coincidentally,
of a functional FEC.  If the battle never rises above an insiders’ skirmish,
McConnell will surely succeed in killing action. To prevent such
an outcome, Obama would have to wage an extended fight in
public. Even then, prospects for success are dim.  Of course, the administration could escalate the battle by
embracing a drastic option. It could urge Congress to rid the
FEC of its perpetually gridlocked commissioners and appoint a
single administrator to enforce the laws. The  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, which is run by a director appointed to a 10-year
term, stretching over at least two presidencies, is one obvious
model.  It’s possible, of course, to have too much oversight of
campaigns just as we now have too little. But that notion seems
fantastical today. In the Wild West of American political
campaigns, the sheriff is drunk and passed out. For the forces
of law and order to have a chance, we’ll need a new sobriety at
the FEC -- or perhaps even a new FEC.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 