-- Siemens Says German Energy Switch on Track for Failure on Costs
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-04-30T12:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/siemens-says-german-energy-switch-on-track-for-failure-on-costs.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
plan to exit nuclear energy and switch to a greater share of
renewables may fail because costs and greenhouse gas emissions
are increasing, the head of  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s energy division said.  Germany  is burning more coal because gas plants are not
economical, subsidies for renewables are pushing up power
prices, and a greater share of fluctuating renewables threaten
the stability of electrical grids, Michael Suess, chief
executive officer of Siemens Energy, said today at a conference
organized by Merkel’s CDU/CSU parliamentary faction in Berlin.  “We’re not on course at the moment,” Suess said. “Energy
must remain affordable for a modern industry that offers the
basics for a clean and sustainable society.”  Merkel is attempting to lead the biggest transition to
renewable energy of any developed country in history, seeking to
more than triple the share of renewable power by 2050 to 80
percent of the nation’s total consumption. Talks between her
government and state leaders on proposals to stop power prices
from rising failed this month, delaying concrete steps from
being taken until after elections in September.  Germany should overhaul its EEG clean-energy subsidy law so
that renewable generators get subsidies only when the produced
electricity is in demand, Suess said. That would help stabilize
costs and the  power grid  that’s suffering from a “giant power
plant” of more than 30 gigawatts of solar generators that shut
on and off depending on the weather, he said.  The country’s renewable energy boom means reduced running
times at stations fired by natural gas, which fueled 11 percent
of Germany’s power output last year.  C02 Footprint  “We’re increasingly pushing gas and even modern coal
plants out of the market,” Suess said. That boosts profits at
lignite plants with “a very high CO2 footprint.”  Germany’s biggest utility EON SE depended upon a deal
signed last week with German regulator Bundesnetzagentur and
grid operator TenneT TSO GmbH to keep open the loss-making
Irsching gas plant, one of the world’s most efficient. Siemens
provided the gas turbines at the plants.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility and  Europe ’s
largest carbon dioxide emitter, churned out 11 percent more
 greenhouse gases  last year as coal-fired plants increased
production, according to the company’s annual report. Their
profitability has been increased by the collapse in carbon
permits to record lows, cutting the cost of burning coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  