-- Singapore Says Wage Costs May Quicken Amid Foreign Worker Curbs
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/singapore-says-wage-costs-may-quicken-amid-foreign-worker-curbs.html
Singapore’s wages will grow at a
faster pace in 2013, contributing to higher labor costs and
price pressures even as the economy expands at a “modest” pace,
the central bank said today.  The island’s job market will remain “tight” this year as
demand for workers outpaces supply amid the continued tightening
in foreign labor, the  Monetary Authority of Singapore  said in a
twice-yearly review. A Manpower Ministry report today showed  job
creation  in the three months through March 31 was the weakest in
10 quarters, and the  unemployment rate  rose from a five-year low.  Singapore tightened curbs on overseas workers for a fourth
straight year in February and unveiled measures that will raise
wage costs for companies through 2015, as the government steps
up efforts to increase productivity. The central bank, which
uses its exchange rate to manage inflation, stuck to a policy of
allowing gradual gains in its currency even after the economy
unexpectedly contracted last quarter.  “Overall employment growth will moderate, as supply
constraints in both the foreign and local labor forces become
more binding,” the central bank said. “With more firms turning
to locals to fill job vacancies, resident wages will rise at a
slightly faster pace across all sectors. As a result, unit labor
costs will continue to increase, despite some improvement in
productivity.”  Overall wage growth could average 3 percent in 2013,
compared with 2.3 percent in 2012, the central bank said. The
economy added 20,800 jobs last quarter, compared with 44,000 in
the previous three months, the Ministry of Manpower said today.
The seasonally adjusted  jobless rate  rose to 1.9 percent from
1.8 percent, it said.  Vulnerable Economy  Singapore  has remained vulnerable to fluctuations in
overseas demand for its goods amid an uneven global recovery.
Its  exports  fell for the fourth time in five months in March,
while  factory production  slid for a second straight month.  Gross domestic product may expand 1 percent to 3 percent
this year while  inflation  may be between 3 percent and 4 percent,
the central bank said today, reiterating previous forecasts. The
 economy  shrank an annualized 1.4 percent in the three months
through March 31 from the previous quarter.  “Domestic economic activity should pick up gradually over
the course of 2013 as the global environment improves,” today’s
report said. “The sources of growth for the Singapore economy
will be more balanced between internal and external drivers
compared to last year, when growth was predominantly driven by
the former.”  Global Weakness  Risks still remain, the central bank said. The
 International Monetary Fund  this month lowered its global growth
forecast. The euro-area economy has contracted for five quarters,
while  China  and the U.S. expanded less than analysts estimated
last quarter.  “Lingering uncertainties from outstanding fiscal issues in
the U.S. and the potential for policy missteps in the Eurozone
could jettison the nascent turnaround in global business and
 consumer confidence ,” the central bank said. “As such, the
Singapore economy is likely to continue to be confronted by
intermittent bouts of external volatility, although a sharp
deceleration is not envisaged at this juncture.”  The monetary authority said on April 12 it won’t change the
slope and width of the currency trading band that it uses as the
main policy tool.  “The appreciating stance of  exchange rate  policy since
April 2010 has helped to dampen imported inflation, temper the
build-up of inflationary pressures and anchor inflation
expectations,” the MAS said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  