-- Sirius Names Interim CEO James Meyer to Job Permanently
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-04-30T21:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/sirius-xm-radio-names-james-meyer-chief-executive-officer.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  named interim
Chief Executive Officer James Meyer to the job permanently,
solidifying the satellite-radio company’s leadership after a
takeover by billionaire  John Malone  earlier this year.  Meyer will assume the role immediately, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. He had taken the job on an
interim basis in December after longtime CEO Mel Karmazin
resigned. Before that, Meyer had served as Sirius’s president of
sales and operations since 2004.  “In no means do I think I can replace Mel, because we’re
different people, and I’m going to be my own guy,” Meyer said
in an interview. “But I think you’re going to see a lot more of
the same in terms of what got us to where we are today -- a very
deliberate focus on growing our subscriber base, controlling our
costs, satisfying our customers and focusing on  cash flow .”  Malone’s  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  gained majority control of
Sirius in January after getting regulatory approval for the
deal. Liberty Media CEO Greg Maffei became Sirius’s chairman
earlier this month as part of a board shakeup. Karmazin, who
presided over Sirius’s merger with XM Satellite Radio in 2008,
stepped down from the CEO job after clashing with Malone.  Sirius Spinoff?  Malone said last year he planned to eventually spin off
Liberty’s stake in Sirius.  “Greg Maffei and John Malone are clearly aligned with me
on where we’re going as a company,” Meyer said. “They’ll do
whatever’s best for them as far as where Liberty may want to
go.”  Meyer’s appointment “should be greeted favorably by
investors,” Jessica Reif Cohen, an analyst at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  New York , said in a note to clients. She has a
buy rating on the shares, with a price target of $4.  Sirius shares rose 5.9 percent to $3.25 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day gain in more than eight months. The
stock has climbed 12 percent this year, in line with the gain in
the Russell 1000 Index.  Separately, Sirius reported first-quarter earnings of 2
cents a share, matching analysts’ estimates. Sales climbed 12
percent to $897.4 million in the period. Analysts had projected
$906.7 million on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  