-- Slovenia Bank Rescue at 20% GDP Means No Escaping EU Aid
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2013-04-30T20:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/slovenia-bank-rescue-costing-20-of-gdp-means-no-escaping-eu-aid.html
Slovenia, the first former
Communist nation in the  euro zone , is facing a typically
capitalist dilemma: whether to protect creditors of big banks.  Rising loan losses resulting from a housing bust and a
second recession in two years have left a hole of about 7.5
billion euros ($9.9 billion) at Slovenia-based lenders,
investment bank Keefe Bruyette & Woods estimates. That’s a lot
for a 35 billion-euro economy: A bank bailout would push
government debt above 70 percent of economic output.  Even after a successful domestic debt sale two weeks ago,
the country may need assistance from the European Union, and
holders of bank bonds, including the most senior creditors,
could be forced to take losses, according to Raoul Ruparel, head
of research at London-based Open Europe. Such a bail-in, which
would be the second in the euro zone, after Cyprus, risks
deepening divergence in the monetary union by keeping borrowing
costs higher in economically weak nations.  “It’s not impossible, but it’s very unlikely that Slovenia
can manage to pull off the bank restructuring without any EU
money,” said Ruparel, who tracks economic and political
developments in the region. “And when it turns to official
funds, the conditions will most likely include a bail-in of
creditors, especially because banks are the main problem.”  ‘Heavily Exposed’  Moody’s Investors Service cut Slovenia’s debt rating two
levels to junk today, citing potential bank-rescue costs
increasing government debt as the main reason for the decision.
The country may have to ask for financial aid from the EU as its
borrowing costs become unsustainable, the ratings firm said.  “Moody’s expects bank asset quality to continue to
deteriorate given the weak economic environment,” the firm said
in a statement. Delays by the new government to establish a bad
bank “suggest that the sovereign remains heavily exposed to
contingent liabilities.”  The central European country delayed the sale of five- and
10-year dollar bonds that it had started marketing this week,
following the downgrade. Slovenia became the fifth nation in the
17-member euro region to have its debt rated junk. The downgrade
wasn’t a surprise, said Vanguard Group Inc.’s Jonathan Lemco.  ‘Serious Problems’  “Slovenia has serious problems and the market is not blind
to that,” said Lemco, a senior sovereign-debt analyst at the
largest provider of U.S. bond funds. “Everyone was looking for
a downgrade. Their banking system is in real need of support,
although policymakers continue to insist they don’t need a
bailout of any kind.”  Slovenia is trying to avoid following Cyprus as the sixth
country using the euro to require a bailout. The sale of 1.1
billion euros of 18-month bills gave the government some
breathing room. The yield on its dollar bonds due October 2022
has fallen 58 basis points to 5.67 percent since the April 17
sale. Still, the cost of cleaning up its banks may force
Slovenia to join Ireland,  Spain  and Greece in seeking aid and
Cyprus in having to impose losses on creditors.  “We need to see the size of the assets that actually will
be transferred,” said  Christopher Allen , a London-based
director at BlackRock’s Fundamental Euro Fixed Income team. “We
have to understand whether the valuations of those loans are
really realistic.”  Stay Away  The government has injected about 1 billion euros into
Slovenia’s three largest banks since 2008, according to data
compiled by Andraz Grahek, a managing partner at Capital
Genetics, a financial-advisory firm in Ljubljana, Slovenia. The
country’s lenders will need an additional 900 million euros by
the end of July, the government said in a document last week.  The three biggest banks -- Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,
 Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  and Abanka Vipa d.d. -- are
government-owned or controlled and make up almost half the
financial system. They have been buying sovereign debt as
foreign investors stay away. About 79 percent of bills sold this
year prior to the most recent sale were purchased locally,
according to the  Finance Ministry . The proportion for the latest
sale was 71 percent, the nation’s securities-clearing firm said.  Meanwhile, government debt has more than doubled since
2008, partly because of the cash injections to keep banks alive.
Those reciprocal money flows have reinforced the link between
sovereign indebtedness and bank solvency that euro-zone leaders
vowed last year to break.  The government, in power for less than two months, has
pledged to carry out the previous administration’s bank-
restructuring plans, including the creation of a so-called bad
bank to move as much as 4 billion euros of nonperforming debt
out of the lenders and recapitalize them.  Soured Debt  Delinquencies account for 20 percent of total loans, and
that could rise to 27 percent, KBW estimates. As much as 90
percent of the soured debt is held by locally owned banks whose
bad-loan ratio could surge to 34 percent, according to the firm.  That would amount to 5 billion euros for the three biggest
lenders, some of which would be absorbed by provisions already
set aside by the banks. The government might have to inject 3
billion euros of capital to cover the shortfall and finance the
bad bank that will take over the nonperforming assets, KBW said.  The EU aid package might have to be about 8 billion euros
because the government needs to finance a widening budget
deficit as well as bank restructuring, estimates Mai Doan, a
London-based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has
criticized the government’s 900 million-euro figure as too low
and urged some costs to be borne by owners of bank debt.  Nonperforming Assets  The government plans to give banks bonds in exchange for
the nonperforming assets they transfer to the bad bank. In an
interview yesterday with Delo newspaper, Finance Minister Uros Cufer said the asset-management company to take over the bad
loans would have to be established in less than a year.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek said she will sell state
assets, including government stakes in banks as high as 90
percent of the largest lender, to help pay for recapitalization.
That has been met with skepticism by some because of Slovenia’s
historical resistance to government divestiture and a lack of
investor interest in its banks. Bratusek has promised more-
detailed plans.  “The government continues to emphasize it won’t request a
bailout, but the pipeline of potential debt issuance in the
coming year is quite large,” Doan said. “Investors would like
to have a backstop from the EU to comfortably invest in
Slovenia’s bank restructuring. The government will resist an EU
package until it’s pushed to do it by markets, when yields rise
to unsustainable levels.”  Romania, Chile  The yield on 10-year dollar bonds already exceeds that of
Romania, Chile or Mexico. Slovenia had to resort to dollar
funding in October to tap emerging-markets investors, an unusual
move for a euro-zone country. The yield on Slovenia’s 2018 euro-
denominated bond is 4.46 percent, compared with 4.34 percent for
 Portugal , which is rated two levels below Slovenia, after
today’s downgrade.  Slovenia, a nation of 2 million people that accounts for 4
percent of the euro-zone’s economic output, joined the monetary
union in 2007. Now its membership may require it to impose
losses on senior bank creditors, as  Germany  leads a chorus
advocating such burden-sharing in restructuring costs.  Struggling Economies  The new bail-in strategy risks widening the gap between
lending rates in weaker countries such as Slovenia and stronger
ones including Germany, according to  Alberto Gallo , head of
European credit research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
That could push struggling economies further into recession and
make it more difficult to end the region’s crisis.  Banks in weaker euro-zone countries already pay more
interest for deposits, ranging from 2.5 percent to 4.5 percent,
while German or Finnish counterparts pay as little as 0.5
percent. That translates to higher lending rates for companies
in countries from Slovenia to Spain, hurting efforts to improve
their competitiveness with German counterparts.  Nonfinancial corporations in Spain, Ireland, Greece,  Italy ,
Portugal, Slovenia and Cyprus pay an average of 5.4 percent for
new loans maturing in one-to-five years, according to European
Central Bank data. Companies in  Austria ,  Belgium , Germany,
 Finland ,  France  and the Netherlands pay 3.3 percent.  “Financial fragmentation isn’t getting any better and
causes economic fragmentation within the region,” Gallo said.  Meanwhile, foreign banks operating in Slovenia are leaving
or shrinking, which worsens the prospects of an economic
recovery any time soon, said  Ronny Rehn , a KBW analyst.  ‘Too Bullish’  “Loans are shrinking in the country, so the economy which
is built on local demand is collapsing,” said Rehn, who’s based
in  London . “We might end up being too bullish on asset-quality
assumptions for the banks in the next two years if the economy
gets much worse.”  Slovenia joins a growing list of euro-zone countries whose
banks have pushed them to the brink of collapse.  Ireland was shut out of bond markets in 2010, when it tried
to prop up its domestic banks, whose assets had peaked at four
times the nation’s gross domestic product. It agreed to a 68
billion-euro aid package that year.  Spain’s borrowing costs surged to as high as 7.5 percent
last year as the government delayed recapitalizing savings
banks. The country reached an accord for 100 billion euros of
assistance and has so far tapped about half of that  credit line .  Senior Creditors  Cyprus, whose banking system is also eight times the size
of its economy, received a 10 billion-euro aid package last
month after agreeing to shut its largest bank.  In Ireland, junior bondholders were forced to take losses.
Irish leaders, who wanted to penalize senior creditors as well,
were rebuked by ECB and EU officials at the time. Two years
later those officials demanded that Spain force some losses on
subordinated debt of failed banks.  When it was Cyprus’s turn, German and Dutch politicians
demanded that a bigger portion of bank-restructuring costs be
borne by creditors. Because Cypriot lenders had little debt,
depositors with more than 100,000 euros at the two largest
lenders face losing as much as 60 percent of their savings.  Slovenia’s banks aren’t as big, with total assets about 140
percent of GDP. They also have enough debt to cover the bail-in
amount that European leaders will probably require. The three
largest banks have 8.7 billion euros of debt, KBW estimates.
OECD and KBW data show that less than 10 percent of that is
junior bonds, so senior creditors may have to take losses.  Hasten Implementation  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem initially said
the Cypriot rescue would become the new template for the euro
zone. While he later recanted, European officials have since
moved to speed up implementation of new rules that would
institutionalize bail-in of bank creditors. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on April 4 that the rules need to go into effect as
early as 2015, not be delayed until 2018 as originally planned.  Rehn and Doan said they can’t rule out depositors being
included in a bail-in. The European Commission bail-in plan
lumps uninsured depositors with other senior creditors, Rehn
said. If that model is used in Slovenia, depositors could be
forced to share the costs. Draghi has said he favors modifying
the proposal to elevate all depositors above other creditors.  The shift from blanket protection of almost all bank
creditors to demanding they share restructuring costs has
contributed to higher borrowing costs for the financial
institutions in the weaker countries, RBS’s Gallo said. Banco
Santander SA, Spain’s largest lender, pays 4.875 percent for 10-
year senior bonds, compared with 2.375 percent for Deutsche Bank
AG, Germany’s largest, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Default Swaps  The impact also can be seen in the cost of insuring
subordinated debt at the weakest banks in the weakest economies.
Credit default swaps to protect against losses cost about 10
percent for Italy’s Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA and 7 percent
for Spain’s  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) , according to Bloomberg
data. That translates to 1 million euros to insure 10 million
euros of Monte Paschi junior bonds against default annually and
700,000 euros to insure the same amount of Banco Popular debt.  CDS on Monte Paschi’s senior debt costs about 6 percent and
Banco Popular’s is about 5 percent. Comparable credit-insurance
for UniCredit SpA, Italy’s largest bank, is about 3 percent for
senior debt and 5 percent for subordinated.  The divergence between junior and senior debt rates, as
well as between weaker and stronger banks, is healthy for the
long-term functioning of the banking industry, RBS’s Gallo said.  ‘Paying More’  “This is how it’s supposed to be -- higher risk of failure
being reflected in the cost of borrowing by the institution,”
Gallo said. “So smaller, second-tier banks are paying more to
borrow, but partly because the biggest banks are too big to fail
and investors still believe governments will rescue them.”  In the short run, the divergence in borrowing costs between
weaker and stronger countries hurts economic recovery efforts.
Banks paying more to borrow have to lend at higher rates.  That’s partly because French, German and U.K. banks have
been reducing their lending to banks and companies in southern
European countries. In 2010, when Ireland had to bail out its
banks and was prevented from imposing losses on creditors,
lenders based in those three countries had  $112 billion  of
exposure to the Irish banking system. By the end of September
2012, that was down to $31 billion, according to the  Bank for
International Settlements .  While a country breakdown showing who owns Slovenia’s bank
debt isn’t available, total foreign exposure to lenders in the
Adriatic nation fell by 50 percent in a year to $3 billion at
the end September, BIS data show.  ‘Run Away’  “Now that the bankers have run away from the periphery,
German and French politicians no longer care about bank
creditors,” said Paul De Grauwe, an economics professor at the
 London School  of Economics. “Germany now says taxpayers
shouldn’t bear the costs of bank restructuring, but what it
really means is German taxpayers shouldn’t. Slovenian or Cypriot
people are stuck with the costs since German bankers are gone.”  Slovenian taxpayers may wind up better off than their
Cypriot counterparts because their banking industry is smaller,
according to Timothy Ash, chief emerging-markets economist at
Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group Ltd. The government needs
to move fast to detail its restructuring plans and seal a deal
with the EU to keep those costs under control, he said.  “It’s all manageable unless there’s a run on the bank,”
said Ash, who’s based in London. “The longer you mess around,
the higher possibility for such a run to happen. They need to
get serious soon. If they wait too long, they’ll be toast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  