-- Slovenia Credit Rating Cut to Junk by Moody’s on Banking Turmoil
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-30T17:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/slovenia-credit-rating-cut-to-junk-by-moody-s-on-banking-turmoil.html
Slovenia’s credit rating was cut to
junk by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited “turmoil” in
the country’s banking industry and said the government would
have to offer lenders more financial support.  The rating was lowered two levels to Ba1 from Baa2, on par
with  Turkey , Moody’s said today, assigning a negative outlook.
Five members of the 17-nation euro area are now rated junk by
Moody’s. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings both rate Slovenia
at A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade.  “The first key factor underpinning today’s rating action
is the ongoing turmoil in the country’s banking system and the
high likelihood that the sovereign will be required to provide
further assistance and capital injections,” Moody’s said in an
e-mailed statement from  New York . “Asset quality at the banks
deteriorated considerably in 2012 and has continued to
deteriorate since.”  Slovenia, which before the rating action was on course to
sell dollar-denominated benchmark bonds, is struggling with its
 second recession  since 2009. The government is working to fix
its ailing banking industry with a 900 million-euro ($1.2
billion) capital boost and the creation of a so-called bad bank
to cleanse lenders’ balance sheets and aid economic recovery. A
detailed overhaul plan is set to be presented to the European
Commission in Brussels by May 9.  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
 government bonds  fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
suggests they should climb, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as the 1970s.  The yield on the government’s dollar note due 2022 rose two
basis points to 5.66 percent at 6:55 p.m. in Ljubljana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  