-- Slovenia Rating Cut to Junk by Moody’s as Bond Sale Delayed
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-05-01T11:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/slovenian-credit-lowered-to-junk-by-moody-s-as-bond-sale-delayed.html
Slovenia’s credit rating was cut to
junk by Moody’s Investors Service, forcing the government to
delay its first international bond sale this year, intended to
to ease a financing crunch and avoid an international bailout.  The Finance Ministry yesterday postponed an offering of
dollar-denominated benchmark bonds before the rating was lowered
two levels to Ba1 from Baa2, on par with  Turkey , and given a
negative outlook. Five members of the 17-nation euro area are
now rated junk by Moody’s. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings
both assess Slovenia at A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade.  Slovenia, struggling with its  second recession  since 2009,
is working to fix its ailing banking industry with a 900
million-euro ($1.2 billion) capital boost and the creation of a
so-called bad bank to cleanse lenders’ balance sheets and aid an
economic recovery. A detailed overhaul plan is set to be
presented to the European Commission in Brussels by May 9.  “The history of the Slovenian capital markets in 2012 and
2013 reads like a crime story with unexpected twists and turns,
like the downgrade in the midst of a bond sale,”  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps oversee $13 billion as a fund manager at
Landesbank Berlin Investment in Berlin, said yesterday by e-
mail. “There is a small fundamental problem but with these kind
of incidents the risk that somethings goes wrong and Slovenia
has to be bailed out externally increases.”  Yields Rise  The yield on the government’s dollar note due 2022 fell 4
basis points to 5.71 percent at 12:35 p.m. in Ljubljana, after
climbing 11 basis points yesterday. It peaked at 6.38 percent on
March 27. Markets in Slovenia are closed today and tomorrow for
national holidays.  The initial market reaction “will be faded, as Slovenia is
already trading as a sub-investment grade credit,” Abbas Ameli- Renani, an emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc in  London , wrote yesterday in an e-mailed note.  “We expect
the sovereign to return to the market soon, possibly within the
next few days.”  Slovenia was offering five-year and 10-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified before the transaction is completed. The five-year
notes were being initially offered in the region of 5 percent
and the 10-year debt around 6.125 percent, the person said.  History Lesson  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
government bonds fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
suggests they should climb, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as the 1970s.  Slovenia “expects the transaction to continue once
additional information is available,” the Finance Ministry said
in an e-mailed statement before the downgrade.  “Slovenia’s dollar bond issue transaction remains in
progress,” Marjan Divjak, acting director general of the
ministry’s treasury department, said today by e-mail. “Due to
relevant U.S. legal restrictions on communications with the
public for this type of transaction, the Ministry of Finance is
not in a position to release any further comments at present.”  EBRD Role?  The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development may
play a role in rescuing Slovenia’s troubled state-owned banks,
EBRD President Suma Chakrabarti said in an April 29 interview,
though the lender won’t make a decision before the government
publishes details of how its plan to overhaul the industry. For
the EBRD to participate, the state would have to reduce its role
in the industry, he said.  “Loans or equity, we look at both,” Chakrabarti said.
“It depends on what the plan of action is. We can’t really lend
into a banking sector without seeing the framework of change. We
would be interested provided the plans did shift significantly
to private sector involvement.”  The three biggest banks -- Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,
Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. and Abanka Vipa d.d. -- are
government-owned or controlled and make up almost half the
financial system. They have been buying sovereign debt as
foreign investors stay away.  The government has injected about 1 billion euros into
Slovenia’s three largest banks since 2008, according to data
compiled by Andraz Grahek, a managing partner at Capital
Genetics, a financial-advisory firm in Ljubljana. The country’s
lenders will need an additional 900 million euros by the end of
July, the government said last week.  ‘Ongoing Turmoil’  A major factor underpinning the downgrade “is the ongoing
turmoil in the country’s banking system and the high likelihood
that the sovereign will be required to provide further
assistance and capital injections,” Moody’s said late yesterday
in an e-mailed statement from New York.  Slovenia’s recovery from a recession that wiped 2.3 percent
off gross domestic product last year is largely down to the
health of the banking industry, according to Moody’s, which
predicted the economy would shrink 1.9 percent in 2013 before
“weak” expansion in 2014. The plan to recapitalize lenders
will cost, between 8 percent and 11 percent of GDP, it said.  Prior to the most recent bill offering on April 17, about
79 percent of this year’s sales were purchased locally,
according to the Finance Ministry. The proportion for the latest
sale was 71 percent, the nation’s securities-clearing company
said.  Meanwhile, government debt has more than doubled since
2008, partly because of cash injections to keep banks alive.
Those reciprocal money flows have reinforced the link between
sovereign indebtedness and bank solvency that euro-region
leaders vowed last year to break.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  