-- SoftBank Forecasts Record Operating Profit on Acquisitions
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-04-30T06:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/softbank-forecasts-record-operating-profit-on-acquisitions-1-.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) , the Japanese
wireless carrier bidding for control of  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,
forecast record operating income as  acquisitions  and new
subscribers using Apple Inc.’s iPhone stoke earnings.  Operating profit , or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, probably will exceed 1 trillion yen
($10.2 billion) in the year started April 1, up from 745 billion
yen a year earlier, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement
today. SoftBank said it’s making progress in the Sprint deal and
doesn’t need to review its offer terms.  SoftBank, controlled by billionaire Masayoshi Son, has
posted higher subscriber growth than larger domestic rivals in
the past 12 months by luring iPhone users. The company acquired
competitor eAccess Ltd. to meet bandwidth demand for iPhone
customers and agreed to pay $20 billion for a 70 percent stake
in Sprint, an offer topped this month by a $25.5 billion offer
from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)   “There isn’t much concern for the company’s main business
as its momentum of gaining new customers hasn’t come down,”
said Hiroshi Yamashina, an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in  Tokyo .
“Earnings will likely keep growing as smartphone demand will
likely remain strong.”  SoftBank rose 1.2 percent to close at 4,825 yen in Tokyo
trading before the announcement, widening its  gain this year  to
54 percent.  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has added
33 percent this year. Shares rose 1.2 percent to 37.41 in German
trading.  Accounting Standards  The forecast for Japan’s No. 3 wireless operator compares
with the 914 billion-yen average of 10  analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg within the last 28 days. The carrier
expects an increase in operating profit even after acquiring
unprofitable Sprint, Son said.  “We aim to continue generating operating profit of more
than 1 trillion yen,” Son said. “There’s no change to the
trend that users want high-quality handsets.”  SoftBank is introducing IFRS, or international financial
reporting standards, from the current fiscal year as it prepares
for the Sprint acquisition. The possible impacts of that switch
from the Japanese accounting standard include deducting
commissions for handset dealers from revenue and adopting
another goodwill impairment method, the company said April 8.  In January, SoftBank  predicted  operating profit of about
700 billion yen for the year ending March 2014, using IFRS, and
800 billion yen under the Japanese standard.  Sprint Offer  Revenue rose 5.5 percent to 3.4 trillion yen, and net
income fell 7.8 percent to 289 billion yen, the company said.  SoftBank isn’t planning to raise its offer for Sprint, the
third-largest U.S. mobile-phone company, after Dish Network
Corp. made a competing bid, an executive at the Japanese company
said earlier this month. Some Sprint shareholders, including
Omega Advisors Inc. and billionaire  John Paulson , said they
preferred Dish’s offer.  SoftBank will focus on its existing plans for  Overland
Park , Kansas-based Sprint, the executive said, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are private. SoftBank hasn’t
ruled out future action, the executive said.  Sprint agreed in October to a deal that would give SoftBank
a 70 percent stake. The Japanese company’s proposal has
“superior short- and long-term benefits” compared with Dish’s
“highly conditional preliminary proposal,” SoftBank said April
16. The acquisition is expected to be completed on July 1 under
the terms agreed upon, it said.  Shareholder Vote  Sprint has tentatively set June 12 as the date for a
shareholder vote on SoftBank’s offer, the U.S. wireless company
said last week.  Sprint has to pay Softbank $600 million if it recommends a
rival offer, according to  terms  of the deal. The Japanese
company in October closed the purchase of $3.1 billion of
convertible bonds than can be exchanged for more than 590
million Sprint shares.  Raising the bid would make billionaire Son’s ambition to
expand into the U.S. cost more, while the company’s  credit
ratings  are already under review for a possible cut to junk.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service Inc. have
put the Japanese company’s credit ratings under review for
possible downgrade on concern the Sprint acquisition may
undermine its financial strength. A downgrade of one step would
bring the rating to a speculative, or junk, ranking at Moody’s.  Gungho Deal  Son, Japan’s second-richest man, said in October he
targeted Sprint because it can challenge  Verizon Wireless  and
AT&T Inc.’s dominance of the U.S. mobile-phone industry.  The 55-year-old’s stated goal is to create the largest
mobile-services provider in the world by revenue, surpassing
Verizon,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  China Mobile Ltd. (941)   SoftBank earlier this year spent about 25 billion yen for a
6.4 percent stake in  Gungho Online Entertainment Inc. (3765) , a
developer of Internet and mobile phone games run by Taizo Son, a
younger brother of the SoftBank president, the company said
April 27.  Earlier this month,  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , Japan’s biggest
carrier,  forecast  a 2.9 percent increase in net income to 510
billion yen in the year to March 2014.  KDDI Corp. (9433) , Japan’s No. 2
mobile-phone operator, today projected a 22 percent jump to 295
billion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  