-- Sonics Fever in Seattle Turns to Rage as NBA Rejects City Again
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2013-04-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/sonics-fever-in-seattle-turns-to-rage-as-nba-rejects-city-again.html
David Vahey was printing “Sonics
Fever” T-shirts yesterday near  Seattle  when his partner called
and told him to stop. National Basketball Association owners had
rejected the city’s bid for a team.  “I had to sit down,” said Vahey, who was selling as many
as 200 shirts a day. “It feels like we’re losing a kid we never
got to adopt.”  An investment group including Microsoft Corp. Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  agreed three months ago to buy a
majority of the  Sacramento Kings  and move the team to Seattle,
restoring the SuperSonics, who left for  Oklahoma City  in 2008. A
12-member panel of NBA owners yesterday recommended against the
sale to the Seattle group, making it likely a group assembled by
 Sacramento  Mayor  Kevin Johnson  will get the team.  The loss rekindled memories in Seattle of the two-year
fight over the SuperSonics that led to a city lawsuit and a
bitter fan documentary called “Sonicsgate.” Among the fans
venting was Ballmer, who told radio talk show host Mitch Levy
yesterday that he was “horribly, horribly disappointed.”  For months, the Seattle group, led by Valiant Capital
founder Chris Hansen, had touted its bid, even releasing
sketches of an arena topped by a gleaming cylinder resembling a
jet turbine. The city and county planned to back $200 million of
the $490 million arena cost. Hansen said he had requests for
44,000 season tickets, more than double the arena’s capacity.  Instead, owners on the relocation committee backed Johnson,
a former NBA All-Star. He won city approval for a new downtown
venue to replace the team’s aging Sleep Train Arena and
recruited an ownership group including  Vivek Ranadive , the
founder of  Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX) , and 24 Hour Fitness Worldwide
Inc. founder Mark Mastrov.  ‘Used Us’  To some fans in Seattle, it appeared as if the NBA used the
bid from Hansen’s group to leverage an improved offer from
Sacramento, said Jeremy Repanich, who was a staffer for the
 Seattle SuperSonics  when the team was sold to a group led by
Oklahoma City-based Clay Bennett in 2006.  “The NBA used us,” Repanich said. “Once they were able
to get Sacramento to start coughing up taxpayer dollars and
really spending money, they were like, ‘We’ve got something
valuable.”’  In his radio interview, Ballmer said he and Hansen and the
other partners will discuss their possible next steps. NBA
Commissioner  David Stern  has said expansion of the 30-team
league is unlikely.  Nordstrom Investors  Hansen began trying to bring a team to Seattle more than
two years ago, acquiring land south of downtown for an arena and
assembling investment partners including Ballmer and department
store scions Peter and Erik Nordstrom.  Raised in Seattle, Hansen was 11 when the team won its only
 NBA championship  in 1979. The SuperSonics played in Seattle for
41 years, featuring such stars as Slick Watts, Shawn Kemp, Jack
Sikma and Gary “the Glove” Payton.  One of the beneficiaries of a Sonics restoration would have
been Oskar’s Kitchen, a restaurant co-owned by Kemp near
KeyArena, where the team would have played until the new venue
was finished. The announcement yesterday was a damper, said
manager Laina Treuhaft.  “Everybody was getting really pumped about the idea,” she
said. “It’s just really sad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  