-- Spanish Recession Eases as EU Shifts Away From Austerity Policy
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-04-30T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/spanish-recession-eases-as-eu-shifts-away-from-austerity-policy.html
Spain ’s slump eased in the first
quarter as the government pushes back its budget-deficit target
to ease a fiscal squeeze that has weighed on the economy.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.5 percent from the fourth
quarter, when it declined 0.8 percent, the Madrid-based National
Statistics Institute said today. That matched the median
forecast of 19 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Output
fell 2 percent from a year earlier.  A six-year slump has pushed the  jobless rate  to a record 27
percent, curbing domestic demand and fueling anti-European
sentiment among some voters who blame the European Commission
for public-spending cuts. Unemployment will barely decline over
the next three years, the government said last week, as it
announced it will delay its timetable for narrowing the deficit
to within the European Union limit.  The first-quarter Spanish GDP figure matches the estimate
published by the Bank of Spain in its monthly bulletin on April
23. The 17-nation euro region shrank 0.1 percent in the quarter,
according to a Bloomberg survey published on April 11. The
official figures will be released on May 15.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  on April 26 unveiled
new measures to boost credit to smaller companies and cut
bureaucracy. His Cabinet also approved a plan to cut the budget
gap of 10.6 percent of GDP to within the EU limit of 3 percent
by 2016 instead of 2014. The commission endorsed the plan in a
statement on its website.  With the euro area in its second year of recession,
officials in Brussels and Berlin are backing away from
austerity-first policies amid criticism from institutions
including the  International Monetary Fund . German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , a leading proponent of budget
discipline, yesterday announced a plan to boost investment in
Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  