-- Starwood Hotels Profit Exceeds Estimates on Tax Benefit
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-04-30T20:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/starwood-hotels-net-income-exceeds-estimates-on-tax-benefit.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, said first-
quarter earnings rose 66 percent because of a tax benefit and
growth in North America.  Net income climbed to $213 million, or $1.09 a share, from
$128 million, or 65 cents, a year earlier, the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based company said today in a statement. That
compares with a 53-cent average  estimate  of 15 analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The earnings were lifted by a $70 million tax benefit,
Starwood said. The company said a “tight supply” of hotel
rooms in North America is driving up room rates, contributing to
a 6.2 percent increase in the region’s revenue per available
room, a measure of occupancies and rates.  “We had a strong start to the year,” Chief Financial
Officer Vasant Prabhu said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “The global
economy accelerated in the first quarter. But the best news of
all was the U.S. The U.S. was our engine of our first quarter
performance.”  Revpar increases in North America outperformed a 5 percent
gain worldwide in constant dollars during the quarter.  Starwood  shares  rose 3.3 percent to $64.52 today in New
York. They’ve gained 12 percent this year, compared with a 6.2
percent increase in the seven-member Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Hotels Index.  Revenue Decline  Starwood’s first-quarter revenue dropped 10 percent to
$1.54 billion. Results from last year’s first quarter were
buoyed by sales of vacation units at its St. Regis Bal Harbour
Resort in Miami Beach,  Florida , which opened in January 2012.  The company raised its  forecast  for full-year adjusted
earnings to $2.75 to $2.83 a share, compared with a February
estimate of $2.59 to $2.68. Starwood projected worldwide revpar
at its operated hotels will increase 5 percent to 7 percent in
the second quarter and this year, with 4 percent to 6 percent
growth at its owned hotels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  