-- Strabag Cuts Dividend After ‘Disappointing’ Full-Year Profit
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-04-30T12:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/strabag-cuts-dividend-after-disappointing-profit-hit-by-losses.html
Strabag SE (STR) , central Europe’s
biggest builder, said it will cut its dividend by two-thirds
after full-year net income fell 69 percent on one-time effects.  The dividend will be cut to 20 cents per share from 60
cents a year earlier, the Vienna-based company said in a
statement today. Net income tumbled to 60.6 million euros ($79.5
million) from 195 million euros after sales dropped 5 percent to
13 billion euros. Results for the year were also hurt by a one-
time compensation cost of 43 million euros from arbitration
proceedings.  “Our earnings are disappointing,” Chief Executive Officer
Hans Peter Haselsteiner said in the statement. “Most of the
factors contributing to these disappointing results are one-offs
as well as construction site losses, which therefore won’t have
a significant carryover into the current year.”  Haselsteiner, whose family  owns 28.9 percent  of the
company, will step down as CEO after this year’s general meeting
on June 14, a year earlier than originally planned, Strabag said
yesterday. He will be succeeded by current Deputy CEO Thomas Birtel and continue to support the board as an “authorized
representative” of the company, Strabag said.  Strabag shares rose 0.6 percent to 16.94 euros at 1:43 p.m.
in Vienna trading.  The management change comes amid an austerity drive across
 Europe  that has curbed public infrastructure spending and
weighed on the builder’s profits. Strabag cut its 2012 forecast
for earnings before interest and taxes to 200 million euros from
300 million euros in July and called the new goal
“extraordinarily ambitious” three months later.  ’Homemade Errors’  “Homemade errors” were another reason for the
unsatisfying performance, Haselsteiner said at a press briefing
in Vienna today, citing failed acquisitions and orders that
shouldn’t have been accepted.  The company will participate in the bidding process for
Hochtief’s services unit, which is beginning, Haselsteiner said.
Strabag will not become a pure provider of services such as
facility management, he said. “Construction is and will be
Strabag’s core competency.”  Strabag forecast earnings before interest and taxes of at
least 260 million euros this year with an output volume of 14
billion euros even as the management expects “another slight
worsening of the business environment.”  Analysts had  estimated  2012 net income at 65.2 million
euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Strabag was
expected to pay a 30-cent dividend, according to data collected
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  