-- Sugar Climbs With Grains Before May Futures Expiry; Cocoa Falls
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-04-30T10:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/sugar-climbs-with-grains-before-may-futures-expiry-cocoa-falls.html
Sugar climbed for a fourth day in
 New York , the longest winning streak since March 7, gaining
support from rising grain prices just before the expiry of the
May futures contract. Cocoa fell.  Corn futures extended yesterday’s 6.5 percent advance, the
biggest in 10 months, after a government report showed cold, wet
weather delayed planting in the U.S., the world’s biggest
exporter. The May raw sugar futures on ICE Futures U.S. expire
today and the delivery will be published tomorrow. The May
futures were trading at a premium of 0.01 cent a pound to the
July contracts, down from 0.04 cent yesterday and reversing a
discount of 0.06 cent at the end of last week.  Sugar’s climb yesterday “looks attributable to the weak
dollar and the sharp spike in corn,” Sterling Smith, a futures
specialist at Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said in a report e-
mailed yesterday. “We do need to see some follow-through buying
over the next two sessions before giving any more bullish
thought to the situation.”  Raw sugar for delivery in July gained 1 percent to 17.62
cents a pound by 6:31 a.m. on ICE in New York. Futures trading
volumes were 41 percent below the average for the past 100 days
for this time of day, according to data compiled by Bloomoberg.
White, or refined, sugar for delivery in August rose 1 percent
to $506.50 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in London. The  U.S. dollar 
fell 0.4 percent yesterday against a  basket  of six major
counterparts.  Brazil ’s center south, the main growing region of the
world’s biggest sugar producer, will produce an all-time high
35.5 million tons of the sweetener this year, Unica estimated
yesterday. The record output will come even as millers direct
more of the raw material sugar cane to making ethanol, the
industry group said. Both cane and corn are used to make the
biofuel.  Ethanol Use  “Expectations for Brazil are still for higher production,
despite higher use for ethanol,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by e-mail. “The price remains
stuck below 18, so the supply situation continues to be ample,”
he said, referring to the price of raw sugar in cents per pound.  Cocoa for July delivery fell 0.6 percent to $2,322 a ton in
New York. Cocoa for delivery the same month declined 0.6 percent
to 1,517 pounds ($2,351) a ton in London.  Arabica coffee futures for July delivery gained 0.3 percent
to $1.342 a pound on ICE. Robusta coffee futures for delivery in
July slid 0.5 percent to $1,999 a ton on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 