-- Suncor Plans C$2 Billion Buyback After Dropping Voyageur Project
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-30T00:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/suncor-plans-c-2-billion-buyback-after-dropping-voyageur-project.html
Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,  Canada ’s
largest energy company by market value, said it will buy back as
much as C$2 billion ($1.98 billion) of shares and boost its
dividend after scrapping plans for the Voyageur oil project.  Suncor will raise its quarterly dividend 54 percent to 20
cents a share, the Calgary-based company said today in a
statement. The company was expected to boost the  dividend  to 15
cents, according to the forecast projected by Bloomberg. Suncor
has returned a combined C$2.5 billion to shareholders since
Sept. 2011 by repurchasing shares, it said.  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Williams  has been cutting
costs by halting or delaying projects, including the C$11.6
billion Voyageur upgrader. The project, which would have
converted heavy bitumen to a synthetic light crude, was
abandoned last month amid rising competition from U.S. oil
supplies.  In  Australia ,  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , that country’s
second-largest oil producer, will return about $520 million to
investors in dividends after dropping plans to build a liquefied
natural gas project estimated to cost $45 billion, the company
said earlier this month.  The decision to halt Voyageur was a “positive signal
management is placing greater scrutiny on shareholder returns,
and free cash visibility is enhanced over coming years,” Chris Feltin and Brian Bagnell, analysts at Macquarie Capital Markets,
wrote in a March 28 note to clients.  Suncor said last month it expected to report a first-
quarter cost related to Voyageur that would reduce net income by
C$140 million. It is scheduled to report earnings later today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  