-- Surgutneftegas Reveals $29.7 Billion Cash Under New Accounts
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-04-30T16:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/surgutneftegas-reveals-29-7-billion-cash-under-new-accounts-2-.html
OAO Surgutneftegas,  Russia ’s third-
largest oil producer, reported it has 921 billion rubles ($29.7
billion) of cash and deposits in its first results under
international standards in more than a decade.  The Surgut, Russia-based company is complying with a 2011
law for companies listed in Moscow as the capital seeks to
become a financial hub. Analysts had expected cash holdings of
$28 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Surgutneftegas, which produces more oil than the U.K., had
a market value of $32 billion at close yesterday. Questions
about the company’s ownership and plans for the cash pile, as
well as the lack of international reporting, have weighed on the
share price.  “It’s positive the cash is there, we now have to see
what’s next,”  Alexander Nazarov , an oil and gas analyst at OAO
Gazprombank, said by telephone. “We still don’t know now who
controls the company and what the strategy is of the controlling
shareholders.”  Surgutneftegas ordinary shares slumped 4.5 percent, the
biggest decline in a month, to 26.681 rubles in Moscow. Its
preferred shares gained 0.6 percent to 21.835 rubles.  “The cash pile is roughly what the market expected and
there is nothing to suggest shareholders will ever benefit from
it,” Julian Rimmer, an equities trader at CF Global Trading in
 London , said by e-mail today. “It’s a case of buying the hype
and selling the reality.”  Bought Stock  The common stock has fallen 47 percent from a record 50.175
rubles in May 2006, while preferred shares are down 42 percent
in the same period. That year, the company bought 111 million
rubles of voting stock, according to its report.  Surgutneftegas reported that it had 650,000 voting shares
in treasury at the end of 2012, less than 0.2 percent of its
ordinary shares. When it reported under U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles in 2001, it held a stake of about 40
percent in treasury. Analysts didn’t expect any significant
treasury share holding, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Surgutneftegas didn’t provide an explanation for the
disappearance of the treasury shares, which would be worth $15
billion at current prices, Alexander Burgansky, an oil and gas
analyst at Otkritie Capital, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Grave Consequences’  The disappearance “will have grave consequences for
investor perception of Russia’s investment climate,” Burgansky
wrote today.  Surgutneftegas’s cash and deposits rose about 7 percent
from the 860 billion rubles of cash and deposits it held at the
end of 2011, according to the statement. At the end of last
year, it reported cash and equivalents of 41 billion rubles,
short-term deposits of 328 billion rubles and long-term deposits
of 552 billion rubles.  The oil producer had deposits of 384 billion rubles in OAO
Sberbank, Russia’s largest bank, as of Dec. 31, according to the
statement. It kept 169 billion rubles in Unicredit Bank, 169
billion rubles in OAO Gazprombank and 136 billion rubles in
state-run VTB Bank, according to the statement.  “The cash is absolutely there,” said  Ronald Smith , an oil
and gas analyst at ZAO Citibank, said by telephone from Moscow.
“It adds credibility to Russian reported numbers. We had been
expecting slightly under that, so that’s also positive.”  Audited Results  One “suspicious” thing is that the IFRS results weren’t
audited by a Big Four accountancy firm,  Alexei Kokin , an oil and
gas analyst at Uralsib Financial Corp, said by e-mail today.  The financial statement, which doesn’t give the name of the
auditor, was prepared by Rosexpertiza, Kokin said.  Net income fell to 180 billion rubles from 275 billion
rubles the previous year under International Financial Reporting
Standards, according to the statement. That is more than 2012
net reported to Russian standards, Smith said.  “Investors should be pleased with this new level of
transparency,”  Tim McCarthy , who oversees more than $1 billion
of assets in Russia and other  emerging markets  at Valartis in
Geneva and who holds the company’s preferred shares, said in e-
mailed comments. “But sometimes, transparency can reveal
undesirable information.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  