-- Swan Says Australia Will Remain in Deficit Longer Than Forecast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-30T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/swan-says-australia-will-remain-in-deficit-longer-than-forecast.html
Australia’s budget will remain in
deficit for longer than forecast and the government faces tough
decisions to make up for tax revenue shortfalls caused by the
currency’s sustained strength, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “The money simply isn’t coming in the door like it used
to,” Swan said in the text of an address to be given in
 Melbourne  today, before delivering the  federal budget  on May 14.
“That means as a country we are facing some very difficult
choices.”  The currency has held above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for
10 months, the longest stretch since it was freely floated in
1983, bankrupting manufacturers unable to compete with cheaper
imports. The government said this week it will collect A$12
billion ($12.4 billion) less tax revenue this fiscal year than
Treasury predicted in October, further damaging its economic
credibility after Swan was forced to abandon a promised surplus.  “It’s clear that the massive write down we’ve seen in
revenue means the budget will remain in deficit for longer than
previously forecast,” Swan said in the speech to the Committee
for Economic Development of  Australia . “I’ve lost some
political paint for saying that, but I’m happy to wear it --
because it’s the right decision to support jobs and growth.”  Swan indicated waning resource investment may hurt the
nation’s employment market in the period ahead. Unemployment
rose to 5.6 percent in March, the highest level in more than
three years, government data showed last month.  “The high dollar is a big part of the reason why our
economy’s transition may not be seamless,” Swan said. “There
may be bumps along the way, including in the labor market as
resources projects enter a less labor intensive phase and the
non-mining economy takes time to pick up.”  The central bank lowered the benchmark  interest rate  by
1.75 percentage points in the 14 months through December to 3
percent as it seeks to rebalance the economy away from mining.
Traders are pricing in a 41 percent chance it will cut the
benchmark rate to a record low 2.75 percent at next week’s
meeting, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG  index  based on
swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  