-- Swiss National Bank Equity Holdings Rise in First Quarter
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-04-30T07:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/swiss-national-bank-equity-holdings-rise-in-first-quarter.html
The proportion of equities among
the  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) ’s foreign-currency investments rose in
the first quarter, while the allocation among currencies were
little changed.  The share of stocks in the central bank’s portfolio climbed
to 15 percent at the end of the first quarter, compared with 12
percent at the end of last year,  according to data  on the
Zurich-based institution’s website today. Its holdings of
 government bonds  fell to 78 percent from 82 percent.  The SNB has amassed foreign-exchange reserves equal to
nearly 75 percent of the economy’s annual output as a result of
the interventions it has waged to defend the cap of 1.20 per
euro, set in September 2011 to prevent a recession.  With bond yields low, central banks around the world are
buying more equities. In a survey of 60 central banks this month
by Central Banking Publications and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) , 23 percent said they own shares or plan to buy them.  Rising stock prices contributed 4.9 billion francs ($ 5.2
billion) to the SNB’s 11.2 billion franc profit for the first
quarter, it said in a separate statement today. President Thomas Jordan has stressed the SNB’s asset management is conducted with
a view of implementing monetary policy rather than generating a
profit.  Holdings Steady  The SNB had 48 percent of its reserves in euros at the end
of the first quarter, compared with 49 percent at the end of
2012, data showed. Its yen holdings rose to 9 percent from 8
percent, while the share of dollars slipped to 27 percent from
28 percent.  With anxiety among investors over the euro area’s debt
crisis easing, the dollar appreciated 4 percent against the
franc and the euro gained 0.9 percent against the Swiss currency
in the first three months of the year. Those exchange-rate gains
outweighed losses against the yen and sterling, the SNB said.  The SNB is always willing to consider new investment
opportunities, Board Member Fritz Zurbruegg said in an interview
published earlier this month in RBS Reserve Management Trends
2013. It started buying South Korean won last year, after
expanding into Singapore dollars, Danish krone and Swedish krona
previously. Those currencies, together with Australian dollars,
made up 5 percent of reserves at the end of March, up from 4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  