-- U.K.’s $582 Billion Energy Switch Faces Crisis, Liberum Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-04-30T12:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/u-k-s-582-billion-energy-switch-faces-crisis-liberum-says.html
The U.K.’s 376 billion-pound ($582
billion) program to switch from fossil fuel to renewable and
nuclear power is headed for crisis because of looming energy
shortages and spiraling costs, Liberum Capital Ltd. said.  The U.K. government has “grossly underestimated” the
engineering, financial and economic challenges posed by
Britain’s goal to decarbonize its electricity, Peter Atherton,
utilities analyst at Liberum, said today in a note. Investors
will face the bulk of the financial pain as the government seeks
to shield itself and voting consumers from a crisis, he said.  Britain is overhauling its energy market to replace aging
plants with cleaner supplies as a fifth of U.K. power capacity
retires in the next decade. The reforms, including atomic power
incentives as well as payments for peaker gas plants, suffered
setbacks after  SSE Plc (SSE)  delayed investments and as government
talks with  Electricite de France SA  over the price it will earn
to build the first new nuclear plants in two decades falter.  “Moving from a largely fossil-fuel based power system to
one dominated by renewables and nuclear in just a decade and a
half, whilst keeping the lights on and consumer bills
affordable, may simply be impossible,” Atherton said. U.K.
utilities and investors should limit exposure as political risk
rises. Biomass developer Drax Group Plc, SSE and  Centrica Plc (CNA) 
will be the most exposed, he said.  Perfect Storm  Triggers including wholesale price spikes as the market
anticipates shortages in 2014 to 2017, longer-term scarcity and
rising consumer bills could spur a crisis, or the factors could
combine creating a ‘perfect storm’, the analyst said. Regulator
Ofgem has said Britain faces a looming supply squeeze.  The reform plans will require 161 billion pounds by 2020
pushing power bills up 30 percent, according to Liberum. The
sum, more than the 110 billion pounds the government estimates
is needed, may rise to as much as 376 billion pounds by 2030
prompting a 100 percent bill rise in real terms, Liberum said.  “Even with the large increase in public support provided
by the Energy Bill it is extremely hard to envisage that this
finance will be forthcoming given that the large European
utility companies are actually reducing capex,” he said.  Liberum published its research as the Department of Energy
and Climate Change confirmed Jonathan Brearley, the lead civil
servant on its reform bill set to become law by the year-end,
resigned with effect from July to take a career break after
three years at DECC. Electricity market reform will not be
disrupted by the change and recruitment is underway for a
replacement, a DECC spokesman said today by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 