-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Climbed More Than Forecast in March
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-30T10:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/u-k-mortgage-approvals-rose-more-than-forecast-in-march-1-.html
U.K. mortgage approvals  rose more
than forecast in March as an easing of credit conditions helped
support the housing market.  Lenders granted 53,504 mortgages, compared with a revised
51,947 in February, the  Bank of England  said today in London.
Economists had forecast an increase to 52,700 from an initially
reported 51,653, based on the median of 18 estimates in
Bloomberg News survey. Net mortgage lending rose 430 million
pounds ($666 million), below the average of 600 million pounds
over the previous six months.  The central bank said earlier this month that the
availability of mortgages improved in the first quarter and may
increase further in the current period after its Funding for
Lending Scheme gave banks access to cheaper credit. Hometrack
Ltd. said yesterday that improved sentiment and a shortage of
properties for sale are  supporting values , while new government
measures will bolster confidence further.  “The BOE and Treasury are pulling out all the stops to
boost the flow of credit, which for now is showing up in the
housing market,” said Rob Wood, chief U.K. economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London . “The cost and availability of
mortgage credit will continue to improve.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar and was
trading at $1.5504 as of 10:40 a.m. London time, from $1.5500
yesterday. The yield on the 10-year U.K. government bond
declined 1 basis point to 1.65 percent.  Gross Lending  Gross mortgage lending fell to 12.5 billion pounds in March
from 12.7 billion pounds in February, today’s report showed.
Mortgage approvals are still only about half the monthly average
in the decade to 2007, when the financial crisis struck.  The report also showed that  consumer credit  rose 493
million pounds in March, with credit-card lending increased 192
million pounds.  Separately today, GfK NOP Ltd. said U.K.  consumer
confidence  declined one point to minus 27 in April as  inflation (UKRPCJYR) 
above the BOE’s target squeezed households. A gauge of how
consumers see their finances over the next year also fell.  Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  told the Belfast
Telegraph newspaper in an interview published today that the
squeeze on household incomes will ease. Inflation will “more
likely than not” fall from March’s 2.8 percent and be close to
the BOE’s 2 percent target “as we go into next year,” he said.  Separate BOE data today showed that overseas investors
increased their holdings of U.K. government bonds for a ninth
straight month in March. Non-residents bought 7.5 billion pounds
more gilts than they sold, after increasing their holdings by
8.3 billion pounds in February.  The BOE also said that U.K. M4 money supply fell 0.9
percent in March from the previous month, the most since June.
From a year earlier, M4 rose 0.3 percent.  A measure of  M4 money-supply growth  the central bank uses
to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases rose to a
quarterly annualized 4.6 percent from 3.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  