-- U.S. Steel Earnings Miss Estimates After Prices Drop
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-04-30T13:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/u-s-steel-earnings-miss-estimates-after-prices-fall-amid-glut.html
U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  the largest U.S.
producer of the metal, reported a first-quarter loss and revenue
that missed analysts’ estimates after a drop in steel prices and
shipments.  Excluding a charge for paying down debt, the loss was 35
cents a share, the Pittsburgh-based company said in a statement
today, wider than the 22-cent average of 10 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales fell 11 percent to $4.6 billion, compared
with the $4.66 billion average of 11 estimates. The shares fell
2.6 percent in New York.  U.S. Steel has struggled to be profitable as global demand
stagnates while output rises. Its flat-rolled segment, its
largest business, saw deliveries drop 1.8 percent in the
quarter. The division will post a second consecutive operating
loss in the current quarter, because of higher costs, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer John Surma said in the statement.  The company’s tubular-steel business, its second-largest by
revenue in 2012, is suffering from a decline in orders from oil
and gas drillers. The tubular division posted a 50 percent drop
in operating income with shipments sliding 19 percent. Its
performance will be little changed in the current quarter,
yielding break-even operating results, Surma said.  “Fundamentals have weakened since January,”  Michelle Applebaum , managing partner at consultant Steel Market
Intelligence in  Chicago , said in an interview yesterday.
“Tubular has got a perfect storm of weaker demand, increasing
capacity and a surge of imports.”  Capacity Utilization  U.S. Steel fell to $17.08 at 9:53 a.m. in New York. The
shares have slumped 29 percent this year, making the company the
fourth-worst  performer  on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The first-quarter net loss narrowed to $73 million, or 51
cents a share, from $219 million, or $1.52, a year earlier.  Industrywide, steel shipments in the in the U.S. in the
first two months of 2013 fell 4.9 percent to 7.01 million tons
compared with a year earlier, according to the Metals Service
Center Institute.  Hot-rolled steel coil, a benchmark product used in
automobiles and appliances, averaged $621 a short ton in the
U.S. the first quarter, down 13 percent from a year earlier,
according to  data  from The Steel Index, a trade publication.  U.S. steelmakers used 75 percent of their capacity on
average in the first quarter, compared with 78 percent a year
earlier, according to  data  from the  American Iron and Steel
Institute .  Ontario Lockout  The average number of active oil and natural-gas  rigs 
around the U.S. fell to 1,758 in the quarter from 1,990 a year
earlier, according to Baker Hughes Inc. U.S. Steel got 43
percent of 2012 operating income from its tubular division,
which sells steel tubes to oil and gas drillers.  U.S. Steel is among four bidders for a steel mill in
 Alabama  being sold by  Germany ’s ThyssenKrupp AG that may fetch
$1.5 billion to $2 billion, people familiar with the
negotiations said April 25.  U.S. Steel locked out union-represented employees on April
28 at its Lake Erie plant in Nanticoke, Ontario, after their
labor contract expired and the two sides failed to agree on a
new accord.  (U.S. Steel scheduled a conference call at 3 p.m.  New York 
time, which can be accessed at the company’s website:
 http://bit.ly/ZgMk10 .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  