-- U.S. Credit Swaps Drop; Apple Sells Debt in Six Parts
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-04-30T21:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/u-s-credit-swaps-hold-before-consumer-confidence-report.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk dropped to the lowest level in more than five years as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sold $17 billion of bonds in the biggest dollar-
denominated offering on record.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.5 basis points to a mid-price of 74.9 basis points at 5:06
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure, which has declined for  eight  days, closed at the lowest
level since November 2007, when the gauge reached 71.9 basis
points.  Apple, the iPhone maker with plans to finance a $100
billion capital reward for shareholders with borrowed money,
issued $3 billion of floating-rate notes and $14 billion of
fixed-rate securities in six parts with maturities from three to
30 years, according to a person familiar with the offering.
Demand for the sale today followed data that showed  consumer
confidence  rose more than expected, while home prices in 20
cities increased in February by the most since May 2006.  “Money continues to flow into investment-grade corporate
bonds,” Mark Pibl, the head of credit strategy at Pierpont
Securities LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The
markets are deep, and the liquidity gives a little level of
comfort. The macro fundamentals have been generally positive.”  ‘Spread Compression’  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The Conference Board’s index of consumer confidence rose to
68.1,  exceeding  the highest projection in a Bloomberg survey,
from a revised 61.9 in March, data from the New York-based
private research group showed today. The S&P/Case-Shiller index
of property values  rose  9.3 percent from February 2012, more
than forecast, after advancing 8.1 percent in the year ended in
January, the group said today in New York.  “We continue to believe the theme of spread compression
will continue and the wider spread/higher yield sectors will
outperform,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  wrote in a note today. “There is no general concern
about credit risk in the market.”  The MNI Chicago Report’s business barometer showed business
activity in the U.S. unexpectedly shrank in April for the first
time in more than three years, falling to 49 from 52.4 last
month. A reading less than 50 signals contraction.  Apple Debt  Proceeds from the Apple offering may help the company avoid
repatriation taxes on its $102.3 billion of funds held overseas
as Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  returns an additional $55
billion to shareholders through 2015 to compensate for a stock
that’s been hammered by signs of slowing growth.  Apple’s offering is the largest bond sale on record,
Bloomberg data show. The deal topped Roche Holding AG’s $16.5
billion six-part transaction from February 2009, which included
$3 billion of one-year floating-rate debt, and AbbVie Inc.’s
$14.7 billion six-part issue in November, the data show.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index dropped 14 basis points to 361.4 basis points, the
lowest level since at least 2009, Bloomberg prices show.  The cost to protect against a default by  Best Buy Co. (BBY) 
dropped as the world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer
said it plans to exit Europe by selling its 50 percent stake in
a mobile-phone venture for 500 million pounds ($775 million).  Best Buy  Five-year credit swaps linked to Best Buy debt dropped 51.2
basis points to 328.4 basis points by 4:30 p.m., according to
CMA, the data provider owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. that compiles
prices quoted by dealers. That means it would cost the
equivalent of $328,400 annually to protect $10 million of
obligations for five years.  Best Buy, which is  selling  its stake to partner  Carphone
Warehouse Group Plc (CPW) , will receive 420 million pounds in cash and
80 million pounds in the U.K. company’s stock, the Richfield,
Minnesota-based retailer said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly is evaluating the
retailer’s foreign units to free up cash and resources in his
effort to revive U.S. stores hurt by competition from Amazon.com
Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Best Buy generates about 25
percent of its revenue from operations in  Europe ,  China  and
 Canada .  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt tightened 4.8 basis points to 515.8 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard
& Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  