-- UBS Joins Lloyds Beating Estimates as Deutsche Bank Sells Stock
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a ,   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-04-30T10:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ubs-joins-lloyds-beating-estimates-as-deutsche-bank-sells-stock.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc posted profit that topped analysts’ estimates
in a sign  Europe ’s largest lenders are rebounding from the
financial crisis after years of job cuts, loan losses and
capital raising.  UBS  rose  as much as 7.3 percent in Swiss trading after
posting first-quarter net income that was twice analysts’
estimates. Deutsche Bank jumped in  Frankfurt  on higher earnings
and plans to raise 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion) in capital,
while Lloyds gained in London as profit almost tripled.  “Businesses getting their costs in order -- that is really
the feature of these performances,” said  Simon Maughan , an
analyst at Olivetree Securities Ltd. in London.  UBS, which announced 10,000 job cuts last year and the exit
from most debt-trading businesses to focus on wealth management,
attracted the most net new money from investors since 2007 in
the first quarter and almost doubled earnings at its securities
unit. Deutsche Bank increased net income and raised almost 3
billion euros in a share sale to bolster its capital ratios.
Lloyds beat estimates as loan losses fell, prompting Chief
Financial Officer George Culmer to tell reporters the bank’s
“transformation is ahead of schedule.”  UBS  rose  5.7 percent to 16.60 francs by 11:30 a.m. in
Zurich, bringing the gain in the past year to 47 percent.
Deutsche Bank rose 7.5 percent to 35.37 euros after gaining as
much as 7.9 percent, the biggest increase since August.  Lloyds (LLOY) 
 climbed  as much as 6.9 percent and was 4.5 percent higher at
55.90 pence.  UBS Surprise  Net income at UBS, the biggest Swiss bank, was 988 million
Swiss francs ($1.05 billion), more than twice the 412.3 million-
franc mean estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “UBS caught us by surprise,” said Christopher Wheeler, a
London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA with a neutral rating on
the stock. “It seems very clear that the equities business was
a blowout. And wealth management had very strong inflows.”  The investment bank posted a 92 percent gain in pretax
profit to 977 million francs, and a return on equity, a measure
of profitability, of 49.5 percent for the quarter. The wealth
management division attracted 15 billion francs from investors
in the quarter, with all regions registering net inflows.  “It’s too early to talk about vindication or to declare
victory, but I think I’m extremely pleased with the progress we
made so far in executing our strategy,” Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Ermotti , 52, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Zurich, where the company is based. “It’s
working. I’m very pleased to see that clients are responding
well to the strategy.”  Stock Sale  At Deutsche Bank, CEO Anshu Jain timed the capital increase
to coincide with a 19 percent jump in first-quarter earnings to
1.65 billion euros. He’s boosting reserves after Standard &
Poor’s warned of a possible credit rating downgrade and as the
U.S. Federal Reserve considers a rule that would require
European banks to hold more capital at their U.S. units.  “We are now among the best capitalized banks in our global
peer group,” Jain, 50, said on a conference call with analysts
and investors today.  The share sale increases Deutsche Bank’s core Tier 1
capital adequacy ratio under Basel III rules, a key measure of
financial strength, to about 9.5 percent, the lender said.
JPMorgan reported a ratio of 8.9 percent in the first quarter
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 9 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries. UBS said today its ratio is
10.1 percent.  Addressing Capital  “Deutsche Bank is finally starting to address its capital
issues,”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts Kian Abouhossein and
Amit Ranjan wrote as they raised the company to overweight from
neutral. While the firm has “transformed to one of the best
capitalized” large European banks, it isn’t “out of the
woods” given costs for stricter regulation and legal issues,
they said.  CFO Stefan Krause said on a call with analysts today that
the firm has “materially completed” a plan to eliminate about
1,500 positions at its investment bank unit and related support
areas as part of wider job cuts.  At Lloyds, pretax profit before exceptional items rose to
1.48 billion pounds ($2.3 billion) from 497 million pounds in
the year-earlier period, beating the 1.03 billion-pound median
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Provisions fell
40 percent to 1 billion pounds, the London-based bank said in a
statement. Analysts had forecast 1.1 billion pounds.  Lower Costs  CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio is cutting expenses to strengthen
the bank’s balance sheet and said costs had fallen 6 percent to
2.4 billion pounds in the quarter. Lloyds said it expects to
reduce expenses to 9.2 billion pounds this year, about 2 billion
pounds less than in 2010 and twice the lender’s initial target.  Horta-Osorio’s attempts to return the 39 percent
government-owned bank to full-year profit have been hampered by
more than 12.1 billion pounds of losses tied to the collapse of
the Irish real estate market and the spiraling cost of
compensating clients who were sold payment-protection insurance
they didn’t need. The lender made no additional provision to the
6.8 billion pounds it has already set aside for PPI redress.  “We remain confident in achieving our existing guidance,”
Horta-Osorio, 49, said in the statement. The lender expects a
“substantially reduced” impairment charge for 2013 and plans
to make a further 200 million pounds of cost cuts this year.  Lloyds, which has climbed 18 percent this year, still
trades for less than the 61 pence the government paid for its
holding when it bailed out Lloyds in 2008 following its takeover
of HBOS Plc. The bank hasn’t paid a dividend since its bailout
and didn’t disclose any plans today to resume the payments.  “It’s doing well in a very weak economy,” said Cormac Leech, a banking analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London  with
a buy rating on the shares. “The balance sheet is steadily
improving. The fact they can do as well as they have in this
environment shows their market dominance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net 
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  