-- UBS Quarterly Net Beats Estimates on Investment Bank
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-04-30T07:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/ubs-profit-beats-estimates-on-investment-bank-wealth-management.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
reported first-quarter earnings that beat analyst estimates on
higher revenues at the investment bank and in wealth management.  UBS rose as much as 7.3 percent in Swiss trading after
reporting net income of 988 million Swiss francs ($1.05
billion), more than double the 412.3 million-franc mean estimate
of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  announced 10,000 job
cuts and the exit of most debt-trading businesses at the
investment bank last year to concentrate UBS on money management
and boost profitability. UBS is trading at a higher price
relative to estimated earnings and book value than Credit Suisse
Group AG as investors back the company’s focus on wealth
management.  “UBS caught us by surprise,” said Christopher Wheeler, a
London-based analyst at  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  with a neutral rating on
the stock. “It seems very clear that the equities business was
a blowout. And wealth management had very strong inflows.”  UBS jumped 6.5 percent to 16.73 francs by 9:05 a.m. in
Zurich, bringing the gain over the past year to 48 percent. That
compares with a 27 percent gain in the Bloomberg  Europe  Banks
and Financial Services Index of 40 companies.  “It’s too early to talk about vindication or to declare
victory, but I think I’m extremely pleased with the progress we
made so far in executing our strategy,” Ermotti, 52, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “It’s working. I’m very
pleased to see that clients are responding well to the
strategy.”  Investment Bank  The investment bank posted a 92 percent gain in pretax
profit to 977 million francs, beating the average analysts’
estimate of 321 million francs. The unit, which aims for an
annual pretax return on equity of more than 15 percent, reported
that measure of profitability at 49.5 percent for the quarter,
up from 17 percent a year earlier.  “The strategy of the new investment bank works with two-
thirds less capital allocation than a year ago,” Ermotti said.  Revenue at the securities unit rose 21 percent from a year
earlier to 2.79 billion francs, helped by gains in equities and
equity capital markets, which rose 17 percent to 1.17 billion
francs and more than doubled to 503 million francs,
respectively. Equities revenue included a 55 million-franc gain
from the sale of a part of UBS’s former proprietary stock-
trading desk, which the bank closed last year, while equity
capital markets business benefited from a large private
transaction, the bank said.  New Money  “UBS is delivering on restructuring well ahead of
schedule,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts Kian Abouhossein and
Amit Ranjan said in a note. They have an overweight rating on
UBS.  Earnings in wealth management fell 28 percent to 664
million francs on higher costs, after profit a year ago
benefited from a reduction in expenses related to changes in the
company’s Swiss pension plan.  The division attracted 15 billion francs in net new money
from investors in the quarter, the biggest amount since 2007,
with all regions registering inflows. The gross margin, a
measure of how much revenue UBS makes on assets, rebounded by 6
basis points from the last quarter of 2012 to 91 basis points. A
basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.  Wealth Management  The bank saw the biggest inflows in Asia Pacific, with 5.5
billion francs, and in  emerging markets , with 4.9 billion
francs. The gross margin in those regions rose to 89 basis
points from 74 basis points and to 95 basis points from 92 basis
points, respectively.  “If you’re not in developing markets or Asia you’re not
going to see growth,” said Wheeler.  UBS saw an increase in client risk appetite in the first
few weeks of the year, Ermotti said in the interview, while the
re-emergence of the European sovereign-debt crisis with the
situation in Cyprus damped that.  Juerg Zeltner, who heads UBS wealth management outside the
Americas, said in an interview earlier this month that the
revamp of the investment process the company has been
undertaking since hiring Chief Investment Officer Alexander Friedman is helping the bank compete globally. Zeltner plans to
expand the onshore business in Europe and invest in hiring and
technology in Asia and emerging markets, where he doesn’t
exclude acquisitions.  UBS is educating client advisers to make sure investment
recommendations are followed through and rolling out a new
offering for clients, where they would be charged a fixed fee
for advisory services rather than commissions on each
transaction.  Higher Capital  Profit at the wealth management Americas unit rose 22
percent to 234 million francs, as the business, run by Robert McCann, attracted 8.6 billion francs in net new money.  The retail and corporate division posted a 48 percent drop
in pretax profit to 347 million francs, as year-earlier figures
were boosted by changes in the Swiss pension plan, while asset
management increased earnings 12 percent to 190 million francs.  UBS said its common equity ratio under fully-applied Basel
III rules rose to 10.1 percent in the quarter from 9.8 percent
at the end of the year. The bank aims to boost common equity to
about 11.5 percent by the end of 2013.  Deutsche Bank AG, continental Europe’s biggest bank, said
yesterday it will sell about 2.8 billion euros in new shares to
boost its core tier 1 capital ratio to about 9.5 percent from
8.8 percent at the end of March. First-quarter earnings rose 19
percent, beating estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  