-- Hulu Tops 4 Million Paying Subscribers in First Quarter
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-04-30T20:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/hulu-says-paying-subscribers-exceeded-4-million-in-first-quarter.html
Hulu LLC, the online TV service
owned by three of the four major TV networks, said it doubled
the number of paying subscribers in the past year to more than 4
million.  “Overall, Hulu continues to grow very quickly,” Andy Forssell, the company’s acting chief executive officer, said
today in a  blog post . “We set new records for revenue, and for
the first time ever, Hulu viewers streamed more than 1 billion
content videos in a single quarter.”  Unlike rival  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , Los Angeles-based Hulu more
closely resembles cable networks such as CNN and Discovery
Communications, which rely on advertising and subscription fees.
Netflix, which doesn’t take ads, had 29.2 million U.S.
subscribers at the end of March. Hulu announced the jump, from 2
million paying customers a year earlier, as it began talks with
marketers, who are devoting more dollars to online programs.  Sales jumped more than 65 percent to  $695 million last
year , driven by advertising and subscriptions. Like Netflix and
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Netflix has also produced original programming
in order to attract audiences. Separately, Hulu  announced  two
new series this year: “Quick Draw” a half-hour comedy set in
the American West in 1875, and “East Los High,” a contemporary
drama set in an East Los Angeles high school that features an
all-Latino cast.  Hulu offers free reruns of television shows and movies,
with newer programming and earlier access available on its $8-a-
month Hulu Plus. Forssell became acting CEO with the departure
last month of  Jason Kilar .  The company’s controlling owners, Rupert Murdoch’s  News
Corp. (NWSA)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , are weighing whether to sell Hulu or
buy each other out.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the third major investor, is
barred from an active role in the company as part of an
agreement with U.S. regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  