-- Hungary Central Bank and Lenders Reach Deal on Funding
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-04-30T13:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/hungary-central-bank-and-lenders-reach-deal-on-funding.html
Hungary ’s central bank has agreed
with commercial lenders to increase the margin allowed on loans
funded by its zero-interest lending plan, designed to end a
recession, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said.  After discussions with the lenders, the monetary authority
agreed to raise the banks’ margin on the 250 billion forint
($834 million) of funding to 2.5 percent from 2 percent,
including a guarantee fee, Matolcsy told reporters in Budapest
today. The MNB also agreed to raise the upper limit for
individual loans to 3 billion forint from 400 million forint, he
said. The bank may start the so-called Funding for Growth
program on June 1.  “We have high hopes that at least two-thirds of the
domestic financial industry, a critical mass, will participate
in the plan according to preliminary forecasts,” Matolcsy said.  The central bank’s plan, modeled on the Bank of England’s
Funding for Lending Scheme, seeks to spark growth by boosting
lending to small- and medium-sized companies. Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban ’s policies that included retroactive corporate
taxes and the European Union’s highest bank levy damaged
investments and credit and contributed to the country’s second
recession in four years.  The forint weakened 0.2 percent to 300.17 per euro by 2:37
p.m. in Budapest after strengthening as much as 0.9 percent as
Matolcsy began to speak today. It gained 1.4 percent against the
euro in the past month, the most of 31 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. That pared a 2.9 percent drop in March, the most
in the world, as Matolcsy took over the central bank after
serving as economy minister since 2010.  ‘Small Banks’  The central bank will favor “small banks” with its
preferential loans as it wants to help them boost their market
share, central bank Managing Director Marton Nagy said. The MNB
will penalize commercial lenders that don’t disperse the
preferential loans if they receive interest-free funding, he
said.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, competes mostly
with units of international banks including  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Bayerische
Landesbank AG,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)  OTP will
match the amount of central bank interest-free funds allocated
to the bank for extending preferential loans, Chairman Sandor Csanyi said April 26.  The central bank also wants to reduce the amount of funds
commercial banks keep in its two-week bills, which pay the
benchmark rate, to 3.6 trillion forint from 4.5 trillion forint,
Vice President Adam Balog said. The MNB wants to reduce the
stock by early August in cooperation with commercial lenders,
Balog said.  Hungarian Presence  The central bank will probably bar lenders that don’t have
a banking presence in Hungary from investing in the the central
bank’s two-week facility, Matolcsy said, adding that no decision
was made on this today.  The MNB supports converting the two-week bill, the main
instrument in managing liquidity, into a deposit facility, which
tightens the eligibility to banks that are active in Hungary,
Matolcsy told the state news service MTI on April 18.  The funding plan has three pillars, including the
preferential loans, the cut in the two-week bills aimed at
reducing the country’s short-term debt and allowing for a
reduction in foreign-currency reserves. A third pillar is 250
billion forint from the central bank to help small- and medium-
sized companies convert foreign-currency debt to forint at
market exchange rates.  While Matolcsy started the funding plan, the central bank
has continued to reduce its benchmark  interest rate . The MNB cut
the two-week deposit rate to a record-low 4.75 percent on April
23, the ninth quarter-point cut in as many months.  “We are pursuing a conservative and responsible monetary
policy,” Matolcsy said, adding that the central bank will
continue its “step-by-step approach” in rate policy based on
its assessment of “ price stability , financial stability,
economic policy and the external economic environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  