-- Unilever to Spend $5.4 Billion to Lift India Unit Stake
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-04-30T10:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/unilever-to-spend-up-to-5-4-billion-to-lift-stake-in-india-unit.html
Unilever (ULVR)  will spend as much as
292.2 billion rupees ($5.4 billion) lifting a majority stake in
its Indian unit as the seller of Lipton tea and Dove shampoo
seeks to capture more emerging-market profit and combat slower
European growth with its biggest deal in 13 years.  Unilever will pay 600 rupees a share in a public offer to
raise its holding in Hindustan Unilever Ltd. to 75 percent from
52.48 percent, it said in a statement today. The price is 21
percent higher than the stock’s closing price yesterday.  The London- and Rotterdam-based company is seeking greater
control of  India ’s largest consumer-goods maker after this month
reporting the slowest quarterly growth in two years as Europeans
curbed spending. Mumbai-based  Hindustan Unilever (HUVR)  yesterday
posted a 15 percent jump in fourth-quarter profit as it expanded
in rural areas and benefited from lower raw material prices.  The acquisition “is a way of trying to benefit even more
from growth that is higher in these markets than in western
 Europe  and  North America ,” Robert Jan Vos, an analyst at  ABN
Amro  in Amsterdam, said by phone. “Growth is slowing down a bit
also in India, but that is still way, way higher than what we
see in western Europe and north America.”  Hindustan Unilever surged as much as 20 percent to 597
rupees in Mumbai today before trading at 583.90 rupees at 3 p.m.
local time. Unilever fell 0.9 percent to 32.19 euros at 11 a.m.
in Amsterdam.  Share Surge  Shares of Unilever’s  Indonesian (UNVR)  business rose as much as 14
percent, the most in almost eight years, as investors expected
the unit’s valuation to catch up with that of Hindustan
Unilever, said John Teja, director at Ciptadana Securities.  Unilever’s offer values Hindustan Unilever at 37 times the
subsidiary’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. The median multiple for similar deals was 10.8
times Ebitda, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is very expensive,” Jeff Stent, an analyst at Exane
BNP Paribas, said in an interview. “However, these companies
can borrow at such low rates that it is still earnings accretive
and in the market’s current mood that is what people will tend
to focus on over time.”  The offer is “fair” and will allow Unilever to capture
more earnings from India, James Allison, the company’s head of
 investor relations  and M&A, said in a phone interview with
Bloomberg TV India. Unilever has no intention to delist the
Indian unit, he said. In November, the maker of Axe deodorants
moved to delist its subsidiary in  Pakistan , and in 2009 it took
 full control  of its business in  Vietnam .  Deal Funding  The deal will be funded by cash and bank facilities and the
business will continue to be run in the same way following the
stake increase, Unilever spokeswoman Lucila Zambrano said.  “The confidence they are showing in Hindustan Unilever, at
a time when consumption in India is slowing, is out of the
world,” said Ambareesh Baliga, managing partner of global
 wealth management  at Edelweiss Financial Services.  India’s economy   grew  5 percent in the year through March,
according to an estimate from the statistics agency. That’s less
than the average of about 8 percent in the past decade.  Hindustan Unilever has the biggest share of India’s
consumer-goods market. The Unilever unit last year has a 32
percent share of the country’s beauty and personal care market,
which is expected to grow 44 percent to $14.2 billion by 2017,
according to data from Euromonitor International.  Asian Push  Colgate-Palmolive Co. is second-largest with a 6.6 percent
share, followed by  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  with 5.2 percent.  Among other consumer-goods stocks,  Dabur India Ltd. (DABUR) 
advanced as much as 6.3 percent and  Colgate-Palmolive India Ltd. (CLGT) 
gained as much as 8 percent today. The 10-member S&P BSE Fast
Moving Consumer Goods Index  rose  as much as 6 percent.  Unilever “may consider that the valuations are cheap
compared to what it will be in five or 10 years,” said Sachin Bobade, Mumbai-based analyst at Brics Securities Ltd.
“Hindustan Unilever has the biggest share of India’s consumer
market and Unilever wants a larger chunk of the profits.”  Unilever has said developing markets will account for more
than 90 percent of its annual sales growth this decade. Today’s
acquisition is the company’s biggest since its 2000 purchase of
Best Foods Ltd. for $23 billion.  Europe supplied about 27 percent of revenue for Unilever in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in Asia and
 Africa  accounted for 40 percent.  ‘Good Price’  The Anglo-Dutch company said it is making the offer for 487
million shares of the Indian company. The price offered by
Unilever is “good” and Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. would
sell some of its holding to Unilever, Chief Investment Officer
Sampath Reddy, who manages about $7 billion in assets, said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  The offer, which opens in June, is being managed by HSBC
Holdings Plc, according to the statement. Hindustan Unilever
spokesman Prasad Pradhan declined to comment beyond the stock
exchange statement and directed questions to the parent company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  