-- Huntsman Considers Divesting or Adding to Pigment Unit
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-04-30T17:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/huntsman-exploring-options-for-titanium-dioxide.html
Huntsman Corp. (HUN) , the fourth-biggest
producer of titanium-dioxide pigment, said it’s considering
either selling the unit that makes the white paint ingredient or
adding assets to the business.  “We want to be part of any consolidations in this
industry,” the Salt Lake City-based company’s Chief Executive
Officer Peter Huntsman said today on a conference call to
discuss first-quarter earnings.  Huntsman joins competitors  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC)  and
 Tronox Ltd. (TROX)  in reviewing operations that make the pigment known
by its chemical formula, TiO2, which is used to add opacity to
paints and plastics. Rockwood CEO Seifi Ghasemi repeated today
that he plans to sell the pigment unit by year end. Tronox said
in February it was considering acquiring TiO2 assets to use its
excess capacity for making titanium ore.  “There are opportunities to sell, buy and to merge,” Kimo Esplin, Huntsman chief financial officer, said in a telephone
interview today. “What we are interested in is a fast route to
create value.”  Huntsman rose 1.5 percent to $18.95 as of 12:27 p.m. in  New
York . The shares have gained 19 percent this year.  Pigment earnings, which have eroded in each of the past
four quarters, should stabilize in the second quarter as price
declines end and excess inventories are consumed, Peter Huntsman
said on the call. Rockwood and Huntsman both said they expect
TiO2 profit will improve in the second half compared with the
first half.  Pigment Sales  Pigment sales volumes in the first quarter rose 27 percent
from the fourth quarter, while average prices declined 11
percent, Peter Huntsman said. Rockwood said TiO2 volumes rose 40
percent from the prior quarter, while prices dropped 8 percent.
Both companies said they plan to keep plants running at low
levels to further reduce inventories.  Higher TiO2 prices will take hold first in non-paint
markets such as inks, pharmaceuticals, food and suntan lotion,
with gains in paint markets occurring later in the year, Peter
Huntsman said in the phone interview.  By 2014, earnings before interest, depreciation and
amortization should reach a “normalized” level of about $200
million, he said. That compares with pigment Ebitda of $9
million in the first quarter.  Cash from the sale of any business would be used to pay
down debt and possibly to grow the company, he said.  Methanol Plants  “We want to maintain a strong balance sheet and at the
same time we are anxious to see what opportunities are out
there,” Peter Huntsman said on the conference call.  Huntsman may invest in one of the methanol plants proposed
along the U.S. Gulf Coast to take advantage of inexpensive
natural gas, he said in the interview. Huntsman is among the
world’s largest methanol buyers, which it uses to make the
gasoline additive MTBE, and it currently has no production
capacity, he said.  Huntsman may take an equity stake in a methanol plant or
agree to buy a base amount of production at an advantaged price,
he said.  Celanese Corp. (CE)  and  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  are
among companies planning to add U.S. methanol capacity.  DuPont Co., is the world’s largest producer of TiO2,
followed by Cristal Global,  Kronos Worldwide Inc. (KRO)  and Huntsman,
fifth-ranked Tronox said in a July  presentation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  