-- Murdoch Says Immigration Bill Has Enough Backing to Pass
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-04-30T06:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/murdoch-says-immigration-bill-has-enough-backing-to-pass.html
Rupert Murdoch, chairman of  News
Corp. (NWSA) , predicted that a bill in the U.S. Senate that would allow
many undocumented immigrants to become citizens in about 13
years has enough support in Congress to pass.  Murdoch, speaking yesterday at the Milken Institute Global
Conference in Los Angeles, described the proposal as the most
viable attempt to overhaul U.S. immigration law since the 1980s.  “I believe the Senate proposal will go through,” said
Murdoch, whose company owns Fox News and the  New York  Post.
“It’s not good enough, but it’s better than nothing.”  Republican opposition to a citizenship plan helped scuttle
a 2007 effort to overhaul immigration policy. That opposition
has lessened since the November election, in which President
 Barack Obama  won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote.  Murdoch spoke on a panel with Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and Senator Michael Bennet, a Colorado Democrat who
is part of a bipartisan group of senators behind the bill.  The proposed immigration law would allow people living in
the U.S. illegally who arrived before Dec. 31, 2011 to become
citizens after passing background checks, obtaining jobs and
paying back taxes and penalties. The process would take an
estimated 13 years, according to congressional aides.  Murdoch and Bennet said they favor an approach that would
allow all illegal immigrants to gain citizenship in five years.
The Senate bill, introduced earlier this month, would allow
students who entered the country illegally and certain
agricultural workers to become citizens in as few as five years.  Economic Imperative  Obama has called the Senate legislation “largely
consistent” with his views. The Republican-controlled House
plans to pursue a rewrite of U.S. immigration law through
individual bills, rather than with a comprehensive piece of
legislation as in the Senate.  Murdoch, Bennet and Villaraigosa characterized the Senate’s
immigration bill as an economic imperative. The mayor, a
Democrat whose two terms leading the second-largest U.S. city
end June 30, said 44 percent of businesses in Los Angeles are
founded by immigrants. That number would be “exponentially
higher” if more of them were legal, Villaraigosa said.  The bill’s biggest challenge may be fears that the new
citizens would vote for Democrats, endangering Republican
prospects over the long term, said Vivek Wadhwa, research
director at Duke University’s Center for Entrepreneurship and
Research Commercialization.  Laurene Powell Jobs, the widow of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder
Steve Jobs and head of the Emerson Collective, a nonprofit in
Palo Alto,  California , that describes itself as an “advocate
for fair and just policies on behalf of under-served students,”
said many immigrants recognize that the House is controlled by
Republicans, so the bill’s passage would depend on support from
both parties.  “We have such an appetite for reform right now,” Jobs
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  