-- Usmanov Says Arsenal’s Kroenke Shows No Wish to Create Winner
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-04-30T15:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/usmanov-says-arsenal-s-kroenke-shows-no-wish-to-create-winner.html
Arsenal shareholder  Alisher Usmanov 
will consider his strategy for the soccer club by the end of the
season, saying majority owner Stan Kroenke “doesn’t show any
wish” to create a winning team.  “The team has no superstars now,” Usmanov,  Russia ’s
richest man, said in interview in Moscow. Should the team finish
fourth in  England ’s Premier League this season, Kroenke “would
probably be happy.”  Kroenke, an American who also owns the National Football
League’s St. Louis Rams, took control of the north London club
in 2011 after acquiring stakes owned by two former board
members.  Usmanov and his partner Farhad Moshiri, who together
control 30 percent of the club, said they want to boost their
stake and criticized the team’s board for its financial
decisions after captain Robin van Persie didn’t extend his
contract. The Dutch forward moved to Manchester United, where he
is the league’s leading scorer and helped the team win the title
this season.  Arsenal declined to comment on Usmanov’s statements about
Kroenke’s ownership, referring to an October statement from
Chief Executive Officer  Ivan Gazidis  that Kroenke and other
board members had a “shared ambition” to win trophies. The
Gunners haven’t won a trophy since the 2005 F.A. Cup.  Arsenal, a 13-time English soccer champion, is in the
fourth place in Premiere League standings, a place behind
billionaire Roman Abramovich’s Chelsea.  Usmanov said he “will think what to do with Arsenal” by
the end of the season. “In our understanding, Kroenke has no
plans to sell his stake, but we also won’t sell out, as we are
the team’s fans,” Usmanov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ; Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  