-- Verizon to Invest $100 Million in U.S. Solar and Fuel Cells
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-04-30T15:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/verizon-to-invest-100-million-on-u-s-solar-and-fuel-cell-plan.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, plans to spend $100 million
on solar systems and fuel cells to power 19 U.S. facilities.  The company will install the gear at office buildings,  call
centers , data centers and other sites in seven states, New York-
based Verizon said today in a statement.  The project is expected to be completed next year as part
of the company’s efforts to reduce by half by 2020 its carbon
intensity, or the emissions produced per terabyte of data
flowing through its network. Verizon is one of a growing number
of large companies that are producing their own electricity and
buying less from utilities.  “We’re focused on how we really move the needle, and it’s
going to be through on-site generation,” James Gowen, the
company’s chief sustainability officer, said in an interview.
“Things like solar and fuel cells are a perfect match for
that.”  U.S. businesses including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Costco
Wholesale Corp. are generating more electricity from solar
panels as installation costs fall and to safeguard against
potential grid failures, such as during  Hurricane Sandy  last
year. Verizon’s Garden City office on Long Island, where fuel
cells were installed more than 10 years ago, withstood the
storm, Gowen said. “Those fuel cells never went down.”  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  will provide the solar panels and ClearEdge
Power Inc. will install the fuel cells.  They will will generate as much as 20 percent to 30 percent
of the electricity needed at the various sites. Verizon has no
immediate plans to sever its connections to the  power grid ,
Gowen said.  “We see ourselves going grid parallel for a period of
time, but we’re going to re-evaluate this,” Gowen said.
“Longterm, I would not be surprised if you see us do some grid
independence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  