-- Vestas Advances as Nordea Sees Turnaround: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2013-04-30T09:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/vestas-advances-as-nordea-sees-turnaround-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  rose the
most in a week in Copenhagen trading after Nordea Bank AB said
the Danish wind turbine maker is showing progress in returning
to profit.  Vestas jumped as much as 3.4 percent, the most since April
23. The shares gained 1.7 percent to 49.77 kroner at 10:52 a.m.
in the Danish capital with trading volume at 52 percent of the
three-month daily average. The advance made the stock today’s
 second-biggest winner  on the Nasdaq  OMX Copenhagen 20 index. (KFX)   Vestas, which got new orders this month in Chile and
 Canada , has struggled to shrug off losses amid industry
overcapacity. The Aarhus, Denmark-based company’s cost cut plans
will pay off, Nordea said today. The bank increased its price
estimate on the stock to 54 kroner from 52 kroner and repeated a
buy  recommendation .  “The Vestas turnaround story is the reason I’m raising my
target,” Patrik Setterberg, an analyst with Nordea in
Copenhagen, said by phone.  “I’m confident they’re on the right
track.”  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA,  Spain ’s biggest wind turbine
maker, reported yesterday first-quarter earnings before
interest, tax and extraordinary items of 22 million euros ($29
million), compared with a 14 million-euro loss by the same
measure a year earlier.  “We’ve also seen some nice first-quarter numbers from
Gamesa,” Setterberg said. “Just like Vestas, Gamesa are cutting
costs, trying to get themselves profitable on a lower activity
level and have been able to take a step in the right direction.
Hopefully Vestas can show the same thing with their first-
quarter results.”  Vestas is due to publish first-quarter earnings on May 8.
The company will report an Ebit loss of 103 million euros,
according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of six
analysts. That compares with a reported Ebit loss of 204 million
euros in the same period of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  