-- Virginia Governor’s Ex-Chef Says He Was Questioned by FBI
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-30T16:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/virginia-governor-s-ex-chef-says-he-was-questioned-by-fbi.html
Virginia  Governor Robert McDonnell’s former executive mansion chef said that he told the
FBI about “wrongdoing” by the governor involving gifts
received from Star Scientific Inc.’s chief executive officer.  Todd Schneider, in a state court filing yesterday in
Richmond, said that during interviews with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  last year he described gifts to the McDonnells
from Star Scientific’s CEO Jonnie Williams including payments
for their daughter’s wedding in June 2011, a vacation that year
and the use of expensive cars and a private jet.  Williams’s goal was “to ingratiate himself within the
mansion,” Schneider said.  Schneider’s accusations fuel a growing controversy
involving Williams’s relationship with McDonnell and Attorney
General Kenneth Cuccinelli. The ex-chef’s allegations,
previously reported by the Washington Post, have sullied the
image of McDonnell, who was mentioned as a possible running mate
for Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney . They also
could complicate the political fortunes of Cuccinelli, the
Republican nominee for governor in a race where ethics have
become a key issue.  Mansion’s Kitchen  Schneider, whose filing seeks dismissal of charges he
embezzled food from the mansion’s kitchen, alleged Cuccinelli
had multiple conflicts when he decided to prosecute him.
Cuccinelli owned stock in Star Scientific and used Williams’s
vacation home last summer, according to the filing.  Talhia Tuck, a spokeswoman for Star Scientific, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message requesting comment on the
filing.  Star Scientific, a maker of smokeless tobacco products and
nutritional supplements based in  Glen Allen , Virginia, in March
disclosed that it had received subpoenas from federal
prosecutors seeking information on 2006 transactions.  In an interview with  Washington  broadcaster WTOP today,
McDonnell said his administration hasn’t conferred any special
benefits, including grants or tax incentives, on Star Scientific
or Williams, who he called a family friend. Otherwise, he said
his office has had a longstanding policy of not commenting on
investigations.  “There’s a lot I would like to say,” he said. “I don’t
think it would be appropriate to comment on any investigations
or potential investigations that are going on.”  Brian Gottstein, a spokesman for Cuccinelli, said “this
case will be tried in court and not in the media.” Cuccinelli
filed a motion to withdraw from the case on April 26.  Catering Contract  Schneider said in the filing that he gave investigators,
which included the Virginia State Police and Cuccinelli’s
office, a copy of the wedding catering contract McDonnell
signed, a copy of a check from Williams to pay the caterer and a
refund check from the caterer to the governor’s wife for
overpayment.  Schneider also said he told investigators that the
McDonnells promoted Star Scientific products, specifically the
food supplement Anatabloc, to doctors at a luncheon at the
mansion, according to the filing.  The case is Virginia v. Schneider, CR13F-1960, Circuit
Court for the Commonwealth of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 