-- VKontakte Investor to Keep CEO in Drive for $10 Billion Value
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-04-30T09:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/vkontakte-investor-to-keep-ceo-in-drive-for-10-billion-value.html
United Capital Partners  is seeking
to boost the value of  Russia ’s largest social network  VKontakte 
to $10 billion within a decade after buying a 48 percent stake,
the fund’s President Ilya Sherbovich told state television.  The Moscow-based fund bought the shares from co-founders
Vyacheslav Mirilashvili and Lev Leviev earlier this month in a
deal that may have valued the company at $2.2 billion, according
to  estimates  by Forbes Russia. Billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s
internet holding company  Mail.ru Group Ltd (MAIL) , which owns 40
percent of VKontakte, had also been seeking to gain control of
the social network.  VKontakte is the world’s fastest-growing social network by
number of users, Sherbovich told state-run television station
Rossiya 24 yesterday. It has about 100 million registered users
including almost 50 million people who use it every day. The
company’s revenue per user is five times lower than Facebook and
has potential to grow, he said.  The closing of the UCP deal comes as the Russian
Investigative Committee seeks to question VKontakte Chief
Executive Officer  Pavel Durov  regarding an April 5 incident in
 St. Petersburg  when a policeman was struck down by an unknown
driver in a Mercedes-Benz. UCP has no plans to dismiss Durov,
Sherbovich told the television station. Mail.ru granted Durov
the  voting rights  to its stake in VKontakte last May.  Taking Public  UCP plans to co-operate with shareholders including Mail.ru
and Durov to develop VKontakte, Sherbovich said. UCP may
consider taking the company public in five to six years after
the social network proves its ability to boost earnings while
retaining its user base, he said.  VKontakte increased sales 44 percent last year to $172
million, while net income attributable to shareholders fell 94
percent to about $1 million because of “considerable
investments in the team and infrastructure”, according to data
from the Mail.ru 2012  annual report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  