-- Wacker Chemie Says Polysilicon Demand ‘Noticeably’ Higher
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-30T07:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/wacker-chemie-says-demand-for-polysilicon-noticeably-higher.html
Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , the fourth-
biggest maker of polysilicon, posted quarterly earnings in line
with estimates and said demand for the component for solar
panels was “noticeably” higher than in the previous period.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the first quarter fell 23 percent from a year
earlier to 164.5 million euros ($215.5 million), the Munich-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had predicted 166.9 million euros.  Wacker reiterated a full-year forecast for sales to remain
at last year’s level while earnings will fall due to lower
prices for solar silicon and semiconductor wafers. The company’s
shares have gained by about a third from a record low in
November that was triggered by increased competition from
Chinese suppliers and lower polysilicon prices.  “After last year’s weak fourth quarter, Wacker Chemie is
experiencing noticeably higher customer demand,” according to
the company. “Solar-silicon prices remain a major challenge,”
Chief Executive Officer Rudolf Staudigl said in the statement.  The shares rose as much as 4.5 percent to 55.64 euros in
Frankfurt trading and were up 3.4 percent at 55.07 euros as of
9:21 a.m. local time. The company has a market value of 2.9
billion euros.  First-quarter sales fell 9.9 percent to 1.08 billion euros
while net income attributable to shareholders declined 90.5
percent to 4.1 million euros.  “In view of the general situation, Wacker got off to a
satisfactory start in 2013,” Staudigl said. “While 2013 on the
whole will not be an easy year for Wacker, we are well-
positioned, even in a difficult business environment.”  The manufacturer is majority-owned by the founding family’s
holding company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  