-- Wall Street Profits Face Bigger Squeeze by Regulation, BCG Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-04-30T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/wall-street-profits-face-bigger-squeeze-by-regulation-bcg-says.html
Profitability at Wall Street banks
has further to fall as more rules designed to prevent another
financial meltdown are imposed, according to a study released
today by  Boston Consulting Group .  The average return on equity for the 30 biggest companies
in the  capital markets  and investment-banking industry will drop
3 percentage points after sliding to a range of 10 percent to 13
percent last year, according to BCG’s Global Capital Markets
2013 study released today. BCG didn’t say when the decline would
be completed.  Return on equity , or ROE, gauges how well
companies reinvest shareholders’ money.  “We’ve seen two-thirds of the regulations’ impact, another
third is coming,” Philippe Morel, the London-based global
leader of BCG’s capital markets practice, said at a news
conference today. The average ROE achieved by U.S.-based banks
last year was 13 percent, while European banks trailed with
around 10 percent, Morel said.  Wall Street firms from  Bank of America Corp.  to
 Switzerland ’s  UBS AG (UBSN)  have already seen their profitability
reduced by new  capital requirements  designed to avert future
bailouts. Measures that still aren’t in place include a ban on
banks trading for their own benefit, and strengthening margin
requirements to make derivatives safer.  The 15 percent to 20 percent returns achieved before the
financial crisis “appear to be a thing of the past for most
players,” according to the study. Banks will need to cut more
costs and find new revenue to achieve the minimum 12 percent
return on equity that  investors  probably will demand, according
to the report, and revenue probably will remain flat for years,
the authors told reporters.  Long Wait  “Don’t expect in this industry we’ll be seeing any
comeback in revenue anytime soon,” Morel said. “All of the
increase we’re going to see in banks’ profitability is going to
come from the cost side.”  Collateral management, which includes helping to supply the
financial backing that banks and investors need for securities
trading, could produce $4 billion to $7 billion of revenue by
2016, the report found. That’s a small amount compared with the
industry’s $300 billion of revenue and some of that collateral
management revenue is likely to be generated by non-bank
financial firms, Morel said.  Lenders must decide whether they can afford to invest in
the electronic trading systems required to be an effective
participant in equities and fixed-income trading, the report
found. Trading in cash equities and foreign exchange has already
become the most electronic, with  government bonds  and some types
of corporate debt and derivatives following, according to the
report.  Some banks may drop out of certain areas of trading because
they’ll decide the cost of investing in the electronic platform
is too high, Morel said. The new  information technology , or IT,
platforms may change the types of salespeople that the banks
employ, as well as how they’re paid, according to the report.  “You don’t need those sales people and traders because
you’ve got machines doing that for you,” Morel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 