-- Warburton to Lead Lions on Australia Rugby Tour; Robshaw Out
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-04-30T14:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/warburton-to-captain-lions-on-australia-rugby-tour-robshaw-out.html
Sam Warburton will captain the
British and Irish Lions’ rugby tour of Hong Kong and  Australia 
after his Wales team won  Europe ’s Six Nations title. Chris Robshaw was left out and  Jonny Wilkinson  turned down a place.  Warburton, a 24-year-old openside flanker with a 0-7
playing record against the Wallabies, was chosen to lead the
Lions for the 10-match trip ahead of Irishmen Paul O’Connell and
 Brian O’Driscoll .  England  captain Robshaw and Wilkinson, whose drop goal won
the 2003  World Cup  for England, were omitted from a 37-man squad
by head coach Warren Gatland, who said Wilkinson ruled himself
out to focus on playing for his club Toulon. Ireland skipper
 Jamie Heaslip  was selected, while  Scotland  captain Kelly Brown
missed out. Warburton will do a “fantastic job” with the team,
Gatland said.  “In the last two or three years, he’s been the most
successful captain in the northern hemisphere,” Gatland said as
his tour party was announced at a news conference. “When we sat
down to pick a squad, and it’s a fantastically strong squad, we
decided that Sam would be one of the names among the starting
Test 15. I have a huge amount of respect for Sam. He’s an
absolute professional who leads from the front.”  Gatland, who guided  Wales  to the 2011 World Cup semifinals,
picked 15 Welshmen to represent the Lions, who open their tour
with a June 1 exhibition against the Barbarians at Hong Kong
Stadium. There are 10 Englishmen in the squad, nine Irishmen and
three Scots.  ‘Hardest Secret’  “It’s been nine or 10 days since I found out, it’s the
hardest secret I have had to keep,” Warburton said. “It’s an
accolade that very few people achieve and it’s an unbelievable
honor. I am the ultimate optimist and we want to go out there
and win every match.”  There had previously been speculation Robshaw might lead
the Lions after England’s victory over New Zealand and four wins
from five in this year’s Six Nations. Wales also had four wins
and won the title on points difference.  “Obviously it’s going to be new for me and I’m going to
learn along the way,” Warburton said. “I can’t sit here and
say I know what’s going to happen because I don’t. There’s a
good Welsh contingent of leaders who I can rely on and there are
other experienced players in the squad who can help me along the
way. It’s an experience I really can’t wait to begin.”  Scotland wing Sean Maitland and England props Mako Vunipola
and  Matt Stevens , a 2005 Lions tour member, are surprise
selections, while Ireland hooker Rory Best missed out. Twenty-
five of the party are first-time Lions tourists.  ‘Robust Debate’  “There was some robust debate and I know there will be
some disappointed players,” Gatland said. “There were some
really healthy discussions in every position. The benchmark was
the Six Nations.”  Gatland said Wilkinson wasn’t available for the tour.  “He said he really appreciated the call but that he was
committed to Toulon and would not be able to travel with the
squad,” Gatland told reporters  Wilkinson kicked all Toulon’s points in a 24-12 Heineken
Cup semifinal win over Saracens two days ago. His club could be
involved in  France ’s Top 14 final on June 1, the day of the
Lions’ match in  Hong Kong .  The opening game of nine in Australia is scheduled June 5
against the Western Force Super Rugby team in Perth. The best-
of-three Test series against the Wallabies starts June 22 in
Brisbane with matches to follow in  Melbourne  a week later and
Sydney on July 6.  Lions Favorites  The Lions are seeking their first Test series victory since
winning in  South Africa  16 years ago. They last visited
Australia in 2001, when a squad coached by Gatland’s fellow New
Zealander Graham Henry lost 2-1. O’Driscoll is the only player
remaining from that series and will be on his fourth Lions tour.  Australia is scheduled to name a 25-man squad for the
series May 19 and will enter training camp from June 3. A
further six players will be added when the final 31-man roster
is announced June 11.  U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes Plc makes the Lions the 8-13
favorites to win the tour. Australia is 5-4 and a drawn series
22-1. It’s the first time in 20 years that the Lions have toured
as favorite, the bookmaker said.  The British and Irish Lions, drawn from players in England,
Ireland, Scotland and Wales, currently tour Australia, South
Africa or  New Zealand  on a four-year cycle. Ireland’s O’Connell
captained the team on the last tour, which ended with a 2-1 loss
to South Africa in 2009.  British and Irish Lions squad: L. Halfpenny, S. Hogg, R.
Kearney, G. North, A. Cuthbert, T. Bowe, S. Maitland, B.
O’Driscoll, M. Tuilagi, J. Roberts, J. Davies, J. Sexton, O.
Farrell, C. Murray, M. Phillips, B. Youngs, G. Jenkins, C.
Healy, M. Vunipola, A. Jones, D. Cole, M. Stevens, D. Hartley,
R. Hibbard, T. Youngs, I. Evans, R. Gray, A.W. Jones, P.
O’Connell, G. Parling, T. Croft, T. Faletau, J. Heaslip, D.
Lydiate, S. O’Brien, J. Tipuric, S. Warburton (capt.).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  