-- Wells Fargo Pays Medical Capital Investors $105 Million
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-30T21:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/wells-fargo-pays-medical-capital-investors-105-million.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay
$105 million to settle a lawsuit by Medical Capital Holdings
Inc. noteholders who alleged the bank, as a trustee, failed to
protect their investment.  The noteholders and the bank filed a settlement agreement
today in federal court in Santa Ana, California. Wells Fargo
denies wrongdoing, according to the filing.  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp.  in February agreed to pay $114 million to settle
similar claims that it breached its duty as trustee for notes
issued by Medical Capital.  “This case is really about a fraud committed by Medical
Capital, which unfortunately caused a number of parties to
suffer losses,” Jen Hibbard, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
pleased to be able to put this matter behind us.”  Medical Capital, based in Tustin,  California , raised money
through private placements to buy accounts receivable from
health-care providers at a discount. The company sought to make
money by collecting the debts. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued Medical Capital and its top executives in 2009,
saying they misappropriated the funds. The company was taken
over by a receiver as part of the SEC case.  Personal Spending  In a third amended complaint filed in 2011, the noteholders
said Medical Capital had raised more than $2.2 billion from
about 20,000 investors before the SEC sued. Executives used the
trustee-controlled accounts for personal spending and paid
themselves about $325 million in administrative fees, according
to the complaint.  “We’re very happy to have gained this result for the
noteholders,” Jeff Westerman, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said
in a phone interview. “$219 million is a healthy recovery.”  The case is In re Medical Capital Securities Litigation,
10-02145, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Santa Ana.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal court house at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  