-- William Koch Must Face False Imprisonment Suit: Judge
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-05-01T00:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/william-koch-must-face-false-imprisonment-suit-judge.html
  William Koch  lost a bid to dismiss
a lawsuit by a former Oxbow Carbon & Minerals LLC executive
alleging the billionaire held him captive at his  Colorado  ranch.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Jacqueline Scott Corley in  San
Francisco  said that while Kirby Martensen doesn’t allege in his
complaint that Koch “directly participated in the false
imprisonment, he includes facts that support an inference that
the persons who did” were acting as Koch’s agents.  The individuals who allegedly held Martensen against his
will “used buildings and vehicles located on the defendant’s
private property” and Koch’s plane, according to the ruling.  “We welcome the opportunity to bring this case in front of
a jury, and we’ll see who the jury wants to believe,” John
Scott, Martensen’s attorney, said by phone.  Brad Goldstein, a spokesman for Koch, said Martensen was
“a disgruntled employee fired for committing fraud.”  “We look forward to addressing this frivolous suit on the
merits,” Goldstein said in an e-mail. “Once discovery
commences, the public will be able to see the absurdity of Mr.
Martensen’s claims.”  Corley said in February that Martensen, former senior vice
president at Oxbow, could refile the claims after she ruled that
his original lawsuit had to be dismissed.  Bear Ranch  Martensen alleges he was held captive at Koch’s Bear Ranch
last year after the billionaire discovered his concerns about
what he says was a plan to avoid U.S. taxes on $200 million in
profit.  He was interrogated, fired and served with a lawsuit filed
against him in  Florida  over an alleged $40 million fraud at
Oxbow Carbon & Minerals LLC.  Koch has said that Martensen’s lawsuit is in response to
the Florida case, which alleges  Martensen accepted illegal
bribes, kickbacks and other payments from Oxbow competitors and
“secretly shared in the payments, revenues and profits derived
by plaintiffs’ competitors,” according to the complaint.  Oxbow, a West Palm Beach, Florida-based petroleum coke
export broker, and two affiliates have combined annual sales of
more than $4 billion and more than 1,100 employees worldwide,
according to the company.  The company is the largest distributor of petroleum coke in
the world, with annual shipments of almost 1 million metric
tons, exporting petroleum coke to markets in  Europe ,  Latin
America  and Asia, according to court papers.  William Koch, 72, is the brother of  David Koch  and  Charles Koch , and made his fortune partly by developing underground coal
deposits in Somerset, Colorado. He maintains a working cattle
operation at the ranch, located southwest of Aspen.  The case is Martensen v. Koch, 12-05257, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  