-- Twitter Warns Media to Brace for More Hacking After
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2013-04-30T19:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/twitter-urges-media-to-change-passwords-after-hacking.html
Twitter Inc. warned journalists to
prepare for more cyber attacks following a breach of the account
of the Associated Press news service that triggered a stock-market decline.  Members of the press should change passwords to make them
randomly-generated strings of text or words -- and different
from their login to access e-mail accounts, Twitter said in a
memo to media. News organizations should designate one computer
for Twitter use, reducing the chance of a malware infection from
surfing the Web or checking e-mail.  Twitter’s defense against password theft came under
scrutiny earlier this month after a hacker sent a false post
about explosions at the White House last week, triggering a drop
that wiped out $136 billion in value from the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. Following a move by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to allow companies to share market-sensitive news via
social media, the AP breach threatens Chief Executive Officer
 Dick Costolo ’s ability to establish Twitter as a trusted source
of information ahead of a possible initial public offering.  “There have been several recent incidents of high-profile
news and media Twitter handles being compromised,” Twitter said
in the memo. “We believe that these attacks will continue, and
that news and media organizations will continue to be high value
targets to hackers.”  The false information from the AP account, which said there
were explosions at the White House and President  Barack Obama 
had been injured, came after repeated attempts by hackers to
access to AP reporters’ passwords, the  news agency  said.  Latest Victim  AP was the latest victim in a series of hacking cases
against news outlets, including the Twitter accounts of  CBS
News ’ “60 Minutes.” The television program said earlier this
month that its Twitter account was “compromised,” according to
a  posting  on parent  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s account on April 20. Some of
 National Public Radio ’s Twitter accounts were hacked as well,
the company  said .  To bolster security, Twitter plans to introduce a mechanism
called two-step authentication, a person familiar with the
matter said last week. In addition to a password, the security
measure usually requires a code to be sent as a text message to
a user’s mobile phone, or generated on a device or in software.  Journalists should use two-factor authentication to access
e-mail if possible, Twitter said. Facebook Inc., Google Inc. and
Yahoo! Inc. are among the companies that currently offer the
option for accessing their online services.  Carolyn Penner, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Twitter, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  