-- Woman Who Left Her World for Tsarnaev Draws FBI Attention
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-04-30T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/woman-who-left-her-world-for-tsarnaev-draws-fbi-attention.html
Before Tamerlan Tsarnaev died in a
shootout with police, he was a husband and father. Katherine
Russell Tsarnaev, an artist, dancer and college drop-out from
suburban  Rhode Island , converted to Islam to marry him and bear
his child.  Investigators want to know what she knows.  Since the Boston Marathon bombing April 15, Katherine
Tsarnaev, 24, left the Cambridge, Massachusetts, apartment where
she lived with Tamerlan and has been staying with her parents in
their corner-lot, two-story beige home in wooded North
Kingstown, Rhode Island. FBI agents entered the house yesterday,
part of the effort to piece together details of the accused
terrorist’s life.  Investigators have told U.S. lawmakers that Tamerlan, 26,
and his brother, Dzhokhar, 19, learned radical Islam and bomb-
making online. The Russell family’s lawyer, Amato DeLuca, said
last week that Katherine had no foreknowledge of the attacks.  “No indication, no inkling, no inclination, no hint, no
nothing,” DeLuca said in an interview. “She was as shocked as
anybody, believe me.”  Still, questions abound about what those closest to the
suspects did or didn’t know. Authorities are examining whether
the suspects had help, though there’s no evidence so far that
they did, according to a U.S. official who asked not to be
identified because of the continuing investigation.  Russian Warning  Investigators found female DNA on a fragment from one of
the bombs, another U.S. official briefed on the probe said
yesterday. The genetic material may have come from a number of
sources and its discovery doesn’t necessarily mean that
additional people were involved, said the official, who asked
not to be identified in discussing an open case.  DeLuca said in an e-mail yesterday that “Katie continues
to assist in the investigation in any way that she can,”
without elaborating.  The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation took DNA samples from
Tsarnaev yesterday, according to one of the U.S. officials
briefed on the probe. Jason Pack, an FBI spokesman, declined to
say whether the agency may seek a subpoena to interview
Katherine or whether she’s cooperating voluntarily.  “We aren’t permitted to discuss specific aspects of our
case,” he said.  Since the bombing, Tsarnaev has rarely left the home in
North Kingstown, which is 70 miles (113 kilometers) south of
Boston. On her few excursions, she emerged in long black skirts
and a hijab head covering, ducking photographers.  Taking Shelter  She hasn’t granted public interviews. Her family has issued
statements only through their lawyer, expressing condolences for
the bombing victims -- three dead and more than 260 wounded --
and Katherine Tsarnaev’s sadness at Tamerlan’s death.  A swarm of media cars and trucks has been stationed outside
the home for days, along with official-looking black sedans and
police cars.  The troubled ethnic Chechen immigrant family into which
Tsarnaev married at 21 bore little resemblance to her own. Her
existence went from a childhood in a leafy suburb to one in
which she shared a cramped apartment in Cambridge with Tamerlan,
their daughter, and Tamerlan’s parents until their return to
 Russia .  Katherine “Katie” Russell Tsarnaev was born in  Texas  on
Feb. 6, 1989, according to her marriage certificate dated June
21, 2010. She’s the eldest of three daughters of Warren Russell,
an emergency medicine physician, and Judith, a registered nurse.  At Play  On Coriander Lane in North Kingstown, neighbor Dave Mather,
a 44-year-old biology teacher, recalled all the Russell girls as
polite. They played together on the lawn of their corner
property, often while the parents gardened.  In the past few years, Tsarnaev had adopted conservative
religious dress, Mather said as he trimmed his grass last week.
She visited her parents often, waving and smiling whenever she
spotted neighbors from the cul-de-sac.  At North Kingstown High School, Tsarnaev excelled in
drawing, according to Amos Trout Paine, 42, an art teacher who
left the district in 2010. Paine said he hadn’t been in contact
with her since graduation.  In 12th grade, Tsarnaev enrolled in independent studies to
work on a portfolio for college applications, Paine said.
Sometimes she talked about a career in graphic design.  “She had a good amount of talent,” Paine said by phone
from his home in Providence last week. Socially, he described
her as “part of the whole crew,” not sticking to a particular
group.  Bumpy Summer  Tsarnaev graduated from North Kingstown High School in 2007
and landed in trouble that summer. Warwick police arrested her
on July 26 on a misdemeanor shoplifting charge. The case was
dismissed Aug. 20, according to records maintained by Rhode
Island’s Third District Court in Kent County.  The arrest was out of character for a “great student,”
Paine said.  Her character changed still more dramatically after high
school.  Tsarnaev went to  Suffolk University  in Boston to study
communications, and she met Tamerlan, a former boxer who in 2009
had been charged with assaulting a live-in girlfriend.  National Public Radio  interviewed three college roommates
of Katherine Tsarnaev who described Tamerlan as controlling,
manipulative and angry. The women, whom NPR didn’t name, said he
called her names like “slut” and “prostitute” and demanded
that she convert to Islam, NPR said.  Going Quiet  Tsarnaev married Tamerlan at a mosque in the Dorchester
neighborhood. She adopted Islam, dropped out of college and bore
Tamerlan’s child, a daughter who’s now 2 1/2.  She cut off contact with her college friends after the
marriage, according to the NPR report.  Tsarnaev appears to have no presence on social-media
platforms such as Twitter and Facebook -- practically a rite of
passage for a woman of her generation. Few childhood friends and
acquaintances tracked down by news outlets including Bloomberg
kept in touch with her beyond high school.  One relative said her “whole path” caused friction.  “There is an estrangement in the family,” Elizabeth
Russell, her aunt, said in a brief phone interview April 23 from
her home in Medfield,  Massachusetts . “I haven’t seen Katie in
four years.”  Work and Welfare  Her fortunes in Cambridge after marrying Tamerlan were
unlike those of many doctors’ daughters. She received food
stamps and welfare benefits from September 2011 to November
2012, according to a letter from the Massachusetts Department of
Transitional Assistance.  Katherine worked as many as 80 hours a week as a home
health-care aide, seldom seeing her husband as he cared for
their daughter at home, DeLuca said.  The Tsarnaev brothers worshiped at the Islamic Society of
Boston mosque in Cambridge, though Katherine Tsarnaev was never
spotted there, said Anwar Kazmi, a member of the group’s board
of trustees.  The last time Katherine Tsarnaev saw her husband was April
18, DeLuca said, the day before he died.  Since then, she’s been crying a lot, he said.  “She’s very upset, very distressed. It’s so hard for her,
you know, she’s got this little girl, she’s just trying to get
her mind around these events -- people dying, people maimed, her
husband dying,” he said. “She keeps saying, ’I don’t
understand why this happened.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in Providence, Rhode Island at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in  Boston  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  