-- Won Climbs to 7-Week High as Exporters Sell Dollars; Bonds Gain
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-04-30T07:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/won-climbs-to-6-week-high-as-exporters-sell-dollars-bonds-gain.html
The won climbed to a seven-week
high on speculation South Korean exporters are converting
proceeds from overseas sales.  Government bonds  advanced.  The currency strengthened 0.9 percent this month, the most
since December, as geopolitical tensions with  North Korea  eased.
An index measuring manufacturers’ expectations for May rose to
81, the highest since July, Bank of  Korea  data showed.  The won gained 0.6 percent to 1,101.28 per dollar as of the
3 p.m. close in  Seoul , after touching 1,100.20 earlier, the
highest level since March 13, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.27 percent today.  “Month-end exporter sales are emerging to shore up the
won,” said Hong Seok Chan, a Seoul-based currency analyst at
Daishin Economic Research Institute. “Reduced North Korean risk
has contributed to recent gains in the won. Still, the market is
wary of intervention as the currency nears the 1,100 per dollar
level.”  South Korean workers began returning to Seoul on April 27
from an industrial park jointly run with North Korea, which was
shut down more than two weeks ago amid tensions between the two
countries. The Korean peninsula has been on edge since February,
when Kim Jong Un’s regime detonated an atomic bomb in defiance
of United Nations sanctions and then threatened preemptive
nuclear strikes against its enemies.  Currency Volatility  Currency volatility fueled by quantitative-easing policies
in advanced nations raises uncertainty for other countries,  Bank
of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo said at a meeting with chief
executive officers of South Korean companies in Seoul today.
Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok today that intervention in the
foreign-exchange market would have more disadvantages than
advantages, Yonhap  news agency  reported today.  The nation’s factory output fell 2.6 percent in March from
February, the steepest drop since 2008, the Korean National
Statistical Office said today in Seoul. Global investors sold
$2.6 billion more Korean shares than they bought this month,
according to exchange data.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government bonds due March
2018 fell two basis points to 2.56 percent, according to prices
from Korea Exchange Inc. It rose four basis points this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  