-- Woodside Says Floating LNG May Allow Fastest Browse Development
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-30T04:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/woodside-says-floating-lng-may-allow-fastest-browse-development.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,
Australia’s second-largest oil producer, said producing
liquefied natural gas on a ship off the country’s coast may be
the fastest way to develop its Browse project.  Woodside reached an agreement with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  on
how to develop Browse if the partners choose to develop the
project using Shell’s floating LNG technology, the Perth-based
company said today in a statement. The selection of a
development concept needs to gain approval from all the
partners, including  BP Plc (BP/) , according to Woodside.  “FLNG had the potential to commercialize the Browse
resources in the earliest possible time frame and to further
build the company’s long-standing relationship with Shell,”
according to the statement from Woodside.  Woodside earlier this month scrapped a plan to build an
onshore LNG project estimated to cost $45 billion in favor of
studying cheaper options as costs rise. After starting work on
$180 billion in LNG plants on land in  Australia , developers are
considering about $85 billion in floating projects.  Floating LNG may be almost 20 percent cheaper than building
a Browse project on land, Deutsche Bank AG said this month. A
new onshore Browse development would have cost about $45
billion, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in an April 12 report.  While Woodside said earlier this month that it would
consider a floating LNG plant offshore, a pipeline to existing
facilities in  Western Australia  or a smaller onshore plant,
Shell said its floating LNG technology is the best plan.  Cost Escalation  The companies initially planned to send natural gas from
three fields off the Western Australia coast to a processing
plant at James Price Point in the Kimberley wilderness region.
The fields are located in the  Indian Ocean , about 425 kilometers
(264 miles) north of Broome in Western Australia state.  “Unfortunately the cost escalation has been such that the
total costs for Browse have resulted in the current development
concept not being commercial,” Woodside Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Coleman  said in an April 12 statement.  Woodside reached a deal last year to sell a 14.7 percent
stake in Browse to Mitsubishi Corp. and Mitsui & Co. for $2
billion. BHP Billiton Ltd., Australia’s largest oil producer,
agreed in December to sell its stake in Browse to PetroChina
Co., that nation’s biggest energy producer, for $1.63 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  