-- World Bank Cuts Growth Forecast for Mongolia as Exports Slow
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-04-30T10:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/world-bank-cuts-growth-forecast-for-mongolia-as-exports-slow.html
The  World Bank  lowered its forecast
for  Mongolia ’s economic expansion this year on falling exports
and foreign investments, and said the government needs to better
manage spending.  Mongolia’s gross domestic product may rise 13 percent this
year, compared with a previous forecast of 16.2 percent, the
World Bank said in a press statement. The government’s fiscal
deficit jumped to 8.4 percent of GDP last year, a 13-year
record, it said.  Slowing growth in Mongolia, which exports almost all of its
products to  China , may impede  government spending  in a country
where 30 percent of the population lived in poverty in 2011.
President Tsakhia Elbegdorj faces re-election in two months, as
protracted disputes with investors including  Rio Tinto  Group led
to a slump in foreign direct investments.  “Mongolia is still expected to maintain one of the highest
economic growth rates in the world,” said Taehuyn Lee, senior
economist for the World Bank in Ulaanbaatar. “However, high
uncertainty over the economic prospects remains and it is
advisable for the government to be more realistic in estimating
revenue and less ambitious in spending.”  The  budget deficit  may reach 6 percent of GDP this year,
the World Bank projected. The Mongolian government should cut
back on populist plans, including a proposal to subsidize
mortgages and build paved roads to all rural provinces from
Ulaanbaatar, the Washington-based lender said.  Financial Returns  “These are well-intended investments but ones that offer
little financial returns,” said Coralie Gevers, the World
Bank’s country manager.  Mongolia relies on coal exports, which plunged 43 percent
in the first quarter after state-owned Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi LLC
halted shipments to China because of a lack of funds to pay a
warehousing services company. Shipments resumed this month after
Erdenes renegotiated the terms of a loan and contract with
customer Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  Mongolia, a country of 2.8 million people, has some of the
world’s biggest undeveloped mineral reserves, including Oyu
Tolgoi, a copper and gold mine, and Tavan Tolgoi, a coal
deposit.  The $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi mine is at the center of a
dispute between  Rio Tinto (RIO)  and the government over alleged cost
overruns and management control. The mine will be the largest
contributor to Mongolia’s economy and is estimated to account
for one-third of gross domestic product by 2020.  Foreign Investment  Foreign direct investment declined 17 percent in 2012,
following the enactment of a law last May that restricted
overseas companies from taking control of assets in industries
including mining and telecommunications. Net investment inflows
have continued to fall this year, slipping 58 percent in the
first two months of 2013, according to the Bank of Mongolia and
the World Bank.  The decline also signals “the growing wariness of foreign
investors over the investment climate in Mongolia,” the World
Bank said today.  Mongolia’s trade balance may face more pressure this year,
following a deficit of $2.4 billion in 2012, because of weak
coal sales, the lender said. Additional trade deficits will
require Mongolia to seek funding on domestic debt markets, it
said.  “They would be borrowing at 10 percent on domestic bonds,
so they need to make sure that the return on their investment is
greater than 10 percent,” said Gevers. “It’s a fine line they
will be walking over time. International investors are looking
at fiscal deficits.”  Mongolia raised $1.5 billion on the international  debt
market  in November to spend on infrastructure to support its
mining sector. It is planning a railway network to deliver coal
to China,  power plants  and improvements to the road network in
Ulaanbaatar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  