-- Yahoo Attempt for Dailymotion Stake Stalls on French Tussle
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-05-01T09:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/yahoo-discussions-over-dailymotion-stall-french-official-says.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s plan to buy a stake in
 France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s video site  Dailymotion  has stalled after a
disagreement about the deal, according to the French government.  Yahoo and France Telecom, owner of the Orange brand,
haven’t been able to reach an accord, French Industry Minister
 Arnaud Montebourg  said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday.
The government is France Telecom’s largest shareholder.  Any deal needs to be “balanced” and beneficial to both
companies, Montebourg said. Yahoo had been in talks to buy as
much as 75 percent of Dailymotion, which is valued at $300
million, the Wall Street Journal reported in March, without
citing the source of its information.  “At this stage, Yahoo and Orange aren’t able to reach an
agreement that satisfies all parties,” the government said.
Montebourg “wants to underscore that the Industry Ministry is
keen on creating the optimal conditions for Dailymotion’s
international development.”  France Telecom increased its stake in Dailymotion
to 100 percent in January, though the company has been looking
for a partner to buy some of the shares and has been in
discussions with a number of other groups,  Tom Wright , a
spokesman, said in an interview today.  “For Dailymotion to develop in the future and grow, it
needs to find a strong, strategic partner, probably in the U.S.
to open the doors to the U.S. market,” he said. He declined to
comment specifically on the talks with Yahoo or the government’s
role.  Acquisition Strategy  France is attempting to attract foreign investors to aid in
its industrial recovery. President  Francois Hollande  called for
the Chinese to invest in France in a speech in Beijing last
month after French jobless claims rose to a record high of 3.22
million, the 23rd monthly increase in jobseekers.  Sara Gorman, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo, didn’t respond to requests for comment. Yahoo in Europe,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Almost a year into her tenure, Yahoo Chief Executive
Officer  Marissa Mayer  is using deals, new products and talent
acquisitions to transform the company into a more robust
competitor to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)   The company has bought startups including Jybe Inc. and
Summly to improve its products for mobile technology and the Web
portal as Mayer works to reverse a decline in display-ad sales
where Google and Facebook have become dominant.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  