-- Yellen Has the Right of First Refusal to Lead Fed, Meyer Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-30T18:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/yellen-has-the-right-of-first-refusal-at-fed-meyer-says-2-.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen has the “right of first refusal” to become the next
leader of the central bank when Ben S. Bernanke’s term ends in
January, said former Fed governor Laurence Meyer.  Meyer, speaking on a Bloomberg Washington Economic Summit
panel in Washington today, said it’s “a bit surprising” that
Bernanke couldn’t manage his calendar to allow him to take part
in this year’s Fed conference in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  “It’s somewhat of a mystery,” Meyer said. “It’s a
surprise.” He said that since the conference in August will be
his “last Jackson Hole,” Bernanke may not have wanted the
meeting to center on him and this would not be a good time for
him to signal “future action,” since much of that will be up
to his successor.  Speculation about the succession at the central bank
intensified after the Fed said April 21 that Bernanke would skip
the annual symposium in Jackson Hole because of a personal
scheduling conflict. Yellen, a 66-year-old former professor at
the University of California, Berkeley, is seen as a potential
successor to Bernanke.  “I would say Janet Yellen has the right of first
refusal,” said Meyer, co-founder and senior managing director
of Macroeconomic Advisers LLC. He cited Yellen’s “extraordinary
experience.”  Adam Posen, a former member of the Bank of England’s rate-
setting Monetary Policy Committee, said Yellen’s apparent lack
of a personal relationship with President  Barack Obama  could be
an impediment to her appointment.  High Regard  “It’s not a question of qualifications,” Posen said.
“I’m sure President Obama has high regard for Vice Chair
Yellen, but I don’t get the sense that they’re particularly
close.”  “In general, presidents appoint Federal Reserve chair
people who they have some personal relationship with,” Posen
said.  He pointed out that vice chairmen historically haven’t been
appointed to the No. 1 post. There have been 14 chairmen in the
100 years the Fed has existed, and none previously served as
vice chairman, according to information on the central bank’s
 website.   Posen, asked about a possible alternative if Yellen doesn’t
get the top spot, said it “has to be” former Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.  Geithner was quoted by Politico in January as saying that
there is “not a chance” he will be the next Fed chief.  Fed Meeting  Federal Reserve policy makers are meeting in  Washington 
today and tomorrow. They will probably vote to continue their
$85 billion in monthly bond buying.  Posen, commenting on Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney’s
coming move to the top spot at the Bank of England, said he
hopes Carney and his BOE colleagues can come up with “great
innovations on the macroprudential side.”  Posen said Carney may or may not bring the idea of using
forward guidance with him when he takes over the BOE, adding
that the discussion is “much fuss about nothing.”  “I think in general it’s more what central banks do than
what they say,” said Posen, who is now president of the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.  As a lack of innovation holds back the U.S. economy, the
new normal unemployment rate may hover around 6.5 percent to 7
percent, said Edmund S. Phelps, a 2006 Nobel Prize laureate in
economics and director of the Center on Capitalism and Society
at Columbia University. The rate was 7.6 percent in March.  More Optimistic  “There’s not an awful lot of room for recovery
remaining,” Phelps said at today’s Bloomberg event.  Posen, who said he’s more optimistic about the economic
outlook, said any rise in natural unemployment is less
attributable to a lack of innovation and more to long-term
joblessness.  Posen said commerce with the rest of the world will provide
only “small” help to the U.S. this year.  The economy will probably slow down in the second and third
quarters as fiscal drag from cuts to planned federal spending
take hold, Meyer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  