-- Yudhoyono Delays Fuel-Price Increase Until Budget Revision
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 2013-04-30T09:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-30/yudhoyono-delays-fuel-price-increase-until-after-budget-revision.html
Indonesia  will raise subsidized
fuel prices only after the state budget is revised to account
for compensation programs for the poor, probably in May,
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said.  While the government must cut subsidies by increasing
prices, it should be done gradually, and programs such as cash
transfers, rice distribution and education scholarships must
first be set during budget revision talks with the parliament,
Yudhoyono told regional governors and mayors a national
development planning meeting today in Jakarta. Those talks will
probably be completed next month, he said.  “When will the fuel price be raised?” Yudhoyono said.
“When the compensation fund is ready, meaning that once the
social aide is ready we will channel it. There must not be any
gap in time. If the parliament approves, God willing in May,
that means the compensation fund and social aide are ready. And
if that’s ready, then of course the increase in fuel price in a
certain amount will be applied.”  Yudhoyono is seeking fuel-subsidy cuts to free up funds for
infrastructure and spur growth, after limiting the use of
partially government-funded diesel in January. Since protests
derailed plans to raise prices in 2012, officials have explored
a variety of options to revamp budget spending in a country
where riots spurred by soaring living costs helped oust dictator
Suharto in 1998.  Balance  “The president is trying to balance the need to adjust
fuel prices versus potential political implications for his
party in the upcoming elections,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a
Singapore-based regional economist at Barclays Plc. “By making
the fuel price hike conditional on the compensation package, he
has thrown the ball into the parliament’s court.”  Government bonds  fell after the announcement, pushing the
yield on the 5.625 percent notes due May 2023 to rise one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.49 percent as of 3:12 p.m.
in Jakarta, the highest since April 11, according to prices from
the Inter Dealer Market Association.  The rupiah is set to decline for a second month, weakening
0.1 percent in April and steady today at 9,722 per dollar,
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show. The Jakarta
Composite index dropped 0.4 percent before gaining 0.7 percent
at the close of trading.  “Continued uncertainty on fuel prices will potentially
weigh on the market - so we believe clarity on the issue is
important,” Sofat said.  Yudhoyono said in March the subsidy plan may be fleshed out
in one to two weeks.  Deficit Increase  Without a reduction in fuel subsidies, their cost may rise
to 297.7 trillion rupiah ($30.6 billion) from the current budget
assumption of 193.8 trillion rupiah, and the deficit may rise to
3.83 percent of gross domestic product from 1.65 percent, the
president said.  Yudhoyono, who can’t run for president next year after
serving two terms, struggled to win support from within his own
coalition for last year’s proposed fuel-price increase. He has
said that Indonesia should review its subsidy bill and use the
savings to boost infrastructure, calling for fiscal prudence.  Standard & Poor’s  said this month that a delay in
structural reforms, especially rationalization of energy
subsidies, is a constraint in Indonesia’s credit quality.  In his annual budget announced in August, the president
allocated 274.7 trillion rupiah for energy subsidies, compared
with 184.4 trillion rupiah for  capital spending . The country
spent 211.9 trillion rupiah on fuel subsidies in 2012.  Consumer price gains quickened to 5.9 percent last month
from a year earlier and  Bank Indonesia  has held  borrowing costs 
for 14 meetings. While gross domestic product has risen above 6
percent for the past nine quarters, the economy expanded in the
three months through December at the slowest pace in more than
two years as exports fell amid a decline in commodity prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Agus Suhana at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  