-- 
Colombia May Raise Rate to 4.75% After Inflation Exceeds Target

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-11-25T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-25/colombia-may-raise-rate-to-4-75-after-inflation-exceeds-target.html
Colombia ’s central bank may raise
borrowing costs today after a lending boom and the fastest
economic growth since 2007 pushed inflation over policy makers’
target.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
will increase the overnight rate by a quarter point to 4.75
percent, according to 19 of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Sixteen analysts expect the bank to leave the rate unchanged.
Banco de la Republica will probably announce its decision after
1 p.m.  New York  time.  Policy makers in a split decision last month voted to keep
the rate at 4.5 percent for a third consecutive time, as the
majority argued for the need to take “into account those
external factors that reflect higher risks and uncertainty,”
according to the  minutes  of the meeting. Since then, annual
inflation accelerated beyond the upper limit of the central
bank’s target range for the first time since April 2009.  “The Colombian economy doesn’t need further stimulus,”
said  Andres Pardo , the head analyst at financial services
holding company Corp. Financiera Colombiana, known as
Corficolombiana. “The central bank needs to raise interest
rates to a neutral level or run the risk of allowing inflation
expectations to become unanchored.”  At the bank’s Oct. 28 meeting, policy makers noted low
interest rates had helped drive the economy’s “very dynamic”
internal demand, rapid loan growth and record housing costs.  Inflation Expectations  According to the central bank, Latin America’s fifth-
largest economy may grow as much as 6 percent in 2011, the
fastest expansion since the 6.9 percent pace achieved in 2007.  Annual inflation quickened to 4.02 percent in October,
above the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range for
this year.  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2015 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
annual consumer price increase expectations known as the
breakeven rate, jumped 36 basis points in the past month to 3.93
percentage points.  That compares to a 25 basis point decline in  Brazil ’s
breakeven rate and a 15 basis point increase in  Mexico ’s gap in
the same period. Brazil has cut borrowing costs twice since
August and central bankers in Mexico,  Chile  and  Peru  signaled
they may do the same.  Rate Horizon, Dilemma  It’s “highly probable” that inflation will end this year
at 3.5 percent, Uribe said Nov. 11. While quickening inflation
in the last few months is mainly due to an increase in food
prices, as higher-than-average rainfall hurts crops and chokes
off farmers’ supply routes, inflation should slow to about 3
percent in 2012, he said.  Colombia’s three-month interest-rate swaps at 4.62 percent,
down from 4.65 percent on Nov. 21, show traders remain uncertain
about the outlook for an  interest rate  increase this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The interest-rate swap reflects traders’ views of the
likely average of future benchmark rates during the life of the
contract.  “The market is really divided for this meeting,” said
Francisco Chaves, an analyst at brokerage Corredores Asociados
SA in Bogota. “It’s a very hard call. Given current conditions,
the world has focused on growth and not inflation.”  Europe , Moderation  Slowing growth abroad will lead Colombian policy makers to
leave the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4.5 percent
through year-end, according to  Carola Sandy , an economist with
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.  “With Europe slipping into recession and Brazil already
showing signs of a significant slowdown, we think the global
growth outlook and the uncertainly about the future performance
of the Colombian economy will be (and should be) the central
bank board’s main concerns in Friday’s meeting,” Sandy wrote in
a Nov. 21 report.  The Andean nation’s economic growth will slow to 4 percent
in 2012 from 5 percent this year, Sandy forecasts.  Colombia’s “leading indicators point to some moderation in
activity in the second part of the current quarter and in the
months ahead,” Sandy wrote.  Retail sales rose 8.1 percent in September from a year
earlier, after jumping a record 23 percent in April. Industrial
output gained 5.2 percent in September after a 9.7 percent jump
a month earlier.  Total lending  leaped 23.4 percent to 204.73 trillion pesos
($105.8 billion) in September, up from 165.92 trillion pesos in
the same month a year earlier. It was the seventh straight month
that  year-on-year lending  rose faster than 20 percent.  “Considering the potential inflation risk in the months to
come” and the “still strong dynamism of the economy,” Banco
de la Republica will raise the overnight rate by 25 basis points
this week, Alejandro Arreaza and Alejandro Grisanti,  Latin
America  analysts at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, said in a
Nov. 21 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net .
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 