-- Former FBI Chief Louis Freeh Trades on Reputation at MF Global, Penn State
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2011-12-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-25/freeh-appointed-trustee-in-mf-bankruptcy.html
Louis J. Freeh, the former FBI
director who took on two of 2011’s biggest scandals last month,
joins the ranks of former high-ranking government officials
trying to sell reputations for integrity following careers
fraught with controversy.  Freeh, 61, signed court papers Nov. 22 to become a trustee
overseeing the wind-down of MF Global Holdings Ltd., the day
after he was hired by  Pennsylvania State University  to conduct a
probe of a child-sex abuse scandal. Like former New York Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani’s Giuliani Partners and former Secretary of
State  Henry Kissinger ’s Kissinger Associates Inc., Freeh Group
International Solutions LLC consults on issues of business,
compliance, security and risk.  In taking on two of the year’s biggest scandals, Freeh is
also selling himself as a leader in ethics: on its website,
Freeh Group touts its work as bringing “an uncompromising
commitment to integrity in every matter.”  At MF Global, Freeh, working at the behest of the company
and its lenders including JPMorgan Chase & Co., could face
challenges about how to balance their demands with those of
customers missing some $1.2 billion from their segregated
accounts. If customers don’t get repaid, trust in the public
markets and the liquidity of commodity markets could be eroded,
customers, regulators and members of the Senate have said.  Stop the Bleeding  “He’s going to have to stop the bleeding, untangle the
mess,” said John P. Coffey, who appeared as an assistant U.S.
Attorney before Freeh when Freeh served as a district court
judge in  New York . “He’s going to have to find out the scope of
the problem and find out what legal claims there may be to
bring. I think he’s an excellent choice.”  Personally, Freeh is more informal than might be expected
from a former federal judge and FBI chief, said Margot Schonholtz, a partner at Willkie Farr & Gallagher who worked
with Freeh when he was an examiner in the bankruptcy of SemCrude
LP. Willkie Farr acts as outside counsel to Bloomberg LP, parent
of Bloomberg News.  “He asks to be called Louis,” Schonholtz said. “When
people call him ‘sir’ or ‘Judge Freeh,’ he corrects them.” She
said he takes the subway rather than taxis, and gets answers
because he’s easy to talk with. His first name is pronounced
“Lou-ee.”  Still, Freeh’s past has been controversial. Director of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  under President  Bill Clinton  and
Attorney General Janet Reno from 1993 to June 2001, Freeh
resigned amid criticism and some tension with the President.  Wen Ho Lee  One incident involved the Bureau’s handling of the 1999
arrest of Los Alamos National Laboratory Scientist Wen Ho Lee,
who was held without trial for 278 days. A plea bargain was the
only way to discover what Lee did with U.S. nuclear secrets,
Freeh testified before the Senate Judiciary and Select
Intelligence committees in 2000.  The FBI’s Carnivore e-mail monitoring system, implemented
in 1997, which used software to search e-mail for specific words
and data, was cited as one reason, along with the Wen Ho Lee
case, for Freeh to resign in a 2000  Business Week opinion 
article. The article also criticized Freeh for a six-year cover-
up over the 1993 FBI assault on the Branch Davidian compound
near Waco,  Texas , in which he was alleged to have misled
government lawyers and a federal judge about whether federal
agents used incendiary devices at Waco.  Reno didn’t return a call to her home number for comment on
Freeh or his firm’s engagements.  ‘My FBI’  In 2005, Clinton’s Chief of Staff  John Podesta  said that
Freeh’s book, “My FBI,” was full of “half-truths and
untruths.” According to a CBS “60 Minutes” report that aired
Oct. 9, Clinton’s name for him was “F---ing Freeh.”  “No one else would defend his tenure at the FBI, so I
guess he felt the need to do it himself,” Podesta said in an
interview with Bloomberg News at the time.  Clinton’s 2004 autobiography also mentioned “a whole
series of missteps” at the FBI under Freeh, and said that a
retired FBI agent had warned him not to hire Freeh, calling him
“too political and self-serving.”  Freeh refused several requests for an interview for this
story, and is refusing to speak publicly about any of his
engagements, according to spokesman Michael Millican.  “Judge Freeh is unavailable for interviews because he is
fully engaged in client assignments and also is constrained from
discussing them,” according to an e-mailed statement from
Millican, who works at Robert Marston & Associates. Millican
said Freeh doesn’t disclose where he lives, for security
reasons.  MBNA Ethics Officer  After leaving the FBI, Freeh joined MBNA America Bank NA as
vice chairman, general counsel and ethics officer in 2001. In
2005, he served as its principal lawyer as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
acquired it.  His consulting firm, founded in 2007 after he left MBNA
America, is led by executives who share a history with Freeh;
five of six leaders of the firm listed on the company’s website
worked either at the FBI, or at MBNA America. Several worked
directly with Freeh in their past roles, including James Bucknam, a senior adviser to Freeh while Freeh was FBI director,
and John D. Behnke, a special assistant at the FBI, who
coordinated Freeh’s visits to field offices in foreign
countries.  His  law firm , Freeh Sporkin & Sullivan, also formed in
2007, is composed of former federal judges, has offices in
 Washington  and New York and specializes in corporate governance,
compliance, white-collar crime and securities matters, according
to an official biography of Freeh.  Giuliani, Kissinger  High-ranking government figures who become consultants
often attract controversy. When Giuliani was considering running
for President, attention was paid to his consulting work for
clients such as the government of Qatar and Citgo Petroleum
Corp., the company controlled by Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s government. In 2007, Giuliani refused to release a list
of his firm’s clients because of confidentiality agreements with
the clients.  Kissinger resigned from the panel investigating the Sept.
11 terror attacks in 2002, citing potential conflicts with his
consulting business. Kissinger’s foreign policy activity
includes the secret expansion of the  Vietnam War  into  Cambodia 
and the 1973 coup in  Chile , the New York Times reported in 2002.
The White House told the Senate Ethics Committee that Kissinger
didn’t have to disclose his clients.  Fees  Millican declined to comment on what other work Freeh’s
firm had done or how much his fees are.  So far, Freeh’s engagements haven’t attracted much
criticism. His international engagements include 2011’s probe
into bribery allegations at Zurich-based FIFA, soccer’s ruling
body, and a 2010 assignment looking into accusations that two
subsidiaries of Stuttgart-based Daimler AG paid bribes to
Russian and Croatian government officials to secure car and
truck sales.  Freeh’s ability to juggle the  Penn State  scandal and the MF
Global bankruptcy, eighth-biggest in U.S. history, isn’t a
concern, said James Bucknam, chief executive officer at Freeh’s
risk management company who’s known him for 27 years.  “He’s up to leading both those efforts,” Bucknam said,
describing Freeh as “an extremely tenacious investigator”
whose most outstanding character trait is honor, as shown by his
handling of the Khobar Towers terrorist attack.  Justice Done  “In June of ‘96 when he was FBI director there was a
terrorist bombing in  Saudi Arabia  that killed numerous U.S.
soldiers. He dove into it personally and assured the families of
the victims that justice was done. Five years later, in his last
week on the job, the indictment of the perpetrators was handed
up by a grand jury,” Bucknam said.  Freeh believes he met Corzine when Corzine was a senator,
during the last six months of Freeh’s tenure at the FBI, and has
no conflicts of interest involving him, Bucknam said.  Since leaving MBNA, Freeh also served as an independent
investigator in a 2008 investigation of energy-trading losses
that led to the bankruptcy of SemGroup LP.  “It’s the first time I ever remember, that an examiner did
an entire investigation within a specific time parameter and
spent less than allocated. He’s very efficient,” said
Schonholtz, who worked with Freeh as an attorney for SemGroup’s
lenders.  Jersey Born  Freeh was born in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , and received a
J.D. from Rutgers School of Law in 1974, and an L.L.M. in
criminal law from New York University School of law in 1984. He
joined the FBI as a special agent in 1975 and later became a
federal prosecutor and judge, appointed to the bench in 1991 by
President George H. W. Bush. A board member of Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co., Freeh also serves on the board of the U.S. Naval
Academy Foundation. He and his wife Marilyn have six sons.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  