-- ‘Obama Scandals’ Could Actually Hurt Republicans
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-05-20T22:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/-obama-scandals-could-actually-hurt-republicans.html
Republican politicians and activists
can barely contain their glee at the simultaneous eruption of
three major controversies about the Obama administration.  Conservatives are at a low boil over the administration’s
dissembling about its actions after the attacks on the U.S.
diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya. The public is concerned
about the targeting of conservative groups by the Internal
Revenue Service. And even liberals are outraged by the
administration’s heavy-handed investigations of leaks to the
news media.  Finally, many Republicans think, the tide is turning
against the Democrats. Republican strategists -- and the few
conservatives on Capitol Hill who were in  Washington  during the
Clinton years -- are less excited. They fear that the party is
about to repeat the mistakes it made in 1998.  Early that year, it came to light that President Bill Clinton had had a sexual relationship with a White House intern
and lied about it to the public, to a court in a civil suit and
to a grand jury in a criminal case. Congressional Republicans
tried to remove him from office. The public hated the idea, and
Republicans lost seats in the fall elections. They had been
expected to make significant gains because the opposition party
usually did in the sixth year of a presidency. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  lost his job largely as a result.  History Repeating  Watch the way the Republicans are handling today’s
controversies and it’s easy to see how their tactics could
backfire again. You would expect that Senator Lindsey Graham,
who helped to lead the impeachment proceedings against Clinton,
had learned to be cautious in pursuing a scandal. Yet he decided
to tie the Benghazi investigation explicitly to the 2016
presidential race, saying that the controversy would doom
Hillary Clinton. If Graham were a Democratic plant trying to
make the investigation look like a merely partisan exercise, he
couldn’t have done better.  Republicans are trying to tie IRS misconduct to President
 Barack Obama , so far without much evidence. The Republican
National Committee is demanding that the president apologize to
targeted groups, apparently on the assumption that the public
isn’t satisfied with his calling the IRS’s actions “intolerable
and inexcusable.” Other Republicans are saying that the
president created a “culture” that made the scandal possible by
being a partisan Democrat.  These efforts are strained. If the evidence leads to the
conclusion that the IRS bureaucracy acted on its own, that is
scandal enough; it would serve to strengthen the public’s
conservative instincts about the dangers of trusting the
government, whoever happens to be in the Oval Office.
Republicans  shouldn’t be obsessed  with Obama, who won’t be on
the ballot again, and shouldn’t make a legitimate inquiry into
potential abuses of power appear to be -- or, worse, actually be
-- part of a personal vendetta.  The biggest danger for Republicans in giving themselves
over to scandal mania is one that the conventional retelling of
the Clinton impeachment neglects. Republicans didn’t lose seats
simply because they overreached on Clinton’s perjury. It is true
that his impeachment was unpopular, and public approval of the
Republicans sank as they pursued it. Still, only 5 percent of
voters in the 1998 election told  exit pollsters  that the scandal
had played a role in their decision, and Republicans got a
majority of those voters.  Social Security was the top issue for more than twice as
many voters, and Republicans lost that issue by 18 percentage
points. Even more voters cared about education, which
Republicans lost by 34 points. They lost on health care and the
economy by similar margins.  Passive Strategy  For the most part, Republicans didn’t campaign on
impeachment in 1998: They didn’t say, “Vote for me and I’ll do
my level best to oust Clinton.” Their strategy was more passive.
They were counting on the scandal to motivate conservatives to
vote while demoralizing liberals. So they didn’t try to devise a
popular agenda, or to make their existing positions less
unpopular. That’s what cost them -- that, and the mistake of
counting on statistics about sixth-year elections, which also
bred complacency.  Republicans have similar vulnerabilities on the issues now.
They have no real health-care agenda. Voters don’t trust them to
look out for middle-class economic interests. Republicans are
confused and divided about how to solve the party’s problems.
What they can do is unite in opposition to the Obama
administration’s scandals and mistakes. So that’s what they’re
doing. They’re trying to win news cycles when they need votes.  Congressional Republicans were right to press for hearings
on all of these issues. But investigations of the administration
won’t supply them with ideas. They won’t make the public trust
Republicans. They won’t save them from themselves.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 