-- ‘Star Trek’ Film Debut Falls Short in Crowded Box Office
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i ,   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-05-20T21:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/-star-trek-film-debut-falls-short-in-crowded-box-office.html
Paramount Pictures’ “ Star Trek  Into
Darkness,” the second installment in the rebooted franchise,
opened to disappointing ticket  sales , squeezed by holdovers
“ Iron Man  3” and “The Great Gatsby.”  “Into Darkness,” from director  J.J. Abrams , generated
$70.2 million at U.S. and Canadian theaters, missing researcher
BoxOffice.com’s $87 million estimate. The film, part of
Hollywood’s annual summer crush, had to contend with two crowd-pleasers still in theaters:   Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Iron Man,” in
its third week, and  Warner Bros .’ “Gatsby” in its second.  Paramount, owned by Sumner Redstone’s  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , scored
big with 2009’s “Star Trek,” which opened with $75.2 million
as Abrams re-imagined the 1960s TV show and its successors on
film and television, re-introducing Captain James T. Kirk and
his Vulcan sidekick, Spock. The latest film’s weaker start
underscores the risk studios take underwriting so-called tent-pole films that cost, in this case, $190 million to make.  “More was expected,” said Phil Contrino, chief analyst
with BoxOffice.com in Beverly Hills,  California . “The lesson
here is that Hollywood needs to spread out movies more.”  Facing two strong titles and with more competition on the
way, Los Angeles-based Paramount sought to make the best of its
narrow window. It released the movie on May 16, a day earlier
than originally planned, to capture Thursday crowds swollen by
college students home for summer. The extra day lifted the four-day total to $84.1 million, researcher Hollywood.com Box Office
said today.  Lower Forecast  That amount didn’t come close to meeting estimates that had
already been lowered. Last month, BoxOffice.com was  projecting 
$128 million for the opening weekend. As the release approached,
and Paramount added the early day, BoxOffice.com  lowered  its
prediction to $112 million over four days, then cut it again to
$98.5 million as receipts started to roll in.  In an interview, Rob Moore, vice chairman of Paramount
Pictures, emphasized the film’s international prospects, and
said he expects the movie to hold up well domestically against
the coming releases “The Hangover Part III,” from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., and  Universal Pictures ’ “Fast & Furious
6,” which he said skew to older audiences. He acknowledged the
“much more competitive environment this week.”  “I think we’re poised for a great run through the
summer,” Moore said. “This franchise is now in great shape
going forward.”  ‘Iron Man’  The variety of choices in theaters drew in fans, marking
the first weekly increase from the year-earlier period of the
summer season, which runs from May to September. Last year’s
totals were paced by the record-setting “Marvel’s The
Avengers,” from Burbank, California-based Disney.  This week “Iron Man,” also from Marvel, generated $35.8
million at the domestic box office, enough for second place and
a total of $337.7 million. Director Baz Luhrmann’s “Gatsby,”
which has outperformed expectations with  Leonardo DiCaprio 
starring as novelist  F. Scott Fitzgerald ’s mysterious self-made
man, added $23.9 million and raised its total to $90.7 million,
according to Hollywood.com.  Paramount’s movie studio lost $74 million in the six months
ended March 31, versus an $84 million profit in the year-earlier
period, as revenue declined 30 percent to $1.92 billion. Home-entertainment revenue slumped 38 percent in the second quarter,
New York-based Viacom said on May 1.  Viacom fell 1 percent to $69.01 at the close in  New York .
The Class B shares have  advanced  31 percent this year, almost
double the S&P 500 Index’s 17 percent gain.  Overseas Market  Along with “Transformers,” “Star Trek” is one of
Paramount’s biggest franchises. Some fans in Los Angeles arrived
at theaters in “Star Trek” garb or Spock ears. The movie,
starring  Chris Pine , Zachary Quinto and Zoe Saldana, met with 87
percent approval from critics and reached an 89 percent
“fresh” from fans, according to the website  Rotten Tomatoes .  “It’s important for Paramount to get this right,” said
 Paul Sweeney , director of North American research at Bloomberg
Industries. “It’s very important for this film and films like
it to do well. The big studios are depending more and more on
their tent-pole franchises.”  The movie’s overseas results have shown promise. With about
half the markets open, the film had generated about $80.5
million, or 82 percent more than the 2009 version at this point,
for a total of $164.5 million worldwide, according to Paramount.
The studio cited Russia and Taiwan, with  China  and  South Korea 
yet to open.  Hollywood has focused on so-called franchise films in part
because they have a better chance with audiences outside the
U.S., where the number of movie theaters has increased rapidly,
according to Sweeney. International receipts should help make
“Star Trek” profitable overall for Paramount, he said.  Toys, Games  “You find a lot of films opening overseas first,” Sweeney
said. “That is a testament to how important the overseas market
has become.”  Another reason Hollywood has pushed into big-budget
franchises is to develop ancillary revenue, such as from toys
and games. While “Transformers” is among the biggest toy
sellers on a par with Disney’s Marvel or Pixar characters,
Paramount hasn’t been as active with “Star Trek.”  Historically, toys based on “Star Trek” haven’t sold as
well as “ Star Wars ” or “Transformers,” said  Sean McGowan , an
analyst with Needham & Co. in New York. Sometimes retailers will
balk at devoting a lot of shelf space, and some movies don’t
translate well as toys, he said, citing “Avatar,” the biggest
movie of all time.  Spock Bobblehead  “Making a bunch of Star Trek figures and having them sit
on shelves could be a worse decision than not making them and
missing out on those revenues,” McGowan said.  Paramount decided not to introduce a lot of merchandise
tied to the current film, Moore said, because the studio wasn’t
sure how well established the new stars were versus the TV show
and films featuring  William Shatner  as Kirk and Leonard Nimoy as
Spock. Now, with global recognition, Paramount stands a better
chance of signing licensing deals with top partners, he said.  “The real value is in the long-term development of the
franchise internationally,” Moore said. “When you’re pulling
out old characters you have issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  