-- Abe’s Resurgent Japan Hurt by Lack of Business Spending
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-05-21T07:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/abe-s-resurgent-japan-hurt-by-lack-of-business-spending.html
As  Japan ’s cherry trees bloomed and
the stock market soared, Kohetsu Watanabe flew to a blossom-viewing party in  Tokyo  hosted by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to
tell the premier personally how bad things really are.  When the head of machine-parts maker Daikyo Seiki Co. shook
hands with Abe at the 12,000-guest event in  Shinjuku Gyoen  park,
he says he begged the premier to help small- and medium-sized
companies that make up 70 percent of Japan’s industry.  “Stocks and the yen may have come back, but the state of
the real economy is very different,” said Watanabe, 49, who has
no plans to raise wages for his 17 employees and hasn’t paid a
bonus since 2008. “It’s impossible for me to be optimistic.”  His company in Akita, northern Japan, highlights the hurdle
Abe faces in his quest to end 15 years of deflation and
reinstate Japan as a pillar of the global economy. The first two
“arrows” of so-called Abenomics, fiscal and monetary stimulus,
have caused shares to rise and the yen to slump. While that
helps exporters, it means more expensive imported materials and
energy for Watanabe. With sales taxes set to rise in April,
Abe’s third arrow -- restructuring rules to help businesses --
probably will take too long or be too watered down to prevent a
drop in domestic demand next year.  “Japan is beginning to feel the pain of a weak yen without
prospects for solid wage growth,” said Tetsufumi Yamakawa, head
of Japan research at Barclays Plc. in Tokyo and a former
central-bank official. “Japan can’t keep injecting fiscal and
monetary stimulus. If Abe fails to boost economic growth with
innovative measures, the dependence on monetary easing will end
up distorting the economy.”  Lasting Pain  With executives such as Watanabe waiting for earnings to
improve before raising salaries, that pain may last beyond next
year as the government faces opposition to dismantling decades-old policies, such as labor laws that make it difficult to fire
workers. The  Bank of Japan , forecast to maintain plans for
expanded monetary easing at a meeting ending tomorrow, is
targeting 2 percent inflation in two years after more than 10
years of entrenched deflation.  “Arrows one and two are giving Japan’s economy a tailwind
for now,” said Stephen Jen, managing partner at SLJ Macro
Partners LLP in  London  and former head of currency strategy at
Morgan Stanley. “But Japan still faces powerful structural
headwinds, and whether arrow three makes an uptick sustainable
depends on Abe getting supply-side reforms right.”  Abe himself has  said  the third arrow is vital. The analogy
refers to a 16th century Samurai warlord,  Motonari Mori , who
tried to teach his sons unity by showing them a single arrow
could be snapped easily, while three together were hard to break.  Turnaround Sign  “I can’t yet say this is more than a sign of a
turnaround,” Abe said May 17 in Tokyo about economic expansion
fueled partly by rising  consumer spending . “I will do
everything in my power to turn this movement into strong
growth.”  Failure to foster domestic demand also would try the
patience of Japan’s Group of Seven trading partners who endorsed
Abe’s expansion policy even as a 15 percent slump in the yen
this year has made Japanese exports more profitable.  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest automaker, forecast a 42
percent increase in net income for the 12 months ending March
2014 to a six-year high thanks to the effect of the weaker yen.  Shares of Japanese businesses listed in Tokyo that derive
more than half their revenue from foreign markets have risen an
average 31 percent this year, compared with 21 percent for those
with mostly domestic sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gap probably will be reinforced by the rise in
sales tax to 8 percent next April from 5 percent, and to 10
percent in 2015.  Power Monopoly  In his May 17 speech, Abe said he wants to boost private
investment to 70 trillion yen ($683 billion) a year -- the level
before the 2008 financial crisis -- through deregulation, taxes,
spending and equipment-leasing deals. He aims to triple
infrastructure exports to about 30 trillion yen by 2020.  The speech was the latest preview of his third-arrow
strategy. Previously, he’s talked about opening the power market
to more competition and restarting nuclear plants, supporting
targeted industries such as biotechnology and joining the  Trans-Pacific Partnership  free-trade talks with the U.S. and 10 other
Pacific Rim countries. Abe’s administration has said it will
publish his full plan next month.  The measures announced so far don’t go far enough,
according to Izumi Devalier, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc
in  Hong Kong , who says major restructuring is needed in
agriculture, health care and  labor laws .  ‘Shying Away’  “The Cabinet appears to be shying away from deregulation,
opting instead to use subsidies and usual government-support
programs,” Devalier wrote in a May 14 research note.  “If Japan doesn’t manage to implement a powerful package
of structural reforms to release sustainable domestic demand,
Abe’s policies become yet another attempt to export their way
out of the vast problems of the domestic economy,” said Kenneth Courtis, founder of Tokyo-based advisory company Next Capital
Partners and former Asia vice chairman at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. “To release domestic demand that would stimulate long-term
growth, Japan will have to melt the vast regulatory barriers
which clog the economy, open the gates to substantial
immigration and privatize sectors still in government hands.”  Abe created an Industrial  Competitiveness Council  in
January to devise strategies for his third arrow. The council
has a list of 37 topics so far, including low-tax special
economic zones and a Japanese version of the U.S. National
Institutes of Health medical-research center, according to an
outline released by the group on May 14.  Labor Key  His growth efforts will be “disappointing” if they don’t
tackle labor laws, the social-security system and energy policy,
said Naoki Iizuka, a Citigroup Inc. economist in Tokyo.  Japan’s energy costs are projected to more than double to
8.8 trillion yen in the year through March 2014, compared with
the year ended March 2011, the month of the nuclear disaster at
Fukushima, according to a May 2 report by the Tokyo-based Japan
Research Institute Ltd. Abe has said he wants to restart the
nation’s reactors, which were idled after the disaster, forcing
the country to import more oil, gas and coal.  “Abe probably doesn’t want to talk about any painful
reforms before the elections in July,” Iizuka said. “It’s not
clear if Japan can sustain solid growth with the planned sales-tax hike when fiscal spending is going to fall steeply like a
fiscal cliff next year.”  Stock Gains  For now, stimulus measures from the first two arrows and
rising sentiment fueled by stock-market gains are driving a
surge in economic growth. The government announced a 10
trillion-yen economic package in January, and the Bank of Japan
last month pledged to double bond holdings within two years.  Gross domestic product last quarter rose an annualized  3.5
percent (JGDPAGDP) , the biggest gain in a year, the Cabinet Office said on
May 16. Private consumption, which makes up 60 percent of the
economy, contributed 2.3 percentage points to the increase, as a
 48 percent surge  in the benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  since
Dec. 31 has boosted consumer sentiment.  The expansion may prompt the Bank of Japan to upgrade its
assessment of the economy after its monetary-policy meeting this
week, people familiar with the central bank’s discussions said.  “The key from here is whether Abe can unveil a strong
growth strategy,” Iizuka said. “If he succeeds, that will
boost business investment to support growth.” Corporate
spending last quarter was the lowest since the second quarter of
2011, subtracting 0.3 percentage point from GDP.  Investment Drag  “ Capital spending  will become an issue,” so it’s
important to create an environment to boost business investment,
Economy Minister Akira Amari said yesterday.  A revival in Japan would help reinvigorate a weakening
global recovery. The  U.S. economy  is projected to expand at an
annualized rate of 1.6 percent this quarter compared with 2.5
percent in January-March as  federal budget  cuts take hold, while
 China ’s growth  slowed  in the first three months to 7.7 percent
from a year earlier, and the 17-nation euro area extended its
recession to a record sixth quarter.  In the meantime, Abe’s measures have forced trading
partners to deal with the weaker yen, which makes Japanese goods
cheaper. The yen is the fastest-falling major currency tracked
by  Bloomberg News  this year, making it the top of the agenda at
this year’s G-7 and G-20 meetings.  The South Korean won has risen 14 percent against the yen
this year, even as it fell 4.2 percent versus the dollar. That
makes it harder for Korean exporters such as  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  to compete against Japanese rivals.  Competing Devaluation  Japan’s easing has had a “big impact” on South Korea’s
economy, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said on May 9
after the bank  unexpectedly cut  its benchmark rate. Japan’s
monetary policy “may further intensify concerns of all sides
about competitive  currency devaluation ,” the People’s Bank of
China said in its quarterly report the same day.  At home, Abe’s challenge is to get companies to invest
while keeping consumer spending going, even after sales taxes
rise next year and government stimulus wanes. Japan’s room for
further largesse is limited as the government promised G-20
partners it will try to contain a national debt that the
International Monetary Fund projects will reach 245 percent of
the economy this year, larger than Greece’s 180 percent.  That means Abe must overcome opposition from lobby groups
such as farmers and ministries concerned their budgets will be
cut, in order to prevent his growth strategy from being diluted.  “Deep reforms are in danger of being shelved due to push
back from bureaucrats, unions and even pockets of Abe’s own
party,” said Devalier at HSBC. Only “bold deregulation can
revive ‘animal spirits’ and ensure that Japan can keep up with
the competition.”  Enlightened Generation  One challenge will be opening the wallets of the so-called
enlightened generation, who grew up with deflation and
recessions and learned to save rather than buy things they don’t
need, said Toru Suehiro, a market economist at  Mizuho Securities 
Co. in Tokyo. Spending by people in their 20s has dropped 9
percent from 15 years ago, according to Mizuho Securities.  “I hope inflation is going to do some good, but I can’t
get rid of a feeling of anxiety for the future,” said Ryo Kato,
24, who said some of his friends had to apply at about 50
companies before finding a job. “I honestly don’t think my wage
will increase, so it’s better to save some money.”  Cash Pile  Japanese household assets were 1,547 trillion yen at the
end of 2012; 854 trillion yen were in deposits or cash,
according to a Bank of Japan report in March.  Much of this money is in the hands of the nation’s growing
army of retirees, whose pensions may suffer from inflation. The
cost of Japan’s social-security programs grew to 110 trillion
yen in the year ended March, more than double the amount in 1990,
according to the welfare ministry.  Kimi Yamamoto, 75, watches the news three times a day in
her Osaka apartment, concerned about what will happen to her
savings.  “I can deal with pretty much everything after experiencing
the war period, but I have a lot to worry about now, from price
increases and the higher sales tax to the possible reduction in
my pension,” said Yamamoto, whose husband died eight years ago.
“Japan’s revival is going to take a very long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  