-- Actavis to Buy Warner Chilcott in Women’s Health Effort
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-20T20:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/actavis-agrees-to-buy-warner-chilcott-for-8-5-billion-in-stock.html
Actavis Inc. (ACT) , the largest U.S. maker
of generic drugs by market value, agreed to acquire  Warner
Chilcott  Plc for about $5 billion excluding net debt in a deal
to expand in women’s health and urology.  Warner Chilcott investors will receive 0.16 shares of new
Actavis stock for each Warner Chilcott share they own,
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Actavis said today in a statement.
The agreement currently values each Warner Chilcott share at
$20.08, a 4.5 percent premium over the stock’s closing price on
May 17. Including Warner Chilcott’s more than $3 billion in net
debt, the total value of the acquisition is about $8.5 billion.  The combined company will have $11 billion in annual
revenue as Actavis also adds gastroenterology and dermatology
businesses, according to today’s statement. The purchase also
may provide Actavis with a $4-a-share tax benefit because Warner
Chilcott is incorporated in Ireland, Leerink Swann LLC said.
Actavis rejected an offer from Mylan Inc. for $15 billion,
deciding instead to pursue talks to take over Warner Chilcott,
said people familiar with the matter,  Bloomberg News  reported on
May 14.  “This is a logical transaction in a lot of respects,”
said  David Amsellem , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co., in a
telephone interview. “There’s clear overlapping business so the
cost savings are really compelling. For Actavis, it’s a fair
price.”  Warner Chilcott rose 2 percent to $19.60 at the close in
 New York . The stock  surged  20 percent on May 10 after Bloomberg
News revealed the two companies were in early talks. Actavis
gained 1.3 percent to $127.15.  Deal’s Value  Actavis is paying about 5.8 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with the median of about 13 times
Ebitda in a survey of almost 40 similar deals, the data show.  “This really is the culmination of the Actavis strategy of
building a global specialty pharmaceuticals company,” Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Bisaro  said on a conference call today.  The acquisition also makes Actavis the premiere women’s
health company, Chief Financial Officer Todd Joyce said on the
call. “When you become the premier company in any therapeutic
category, opportunities present themselves because people want
to deal with the company with the depth and breadth in that
category.”  Mylan Rejected  Mylan, based in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , made its offer in
a letter to Actavis on May 7 that emphasized the cost savings
that two large generic drugmakers could get by merging, one of
the people familiar said at the time. The Mylan offer valued
Actavis at $120 a share said the people, who asked not to be
named because the discussions were private.  Actavis rejected the offer, in which Mylan was offering
more stock than cash, a couple of days later, the person said.  A possible Actavis takeover is “the most significant risk
to consummation of” the acquisition of Warner Chilcott, Liav Abraham, an analyst at Citigroup Global markets, wrote in a note
today.  It is unlikely that Mylan would still be interested, said
 David Maris , an analyst with BMO Capital Markets who said he
never gave much credence to a possible Mylan-Actavis deal.  “Mylan is severely limited given their debt load,” Maris
said. Mylan also doesn’t have a deep management bench or the
ability to manage a much larger organization, he said.  No Comment  A Mylan spokeswoman,  Nina Devlin , in an e-mail, said “I
can’t comment on rumors or speculation.”  More than a year ago, Dublin-based Warner Chilcott
disclosed that it was in discussions with suitors and conducting
a strategic review. Actavis was among those that considered an
offer for the company during that process, said another person.  In August, Warner Chilcott revealed that the talks had
ended and that it would renew a share-buyback program and pay a
special dividend, saying the measures would be more rewarding
for shareholders.  Actavis makes generic versions of birth-control pill
Seasonique and pain medication Percocet. Warner Chilcott’s
products include oral contraceptives such as Ovcon 35 and
Estrostep FE, as well as the acne treatment Doryx.  Bank of America Corp.  and  Greenhill & Co. (GHL)  served as
financial advisers for Actavis, according to the statement,
while Deutsche Bank AG provided counsel to Warner Chilcott.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  