-- African Bank Drops Most in Almost 15 Years on Dividend
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-05-20T09:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/african-bank-says-first-half-profit-drops-24-as-bad-debts-surge.html
African Bank Investments Ltd. (ABL) , the
largest provider of unsecured loans in South Africa, dropped the
most in almost 15 years after it cut its dividend by 71 percent
following a decline in profit.  The shares fell 21.2 percent to 16.60 rand at 11:54 a.m. in
Johannesburg, the biggest drop since August 1998, after the
lender cut its interim dividend to 25 cents. Net income for the
six months through March fell 24 percent to 1.06 billion rand
($112 million), with credit-impairment charges up 45 percent,
the Johannesburg-based lender said in a statement today.  African Bank said that trading conditions would remain
“difficult” for the rest of the year after writing off 445
million rand of non-performing loans in March. The lender was
also hurt by its furniture retailer Ellerines, which offers
unsecured loans, according to Harry Botha, an analyst at Avior
Research, with an outperform rating on the shares.  “It’s the dividend, at 25 cents per share or five times
covered, and the dividend guidance for the full year of three to
four times covered” that is hurting shares, Johannesburg-based
Botha said. “The core banking business seems to be fine. It’s
the Ellerines portfolio where most of the mess is.”  Nithia Nalliah, the lender’s chief financial officer, said
in a conference call today that Ellerine’s “peak trading is
usually in the first half so if trading doesn’t improve the view
is that there will be a full-year loss in retail.” He added
that lending will be tightened in retail operations.  The lender is the worst-performing  bank stock  in  South
Africa  this year, having plummeted 46 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  