-- Agency Power Backed as High Court Rules in Favor of FCC
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-05-20T15:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/agency-power-backed-as-high-court-rules-in-favor-of-fcc.html
The U.S. Supreme Court bolstered the
authority of federal administrative agencies, upholding Federal
Communications Commission deadlines for local zoning authorities
considering applications for new wireless facilities.  The high court, voting 6-3, said today it would defer to
the FCC’s interpretation of a federal law that sets the
boundaries of the agency’s authority.  Although courts normally defer to the expertise of
administrative agencies when they interpret ambiguous statutes,
opponents of the FCC deadlines said that principle shouldn’t
apply when an agency is determining its own jurisdiction.
Justice  Antonin Scalia , writing for the court, said the issue
was how to address the “fox-in-the-henhouse syndrome.”  That problem “is to be avoided not by establishing an
arbitrary and undefinable category of agency decisionmaking that
is accorded no deference,” Scalia wrote, “but by taking
seriously, and applying rigorously, in all cases, statutory
limits on agencies’ authority.”  The ruling drew a dissent from three justices who are often
Scalia’s allies on questions of federal power -- Chief Justice
 John Roberts  and Justices Samuel Alito and  Anthony Kennedy .  Roberts called his disagreement “fundamental,” saying
judges shouldn’t defer to regulators’ interpretation of a law
until a court determines that the agency had jurisdiction in the
first place.  ‘Definition of Tyranny’  Roberts pointed to an excerpt from the Federalist Papers in
which James Madison warned that the “accumulation of all
powers, legislative, executive and judiciary, in the same hands
... may justly be pronounced the very definition of tyranny.”  “It would be a bit much to describe the result as ‘the
very definition of tyranny,’” Roberts wrote, “but the danger
posed by the growing power of the administrative state cannot be
dismissed.”  Justices  Clarence Thomas ,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Stephen Breyer ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan  joined Scalia in the
majority.  The dispute centered on a provision in the 1996
Telecommunications Act that gives the FCC power to “prescribe
such rules and regulations as may be necessary in the public
interest to carry out” the law.  The FCC was battling the Texas cities of Arlington and San
Antonio, which objected to a 2009 agency ruling that said local
zoning authorities had to act within a “reasonable period of
time” on applications for new wireless towers and antennas.  The FCC said that period generally is either 90 days or 150
days depending on the type of application at issue.  The case of Arlington v. FCC, 11-1545.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  