-- Thai Growth Missing Estimates Raises Pressure for Rate Cut
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-05-20T04:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/thailand-grows-slower-than-estimated-raising-rate-cut-pressure.html
Thailand’s government lowered its
full-year growth forecast after the economy expanded less than
analysts estimated last quarter, boosting the case for the
central bank to cut  interest rates .  Gross domestic product increased 5.3 percent in the three
months through March from a year earlier, after expanding a
revised 19.1 percent in the previous quarter, the National
Economic and Social Development Board said in Bangkok today. The
median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 6 percent.  The growth slowdown may give the Bank of Thailand scope to
join a global wave of monetary easing, after resisting pressure
from the government in recent months to lower borrowing costs
and curb inflows that last month drove the baht to a 16-year
high. Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong, who has led calls
for lower rates, has said the central bank must cut by more than
a quarter of a percentage point or implement  capital controls .  “The recovery in external demand that will be positive for
Thai exports is not happening,” and weaker growth justifies an
interest-rate cut, said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The baht’s
strength is an additional factor to motivate a rate cut.”  The baht was little changed at 29.87 per dollar as of 11:15
a.m. in Bangkok. It is  Asia ’s best-performing currency this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on two-year sovereign
debt fell for a fourth day, with the rate on the 3.625 percent
note due May 2015 dropping one basis point to 2.68 percent.  Policy makers around the world have moved to counter
currency appreciation and stimulate growth, with central banks
in  Vietnam ,  India ,  South Korea , Australia and  Europe  cutting
borrowing costs this month. The Thai central bank’s  Monetary
Policy  Committee is scheduled to meet on May 29.  Lower Forecasts  The state agency today reduced its full-year forecast for
gross domestic product to 4.2 percent to 5.2 percent from 4.5
percent to 5.5 percent. It also lowered its export growth target
for the year to 7.6 percent from 11 percent.  “We are worried about the second quarter -- if global
economic uncertainties remain high and the baht continues to
stay strong,” Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, secretary-general of
the state planning agency, told reporters. “The economy has
shown signs of slowing down, so using interest rates should
help,” he said. Monetary policy will also be the fastest way to
curb inflows, he said, adding that a 25 basis-point reduction
would be too small, and any cut should create an impact.  Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  signaled on May 9 he may be
inclined to lower borrowing costs if economic growth starts to
cool. The central bank last month raised its GDP estimate to 5.1
percent and cut its  inflation  forecast to 2.7 percent.  High-Speed Rail  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s administration has
raised minimum wages and handed incentives to rice farmers and
first-time car buyers to spur growth after the floods of 2011,
and plans to spend 2 trillion baht ($67 billion) on high-speed
rail links to major cities from Bangkok over the next seven
years.  Fitch Ratings  raised its assessment of Thailand in March,
citing a resilient economy and a more stable political climate.  Automakers Nissan Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. have
increased production in  Thailand  as local sales rose to a record
last year. Still, the baht’s appreciation is hurting exports,
Commerce Minister Boonsong Teriyapirom said in an interview May
1, as  overseas sales  increased 4.5 percent in the first quarter
compared with an 18.2 percent gain in the previous three months.  Thailand’s economy shrank a seasonally adjusted 2.2 percent
last quarter from the three months through December, when it
expanded a revised 2.8 percent, the agency said today.  The government has no plans to issue “abnormal measures”
to stimulate the economy, even as it is concerned about the
first-quarter numbers, Kittiratt said today. Asked if the GDP
data made an interest-rate cut more urgent, he said he has
“emphasized this point all along.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  