-- Taiwan Banks Flee Worst Margins to Capture Higher Asia Share
-- B y   F o s t e r   W o n g
-- 2013-05-20T08:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/taiwan-s-banks-flee-worst-margins-to-capture-higher-asia-share.html
Taiwanese lenders led by  Bank of
Taiwan  are taking their highest share of syndicated loans in
 Asia  since 2010 as they expand outside the island’s saturated
market to escape the worst margins in Asia-Pacific.  Lenders in the region’s seventh-biggest economy helped
arrange 10.1 percent of syndicated deals in Asia excluding  Japan 
since Dec. 31, compared with 8.1 percent in all of 2012 and 8.5
percent in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Almost
half of the lenders that participated in Qantas Airways Ltd.’s
A$780 million ($762 million) refinancing and CT Corp.’s $750
million loan to buy Carrefour SA were from Taiwan, the data
show.  Interest margins more than 90 basis points below the Asia-Pacific average are prompting  Taiwan ’s lenders to seek profits
abroad. The island’s banks are getting margins of 156 basis
points over the London interbank offered rate on credit
facilities signed this year, versus 248 for lenders elsewhere,
Bloomberg data show. Taiwan had 38 domestic banks as of Mar. 31,
compared with Hong Kong’s 21 lenders, according to data from
Taiwan’s regulator, the Financial Supervisory Commission, and
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  “Taiwanese banks are flush with liquidity,” said Alan Lee, CEO of corporate banking at Taipei-based Cathay United Bank
Co. “They’re looking for new business opportunities in other
markets when high-grade borrowers at home are still paying low
pricing due to their strong bargaining power.”  Chip Packaging  Taiwan’s  Advanced Semiconductor Engineering Inc. (2311) , the
world’s largest chip packaging and testing company, is offering
99 basis points more than Libor for a $300 million five-year
syndicated loan, people familiar with the matter said April 25.
Uni-President  China  Holdings Ltd., a unit of Taiwan’s largest
food company, is paying 115 basis points to borrow as much as
$200 million, a person familiar with the matter said in March.  Margins of at least double those are spurring local banks
to look elsewhere. Seventeen of the 42 lenders on Qantas’s A$780
million loan in April were Taiwanese, with the Australian
carrier paying 230 basis points over the bank bill swap rate,
according to Bloomberg data. CT Corp in March attracted 18
Taiwanese lenders out of a total 39 on a $750 million loan for
its buyout of Carrefour in  Indonesia  by paying a margin of 500
basis points over Libor, the data show.  Bank of Taiwan has been the most active lender from the
island so far this year, helping to arrange 31 deals totaling
$1.4 billion in the Asia-Pacific region outside Japan, Bloomberg
data show. Taishin Financial Holding Co. was the second-biggest
arranger, with  Land Bank  of Taiwan third.  China Branches  Taiwan relaxed curbs on banks’ investments and operations
in China in September 2011, allowing them to lend to mainland
individuals and institutions. That’s been a significant driver
of overseas deals, said Lee at Cathay United, one of 11
Taiwanese banks with branches on the mainland.  The Financial Supervisory Commission also urged lenders
that year to expand faster in the world’s second-biggest economy
as competition eroded returns at home. Taiwan’s banks have the
narrowest net interest margin in the Asia-Pacific region
excluding Japan, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China Gas Holdings Ltd., which operates and manages natural
gas distribution pipelines, increased the size of a three-year
loan to $450 million from $250 million after 23 banks, mainly
Taiwanese, pledged more than $600 million to the deal, a person
familiar with the matter said April 9.  More Aggressive  “Taiwanese banks will definitely continue looking for
overseas deals to improve their return on equity and return on
assets,” said Amy Tsao, the head of  investment banking  for
Taiwan at Nomura Holdings Inc., an arranger of the China Gas
loan. They will probably become more aggressive in underwriting
small-to-medium-size loans in the international market of up to
$200 million, she said.  International banks still have an important role to play in
arranging syndicated loans for Taiwanese lenders, added Tsao,
because of their unfamiliarity with overseas clients.  Bank Sinopac, Mega International Commercial Bank Co.,
Taipei Fubon Commercial Bank Co. and Taiwan Cooperative Bank are
becoming more active lenders. The banks are helping arrange a
four-year facility for China-backed conglomerate Citic Pacific
Ltd., which increased the loan size to $330 million from $200
million after nine other Taiwanese banks joined, a person
familiar with the matter said today.  While Taiwanese banks have big ambitions in the Asia-Pacific region, they aren’t blindly chasing high-yield assets,
according to Cathay United’s Lee.  “We don’t care about league table rankings,” Lee said.
“What we focus on now is whether a loan deal can bring about a
long-term relationship with a client and whether there are
cross-selling opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Foster Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  