-- Taiwanese Crew Hid to Escape Hail of Philippine Bullets
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2013-05-21T07:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/taiwan-fishing-crew-hid-to-escape-hail-of-philippine-bullets.html
Taiwan  fishing boat captain Hung Yu-chi says he was at the helm in quiet seas on the last morning of
a six-day trip when he noticed a black dot on the horizon.  Through binoculars, Yu-chi, 39, could see figures in orange
on another boat, the color worn by both Taiwanese and Philippine
officers as they patrol fishing waters claimed by each
government. As the craft drew near, Yu-chi heard gunshots and
realized the boat was from the Philippines. He shouted out to
the rest of the crew on the Guang Da Hsin 28, including his
father and brother in law, and increased speed.  “They were shooting by the time they got close,” his
brother-in-law Hung Jie-shang, 42, said in a May 19 interview
with him, Yu-chi and other family members at their home on
Liuqiu Island, off the southwestern coast of Taiwan. “If we
hadn’t run, we’d be dead.”  The family’s account of the May 9 attack that killed the
65-year-old patriarch, Hung Shih-cheng, has triggered a wave of
nationalism in Taiwan, with President Ma Ying-jeou tapping the
anger to put economic pressure on the  Philippines  to issue a
formal apology. He has frozen the hiring of Filipino workers and
told his people to stop traveling there.  Condolences Rebuffed  The risk of deteriorating ties with its neighbor coincides
with a slowdown in economic growth that saw Taiwan expand 1.5
percent in the first quarter from a year before, less than half
the pace of the previous three months. Ma, who has served for
five years, faces a 14 percent approval rating.  In question are the circumstances that led the Philippine
patrol boat with 11 officers on board to fire as many as 59
shots on the 14-meter (46-foot) fishing boat. Taiwan and the
Philippines have each claimed the vessel was in their waters at
the time. Ma has rebuffed condolences offered by President
 Benigno Aquino  and the offer of an apology conveyed through
Amadeo Perez, chairman of the Manila Economic and Cultural
Office in Taipei.  The Philippines, which on May 18 rejected Taiwan’s demand
for a joint investigation, is conducting a probe of the
incident, presidential spokeswoman Abigail Valte said by phone.  Aquino said today that his country’s investigators are
still waiting for permission to inspect the boat. Once the
dispute over the shooting is settled, the Philippines will be
willing to talk to “every neighbor” about fishing-ground
agreements, he said.  Reiterate Condolences  “We reiterate our condolences to the family and we can
assure them of an impartial investigation,” Valte said by
phone. Philippine Coast Guard spokesman Commander Armand Balilo
declined to comment. “We don’t want to say anything that might
affect the investigation,” Balilo said by phone.  Taiwan’s leaders will face domestic pressure to cooperate
with  China  on territorial matters if they can’t reach a fishery
agreement with the Philippines similar to one signed with  Japan 
last month, according to Arthur Ding, a research fellow at the
Institute of International Relations in Taipei. China, which
considers Taiwan a renegade province and shares its maritime
claims, has tussled with the Philippines, Vietnam and Japan over
rights to resources in disputed waters.  “Fishing is the most urgent issue because fishermen will
go wherever they can,” Ding said by phone. “If this tension
keeps rising, inevitably the Taiwanese government will succumb
to the growing pressure to work with the Chinese government.”  Japan’s fisheries agency detained another fishing boat from
Liuqiu today for entering Japanese waters, Shih Yi-che, a
spokesman for Taiwan’s coast guard, said by phone. Japan has
imposed a 4.3 million-yen ($42,000) fine, Shih said.  Unprovoked Attack  Yu-chi said the May 9 attack was unprovoked. “I knew we
were within our waters,” he said in the interview.  Around 10 a.m. on that day, his fishing boat suddenly sped
up from 3.3 knots to 12 knots, near coordinates southeast of the
Batanes Islands between Taiwan and the Philippines, according to
investigation findings  announced  by Taiwan’s justice ministry.  As shots were fired, Yu-chi said he put the boat on
autopilot and called a relative on shore, before he, his family
members and an Indonesian worker went below deck into the three-by-one meter engine room to hide.  The Hungs had been at sea for six days in their second trip
on the vessel, finished in March at a cost of NT$8 million
($268,000) and paid for with a discounted government-arranged
loan. Maintained properly, a boat can last up to 40 years, Jie-shang said.  Tuna Haul  A weeklong haul of tuna and swordfish netting NT$10,000
would be considered a success, though the family often caught
less. The big goal remained a 400-Taiwan kilogram (520 lbs) blue
fin tuna, which can sell for NT$1,500 per Taiwan kilogram (600
grams) at market, according to the captain’s elder sister, 44-year-old Tsi-ching.  This expedition wasn’t particularly successful, the
brothers said. The family and their Indonesian employee, known
as Ah-chi, spent about 10 hours a day tending to fishing lines
and preparing bait for some 300 hooks, while rotating on three-hour shifts at the wheel. It was Yu-chi’s turn at the helm the
morning of May 9.  While Yu-chi and the crew squatted in the engine room,
bullets sprayed the boat, puncturing the hull, the glass
windshield of the cockpit and a rice cooker. Thirty minutes into
the attack, Yu-chi said, they could tell the rudder had been
damaged.  Swerving Boat  “The boat was swerving this way and that, and then we saw
fuel leaking into the engine room,” he said. He and Ah-chi
started to refuel the engine from reserves stored below deck,
while brother-in-law Jie-shang worked a remote control steering
device. Suddenly, their father, squatting next to Jie-shang,
cried out and toppled over, bleeding. His crew mates moved him
to a lower bench and went back to refueling.  “At the time we could only think of saving our own
lives,” Yu-chi said. Each man sustained burns from an engine
running at full speed, said Jie-shang, showing bandages on his
right arm.  Eventually the gunfire ceased and the patrol boat left. The
men emerged when they ran out of fuel about one and-a-half hours
after the first shots were fired, Jie-shang said. “By then, my
father-in-law was already dead. We felt very helpless and hoped
for another vessel to come soon.” The nearest boat in the area
arrived two to three hours later, family members said.  Taiwan’s justice ministry said its investigation found a
bullet had penetrated the deck floor and hit Shih-cheng in the
neck.  With few options to make a living, the Hungs said they
would repair their boat and return to sea. They have been a
family of fisherman for at least three generations -- as long as
anyone can remember.  “This is what we know,” Yu-chi said. “We still have to
go back out there even if we’re scared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  