-- Mandela’s Daughters Clash With Lawyers Over His Assets
-- B y   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-05-20T15:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/mandela-s-daughters-clash-with-lawyers-over-his-assets.html
Two of Nelson Mandela’s daughters who
want access to his artwork and other assets are suing his
lawyers, who have accused them of acting against the former
president’s wishes.  Makaziwe Mandela and Zenani Dlamini filed an interdict in
the South Gauteng High Court last month to remove lawyers George
Bizos and Bally Chuene and Human Settlements Minister Tokyo Sexwale as directors of two companies Mandela set up. His
daughters, who were named directors of the companies in 2005,
argue that the three weren’t properly appointed.  Chuene, who responded on behalf of himself, Bizos and
Sexwale, deny wrongdoing and accuse Mandela’s daughters of
acting in bad faith and counter to his instructions, according
to court documents e-mailed to Bloomberg today.  Mandela, 94, won the 1993 Nobel peace price and served as
South Africa’s first post-apartheid president from 1994 until
1999 after spending 27 years in prison under apartheid. He has
been in the hospital three times since December and doesn’t
appear in in public anymore. Bizos defended Mandela in his 1964
treason trial for sabotage and conspiracy.  Makaziwe Mandela and Dlamini want to force the other
company directors to quit “to facilitate the distribution of
monies in those two companies bank accounts to them and other
family members,” Chuene wrote. “The application carries with
it an ulterior motive.”  The daughters have argued that Bizos, Chuene and Sexwale
“no longer enjoy the support of almost all the beneficiaries”
of the Mandela Trust that owns the companies, according to court
papers e-mailed to Bloomberg today by their lawyer, Ismail Ayob.  Mandela’s Artwork  Before filing the case, Ayob accused them of blocking
distributions to the Mandela Trust and urging them to quit. He
also said the three failed to protect the company’s interests by
leaving tens of millions of rand in accounts earning little or
no interest, letters annexed to court papers show.  Mandela fired Ayob and sued him in May 2005 for failing to
properly account for sales of his artwork. Ayob denied any
wrongdoing, saying Mandela was forgetful and behaved
irrationally, and refuted claims that he benefited from the sale
of the pictures.  Chuene wrote in the court papers that Mandela made it clear
to his daughters in 2005 that he didn’t want them to control his
affairs. Mandela also expressed opposition to his daughters’
involvement with Ayob during a 2006 meeting, according to
Chuene.  Sello Hatang, a spokesman for Mandela’s foundation,
referred all queries on the court case to Chuene.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  