-- Anthony Bourdain Checks Out Congo, Libya, Food Porn
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2013-05-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/anthony-bourdain-checks-out-congo-libya-food-porn.html
Anthony Bourdain gets to travel
around the world having adventures and eating great food -- his
new network,  CNN , has already ordered another season of “Parts
Unknown.”  Back in  New York , Bourdain is a fan of the Bronx Academy of
Letters, which helps students develop strong writing skills. We
spoke at the school’s 10th anniversary celebration just before
he stepped up to host the event.  Lundborg: You’ve always picked where you want to go?  Bourdain: That’s the only way it happens. They’re
historical obsessions, places that I’ve seen as a location in a
film or read about that always seemed intriguing.  Or there’s sheer self-indulgent, 100-percent food porn. Any
of those would be reason enough.  Lundborg: The new show seems more CNN than Food Network --
is that your preference?  Bourdain: I’m free to be food-oriented or not, depending on
where the journey takes me. Most importantly, they have the
boots on the ground, the experience and the infrastructure to
allow me to go to places like the Congo and  Libya  and other
potential conflict zones.  Armed Bodyguards  Lundborg: Do you have bodyguards?  Bourdain: We do not travel with armed bodyguards. But we do
have people with a lot of experience in those places who are
very good at assessing an ever-changing situation and saying,
“Now’s the time to get back in the van,” “Now’s the time to
leave the country” and “Here, let me set that leg for you.”  If we suddenly find ourselves in a situation like in Libya,
where we do need armed bodyguards, we’re hiring local guys.  Lundborg: Aside from when you taste eyeballs or fresh hot
monkey brains, what you enjoy eating in most cultures seems to
be street food: veggies in broth with some meat and spices.  Bourdain: I think that’s real cooking.  Lundborg: What changes when you go up the economic ladder?  Bourdain: I’m excited by any food that’s prepared by
someone who’s proud of what they’re doing, who puts a personal
imprint on food.  There always is a story, be it a street stall or a 3-star
Michelin, and if it’s interesting, I’m going to enjoy it.  Lundborg: So you’re not against 3-stars?  3 Stars  Bourdain: If it’s antiseptic, highly technically beautiful
food, with no story and no personality behind it, with nobody
talking to you, I’m not that interested.  Lundborg: What’s the most creative part of cooking?  Bourdain: The roots of creativity are hungry people trying
to figure out how to take something that’s not particularly
fresh or tender and transform it into it something delicious
that everyone will love.  Lundborg: Where would you eat your last meal?  Bourdain: Jiro Ono in  Tokyo .  Lundborg: You travel, wine and dine professionally, which
is what most people do for fun. So what do you do in your time
off?  Bourdain: I stay in one place with my family and cook
barbecues, steamer clams, corn on the cob.  Lundborg: Is that tough since you’re pretty much a
workaholic?  Bourdain: Yes, I’m a guy who should not have a lot of free
time. But when it comes to vacation, I like to pull the plug
completely. It’s all about my daughter -- I’m no longer the star
of my own movie.  Bar Bourdain  Lundborg: There could have been a Bar Bourdain, a Cafe Tony
perhaps --  Bourdain: Yes, the product line, the pots and pans, the
kitchen clogs, the knives -- there could have been all those
things.  Lundborg: So why didn’t you go down that road?  Bourdain: Vanity. I just don’t want to be that guy.  Lundborg: Why not?  Mario Batali  seems to be having fun.  Bourdain: Mario’s maybe the one guy -- they’re all good
products and his restaurants are great -- but I’m not Mario.  Lundborg: A lot of chefs are philanthropic around food, so
how did you come to choose a school dedicated to reading and
writing?  Bourdain: I was introduced to the Bronx Academy by my long-time agent and close friend. It took no convincing -- a brief
summary of what the organization does and where their focus is
was enough to get me to one of these.  And once I met the students and learned more about what
they’re doing and how successful they’ve been at it, it quickly
became my passion.  For more information:  http://www.bronxletters.com .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and  Craig
Seligman  on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 