-- Apollo to Guggenheim Said to Face NY Insurer-Deal Review
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-05-20T20:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/apollo-to-guggenheim-sid-to-face-ny-insurer-deal-review.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC and  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  are among firms subpoenaed by New York’s
financial watchdog in a probe of risk tied to investment-company
ownership of insurers, said a person familiar with the inquiry.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG)  were also
sent subpoenas by the New York Department of Financial Services,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
the information is private. The subpoenas were sent in the last
few days, the person said.  The regulator, led by Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky , has
expressed concern over whether the firms will be sufficiently
careful with investments that back long-term obligations to
retirement savers. Guggenheim, Apollo and Harbinger have
announced deals to buy units that sell fixed annuities, which
provide streams of payments to retirees and other customers.  “The risk that we’re concerned about at DFS is whether
these private-equity firms are more short-term focused, when
this is a business that’s all about the long haul,” Lawsky said
in an  April 18 speech . “Their short-term focus may result in an
incentive to increase  investment risk  and leverage in order to
boost short-term returns.”  DFS also sent subpoenas to Global Atlantic Financial Group,
the insurer that Goldman Sachs recently sold to private
investors, and to Tiptree Financial Partners LP, the person
said.  E-Mails, Pitchbooks  Lawsky is seeking e-mails, pitchbooks, memos, and
information about investment allocations and return assumptions,
the person said. Bloomberg reported last month that Wall Street
firms have been acquiring life insurance companies and adding
investments such as mortgage-backed securities that have drawn
attention from regulators accustomed to simpler portfolios.  The regulator wants to understand the risks the companies
are taking on and how they’re presenting the deals to investors,
and the information may be used to craft new regulations, the
person said. The Wall Street Journal reported on the subpoenas
earlier today.  “We welcome this inquiry because the information we
provide, we believe, will show the benefits that well-capitalized owners, who are willing to invest significant
financial and human capital for the long-term, can bring to
insurance companies,” Thomas Mulligan, a spokesman for
Guggenheim at Sitrick and Co., said in an e-mail. Guggenheim
shareholders have owned and operated insurance companies for
decades, he said.  Insurance Deals  Apollo will provide New York with the information it needs
to complete the review,  Carolyn Sargent , who represents the
company at Rubenstein Associates Inc., wrote in a statement.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment, as did Global Atlantic Chief Operating Officer Kathleen Redgate and Jamie Tully, a spokesman for Harbinger Group at Sard
Verbinnen & Co. Tiptree didn’t respond to a message.  Apollo’s Athene unit agreed to buy four insurers since
2008, including the $1.8 billion deal in December for Aviva
Plc’s U.S. life and annuity business. The same month, Guggenheim
shareholders agreed to buy an annuity unit from Toronto-based
 Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  for $1.35 billion.  Philip Falcone ’s publicly traded Harbinger Group Inc.
bought Fidelity & Guaranty, the U.S. life and annuity unit of
London-based Old Mutual Plc, for $350 million in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  