-- Apple Urges Simpler U.S. Tax Code Ahead of Senate Hearing
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-05-20T20:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/apple-seeking-simpler-u-s-tax-code-urges-lower-corporate-rates.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , outlining proposals for a
simplification of the U.S. corporate-tax system, urged Congress
to lower tax rates and implement levies on foreign earnings that
will enable “free movement” of capital back to the U.S.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  will face
questioning tomorrow from a Senate panel investigating how
companies use various maneuvers to reduce their tax bills. It’s
a rare appearance on  Capitol Hill  for Apple, which has largely
avoided scrutiny.  Cook’s testimony follows a plan unveiled by Apple last
month to return $100 billion in cash to shareholders via
dividends and buybacks through 2015. Rather than using funds
overseas that will be taxed, Apple is borrowing money for the
payout, saving as much as $9.2 billion in taxes, according to
Moody’s Investment Services. Apple’s tax proposals will
stimulate the creation of U.S. jobs, boost domestic investment
and promote economic growth, the company said.  “These and other improvements in the U.S. corporate-tax
system may increase the company’s taxes,” Cupertino,
California-based Apple said in  prepared testimony  due to be
delivered tomorrow. “Apple is not opposed to such a result if
it occurs in the context of an overall improvement in
efficiency, flexibility and competitiveness.”  Digital Economy  The U.S. tax system “has not kept pace with the advent of
the digital age and rapidly changing digital economy,” Apple
said. The company said the  tax code  should be simplified in a
way that implements a “reasonable tax” on foreign earnings to
encourage U.S. companies to repatriate the cash.  “The current system, which applies industrial era concepts
to a digital economy, actually undermines U.S.
competitiveness,” Apple said in its prepared remarks.  The U.S. corporate-tax rate of 35 percent is too high for
companies to pay when bringing money back from overseas, Cook
said in press interviews last week.  Apple said it expects to pay $7 billion in U.S. taxes this
fiscal year ending in September, up from $6 billion during the
prior year. The company said its impact on the  U.S. economy  also
includes supporting about 600,000 jobs, including almost 50,000
at Apple itself and 550,000 in areas such as software
engineering and manufacturing.  The company said in the prepared remarks that it doesn’t
use “tax gimmicks,” such as moving intellectual property into
offshore havens, or hold money on a “Caribbean island” to
lower tax bills. Apple said it has a large amount of foreign
cash because 61 percent of its sales last year came from outside
the U.S.  Apple defended its use of international affiliates in
Ireland, which have allowed the company to pay a lower tax rate
on foreign profits. The subsidiaries provide a base of
operations for activities such as sales, supply chain management
and customer support, Apple said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  