-- Arctic Refuge Oil Targeted by Alaska Amid U.S. Reluctance
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-20T17:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/arctic-refuge-oil-targeted-by-alaksa-amid-u-s-reluctance.html
Alaska ’s government proposed
investing its own cash in an assessment of oil reserves in the
U.S. Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, seeking to prod the
federal government to consider drilling in the protected area.  With the Interior Department working on a  management plan 
for the area, Republican Governor Sean Parnell’s administration
said it wants the federal government to study hydrocarbon
reserves in the refuge in northeast Alaska.  Parnell sent a letter today to Interior Secretary Sally
Jewell outlining a plan for a shared $150 million effort, and
members of his administration are in  Washington  to present the
proposal to members of Congress and industry groups. Parnell
offered to seek $50 million from state lawmakers.  “When we’ve had this discussion with the federal
government, there is a head in the sand -- or head in the tundra
-- kind of response,” Daniel Sullivan, the state’s commissioner
for natural resources, said today in Washington. “The
frustration is: Why wouldn’t you want to know” what oil and gas
reserves there are?  The state is proposing to study a portion of the reserve
known as Area 1002, which Sullivan said covers 3,000 square
miles (4,800 square kilometers) and is less than a tenth of the
entire Arctic reserve. Estimates from 30 years ago put the
median volume of oil in the refuge at 10.4 billion barrels,
according to the State of Alaska.  President  Barack Obama ’s Interior Department issued a
conservation plan for  ANWR  that doesn’t include as an
alternative any oil or gas development; it does include the
potential for further wilderness designations, according to the
state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  