-- Harper Said to Name Novak Top Aide After Wright Resigns
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-20T18:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/harper-said-to-name-novak-top-aide-after-wright-resigns.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , seeking to limit damage from the first scandal to touch
his inner circle, named his longest-serving aide to replace
former chief of staff Nigel Wright.  Wright resigned yesterday amid an ethics probe into a
C$90,000 ($87,500) payment he made to Conservative Senator Mike
Duffy to cover the repayment of expenses that Duffy improperly
claimed. Ray Novak, Harper’s principal secretary, will take over
from Wright, a person familiar with the decision said on
condition they not be identified because the appointment hasn’t
been made public.  An expenses controversy has dogged Harper’s ruling
 Conservative Party  in recent months by implicating his lawmakers
in the Senate, an unelected body whose members are appointed by
the prime minister. By claiming Wright, the scandal has moved
closer to Harper than any since he took power in 2006, said  Nik Nanos , an Ottawa-based pollster.  “One of the reasons Harper has been politically successful
is that he has been untouched by controversy,” Nanos, president
of Nanos Research, said by e-mail. “I believe this is the first
time something controversial has been linked inside the prime
minister’s office.”  Harper’s office acknowledged last week thatWright wrote
Duffy a personal check to help him reimburse the Senate for
disputed housing claims.  ‘Public Interest’  Wright “was acting in the public interest,” Harper said
in a statement yesterday. The prime minister’s office said May
15 that Wright helped Duffy because the lawmaker was unable to
pay back the funds immediately and the chief of staff didn’t
want taxpayers to foot the bill.  “In light of the controversy surrounding my handling of
matters involving Senator Duffy, the prime minister has accepted
my resignation,” Wright, 50, wrote in a separate statement. “I
accept sole responsibility. I did not advise the Prime Minister
of the means by which Senator Duffy’s expenses were repaid.”  The controversy coincides with Harper’s Conservatives
trailing in public opinion polls for the first time since the
2009 recession. A Nanos Research poll released April 12 found
the  Liberal Party  with the support of 35.4 percent of voters,
compared with 31.3 percent for the Conservatives. That’s a
reversal from January, when the Conservatives had 34.3 percent
support, compared with 27.6 percent for the Liberals. Elections
aren’t scheduled until 2015.  ‘Get Legs’  “There’s enough time to put this behind him but they can’t
let it get legs,” Nanos said.  The spokesman for ethics issues for the main opposition  New
Democratic Party , Charlie Angus, told reporters today he’s
written to Royal Canadian Mounted Police Commissioner Bob
Paulson asking him to investigate the matter.  “A secret cash payment to a public figure is a very, very
serious allegation,” Angus said in the televised conference in
Ottawa. “The fact that this payment was made out of the prime
minister’s office demands accountability.  ‘‘These actions are not only troubling, but they may
violate the very laws that the RCMP is charged with upholding
and enforcing,’’ Angus said.  Novak has worked as a political aide to Harper since his
return to federal politics in 2002. He served as Harper’s
executive assistant before his promotion to principal secretary
in 2008.  ‘Good Faith’  Duffy, 66, has said Senate rules allowing for reimbursement
of housing and travel expenses to lawmakers whose primary
residence is more than 100 kilometers (62 miles) from Ottawa
were unclear, a statement  corroborated  in a Deloitte LLP audit
commissioned by the chamber and released May 9. In a statement
the same day, Duffy said he claimed the expenses in ‘‘good
faith’’ and won’t seek to have any part of his repayment
returned to him.  Duffy, a former reporter and broadcaster appointed to the
Senate by Harper in 2009, quit the Conservative caucus May 16,
saying in a  statement  he will sit as an independent senator
‘‘pending resolution of these issues.’’ Senator Pamela Wallin,
another former broadcaster appointed to the Senate by Harper,
announced a day later that she also left the Conservative caucus
until an audit of her travel expenses is complete.  Private Equity  Wright, a one-time adviser and speech writer to former
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, was a managing director at
Toronto-based  Onex Corp. (OCX) ,  Canada ’s largest  private-equity  firm,
before becoming Harper’s third chief of staff more than two
years ago. At the time, he said he was taking temporary leave
from Onex until January 2013.  Wright, who has been an organizer with the Conservatives
since at least 1983, also resigned from the boards of Hawker
Beechcraft and Spirit Aerosystems Holdings, two Onex units, to
join the prime minister’s office.  Before joining Onex, he worked as a lawyer at the
commercial firm Davies, Ward, and Beck.  Wright told lawmakers at a hearing before taking the job
that his values ‘‘align” with the prime minister’s “in every
single way.”  Wright was chief of staff during a period where Harper
headed a majority government, a luxury previous chiefs of staff
didn’t have. During this time, Harper has shifted policy toward
global competitiveness issues and pressed ahead with efforts to
bolster business investment, as the country’s economy struggles
to build steam amid tepid demand for exports and slowing
consumer spending.  That policy agenda has included legislation to expedite the
environmental review of  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Northern Gateway
pipeline and other resource infrastructure projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  