-- Hatch Insists on Immigration Changes to Gain His Support
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-05-20T23:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/hatch-insists-on-immigration-changes-to-gain-his-support.html
Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  said
he won’t support a bipartisan U.S. immigration bill unless
lawmakers agree to his changes on taxes immigrants must pay and
social benefits they can receive.  Hatch, of  Utah , is a critical vote on the Judiciary
Committee, in its fourth day of considering amendments to the
bill, and in the full Senate. The bipartisan authors of the
Senate measure have been courting his vote.  “It won’t be going anywhere without these amendments,
because you’re not going to get any Republicans,” Hatch told
reporters today in Washington. “These aren’t killer amendments;
these are amendments that make the bill palatable not just to
Republicans but to Democrats too, some Democrats.”  Among the changes Hatch said must be made to gain his vote
are requiring immigrants who seek citizenship to pay additional
taxes and to make clear that unauthorized employment can’t count
toward eligibility for Social Security benefits.  The Senate bill would open a path to citizenship for 11
million undocumented immigrants in the U.S. if they meet certain
criteria, including paying back taxes and a fine and passing a
criminal background check.  Hatch wants to impose a five-year waiting period before
people on the path to citizenship can receive subsidies under
the 2010 health-care law.  At the same time, Hatch has said he will oppose the
legislation unless Democrats agree to a series of amendments
favoring technology companies that seek to hire more foreign
workers. He has been meeting with Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New
York  and  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , Democratic authors of the
immigration bill, to try to reach a compromise.  ‘Working Assiduously’  “We’re working assiduously at it; I hope we can get it
done,” Hatch told reporters today. “We’re not there yet.”  “I am working in good faith, they’re working in good
faith,” Hatch said. He said he would vote for the bill in the
Judiciary Committee if lawmakers reach what he views as an
acceptable compromise on the high-tech visa issue.  Unions led by the AFL-CIO labor federation said technology
companies are trying to undermine  job security  and opportunity
for U.S. workers.  Durbin, the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, has said he
couldn’t support Hatch’s amendments on high-tech jobs because
they would weaken job opportunities for U.S. workers.  The Senate bill would raise the annual H-1B visa limit for
high-skilled foreign workers to 135,000 from 85,000 and require
companies to recruit U.S. workers before hiring foreign ones.
Technology companies say that invites bureaucratic scrutiny by
the government and lawsuits from disgruntled U.S. workers.  One of Hatch’s amendments would require employers to show
that a U.S. worker wasn’t available only when they initially
hire a foreign employee, not with each visa extension. Another
would allow people who intend to immigrate to the U.S. to be
counted as U.S. workers under certain circumstances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  