-- Aussie, Kiwi Rebound Versus Dollar on Sign Currencies Oversold
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-05-20T07:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/aussie-kiwi-rebound-versus-dollar-on-sign-currencies-oversold.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars gained for the first time in three days against the
greenback as technical indicators signaled the South Pacific
currencies may be oversold.  The Aussie rebounded from the lowest in almost a year
before testimony this week by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke, who may counter speculation U.S. policy makers are
close to reducing bond purchases under their quantitative easing
program. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar gained against its 16 most-traded peers after the nation’s finance minister said home price
gains will pressure the central bank to raise interest rates.  “The market has just moved too quickly ahead of what the
Fed is actually likely to do,” said  Kieran Davies , chief
economist at Barclays Plc in Sydney. “We’re not expecting
Chairman Bernanke to give any sign that tapering is going to
happen soon.”  Australia’s dollar gained 0.3 percent to 97.61 U.S. cents
as of 5:09 p.m. in Sydney from May 17. It fell 2.9 percent last
week, touching 97.11, the lowest since June 5.  New Zealand’s kiwi dollar climbed 0.7 percent to 81.23 U.S.
cents following a 2.1 percent slide over the previous two
sessions. It dropped 2.9 percent last week.  The Australian dollar’s relative strength index versus the
greenback was at 23.1, below the 30 level which indicates an
asset’s price has fallen too rapidly and may be poised to
reverse course. The New Zealand dollar’s RSI against its U.S.
counterpart was at 32.5.  Bernanke Testimony  Fed Chairman Bernanke goes before a Joint Economic
Committee of Congress in  Washington  on May 22 to testify on the
economic outlook. Minutes of the Fed’s last policy meeting will
be released the same day.  “His testimony takes on much greater focus given that
expectations of early tapering are again gaining ground,”  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
Hong Kong, wrote in a note to clients today. “Those
expectations will likely be disappointed in the event that he
reiterates an accommodative policy stance.”  The dollar has been boosted by speculation the U.S. central
bank is going to signal a paring back of its purchases of $85
billion of Treasury and mortgage bonds a month. Fed Bank of San
Francisco President John Williams said May 16 that quickening
economic growth and gains in the job market may prompt a
tapering as soon as this summer. Williams was one of the first
Fed officials to advocate open-ended bond purchases.  Bets Reversed  Futures traders last week reversed their bets that the U.S.
dollar will fall against the Aussie, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other
large speculators on a rise in the greenback compared with those
on a decline -- so-called  net longs  -- was 13,450 on May 14,
compared with net shorts of 6,630 a week earlier.  The data shows U.S. dollar positions are “becoming
stretched,” National Australia Bank Ltd. analysts, led by
Global Head of Research Peter Jolly, wrote in an e-mailed note
to clients today.  The New Zealand dollar rose after Finance Minister Bill
English said rising home prices may force the Reserve Bank to
tighten lending.  “These households heading into quite high debt to buy
highly priced houses need to be aware at some stage the RBNZ
will increase interest rates, particularly if the housing market
keeps growing at rapid rates,” English said yesterday in an
interview broadcast on Television New Zealand’s Q+A.  RBNZ Concern  Low interest rates have helped fuel demand for property,
raising prices at the fastest pace since 2007 and prompting the
central bank to signal its concern about the risks if the
housing bubble bursts. Central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler is
reluctant to increase the official cash rate from a record low
2.5 percent because it may boost demand for the currency.  “The Reserve Bank is starting to lose sleep over the
Auckland housing market,” Sharon Zollner, senior economist at
ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, wrote in a report
today. “This is one reason why markets are not pricing in
interest rate cuts in response to the high NZD.”  The New Zealand dollar has surged 40 percent against the
greenback since the end of 2008, the biggest advance among more
than 150 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The Australian dollar
has gained 39 percent.  Traders see the RBNZ raising borrowing costs by 18 basis
points over 12 months, a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on
swaps showed. That compares with expectations for 32 basis
points of interest rate cuts to  Australia ’s central bank over
the period.  ASX Ltd., the operator of Australia’s main stock exchange,
begins exchange-traded Australian government bonds  tomorrow .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  