-- Bank Indonesia Sets Debut Rupiah Fix Stronger Than Singapore
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-05-20T09:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/bank-indonesia-sets-debut-rupiah-fix-stronger-than-singapore-1-.html
Bank  Indonesia  set its first fixing
for the rupiah 0.2 percent stronger than an equivalent rate in
Singapore, where the central bank has started a probe to
ascertain whether onshore rates were manipulated.  Indonesia’s monetary authority will require local lenders
to use its Jakarta Interbank Spot Dollar Rate, which it fixed at
9,760 per dollar today, to settle currency derivatives, Difi Johansyah, the  executive director  for communications, told
reporters in Jakarta today. That compared with the 9,778 set by
the Association of Banks in Singapore, which is used to settle
non-deliverable forwards in the rupiah.  Bank Indonesia is following the example of  Bank Negara
Malaysia , which now requires lenders under its oversight to use
an onshore benchmark for similar ringgit transactions, a person
familiar with the matter said in January. The Monetary Authority
of  Singapore  began an investigation into fixings implemented by
its association of banks in September after global regulators
identified irregularities in settings for the London interbank
offered rate, allegedly to inflate lenders’ profits.  “The potential for manipulation in Jisdor is much smaller
as it’s taken from actual transactions and not self-inputted,
which may be influenced by the banks’ interests,” Raditya Ariwibowo, a treasury research analyst at state-owned PT Bank
Negara Indonesia, said in an interview from Jakarta today.
“This may also reduce the rupiah’s volatility as traders can
now look at this onshore fixing rather than the offshore NDF
market for direction.”  Not Mandatory  The rupiah, Asia’s worst-performing currency excluding the
yen in the last 12 months, was little changed at 9,758 per
dollar as of 3:58 p.m. in Jakarta, compared with 9,757 on May 17,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It
traded 0.4 percent stronger than one-month non-deliverable
forwards, which advanced 0.4 percent to 9,800, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 23 basis points,
or 0.23 percentage point, to 6.83 percent. The gauge reached
7.21 percent on May 17, the highest since September.  The central bank collects realized transactions between
banks up to 9:45 a.m. before releasing the  reference rate  at 10
a.m. in Jakarta, it said in a  statement  posted on its website
today. The fixing will help develop the onshore currency
derivatives market as it provides a reliable reference to be
used to settle the contracts, Johansyah said.  Hedging Transactions  “Hedging products are very dependent on the reference used
to settle them and Jisdor will hopefully contribute to increased
hedging transactions due to improved price transparency,”
Johansyah said. “ Bank Indonesia  has no authority to require
overseas traders to use the fixing, and we don’t allow non-deliverable forwards onshore.”  The monetary authority  prohibited  local lenders from
conducting non-deliverable forward transactions domestically in
2005. The Association of Banks in Singapore provides offshore
reference rates that are used to settle forward contracts
involving the currencies of Singapore, Indonesia,  Malaysia ,
 Thailand  and  Vietnam .  NDF contracts, unlike foreign-exchange forwards, are
settled in dollars. Who pays and how much is paid at the end of
the contract is determined by reference to a fixing, which in
some jurisdictions is set by a survey of lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  