-- Danish Banks Start Campaign to Block Stricter Capital Rules
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-05-21T12:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/banks-in-denmark-start-campaign-to-block-stricter-capital-rules.html
Denmark ’s banks are preparing a
campaign that will target the country’s lawmakers in an effort
to prevent the nation exceeding European regulatory standards.  Politicians from the government and opposition will this
month be invited to a town hall meeting arranged by the
Association of Danish Mortgage Banks to hear academics, industry
representatives and business groups address the potential impact
of the new rules, said  Peter Jayaswal , a deputy director for the
Copenhagen-based association.  “Our hope is that we can shed some light on the issues,”
Jayaswal said in an interview. “One might question how all
these regulations have an impact on growth and job creation,
which is the main issue for Denmark now.”  Denmark has placed itself at the forefront of regulatory
reform in the European Union. The nation in 2011 forced losses
on senior bank creditors in the EU’s first bail-in. In March, a
government-appointed committee unveiled proposals that would add
as much as 5 percentage points in  capital requirements  for
systemically important financial institutions. The European
Union has yet to present its Sifi standards.  Denmark can’t afford to be in the vanguard of bank reform,
industry and business groups said in comments filed last month
with the business ministry, which is drafting the legislation.
They called for changes, including a delay in adopting a crisis
management framework for Sifis until EU plans are clearer.  Locked Out  “The experience from Denmark’s going it alone on bail-ins
dictates common EU rules in this area,” the Danish Agriculture
and Food Council said in an April 19 statement. The 2011 bail-in
locked most lenders out of wholesale funding markets.  Denmark’s biggest banks, led by Danske Bank A/S, would be
required to hold as much as 15.5 percent capital against their
risk-weighted assets, including a crisis management buffer. That
compares with 13 percent for global systemically important banks
like  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The figures don’t include individual
requirements that take business models into account.  Though Denmark’s banks had initially welcomed the prospect
of too-big-to-fail designation, the March proposals don’t
provide the explicit guarantees of state backing they’d hoped
for, Danske Bank Chief Financial OfficerHenrik Ramlau-Hansen
said in an interview this month. He wants Danish Sifis to be
exempt from the country’s bail-in laws to help lower their
funding costs, a step he says will help release credit into the
economy.  Opposition Backing  The nation’s financial industry has already won the backing
of the opposition bloc, which is signaling it will vote against
the March proposals on Sifis. Kim Andersen, Liberal party
spokesman for the parliamentary business committee that oversees
bank legislation, said the extra capital requirements are too
high given the plight of the economy.  Denmark’s gross domestic product shrank 0.7 percent in the
final three months of 2012 and probably contracted last quarter,
according to Danske Bank and Svenska Handelsbanken AB. Business
groups including the Confederation of Danish Industry have
argued that additional capital requirements risk choking lending
and hurting their members. Small and medium-sized businesses
employ about two-thirds of the nation’s workforce.  Danish banks already have raised rates on loans as they
struggle to prevent losses following a burst property bubble and
tighter regulatory oversight.  The Financial Supervisory Authority said today Denmark’s
smaller banks may still be understating risks after conducting a
review of six lenders. Banks were “overly optimistic” about
how much debt households could bear, the FSA said. The regulator
identified more than twice as many troubled clients as reported
by the banks, it said.  Lending Slump  Denmark’s biggest banks already meet the stricter capital
requirements. Danske, which in 2011 was second in  Europe  only to
Bank of Cyprus in the size of its assets relative to GDP, had a
total capital ratio of 21.6 percent at the end of the first
quarter, the Copenhagen-based bank said May 2.  Lending by Danish banks fell in January to 382 billion
kroner ($66 billion), the lowest level in almost seven years,
according to central bank data.  Banks also want Sifi proposals, which have yet to be
approved by lawmakers, to allow deeper incursions into their
regulatory buffers before triggering the conversion of debt into
equity. The government has signaled it is willing to consider
softer triggers, though it has ruled out the option of bailouts
for Sifis.  “The triggers and the Danish rules going further than the
European Union: That is what we are opposed to,” Jayaswal said.
“There is so much security in the system that we don’t think we
need this high level of capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  