-- Basri Made Indonesia Finance Minister Tasked to Guard Budget
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 2013-05-20T10:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/basri-made-indonesia-finance-chief-tasked-with-guarding-budget.html
Indonesia named Chatib Basri finance
minister today as the government prepares to raise the price of
subsidized fuel and curb a current-account deficit that has hurt
the rupiah.  Basri must ensure fiscal policy stays prudent, President
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said as he announced the appointment in
Jakarta today. The current chairman of the Investment
Coordinating Board, Basri will be sworn in tomorrow and replaces
Acting Finance Minister Hatta Rajasa. The former finance chief,
 Agus Martowardojo , is set to become the central bank governor.  “He has a good track record and he’s not a politician so I
think that puts him in good stead to try and implement some
changes,” said  Euben Paracuelles , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Singapore. Basri’s priorities would be to
convince Parliament of fuel-subsidy cuts, and improve
disbursement of budgeted government spending, he said.  Yudhoyono is reshuffling his top policy-making team as
Southeast Asia’s largest economy grapples with slowing growth
and the worst performing currency in Asia after the yen in the
past year. The president has said he plans to increase
subsidized-fuel prices to curb the government’s energy costs
after Parliament approves compensation programs for the poor.  Public Protests  Since protests derailed plans to raise subsidized-fuel
prices in 2012, officials have explored ways to revamp budget
spending in a country where riots spurred by soaring  living
costs  helped oust dictator Suharto in 1998.  Surging oil imports have strained government finances and
led to a current-account shortfall. Delays in curbing fuel
subsidies have already cost the country a positive outlook on
its sovereign credit rating at Standard & Poor’s.  Basri, 47, will oversee a revised budget, which Rajasa said
last week he had signed and would be presented to Parliament.
The government intends to raise subsidized gasoline prices to
6,500 rupiah ($0.67) a liter, and subsidized diesel to 5,500
rupiah per liter, Planning Minister Armida Alisjahbana told
reporters on May 13.  There will be “no honeymoon period as budget discussions
are of high urgency,” said  Helmi Arman , an economist at
Citigroup Inc. in Jakarta. “The new finance minister will within
days have to kick start mid-year budget discussions with
parliament. This is important as the president has linked the
magnitude of any fuel price hike to the approval of compensatory
subsidies put forth in the draft 2013 budget revision.”  Trade Deficit  Without a reduction in fuel subsidies, the cost may rise to
297.7 trillion rupiah this year from the current target of 193.8
trillion rupiah, Yudhoyono has said. Indonesia spent 211.9
trillion rupiah on fuel subsidies last year, spurring demand for
energy products that contributed to a record trade deficit in
October.  “Amid the global economy that is still full of volatility,
we must maintain our fiscal position well,” Yudhoyono said today.
“That’s why the prudent fiscal policy must be maintained.”  Indonesia ’s benchmark stock index, which has gained about
21 percent this year, fell after Yudhoyono opted for an acting
finance minister to replace Martowardojo last month.  The Jakarta Composite Index gained 1.4 percent today. The
rupiah was little changed at 9,758 per dollar, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  Basri was special adviser to former finance minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati from 2006 to 2010, according to his profile on
the Investment Coordinating Board’s  website .  He has a doctorate in economics and a masters in economic
development from Australian National University, according to
his  website .  “The finance minister must provide back-up policy, policy
support so that investment in Indonesia continues to rise,”
Yudhoyono said today. “There are fiscal policies that are really
driving investment well, whether it’s fiscal incentives or other
policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  