-- Best Bond Rally Seen Sustained in Hungary as Matolcsy Cuts Rates
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/best-bond-rally-seen-sustained-in-hungary-as-matolcsy-cuts-rates.html
The best emerging-market bond rally
has further to run as  Hungary ’s central bank extends interest
rate cuts and limits unconventional stimulus measures, according
to Pioneer Investments and Erste Sparinvest KAG.  Hungary’s local-currency bonds have returned 6.7 percent
this year, the most among  developing countries , according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analyst Societies. Debt from euro-region countries has
returned 3 percent, the data show. The yield on Hungary’s 10-year bonds stood at 4.94 percent on May 17, one basis point from
a record low and down from an average 7.98 percent in 2012.  Central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy, who called for
“brave” use of unorthodox policies and rejected a stronger
forint before assuming his role March 4, has refrained from
accelerating  interest rate  cuts beyond a quarter point in each
of the past two months. Matolcsy announced a 250 billion forint
($1.1 billion) zero-interest lending plan in April to revive
growth, based on a similar program by the  Bank of England .  “The bank is quite cautious: they are not trying to weaken
the currency, not using up too much in foreign currency
reserves,” Anton Hauser, who helps manage the equivalent of
$6.5 billion in assets including Hungarian bonds at Erste in
Vienna, said in a May 14 interview. Erste is holding more forint
bonds than their weighting in benchmark indexes, Hauser said.  Forint Rallies  The return on Hungary’s forint bonds so far this year
compares with a gain of 3.3 percent for the benchmark  BUX Index (BUX) 
and a 13 percent rally in the MSCI World Index of developed
countries. Local-currency debt from  emerging markets  has
advanced 3.3 percent this year, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s GBI-EM Global  index .  The forint has strengthened 4.6 percent against the euro
this quarter, the best performance among the 31 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  With inflation at a 39-year low, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank
will use all methods at its disposal, including rate cuts, to
help make economic growth sustainable, Matolcsy told a
conference in Miskolc, eastern Hungary, on May 16.  A policy of gradual cuts, which took the  base rate  to a
record low of 4.75 percent in April from 7 percent in July, “is
working, it’s a good strategy,” he was quoted as saying by
state-run MTI news service on May 17.  Rate-Cut Bets  Forward-rate agreements, derivatives used to speculate on
three-month interest costs in a year’s time, traded at 3.35
percent on May 17. That’s 121 basis points below the Budapest
Interbank Offered Rate, indicating as much as 1.25 percentage
points in further easing from the central bank.  Morgan Stanley expects Hungary’s benchmark rate to fall to
3.5 percent by September, compared with an earlier projection
that rates would bottom at 4.5 percent, Pasquale Diana, a
London-based economist, wrote in an e-mailed report on May 17.  The economy expanded 0.7 percent in the first quarter from
the last three months of 2012, the first quarterly growth in
more than a year, the  Central Statistical Office  said on May 15.
The inflation rate fell to 1.7 percent, the least since 1974 in
April, the statistics office said the previous day.  Prime Minsiter  Viktor Orban ’s government used taxes on
banks, energy and telecommunications companies to reduce the
 budget deficit  to below the EU’s 3 percent of gross domestic
product limit in 2011 and 2012 after exceeding the gap every
year since Hungary joined the bloc in 2004.  Macro Improvement  “The macro picture is improving in Hungary,” Margarete Strasser, who helps manage the equivalent of about $770 million
in central and eastern European debt including Hungarian bonds
at Pioneer, said May 14. “On the other hand, the credibility of
the country and the government has not really changed.”  Matolcsy, Orban’s former economy minister, initially
undermined investors’ confidence when he began his tenure by
weakening the power of his central bank deputies, helping send
Hungarian credit insurance costs to a six-month high and the
forint to a 14-month low in March. He is a “horror candidate”
for the monetary post, Carolin Hecht, a Frankfurt-based
strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a note on Feb. 15.  The forint dropped to a record against the euro in January
2012 as Orban sparred with the  International Monetary Fund  and
the EU over legislation threatening the independence of the
central bank. While Orban conceded to pressure on laws regarding
monetary autonomy, he remains against European Commission
recommendations to cut welfare payments or pensions to meet
budget goals. Hungary may raise taxes on banks or international
companies, Orban told state-run MR1 radio on May 17.  Taking Profit  Hungary’s bonds have “rallied too much,”  Gyula Toth ,
managing director at Ithuba Capital AG in Vienna, where he helps
manage the equivalent of $515 million, said in an interview on
May 14. Ithuba sold its Hungarian bonds “in the last couple of
weeks” to profit from the rally, Toth said.  Investors demand 320 basis points, or 3.2 percentage
points, in extra yield to hold Hungary’s dollar bonds rather
than U.S. Treasuries, more than double  Poland ’s 116 basis-point
premium. Hungary’s credit-default swaps have fallen to 276 basis
points from 388 at the end of March.  Yields for Hungary’s government bonds due October 2028 rose
three basis points to 5.30 percent on May 17, compared with this
year’s peak of 6.71 percent on March 22, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Hungarian markets were closed yesterday.  “In a normal market, I would say that most of the rate
cuts have been priced in,” Strasser said. “But everybody is
looking for some yield and there are not many alternatives. We
could see further yield shifts downwards on the long end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  