-- Birla Said to Profit From Rival’s Copper Woes: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-05-21T11:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/birla-said-to-profit-from-rival-s-copper-woes-corporate-india.html
Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) , India’s
second-largest copper producer, is benefiting from the shortage
in the market caused by the closing of its bigger rival’s
smelter, said two people familiar with the situation.  Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s company increased the
premium it charges over the London benchmark price of copper by
about 15 percent, the people said, asking not to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media. The price
of sulfuric acid, a by-product, was also raised by a similar
margin, they said.  Local supplies of primary copper, derived from metal ore
and concentrate, plunged 50 percent after  Sterlite Industries
(India) Ltd. (STLT)  was ordered on March 30 to shut its plant in the
southern state of Tamil Nadu following a gas leak, the people
said. The closing of billionaire Anil Agarwal’s smelter has
given Birla an opportunity to reverse five straight quarters of
profit decline at Hindalco, which also owns Atlanta-based
aluminum maker Novelis.  “The closed Sterlite unit may enable Hindalco to charge a
higher local premium for copper and its realization from
sulfuric acid should also improve,” said Goutam Chakraborty, an
analyst at Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd., who has a buy
rating on Hindalco. “Though the company is likely to benefit,
it’s very difficult to quantify by how much.”  The  shares  of Hindalco rose 0.2 percent to 110.4 rupees at
the close of trading in Mumbai. The stock has declined 15
percent this year, compared with a 3.5 percent increase in the
benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index.  Sharing Customers  Hindalco, which shares many of its copper customers with
Sterlite, is focusing on the domestic market, the people said.
Hindalco increased its premium by about $30 a ton on the London
Metal Exchange price, the people said.  Hindalco spokeswoman Pragnya Ram declined to comment.  Trouble for Sterlite began in September 2010, when the
Madras High Court ruled the 400,000 metric-ton facility, located
at Tuticorin in the southern state of Tamil Nadu, should be shut
for environmental breaches. The Supreme Court, which allowed the
plant to operate in an interim order the next month, imposed a
penalty of 1 billion rupees ($18 million) on the company on
April 2 this year.  In a separate case in March this year, the pollution
control authority of Tamil Nadu said the plant violated emission
norms and must be closed. Sterlite has challenged the board’s
decision and the case is pending before the National Green
Tribunal, which rules on environmental breaches.  Price Outlook  Copper lost 8 percent this year amid Europe’s debt crisis
and slowing growth in  China , the biggest metals consumer. Europe
and China make up about 60 percent of world consumption.  The metal, used in cables and wires, may rise almost 10
percent to as much as $8,000 a ton should the price exceed this
month’s high of $7,480, according to technical analysis by Marex
Spectron Group. In technical analysis, investors and analysts
study charts of trading patterns and prices to predict changes
in a security, commodity, currency or index.  Sterlite, which accounted for half of India’s 670,000 tons
of primary copper output in the year ended March 31, hasn’t
produced a single ton since April 1. Hindalco produced 315,000
tons of copper in the last fiscal year from its factory in the
western state of Gujarat.  Metal Demand  India ’s annual demand for copper, both from primary and
secondary sources, is estimated at 500,000 tons, which is mainly
supplied by Sterlite and Hindalco, according to a report by the
mines ministry last month. Secondary producers that refine the
metal from imported scrap supply about 20 percent of local needs.
The surplus is exported.  Hindalco, which is slated to announce quarterly earnings on
May 28, may say standalone profit plunged 39 percent to 3.87
billion rupees in three months ended March 31, according to the
median of 25 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Revenue
from the company’s copper business stood at 183.6 billion rupees,
or 23 percent of the 808.2 billion rupees of group sales for the
year ended March 31, 2012.  The group’s share of revenue from aluminum was 77 percent
at 620.6 billion rupees in the last fiscal year. Novelis, the
world’s biggest rolled-aluminum maker, contributed more than
two-third of the group’s revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  