-- Blackstone Said to Explore Brixmor IPO by End of the Year
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-05-20T13:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/blackstone-said-to-explore-brixmor-ipo-by-end-of-the-year.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is considering an
initial public offering of its Brixmor Property Group shopping-center unit by year’s end, taking advantage of a stock-market
rally as it starts to sell real estate assets.  A share sale as a real estate investment trust is possible
by the end of 2013 or early next year, said two people with
knowledge of the firm’s plans, who asked not to be identified
because the process is private. Brixmor last week named a new
financial chief, a move some analysts saw as presaging an IPO.
The assets that form the core of Brixmor were acquired in the $9
billion purchase of U.S. shopping centers from  Australia ’s
 Centro Properties Group  in 2011.  Brixmor, the second-biggest owner of U.S. community and
neighborhood shopping centers, would be part of a first wave of
large real estate sales by Blackstone after the credit crisis.
The New York-based private-equity firm began telling investors
in 2012 it anticipated major divestitures within two years,
raising the prospect of IPOs including the Hilton Worldwide
hotel chain, and sales of office buildings acquired in the $39
billion deal for Equity Office Properties Trust in 2007.  “The fundamentals in the shopping-center industry are
pretty strong right now,” said Diane Wade, a senior analyst at
CBRE Clarion Securities in Radnor,  Pennsylvania , who covers
retail, apartment and storage companies. “Shopping centers have
done very well year to date and they’ve outperformed the overall
REIT market. So if you were going to take somebody public, this
would be an attractive time to do it.”  Retail Centers  Brixmor manages about 600 properties totaling 94 million
square feet (8.7 million square meters) in 39 states. Shopping
centers are typically home to supermarkets, drugstores or
discount chains and tend to be open air, versus enclosed malls
with more upscale retailers. Brixmor’s are anchored mainly by
grocers such as  Kroger Co. (KR)  or discounters such as TJX Cos. The
New York-based company is the largest shopping-center owner
after  Kimco Realty Corp. (KIM) , which is valued at $9.9 billion.  “Blackstone is beginning to monetize certain
investments,” said Cedrik Lachance, a managing director and
head of retail research at Green Street Advisors Inc. in  Newport
Beach ,  California . “Public-market values for strip centers are
substantially higher than the private market, so that suggests
Brixmor could be worth more in the public market than held
privately.”  Publicly traded shopping-center REITs are trading at a 15
percent premium to what their assets, excluding debt, would
fetch in the private market, he said.  ‘Material Pickup’  Peter Rose , a Blackstone spokesman, declined to comment on
a potential Brixmor IPO or real estate sales. The company hasn’t
begun hiring bankers for a possible Brixmor stock sale,
according to the people with knowledge of its thinking.  “We have told the market we expect in real estate a
material pickup in dispositions over the next couple of years,”
 Jonathan Gray , Blackstone’s global head of real estate, said at
the firm’s annual investor day May 3. “I would reaffirm that
statement strongly today, given what we see out there in the
marketplace.”  An IPO of Brixmor would mark the sale of assets mostly
acquired after the financial crisis, showing the strong rebound
in real estate values from their lows. An appraisal-based index
compiled by Green Street shows commercial-property prices in
April surpassed the peak. Another gauge, the Moody’s/Real
Capital Analytics Commercial Property Price Index, as of March
had recovered about 51 percent of its peak-to-trough losses.
That measure is based on repeat-sales transactions.  Stock Gains  The Bloomberg REIT Shopping Center  index  has more than
tripled from a 2009 low and returned 36 percent in the past 12
months, compared with a 30 percent return, which includes
dividends, for the broader REIT gauge.  Brixmor said May 13 that it hired Michael Pappagallo as its
president and chief financial officer. He had been chief
operating officer of  New Hyde Park , New York-based Kimco. The
hiring of a well-known public-market executive is a clue that
Blackstone may be looking at an IPO, Lachance said.  “We are excited to have someone of his caliber join our
team to oversee the positioning of our  capital structure  and
continued financial performance as we prepare for the next steps
of our evolution,” Michael Carroll, Brixmor’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement announcing the move.  Pappagallo, 54, is scheduled to start his new job, which
includes  investor relations , today.  “The hiring of Mike Pappagallo was probably a signal that
Brixmor is intending to go public,” CBRE’s Wade said. “He has
a lot of  capital markets  experience.”  Rising Rents  Shopping  centers  have become more popular with investors as
retail demand improves. Average occupancy at U.S. shopping-center REITs was 93.6 percent at the end of 2012, the highest
since 2008, and rental rates have grown for 12 straight
quarters, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Brixmor’s occupancy across its portfolio was 90 percent as
of March 31, unchanged from the previous three months, the
company said May 17. Kimco’s was 93.7 percent in the first
quarter.  The stable of potential buyers for Blackstone’s real estate
also has grown as many investors, looking for higher yields than
 Treasuries (USGG10YR)  offer, seek income-producing U.S. real estate and
lenders are again willing to provide debt financing.  DDR Deal  Blackstone has already begun selling retail assets.  DDR
Corp. (DDR)  said last week it agreed to buy the firm’s 95 percent
stake in 30 jointly owned shopping centers for $1.46 billion.
The sale will bring a substantial profit on properties the
buyout firm will have held for less than two years. Since the
partners acquired the centers last June, DDR’s stock has jumped
35 percent, giving it more valuable currency to pay for assets.  On May 7,  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)  said Blackstone
would sell its 23.4 million  shares , equal to almost a 2.5
percent stake. The No. 2 U.S. mall landlord has gained about 75
percent since the company exited bankruptcy in November 2010.  Large public companies in the U.S. can borrow for about 3
percent and coupled with the rise in their shares, “we’re
seeing them become much more acquisitive,” Gray, 43, said at
the investor day.  “I would expect you’ll see us IPO or merge many of our
assets into the public markets here in the U.S., and I think it
may happen increasingly over time in  Europe  as well,” Gray
said. “When it comes to our higher-quality assets, our office
buildings, for example, in  London  and across the U.S. and the
big coastal markets, I think you’ll see a number of sovereign
buyers showing up as we move to sell these assets.”  Net Buyer  The firm’s asset sales follow more than three years of net
real estate purchases as Blackstone took advantage of the global
credit crisis to acquire assets at discounts from sellers who
couldn’t refinance. It has spent about $23 billion buying real
estate assets since the credit crisis began, Gray said May 3.  The firm has invested about half of its record $13.3
billion property fund, he said. Blackstone has acquired more
than 26,000 single-family homes for rent and has been purchasing
industrial assets, including 15 warehouses in the Chicago area
for about $110 million in April. It agreed to buy 23 industrial
properties in southern  Virginia  and the Washington and Baltimore
areas for $241.5 million, according to a statement today from
the seller, First Potomac Realty Trust.  Blackstone’s own stock reflects the rebound in markets. The 
shares  have doubled during the past year to $23.45, though are
24 percent below their IPO price of $31 in 2007.  “We’ve been in a long investing period, and we’ve just
started harvesting really towards the latter half of last
year,” Joan Solotar, a senior managing director at Blackstone,
said at the investor day. “We begin this year with a real
treasure trove of high-quality, high-value assets that we plan
to sell down over the next several years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  