-- Boeing Open to Raising 787 Output Again to Shrink Backlog
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-05-20T21:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/boeing-open-to-raising-787-output-again-to-shrink-backlog.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  Chief Executive Officer
 James McNerney  is open to another increase in production rates
for the 787 Dreamliner so the world’s largest planemaker can
shrink a backlog of 840 jets.  A faster tempo would give Boeing a chance to attract new
customers, McNerney said today an interview, as waiting times
now run six years or more. Output is already supposed to double
in 2013 to 10 a month, and he didn’t give a possible goal.  “We haven’t decided to do that yet, because we’re just
trying to keep our feet underneath us,” McNerney said aboard
 United Airlines (UAL)  Flight 1 from Houston to Chicago as the 787
resumed U.S. flying after a three-month grounding. “That’s one
thing we could do to bring the backlog down and make spaces for
people who want to buy the aircraft.”  Boeing has been gradually increasing production since the
plane’s commercial debut in 2011 after more than 3 1/2 years of
delays left dozens of Dreamliners sitting in temporary storage.
The 787 is the world’s first jetliner made chiefly of composite-plastic materials.  Airlines have taken deliveries of 52 of the twin-engine
wide-bodies, which start at a list price of $206.8 million.
Production is now running at a rate of seven a month, the
Chicago-based company said in April.  The handovers were halted this year after the U.S.  Federal
Aviation Administration  grounded the Dreamliner fleet in
January, the first such move since 1979, after malfunctions in
its  lithium-ion batteries .  The FAA recertified the 787 for flight last month after
Boeing redesigned the battery with more insulation between
cells, a steel case to contain any overheating and tubing to
vent any gas outside the fuselage. United Continental Holdings
Inc., the only U.S. operator of the Dreamliner, restarted 787
service with today’s flight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  aboard United Flight 1 at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  