-- Bondex May Owe $1.1 Billion Over Asbestos, Judge Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-05-20T14:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/bondex-may-owe-1-1-billion-over-asbestos-judge-says.html
Bondex International Inc. , the
bankrupt unit of Rust-Oleum maker  RPM International Inc. (RPM) , may
owe current and future victims of asbestos poisoning
$1.17 billion, a judge estimated.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Judith K. Fitzgerald in Wilmington,
 Delaware , today sided with lawyers representing asbestos claims
and rejected the method Bondex and Specialty Products Holding
Corp. used to estimate they owed no more than $575 million.  “We decline to accept debtors’ novel approach in this
case,” Fitzgerald wrote in her opinion. The ruling will help
determine how much Bondex and its affiliates must try to set
aside as part of the company’s reorganization plan.  Bondex and Specialty Products filed for bankruptcy in May
2010 with plans to set up an asbestos-victims trust to resolve
future and current suits. To calculate how much money must be
placed into the trust, the companies and creditors submitted
detailed estimates of the size of all current and future
asbestos claims.  RPM fell 15 cents to $33.70 at 10:50 a.m. in  New York 
trading.  Bankrupt companies and their parents can win immunity from
future asbestos lawsuits by setting up trusts to cover medical
and other costs associated with exposure to asbestos.  In 2011, Bondex bankruptcy attorney Gregory Gordon told
Fitzgerald that RPM understood that it would have to put money
into an asbestos trust to win immunity from related lawsuits
targeting its subsidiaries.  Barry M. Slifstein, an RPM spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  The bankruptcy case is In re Specialty Products Holdings
Corp., 10-bk-11780,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 