-- Border Spat Sidelined as China’s Li in India for First Trip
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-05-20T11:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/border-spat-sidelined-as-china-s-li-in-india-for-first-trip-1-.html
India and  China  sought to draw a line
under a military standoff along part of their disputed border,
agreeing to accelerate talks on a settlement and boost trade
that they said would help drive the world economy.  The potential for conflict along the Himalayan frontier,
scene of a brief 1962 war, was highlighted last month as India
alleged Chinese troops had crossed into Indian-held territory in
northern Ladakh, triggering a three-week confrontation that
ended with an agreement negotiated by army commanders.  The two countries “took stock of lessons learned from the
recent incident,” Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh told
reporters in New Delhi after talks with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang. While current “mechanisms proved their worth, we have
tasked our special representatives to consider further measures
that may be needed to maintain peace and tranquility,” he said.  Leaders of both countries have sought to raise bilateral
trade and investment as discussions on a formal border pact
continue. Singh and Li, who chose to make  India  his first
overseas destination after taking office in March, today pledged
closer cooperation to link India’s economy to Chinese and
Southeast Asian markets. They also agreed to step up the sharing
of information on river projects, following Indian concerns over
dams China is constructing on the Brahmaputra.  “The two big powers in the region are giving signals that
they can sort out their problems through dialogue and they will
maintain stability so that the Asia story will continue to
unfold,” said  Alka Acharya , director of the New Delhi-based
 Institute of Chinese Studies . “Boosting economic and commercial
ties is also getting priority.”  Frank Talks  Negotiators would meet again soon to push border talks
along, Singh said today, adding that he had accepted an
invitation to visit China. No date was set.  The Hindu newspaper, an Indian daily, reported that Singh
told Li during “frank” discussions last night that it would be
difficult to maintain improvements in ties if there were further
provocations along the border, citing officials present at the
meeting whom the paper didn’t name.  “We do not deny there are some problems,” Li, 57, said
today in the Indian capital. “We need to appropriately manage
and resolve our differences.”  Commenting on Li’s decision to make India his first port of
call as premier, Indian Foreign Ministry spokesman Syed Akbaruddin said at a May 18 briefing with reporters that the
government in New Delhi thought “very highly” of the gesture.  Li also met today with Indian Foreign Minister Salman Khurshid and Sonia Gandhi, president of the ruling Congress
party. Tomorrow, he will meet business leaders in Mumbai.  ‘New Engines’  India and China, home to more than a third of the world’s
people, have vowed to raise commerce to $100 billion by 2015,
from Indian Commerce Ministry estimates of $75.6 billion in the
year to March 31, 2012.  By ensuring an amicable relationship, China and India will
provide “new engines for the world economy,” Li said today.  China has said it is addressing Indian concerns over access
to the Chinese market. India exported goods worth $9.7 billion
to China in the nine months to December 2012, a quarter of the
$41.2 billion of imports from its northern neighbor, according
to data from India’s Commerce Ministry.  India accuses China of occupying 38,000 square kilometers
of territory in Jammu and Kashmir, while the government in
Beijing says 90,000 square kilometers of land in Arunachal
Pradesh, a state in India’s northeast, belongs to China. Fifteen
rounds of talks have failed to resolve the dispute.  Afghan Signal  Military relations between the two countries were suspended
in August 2010 after China issued a visa to an Indian army
officer in charge of forces in Kashmir without stamping his
passport, an act seen as questioning India’s rule over the
disputed Himalayan territory. China has a close alliance with
 Pakistan , which has waged two wars with India over Kashmir.  By visiting India ahead of Pakistan, Li may be signaling
concerns over regional stability, said  Michal Meidan , a London-based analyst with Eurasia Group. “Beijing has grown
increasingly disenchanted with Pakistan’s failure to contain the
flow of arms, militants and narcotics from the Afghanistan-Pakistan border into China,” she said in an emailed analysis.  Both India and China have made major investments in
 Afghanistan , likely placing insecurity there at the top of
today’s agenda, Meidan said. Mistrust and the “deeply
asymmetric” nature of the India-China relationship in favor of
Beijing will slow progress in easing strategic disputes, she
said.  China opposes  Tibet ’s spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, who
campaigns for Tibetan autonomy and human rights from exile in
northern India. After India, Li will travel to Pakistan,
Switzerland and  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  