-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Tombini Inflation Stance; Real Falls
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-05-20T21:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/brazil-swap-rates-drop-as-lower-growth-forecast-real-advances.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose as
speculation the central bank will step up the pace of borrowing-cost increases overshadowed a report showing analysts reduced
their 2013 growth forecasts.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 climbed four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.56 percent in Sao
Paulo, the highest closing level since April 17. The real slid
0.2 percent to 2.0388 per  U.S. dollar , the weakest since Jan.
22.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini, who is scheduled
to address lawmakers tomorrow in Brasilia, reiterated last week
that policy makers will “do what’s needed” to contain
inflation. The central bank’s board, which next meets May 28-29,
raised the target lending rate last month by a quarter-percentage point to 7.50 percent.  “The market is still reflecting Tombini’s comments,”
Daniel Cunha, the chief economist at XP Investimentos in Sao
Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “Tombini made investors
more comfortable with a bet that he will increase the benchmark
rate by 50 basis points.”  Swap rates fell earlier today after the central bank
reported that analysts’ median forecast for economic growth in
2013 fell to 2.98 percent from 3 percent. The last time Brazil’s
gross domestic product grew slower than 3 percent for three
consecutive years was a decade ago.  The real dropped as the central bank refrained from
intervening to strengthen it as it reached a four-month low.
Policy makers have swung this year between selling currency
swaps to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by reining in gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  