-- Buffett Jets Chief Says U.S. Leads Private-Flight Rebound
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/buffett-jets-chief-says-u-s-leads-private-flight-rebound.html
The U.S. is leading a recovery in
demand for private flights while  Europe  remains weighed down by
economic weakness, the head of billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s jet-management company said.  “The U.S. from our perspective is coming back and doing
relatively well,” Jordan Hansell, chief executive officer of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s NetJets, said by phone yesterday from
Geneva, where he is attending the European Business Aviation
Convention & Exhibition. “Europe has remained difficult.”  NetJets caters to wealthy individuals and business clients
who take a stake in planes in exchange for flight hours. When
the U.S. financial crisis sapped luxury flying, the company cut
jobs and planes before embarking on $17.6 billion of orders
starting in 2010 on a bet that the market would recover over the
coming decade.  The number of new NetJets owners increased 55 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier, Hansell said. Regarding
the U.S. market, he said: “I wouldn’t say it’s a huge upswing,
but it’s year over year over year, from 2009, been an
improvement.”  Buffett promoted Hansell, 42, to CEO of Columbus, Ohio-based NetJets in 2011. He has helped revitalize the business,
which lost money from when Berkshire purchased it in 1998
through the recession.  In 2009, the unit became “the major problem” for Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire as the recession made it more difficult
to fill planes, Buffett said in that year’s annual report.  Europe, where NetJets operates an affiliate, remains a
challenging market, Hansell said. The euro-area economy
contracted 0.2 percent in the first quarter, its sixth straight
decline. Gross domestic product in the U.S. grew at a 2.5
percent annualized rate in the first quarter.  NetJets said it will be the first operator of  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B) ’s’s Challenger 350 midsize jet, for which the company
placed 75 firm orders in June. The plane features leather and
wood trim and a single-service beverage maker, NetJets said in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  