-- Cameron Relies on Labour to Block Gay-Marriage Amendments
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-05-20T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/cameron-relies-on-labour-to-block-gay-marriage-amendments.html
Prime Minister David Cameron’s bill
to introduce gay marriage in England and  Wales  moved to its
final stage in the House of Commons after an attempt by
opponents in his Tory party to amend the proposal failed.  Amendments to the  Marriage (Same-Sex Couples) Bill  that
would have watered it down or extended the “civil
partnerships” now open to gay couples to heterosexuals were
rejected by lawmakers late yesterday after government ministers
enlisted the support of the opposition Labour Party.  It’s the second time in a week that Cameron has had to rely
on Labour to outvote members of the Conservative Party who
disagree with his policies. On May 15, 116 Tories voted against
their party’s legislative program in the Commons.  “Same-sex couples have waited a very long time indeed for
the right to marry, and I think they’ve waited long enough,”
Culture Secretary Maria Miller, in charge of piloting the bill
through Parliament, told lawmakers in  London .  The bill faces a third-reading vote in the Commons today.
If it passes, it will move to the upper, unelected House of
Lords for further scrutiny. Most of the opposition in the
Commons has come from Tories. In the gay-marriage bill’s last
appearance in Parliament on Feb. 5, 136 Tories voted against,
while 127 voted in favor. The measure passed on that occasion
with help from Labour and the Liberal Democrats, the junior
partners in Cameron’s coalition.  UKIP Surge  Activists say Cameron’s backing for gay marriage is driving
Conservative voters to support the U.K. Independence Party,
which made gains in local elections this month at the expense of
the ruling parties.  A poll by Survation released last night put support for the
Conservatives at 24 percent and UKIP at 22 percent. That’s the
lowest for the Tories since before the 2010 election. Labour was
at 35 percent. Survation interviewed 1,000 people online on May
17 and 18.  Anger among Conservative activists at Cameron’s program
increased on May 18, when the Times and Telegraph newspapers
reported that a senior Conservative described party members as
“mad swivel-eyed loons.” Andrew Feldman, the party’s co-chairman, issued a statement denying it was him.  Cameron sent a message last night to his party, trying to
assuage the anger. “I am proud of what you do,” he said in an
e-mail. “And I would never have around me those who sneered or
thought otherwise. We are a team, from the parish council to the
local association to Parliament, and I never forget it. Does
that mean we will agree on everything? Of course not. The
Conservative Party has always been a broad church -- one which
contains different views and opinions -- and we must remain so
today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  