-- Cameron’s U.K. Conservatives to Defy Him on Gay Marriage
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-20T19:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/cameron-s-u-k-conservatives-prepare-to-defy-him-on-gay-marriage.html
Lawmakers in  David Cameron ’s U.K.
Conservative Party, who voted against him last week over his
policy toward the European Union, were on course to oppose him
again, over plans to introduce gay marriage.  Amendments backed by Conservative opponents of the bill
were defeated in initial votes today before key votes set for
about 10 p.m. in the House of Commons in  London  on proposals
that the government said could wreck the legislation.  Nick Herbert, a Conservative lawmaker and supporter of the
bill, told the  BBC  it was causing “unease” among older party
members. “Absolutely none of us either want to upset or lose
activists, and certainly what I would like to do is to reassure
them that this is a bill that does no harm at all,” he said.  The gay-marriage votes came less than a week after 116
Conservatives made history by voting to express “regret” that
there was no mention of a referendum on EU membership in the
government’s legislative program. They were defeated thanks to
the support of Liberal Democrat and opposition  Labour Party 
lawmakers. The Times and Telegraph newspapers reported that
afterward a senior Conservative described Tory activists as
“mad swivel-eyed loons.” Andrew Feldman, the party’s co-chairman, issued a statement denying it was him.  Civil Partnerships  In three early-evening votes, amendments including one that
would have allowed registrars to refuse to conduct the
ceremonies were defeated by margins of two-to-one.  Activists say Cameron’s backing for gay marriage is driving
Conservative voters to support the U.K. Independence Party,
which made gains in local elections this month at the expense of
the ruling parties.  A poll by Survation released today put support for the
Conservatives at 24 percent and UKIP at 22 percent. That’s the
lowest for the Tories since before the 2010 election. Labour
were at 35 percent. Survation interviewed 1,000 people online
May 17-18.  In the gay-marriage bill’s last appearance in Parliament on
Feb. 5, 136 Tories voted against, while 127 voted in favor. It
too was passed with help from the Liberal Democrats, the junior
partners in the ruling coalition, and Labour.  One of the amendments put down for debate involves
extending civil partnerships to heterosexual couples, which the
government said could delay the bill by two years as the public
is consulted further.  ‘Not Necessary’  Culture Secretary Maria Miller said the amendment “would
throw up significant challenges,” calling it a “complication
that is not necessary at this point in time.”  Tim Loughton, a Conservative opponent of gay marriage who
tabled the amendment, denied it was aimed at “wrecking” the
bill. “This bill, whatever we think about it, introduces a
glaring inequality,” he told the BBC. “If it goes through, as
I’m sure it will, then opposite-sex couples will only have
access to marriage, but same-sex couples will not have access to
the new form of marriage and civil partnerships.”  Labour’s equalities spokeswoman,  Yvette Cooper , said the
party will put down its own amendment calling for a review of
civil partnerships as an alternative to Loughton’s. This could
mean his proposal fails to get the support it needs to pass.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  