-- Large Tornado Slams Oklahoma as Storms Threaten Central U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-05-20T21:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/central-u-s-threatened-for-second-day-by-tornado-bearing-storms.html
A large and “extremely dangerous”
tornado slammed into suburbs south of  Oklahoma City  as watches
for destructive storms and flooding were posted in five states.  The tornado may have been a strong EF-3 or EF-4 on the
Enhanced Fujita scale, said Ken Clark, an expert senior
meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
Pennsylvania. The storm’s debris field was about 1 1/2 mile wide
and it churned on the ground for more than 40 minutes, he said.  KFOR-TV , the NBC affiliate, reported scores of houses were
hit southeast of downtown  Oklahoma  City and at least two schools
in Moore were leveled.  “This is a tornado emergency for Moore and South Oklahoma
City,” the  National Weather Service  said at 3:16 p.m. local
time. “Meteorologists and storm spotters were tracking a large
and extremely dangerous tornado located near Moore,” 11 miles
south of Oklahoma City.  As many as 55.7 million people, including residents of
Dallas, Chicago and Indianapolis, face at least  a slight risk  of
severe storms today, according to the  U.S. Storm Prediction
Center  in Norman, Oklahoma.  At least two people were killed and 39 injured yesterday as
tornadoes struck Oklahoma, the  Associated Press  said. Two dozen
tornado reports from Illinois to Oklahoma were logged by the
storm center, according to the agency’s website.  Flash Floods  Clark said there was another tornado elsewhere in Oklahoma
today and one near Wichita Falls, Texas. In addition to the
tornadoes, the region is also expecting heavy rains that may
bring flash floods.  Three to 4 inches (8 to 10 centimeters) of rain may fall as
thunderstorms move east from Oklahoma and Kansas, according to
the  weather service . A tornado watch is in effect until 10 p.m.
local time from northern Texas and parts of  Arkansas , Oklahoma,
Missouri and Kansas.  “Frequent lightning and torrential rainfall will be the
main impacts from this activity, although a few storms may
produce hail up to the size of dimes,” the weather service said
in a hazardous weather outlook. “The greatest risk of flash-flooding will occur along and north of the Interstate 44
corridor” from  St. Louis  to Wichita Falls.  The threat will continue tomorrow in an area including
Tyler, Texas;  Little Rock , Arkansas; and Shreveport, Louisiana.  A tornado in the Oklahoma City area on May 3, 1999, carried
the highest winds ever recorded on earth, according to the
weather service. Winds were measured at 302 miles (486
kilometers) per hour near Bridge Creek, Oklahoma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  