-- CFTC Said Preparing ISDAfix Probe Talks in Weeks: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-05-21T16:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/cftc-said-to-review-1-million-e-mails-in-isdafix-investigation.html
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
investigators are poring over 1 million e-mails and instant
messages as part of their price-manipulation probe of a swaps
benchmark that helps determine  interest rates  on everything from
annuities to bonds linked to skyscrapers.  Investigators preparing to interview bankers and brokers in
the coming weeks are scouring the records collected under
subpoena for any evidence that the world’s largest banks and
ICAP Plc brokers rigged the ISDAfix swaps rate, said a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because the
probe is private. ICAP Chief Executive Officer  Michael Spencer 
said last week that the company’s investigations have turned up
no wrongdoing.  Electronic communications proved critical for regulators
who fined  Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc more than $2.5 billion for rigging the  London  interbank
offered rate, or Libor, the benchmark tied to $300 trillion of
securities worldwide. Like Libor, ISDAfix is created by
averaging submissions from banks rather than actual trade data.  “One of the things that keeps company compliance people
and their attorneys awake at night is: ‘Oh my gosh, what’s in
the e-mail?”’ said Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at the
 University of Houston . While simply gathering such records
doesn’t mean there’s been any wrongdoing, “e-mail is the main
vulnerability that companies have,” he said.  ‘Strict Rules’  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment, as
did Guy Taylor of ICAP.  “We have very strict rules for our staff who work on the
dollar swap desk,” Spencer said on a May 14 conference call
with reporters. “So far, nothing that we have discovered in our
internal investigations gives me sleepless nights, and nothing
that I’ve heard externally suggests ISDAfix has been tampered
with.”  Companies and money managers in the $379 trillion swaps
market rely on the ISDAfix benchmarks to value their trades.
Banks use the rates in setting coupons paid on $550 billion of
bonds tied to commercial real estate. The benchmark set in six
currencies is used to price euro-denominated corporate bonds and
fluctuations help determine the performance of structured notes
bought by wealthy individuals.  London Inquiry  The CFTC issued subpoenas to current and former  ICAP (IAP) 
brokers, as many as 15 Wall Street dealers and to ISDA,
 Bloomberg News  first reported April 8, citing people familiar
with the matter. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority also
started an inquiry into how the benchmark swaps prices are set
in British pounds, Bloomberg reported two weeks later, citing
people familiar with that review.  The banks that contribute to ISDAfix are  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , Barclays, BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc.,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Royal Bank of
Scotland, UBS and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , according to ISDA.
Representatives of the firms either declined to comment or
didn’t immediately return telephone calls.  ISDAfix rates were created in 1998 by the  International
Swaps & Derivatives Association  along with the predecessors of
 Thomson Reuters  Corp. and ICAP, the biggest arranger of rate-swaps trades between banks.  Global Crackdown  The rates are distributed by Thomson Reuters, Telekurs and
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, according to ISDA’s
website. Bloomberg competes with ICAP in some businesses,
including foreign exchange trading.  Regulators worldwide are cracking down on price-setting
processes used to create market benchmarks, which often involve
banks submitting quotes that are averaged into one figure.  Price rigging allegations surfaced in the $3.4 trillion
global crude oil market last week, with the European Commission
saying May 14 that it’s investigating Royal Dutch Shell Plc, BP
Plc and Statoil ASA, three of Europe’s biggest oil explorers,
and Platts, owned by McGraw Hill Financial Inc.  The FCA, previously known as the Financial Services
Authority, began looking into manipulation of Libor in 2009
after the CFTC requested its assistance the prior year. The
British agency opened a formal investigation of that rate in
early 2010, which includes the actions of interdealer brokers at
RP Martin Holdings Ltd. and ICAP in London.  Libor Manipulation  Interdealer brokers line up buyers and sellers of
securities for banks in exchange for a fee. Employees at RP
Martin and ICAP, the world’s biggest interdealer broker, passed
on requests from derivatives traders asking rate-setters at
others banks to make favorable submissions, e-mails released as
part of the global probe of interest rate-rigging show.  Brokers helped traders manipulate Libor in exchange for
future business and in some cases, the middlemen took payments
in the form of so-called wash trades, regulators said, without
identifying the firms that did.  Dealers are pulling out of rate panels for benchmarks
including Libor, Euribor and ISDAfix on growing concern that
they may face lawsuits, fines and criminal penalties if found to
have engaged in wrongdoing.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest bank by assets, and
Japan’s  Mizuho Financial Group (8411)  stopped contributing to the
ISDAfix dollar rate between November and January, and haven’t
been replaced, according to documents on ISDA’s website. The
industry group didn’t give any reason for the lenders’
departure.  List Culled  Subpoenas were issued by the CFTC to the banks and ICAP in
November, according to the person familiar. Once investigators
narrowed down their search for the relevant swaps traders,
individuals were subpoenaed in late January and February, the
person said. Not all banks involved in ISDAfix received
secondary subpoenas, two other people with knowledge of the
matter said.  E-mail and other electronic communication can be used
subjectively by regulators to try to prove manipulation and the
information may be taken out of context, Pirrong said.  ICAP manages the electronic screen known as 19901 on which
rate-swap prices are displayed throughout the day to about 6,000
corporate treasurers and money managers so they can value
positions. Those levels are directly linked to the ISDAfix
process through a “reference point” that ICAP sends to the
dealer banks each morning at about 11 a.m. in  New York ,
according to ISDA’s  website . Banks then either accept that as
their contributions to the benchmark or submit different values.  Junk Forecasts  Elsewhere in credit markets, Intelsat SA, the commercial
satellite operator, plans to offer $2 billion of new 10-year
bonds and $635 million added to its December 2022 notes sold
last year. ProSiebenSat1 Media AG, the German broadcaster owned
by KKR & Co. and Permira Advisers LLP, obtained backing from
lenders to extend about 1.9 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of
loans.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.3
basis point to a mid-price of 70.7 basis points as of 12:13 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe Benchmark  In London, the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125
companies with investment-grade ratings, increased 1.1 to 91.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, fell 0.1 basis point to 14.55 basis points,
holding at about the highest in more than a month. The gauge
widens when investors seek the perceived safety of  government
securities  and narrows when they favor assets such as corporate
bonds.  Bonds of Petroleo Brasileiro SA are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 6.6 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Petrobras, as the Brazilian state-run oil producer is
known, sold $11 billion of bonds abroad last week, the most ever
for an emerging-market issuer.  Intelsat Bonds  Intelsat may issue the senior notes through its Intelsat
Jackson Holdings unit as soon as today, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The $640 million of 6.625 percent
securities the Luxembourg-based company is adding to, initially
sold in September, yielded 5.42 percent yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will be used to pay
existing debt, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  ProSiebenSat.1 needed two-thirds of its lenders to support
the extension proposal, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter, who asked not to be identified because the deal
is private. More than 50 percent of its term loan C and D
holders have agreed to roll into the new term loan D3, one of
the people said.  The term loan D3 will have a July 2018 maturity while the
term loan C and D are due to repay in 2015 and 2016, Axel Salzmann, ProSiebenSat.1’s chief financial officer, said in a
May 7 conference call. The company proposed to pay an initial
interest margin of 275 basis points, or 2.75 percentage points,
more than benchmark rates on the D3 portion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  