-- Chile Economy Grows Less Than Forecast as Investment Boom Wanes
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-05-20T12:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/chile-economy-grows-less-than-forecast-as-investment-boom-wanes.html
Chile ’s economy grew less than
analysts expected in the first quarter as a surge in investment
began to ease.  Gross domestic product  in the world’s top copper producer
rose 4.1 percent from last year, the central bank said in a
report posted on its website today. The median estimate of 11
analysts polled by Bloomberg was for growth of 4.5 percent. GDP
increased 0.5 percent from the previous quarter. Investment
expanded 9.6 percent from last year, compared with growth of
18.1 percent in the previous three months.  The central bank kept borrowing costs unchanged on May 16
for a 16th consecutive month as policy makers juggle the
opposing pressures of a  consumer spending  boom and stagnant
manufacturing output. Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said May
17 that manufacturing probably picked up in April, and that the
growth in consumer spending wasn’t unsustainable.  Two-year interest rate swaps declined 73 basis points, or
0.73 percentage point, in the year through May 17 as traders bet
policy makers will reduce  interest rates  a quarter-point to 4.75
percent in next month’s meeting, according to  Banco de Chile. (CHILE) 
That still would give Chile the highest borrowing costs of major
rate-setting Latin American nations behind Brazil.  Retail sales increased 9.1 percent in the first quarter, 14
times faster than manufacturing revenue, according to figures
from the National Statistics Institute.  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD) , Chile’s
largest retailer by sales, has seen its shares fall 0.9 percent
this year, while the country’s second-largest pulp producer,
 Empresas CMPC SA (CMPC) , dropped 2.5 percent.  Imports of goods and services in the first quarter rose 8.2
percent as exports increased 1 percent, giving Chile a trade
surplus of $792 million, the central bank said today. The price
of copper, which accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports,
fell 8.2 percent in the year through May 17.  The current account deficit was $1.69 billion, compared
with estimates for a $1.8 billion deficit among analysts polled
by Bloomberg.  The peso was little changed at 481.15 per  U.S. dollar  at
8:43 a.m. Santiago time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 