-- China Repo Rate Rises Most in a Month as PBOC Gauges Bill Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-20T02:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/china-repo-rate-rises-most-in-a-month-as-pboc-gauges-bill-demand.html
China ’s money-market rate climbed
most in almost a month after the central bank gauged demand for
bill sales, prompting speculation it will drain cash for a
second week.  The People’s Bank of China asked banks to submit orders for
91-day bills, after selling the securities at three auctions
since May 9, according to a trader required to bid at the
auctions. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange said May
5 it would introduce measures to increase monitoring of cross-border trade flows.  “The central bank’s capital withdrawal has made liquidity
a bit tight,” said Wang Huane, a senior bond analyst at Qilu
Bank Co. in Jinan, capital of the eastern Shandong province.
“There is also speculation that less capital is flowing into
the nation following the SAFE rule.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 67 basis points, or 0.67 percentage
point, to 4.37 percent as of 10:33 a.m. in  Shanghai , according
to a weighted average rate compiled by the National Interbank
Funding Center. That’s the biggest gain since April 24, when the
rate climbed 109 basis points.  The  central  bank drained 35 billion  yuan  ($5.7 billion) of
capital from the financial system last week, the first
withdrawal in four weeks, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
also gauged demand for 28-day repurchase contracts, seven- and
14-day reverse repurchase agreements, said the trader.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, gained two basis
points to 3.29 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  