-- China’s Stocks Rise to Seven-Week High as Trading Volumes Surge
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-05-20T08:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/china-s-stock-futures-rise-signaling-gains-for-benchmark-index.html
China’s stocks  climbed, sending the
benchmark index to the highest level in seven weeks. Brokerages
rose as trading volumes jumped the most among Asian markets.  Citic Securities Co and Haitong Securities Co., the
nation’s biggest brokerages, climbed more than 1 percent on the
prospect increased trading activity and rebounding equities will
bolster earnings. Gree Electric Appliances Inc. and SAIC Motor
Corp. paced gains for consumer-discretionary companies, jumping
at least 1.9 percent. Drugmakers posted the biggest loss among
10 industry groups, led by Yunnan Baiyao Group Co.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose for a fourth day, adding
0.8 percent to 2,299.99 at the close, the highest level since
March 27. Trading volumes were 61 percent above the 30-day
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The index rose
1.6 percent last week, capping the longest streak of weekly
gains in four months, on speculation the government will
accelerate economic reforms.  “Stocks have risen a lot over the past few weeks and this
has garnered attention from investors,” said Wu Kan, a
Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which
oversees $285 million. “Consumer-discretionary stocks were
among those that haven’t risen as much and valuations are
cheap.”  The CSI 300 advanced 0.7 percent to 2,609.61 today, while
the Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index surged 1.5 percent as  Hong
Kong ’s markets resumed after a holiday. The Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index gained 1 percent on May 17.  Economic Reforms  The  Shanghai  index jumped 1.4 percent on May 17, erasing
this year’s losses, after the nation’s economic planning agency
said investment projects for airports and gas fields won’t need
pre-approval any more. The government has set up working groups
to draft fiscal changes and financial restructuring, Caixin
Online reported.  “Investors think the economic growth is actually not that
bad as the government is expected to follow up with reforms,”
said Tang Yonggang, an analyst at Hongyuan Securities Co. in
Beijing. “Liquidity appears sufficient. They are now banking on
companies with earnings potential like consumer discretionary
and smaller-cap companies.”  Citic Securities gained 1.2 percent to 12,94  yuan . Haitong
Securities rose 1.4 percent to 11.53 yuan. Hong Yuan Securities
jumped 4 percent to 24.28 yuan.  China may face “large scale” inflows of speculative funds
in the next few years, which will drive asset prices higher and
push up consumer prices, Su Ming, deputy head of the
Ministry of Finance’s research institute for fiscal science,
said in an article published in today’s People’s Daily
newspaper. The yuan traded within 0.2 percent of a 19-year high
on speculation capital inflows will spur appreciation.  Consumer Stocks  Consumer-discretionary stocks gained 1.5 percent, the most
among 10 industry groups on the CSI 300. The consumer sub-index
has risen 5.3 percent over the past month, compared with 13
percent for a gauge of technology stocks and 24 percent for
telecom companies. It trades at 12.5 times estimated profit,
compared with the five-year average of 16.8.  Gree Electric, the largest maker of air-conditioners,
surged 6.4 percent to 27.54 yuan, the biggest jump since Jan.
18. SAIC Motor, the biggest automaker, advanced 1.9 percent to
15.74 yuan. The demand outlook for household appliances and
autos may improve after a report showed new  home prices  climbed
last month in 68 out of 70 cities tracked by the government.  Increases in Guangzhou, Beijing and Shanghai were the
biggest on a yearly basis since a change in data methodology in
January 2011, a report from the National Bureau of Statistics
showed May 18.  Property Dilemma  A gauge of  developers  in the Shanghai index dropped 0.7
percent today, after rising as much as 2 percent earlier.
China may expand property tax trials to more cities this
year, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing an
unidentified person. China Vanke Co., the biggest developer,
lost 1.9 percent to 11.93 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the
second-largest, slid 1.1 percent to 12.25 yuan.  “Property stocks were rising in the morning because their
fundamentals are decent,” said Wu. “With the issue of
potential restrictions on property, there will always be a cap
on gains for this industry.”  China’s policy makers are trying to avoid property bubbles
and make homes more affordable while bolstering an economy that
lost steam in the first quarter. Expanding a campaign against
housing speculation could choke off real-estate development that
is helping counter a slowdown in manufacturing investment and
supporting demand for steel, cement and household goods.  Drugmakers Fall  The health-care stocks gauge in the CSI 300 slid 3.2
percent, the biggest loss among 10 industry groups and the
largest drop since April 2. Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co. declined
1.9 percent to 16.67 yuan and China Resources Double-Crane
Pharmaceutical slumped 7 percent to 21.47 yuan.  Guangdong province  plans to start an online medical bidding
system, according to a statement posted the southern province’s
health department website. Drug transactions of public hospitals
and private health-care institutions under government insurance
programs will be on the new platform, the Southern Metropolitan
Daily reported, citing the draft. The report is creating concern
among investors as this may have an impact on drug prices,
according to Capital Securities.  Chen Li, the UBS AG strategist who predicted the tumble in
China’s smallest  shares  two years ago, says the companies are
poised to retreat again after valuations rose to the biggest
premium over larger stocks since 2010.  The ChiNext index of Shenzhen-listed companies rose 2.8
percent today, adding to a 47 percent jump this year. The
smaller-company gauge trades for 4.6 times net assets versus 1.7
for the CSI index, the widest gap since June 2010, data compiled
by Bloomberg showed as of May 17.  “The bubble may burst” within two months, Chen said in a
May 9 phone interview. The Shanghai-based strategist predicted
in January 2011 that small-cap stocks would drop as much as 20
percent. The ChiNext gauge fell 21 percent in nine months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  