-- China’s Sugar Prices Fall as Stockpile Program Seen Too Small
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-20T09:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/china-s-sugar-prices-fall-as-stockpile-program-seen-too-small.html
China ’s sugar futures fell after the
government announced a purchase program that investors said
would be too small to absorb oversupply in the global market.  Refined sugar for September delivery, the most-actively
traded contract in Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange, fell 0.7
percent to close at 5,162  yuan  ($841) a metric ton after the
government said it would buy 300,000 tons of local white sugar
at a maximum 6,100 yuan a ton for stockpiles.  China became the largest sugar  importer  last year with 4.19
million tons as the government stockpiled the sweetener to
support farmers’ incomes, which boosted local prices to levels
above the prevailing world prices. Global raw sugar prices have
dropped 17 percent in the past 12 months amid oversupply.  “The government’s purchase of local sugar was well
anticipated and the 300,000 tons seemed a drop in the bucket for
a global market where the surplus is projected at more than 8
million tons,” said Zhan Xiao, analyst at Xinhu Futures Co.
“The decline in the futures shows investors are expecting
imports to jump, eventually bringing down local sugar prices.”  Sugar imports by China were 1.26 million tons in the first
six months of the season through March, customs data showed.
Imports will jump to 1.5 million tons in the April-September
period as traders bring in shipments because domestic prices are
high, Zhan said.  China controls its sugar imports through quotas agreed
under the  World Trade Organization , permitting about 1.9 million
tons a year at a 5 percent duty. Inbound shipments outside the
quota are levied a 50 percent duty.  Officials from government ministries and agencies expressed
concerns at a conference in Kunming last month that state
stockpiling of local sugar is indirectly encouraging imports.  “We figured the current stockpiling program can only be a
temporary solution and we might want to use other policies to
ensure local production and protect farmer interests,” said Xu
Xue, an official at the Ministry of Agriculture on April 22 in
Kunming.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  