-- Codere Tumbles to Record Low on High Default Risk: Madrid Mover
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-05-20T16:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/codere-tumbles-to-record-low-on-high-default-risk-madrid-mover.html
Codere SA (CDR) , the Spanish gambling
company that last week reported its worst earnings in more than
two years, sunk to a record after Moody’s downgraded its  credit
rating  on concern it may default on loans by the end of June.  Codere fell  22 percent  to 1.30 euros at the close of
trading in Madrid, the biggest drop and the lowest closing price
since it began trading in 2007. The stock was the second-worst
performer in the  Madrid Stock Exchange General Index. (MADX)   “The key to the stock lies not so much in its estimates
but rather in the many risks it faces and the few opportunities
available,” Javier Esteban, an analyst at Banco Sabadell, said
today in a note to investors. He kept a sell recommendation on
the stock.  Codere, which depends on  Argentina  for more than one-third
of its revenue, reported a 21 percent drop in first-quarter
earnings after an anti-smoking law went into effect in that
country. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization amounted to 62.1 million euros ($79.9 million), the
lowest in 10 quarters.  Codere has yet to refinance a 60 million-euro senior
facility that matures on June 15 and “is vital in enabling the
company to continue meeting its obligations at the corporate
level,” Ivan Palacios, the lead analyst for Codere at Moody’s
Investors Service, said in a report.  Moody’s lowered Codere’s “corporate family rating” one
grade to Caa3, nine steps below investment grade. It maintained
a negative outlook on all ratings for the company, based in the
 Madrid  suburb of Alcobendas.  Lower Forecast  Codere, which operates  gambling rooms  in countries such as
Uruguay and  Mexico , lowered its 2013 Ebitda forecast last week
to 270 million euros to 285 million euros, from a range of 285
million euros to 300 million euros. A new gambling law expected
in Mexico is also adding uncertainty, Esteban said.  Of seven analysts who report their  recommendations  to
Bloomberg, five advise selling the shares, while two have a hold
recommendation. Codere’s stock has fallen about 70 percent in
the past year, valuing the company at 71.6 million euros. The
number of shares traded was about eight times the three-month
daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  