-- Colombia Government Seeks Extension of Dollar Buying to December
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-05-20T23:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/colombia-government-seeks-extension-of-dollar-buying-to-december.html
Colombia ’s central bank should
continue its $30 million-a-day program of dollar purchases until
the end of December, beyond its current May 31 end date, Finance
Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said.  Cardenas said he will make the recommendation at the
central bank’s policy meeting this month.  “This will be a very important theme at the next board
meeting,” Cardenas said. “My position is that we should
continue the program of buying international reserves in the
same terms and conditions until year-end.”  The central bank said Jan. 28 that it will buy at least $30
million a day, bringing purchases in the foreign-exchange market
to $3 billion between February and May. Cardenas has said
repeatedly that government intervention can help weaken the peso
toward its “equilibrium” level of about 1,900 per U.S. dollar.  The currency has strengthened 22 percent since the start of
2009, the best performer after the Chilean peso among 24 major
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The peso
weakened 0.1 percent to 1842.80 per  U.S. dollar  today.  Industrial output  fell 11.5 percent in March from a year
earlier, the biggest decline since 2009. Cardenas said the drop
was a “statistical effect” caused by the Easter holidays, and
that output would have grown 0.5 percent without the greater
number of public holidays. The April industrial production
figures will be “good” he said.  Cardenas chairs the central bank’s seven-member policy
committee, which next meets May 31. The central bank has cut its
policy rate 2 percentage points over the last year, as
industrial output slumped and the annual inflation rate fell to
a six-decade low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  