-- Copper Heads for Longest Rally Since January on Mine Halt
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-05-20T16:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/copper-heads-for-longest-rally-since-january-on-mine-halt.html
Copper futures rose, heading for the
longest rally since January, after an accident at the world’s
second-biggest mine triggered supply concerns for the metal used
in pipes and wires.  Work has been halted at Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc.’s Grasberg site in  Indonesia  since a tunnel collapsed on
May 14, and the death toll has climbed to 17. The mine complex
generated $3.92 billion of revenue for the company last year, or
16 percent of sales. Futures climbed as a drop in the dollar
boosted the appeal of the metal as an alternative investment.  “The prospect of slowing output in copper is lending a
little bit of strength and keeping prices firm,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said
in a telephone interview. “The weaker dollar is also prompting
some short-covering.”  Copper futures for July delivery rose 1.1 percent to
$3.3595 a pound at 12:19 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . The
price climbed for the third straight session, the longest rally
since Jan. 30. BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida mine in  Chile  is
the biggest source of the metal.  Freeport, based in Phoenix, was shipping concentrate, a
semi-processed ore, as of May 17, its Indonesian unit said last
week. Of 38 workers who had been in a classroom in an
underground training facility at the time of the accident, 10
have been rescued and 11 still may be buried under the rubble.  “The controlling company stated it had two-three days of
stockpiles that would keep shipments flowing, but several
workers remained trapped, and operations have yet to restart,”
Morgan Stanley analysts including  Peter Richardson  said in a
report. “It appears output will begin to suffer this week.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months climbed 1.4 percent to $7,406 a metric ton ($3.36 a
pound). Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc advanced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  