-- Council Prayers Get Top Court Review in Church-State Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-05-20T20:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/council-prayers-get-top-court-review-in-church-state-case.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  will consider
the constitutional limits on prayers during legislative
sessions, accepting an appeal from a  New York  town that starts
most council meetings with a Christian invocation.  The justices today said they will review a federal appeals
court’s conclusion that the Rochester suburb of  Greece  was
improperly affiliating itself with Christianity.  The Supreme Court ruled in 1983 that legislative bodies
could open sessions with a prayer delivered by a state-employed
religious leader. The latest case gives the court under Chief
Justice  John Roberts  a chance to reinforce that ruling and
insulate government bodies from legal challenges to what is now
a widespread practice across the country.  “The practice of legislative prayer is firmly embedded in
the history and traditions of this nation,” Thomas Hungar, the
lead lawyer representing the town, said in a statement. “We
hope the court will reaffirm the settled understanding that such
prayers, offered without improper motive and in accordance with
the conscience of the prayer-giver, are constitutional.”  The New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said
Greece’s selection process “virtually ensured a Christian
viewpoint” at the vast majority of council meetings. Under the
informal invitation procedures then in place, every prayer-giver
from 1999 to 2007 was a Christian clergy member, the three-judge
panel said.  Wiccan Priestess  After two town residents complained, non-Christians
delivered the invocation at four of the 12 board meetings in
2008. The group included a Wiccan priestess, the chairman of the
local Baha’i congregation and a lay Jewish man who delivered two
invocations.  The appeals court also said town officials took no steps to
mitigate the impression that the city endorsed Christianity.  “The town had an obligation to consider how its prayer
practice would be perceived by those who attended town board
meetings,” Judge Guido Calabresi wrote for the panel. “And,
despite the homogeneity of viewpoints reflected by the
invocations, the town did not explain that it intended the
prayers to solemnize board meetings, rather than to affiliate
the town with any particular creed.”  The appeals court pointed to a 1989 Supreme Court ruling,
County of Allegheny v.  American Civil Liberties Union , which
barred a Pennsylvania county from erecting a Nativity scene in a
courthouse.  ‘Specific Faith’  In that case, the majority said in passing that legislative
prayers are impermissible if they “have the effect of
affiliating the government with any one specific faith or
belief.”  Justice  Sandra Day O’Connor  wrote the pivotal opinion in
the 1989 case, saying the Nativity display was an impermissible
governmental “endorsement” of religion.  The two residents challenging Greece’s practices, Susan
Galloway and Linda Stephens, asked the Supreme Court not to hear
the appeal. Even under the 1983 decision, Marsh v. Chambers,
legislative bodies may not use prayers to “advance one faith to
the exclusion of others,” the two women argued in court papers.  “A town council meeting isn’t a church service, and it
shouldn’t seem like one,” said Barry W. Lynn, executive
director of Americans United for Separation of Church and State,
the Washington-based organization behind the lawsuit.
“Government can’t serve everyone in the community when it
endorses one faith over others.”  Eighteen states, led by  Indiana , and 49 members of Congress
joined Greece in urging the high court to get involved.  The case, which the court will hear in the nine-month term
that starts in October, is Town of Greece v. Galloway, 12-696.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  