-- Dell Renews Call for Details on Icahn Takeover Bid
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   J a m e s   C a l l a n
-- 2013-05-20T20:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/dell-can-t-evaluate-icahn-s-proposal-without-more-information.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s board reiterated a call
for billionaire  Carl Icahn  to provide more details about his
proposal to take over the personal-computer maker, saying it
needs more information to discuss his offer.  In a letter to Icahn today, the committee of Dell’s board
charged with managing the buyout process by its founder said it
can’t respond to the financier and won’t engage in talks unless
the board decides his bid could result in a “superior
proposal” over Chief Executive Officer Michael Dell and Silver
Lake Management LLC’s $24.4 billion leveraged-buyout offer. The
letter refers to a May 13 request by the special committee that
asked Icahn and his partner Southeastern Asset Management Inc.
for details about their proposed plan.  “Unless we receive information that is responsive to our
May 13 letter, we are not in a position to evaluate whether your
proposal meets that standard,” Round Rock, Texas-based Dell’s
board special committee said today.  Icahn’s takeover plan involves borrowing money for Dell to
offer investors $12 a share in cash or stock while letting them
retain stakes in a public company. The payout would dilute
existing Dell shares, which Icahn has said would have a value of
at least $1.65 apiece. CEO Dell and Silver Lake are offering to
acquire the company for $13.65 a share  in cash  -- then make it
more competitive in private amid a declining PC market.  Dell rose less than 1 percent to $13.41 at the close in New
York, or about 2 percent below the Michael Dell-Silver Lake
price.  Deal Structure  Icahn, who along with Southeastern owns almost 13 percent
of Dell shares, said this month he would look to replace  Michael
Dell  as CEO if he prevails. Financing for Icahn’s proposal will
come from existing cash at the PC maker and about $5.2 billion
in new debt.  In its May 13 letter, Dell’s board committee asked Icahn
for the “full terms and structure” of its proposal, including
details on how he’d finance any deal and names of a proposed
management team, among other paperwork. “It is not clear to us
whether you intend to formulate your transaction as an actual
acquisition proposal that the board could evaluate.”  Today’s letter by Dell’s board didn’t specify a deadline
for Icahn to respond. Dell is seeking to schedule a shareholder
vote on Michael Dell’s buyout offer ahead of the annual
shareholders’ meeting, a person with knowledge of the matter
said earlier this month. Separating the annual meeting from a
vote on Michael Dell’s take-private offer removes Icahn’s
ability to start a proxy contest, which he could only start at
an annual meeting, this person said.  Bidding Contest  “Is there any reason to refuse to give Icahn information
that might help justify a bid that could be superior to
Michael’s bid unless you don’t want to see a bid that forces
Michael to raise his?”  Erik Gordon , a business and law
professor at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, wrote in
an e-mail today. “If you want a bidding contest, you make it
easy for bidders.”  Susan Gordon, a spokeswoman for Icahn, and Jed Repko, a
spokesman for Southeastern, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Dell’s board is predicting another year of lackluster
growth as demand for PCs ebbs, underscoring the urgency behind
the company’s decision to be taken private, documents filed in
March showed.  Sales for the year ending next January will slip to $56.5
billion, and Dell’s PC business will shrink by $10 billion over
four years, according to projections in a proxy statement filed
with regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  