-- Dogus Drops on Volkswagen Distribution Reports: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-05-20T15:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/dogus-drops-on-volkswagen-distribution-reports-istanbul-mover.html
Dogus Otomotiv Servis & Ticaret AS (DOAS) ,
the Turkish importer of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  vehicles, tumbled the most
in three weeks amid reports the German carmaker is planning to
take back distribution rights.  Dogus, which denied the reports,  fell  5.2 percent in the
biggest decline since April 30, closing at 12.65 liras in
Istanbul and bringing a three-day drop to 6.3 percent. More than
720,000 shares were traded, or about 1.5 times the three-month
daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100)  index retreated 1.9 percent.  Volkswagen may consider producing cars in  Turkey  if it can
take over distribution rights of its brands from Dogus, Vatan
newspaper reported today, without saying where it got the
information. Zaman newspaper said Volkswagen may seek to buy the
65.5 percent Dogus Group stake in Dogus Otomotiv, citing
unidentified sources in the industry. Dogus denied both reports
in a filing to the bourse today, saying it hadn’t had talks with
Volkswagen on the subject.  “The market is pricing the uncertainty after these
reports,” Alper Ustunisik, an analyst at Yatirim Finansman
Securities in Istanbul, said in a phone interview. A
“considerable chunk” of the company’s revenues comes from
distribution and the potential loss of such a big operation
“would be material,” he said.  Dogus last week reported a 12 percent drop in first-quarter
net income to 63.8 million liras ($35 million). The company,
whose shares have rallied 47 percent this year, trades at a
forward price-to-earnings  multiple  of 11.3, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 7.9 times for  Israel ’s
 Delek Automotive Systems Ltd. (DLEA)   Eleven analysts recommend investors buy Dogus shares while
seven say hold them,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  