-- Dollar Falls Against Euro Amid Fed Stimulus Bets; Franc Weakens
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-21T21:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/dollar-remains-lower-against-peers-before-fed-officials-speak.html
The dollar fell against the euro for
a second day as comments from Federal Reserve policy makers
fueled speculation Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will tell Congress
tomorrow the pace of monetary stimulus should be maintained.  The greenback pared gains versus Japan’s currency after St.
Louis Fed President James Bullard said the central bank should
keep buying bonds under quantitative easing. New York Fed
President William Dudley said policy makers had previously been
overly optimistic about economic growth. The yen fell earlier as
Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari backed away from weekend
comments that prompted it to rally. The Swiss franc weakened.  “Bullard’s comments add a little bit of a counterweight to
some of the relatively hawkish comments we’ve heard of late,”
 Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington  at the currency
brokerage Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “It’s prompted a little bit of defensive
positioning ahead of Bernanke’s comments tomorrow.”  The dollar depreciated 0.2 percent to $1.2906 per euro at 5
p.m. New York time after gaining 0.3 percent earlier. The yen
declined 0.2 percent to 102.50 per dollar after losing as much
as 0.6 percent earlier. It jumped 0.9 percent yesterday, the
most since April 26. The Japanese currency weakened 0.4 percent
to 132.28 to the euro.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $38 billion, compared with $29 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $9 billion, the largest
share of trades at 24 percent. Euro-dollar options were the
second most-actively traded, at $5.1 billion, or 13 percent.  Above Average  Euro-dollar options trading was 26 percent above the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading was
22 percent more than the average.  The franc fell against the euro and the dollar after the
International Monetary Fund said negative interest rates on
banks’ excess deposits could help cool Switzerland’s real-estate
market. The currency slid to 1.2529 per euro, the weakest since
Jan. 18, before trading at 1.2520, down 0.5 percent. It declined
0.3 percent to 97.01 centimes per dollar.  South Africa’s currency sank versus all of its 16 most-traded counterparts, weakening to a four-year low versus the
dollar, as violence at a chrome mine renewed concern that labor
disruptions will slow the nation’s economic growth. The rand
lost 1.1 percent to 9.5444 per dollar and reached 9.6264, the
least since March 2009.  Pound Falls  Sterling dropped versus all its major peers except the rand
before the Bank of England releases minutes tomorrow of its May
8-9 meeting, which will reveal how many policy makers voted to
boost asset purchases.  The pound also fell as U.K. consumer prices climbed 2.4
percent in April from a year earlier, compared with 2.8 percent
in March, the Office for National Statistics said in  London .  “This is a negative for sterling because quite clearly
weaker inflation opens the door for more monetary stimulus,”
said Peter Frank, global head of currency strategy at  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in London.  The pound lost 0.7 percent to $1.5154 and slid 0.9 percent
to 85.17 pence per euro.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, added 0.1 percent to 83.833 after climbing on
May 17 to 84.371, the highest since July 2010.  Fed Purchases  The Fed is buying $85 billion a month in Treasury and
mortgage debt to push down borrowing costs and spur growth.  The purchases should be maintained because markets indicate
they are improving financial conditions and can be adjusted
based on how the economy changes, Bullard said today in prepared
remarks in  Frankfurt . He votes on the policy-setting Federal
Open Market Committee this year.  “The comments from Bullard are negative for the dollar,”
Eric Viloria, a senior currency strategist at Gain Capital Group
LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview. “We thought he
would be more aligned with the hawkish side.”  Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser called last week
for shrinking purchases at the Fed’s next meeting, and San
Francisco’s John Williams favored a reduction “perhaps as early
as this summer.”  Too Optimistic  New York Fed President Dudley said today he hasn’t decided
whether bond buying should be increased or cut. The Fed is
waiting for a self-reinforcing economy before it ends stimulus,
he said. It was too optimistic about economic prospects in the
2009-2012 period, he said.  “With the benefit of hindsight, we did not provide enough
stimulus,” Dudley said.  Bernanke testifies tomorrow to the  Joint Economic
Committee . The Federal Open Market Committee later in the day
will release minutes of its last policy meeting.  Japan ’s Amari said he hoped the yen would stabilize at a
level that matches the nation’s economic fundamentals. The
currency slid yesterday after he said further weakness may hurt
“people’s lives.”  “I have previously said that the overly strong yen is in
the process of being corrected,” he told reporters in  Tokyo .
“I will not say it has been corrected, or where it will
finish.”  The yen tumbled to 103.31 per dollar on May 17, the weakest
level since October 2008.  The yen has tumbled 24 percent in the past 12 months, the
worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar was little
changed, while the euro advanced 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  