-- Dow Seeks to Block Turkish Paint Polymer From U.S. Market
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-05-20T22:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/dow-seeks-to-block-turkish-paint-polymer-from-u-s-market.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker by sales, filed a U.S. trade complaint seeking to
block imports of paint ingredients made by a Turkish competitor.  Dow and its Rohm & Haas unit claim Istanbul-based Organik
Kimya San ve Tic A.S. is infringing its patented technique for
making an opaque polymer used in paints, according to a
complaint filed today with the U.S. International Trade
Commission in  Washington . The four patents relate to the
polymers and how they are made.  The polymer is an extender for titanium dioxide, a white
pigment used to make paints and plastics opaque. Paint makers
use it to reduce the amount of costly titanium dioxide needed to
conceal previous colors and wall markings.  Rohm & Haas has been selling its polymer, called Ropaque,
since 1982 and it was the first of its kind on the market,
according to the complaint. It has remained the top seller of
its kind, Midland, Michigan-based Dow said in the filing.  The technology uses hollow pigments that use tiny air voids
to scatter light. Dow said it makes millions of pounds of opaque
polymers every year at four U.S. plants in  Pennsylvania ,
 Tennessee ,  California  and  Texas .  Closely held Organik Kimya has begun selling polymers that
“exhibit characteristics that are very similar” to Ropaque,
Dow said. It contends the Turkish company is making copycat
polymers at its Istanbul and Rotterdam plants and distributing
it in the U.S. under the name Orgawhite.  The ITC has the power to block imports of products that
infringe U.S. patents. An investigation typically takes 15 to 18
months.  Price increases for titanium dioxide are making buyers such
as  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG)  look for ways to reduce usage. Dow is
accelerating the roll-out of Evoque, a new polymer that it says
allows paintmakers to cut titanium dioxide use by 20 percent
without sacrificing a paint’s ability to mask the background
color of a wall or fence.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Opaque Polymers,
Complaint No. 2957, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  