-- Ebbing Deficit Likely to Keep Rates Low When Fed Tapers
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-05-20T20:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/ebbing-deficit-likely-to-keep-rates-low-when-fed-tapers.html
Federal Reserve policy makers say
they want to avoid a sudden increase in interest rates when the
time comes to start unwinding record monetary easing. A
shrinking  federal budget  deficit is likely to help them meet
that goal.  The Treasury Department will be selling less debt as
surging tax revenue, automatic spending cuts and payments from
mortgage-finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac narrow the
budget gap. The shrinking supply of Treasuries will put downward
pressure on yields as central bankers consider the as-yet-undetermined timing of a reduction in the central bank’s $45
billion of monthly purchases of U.S. debt, a step that would by
itself push yields higher.  “If the Treasury reduces supply as the Fed reduces
purchases of Treasuries, then your net impact on yields should
be left unchanged,” said Drew Matus, deputy chief U.S.
economist for UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut, and a
former analyst on the New York Fed’s open market desk.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is leading Fed efforts to smooth
the transition from unprecedented monetary easing intended to
lower unemployment and then to withdraw its stimulus in a way
that doesn’t damage the economy. One outcome Fed officials seek
to avoid is a jump in bond yields like the one that occurred in
1994, when they began tightening policy.  Fed Views  Officials last week expressed a range of views on when to
begin winding down their purchases. Philadelphia Fed President
Charles Plosser called for shrinking purchases at the Fed’s next
meeting; San Francisco’s John Williams favored a reduction
“perhaps as early as this summer,” and  Boston ’s  Eric Rosengren 
said low inflation and high unemployment suggest there may be a
need for more stimulus, not less.  Bernanke will testify on the economic outlook before the
Joint Economic Committee of Congress on May 22. He may provide
clues as to how he views the narrowing deficit and whether he
sees the Fed making enough progress toward its goal of a
substantial improvement in the labor market to warrant reducing
its $85 billion monthly pace of bond purchases, which include
$40 billion in mortgage-backed securities.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note traded at almost a
two-month high today on speculation the Fed may start to slow
the pace of monetary stimulus as the economy shows signs of
improving. The yield was at 1.96 percent at 4:32 p.m. in New
York.  Shares Drop  U.S. stocks fell, after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed for four straight weeks, as investors weighed the
outlook for Fed stimulus. The S&P 500 retreated less than 0.1
percent to 1,666.29 at the close in New York.  Elsewhere,  China ’s new-home prices increased last month in
68 of 70 cities tracked by the government, a report from the
National Bureau of Statistics showed on May 18, indicating
Premier Li Keqiang will need to maintain efforts to cool the
property market even as economic growth slows.  In the U.K., home sellers raised asking prices for a fifth
consecutive month, property-website operator Rightmove said in a
report today, pushing values to a record and giving the market
its best start to a year since 2004.  The U.S. Congressional Budget Office estimated last week
that the deficit will shrink to $642 billion in the fiscal year
ending in September, the  smallest shortfall  in five years. The
agency reduced its estimate by more than $200 billion compared
with February projections.  Fed Purchases  The Fed  began buying  $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed
securities in September and announced another $45 billion in
monthly purchases of Treasury securities in December. At that
pace, the Fed would purchase $540 billion of Treasuries a year.  That would leave little new supply of Treasuries for others
who might be interested in buying government debt, said John Herrmann, director of U.S. interest-rate strategy at Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities in New York.  If the Fed scales back purchases, that “could allow the
natural buyers of Treasury, like life insurance companies, or
banks, to still pursue their relatively normal behavior.”  Insurers or pension funds need a steadily growing supply of
Treasuries to manage their future obligations. Tapering
purchases as the supply shrinks may help ensure a smooth market
reaction, said Herrmann.  “All else being equal, it would tend to keep yields from
ratcheting up,” he said.  Fed Assets  The Fed owned $1.86 trillion of Treasury securities as of
May 15, according to its weekly balance sheet report, or about a
sixth of the  $11.4 trillion  in total outstanding marketable U.S.
debt. Much of that supply may be held by investors or
institutions that don’t intend to sell their holdings.  The yield on the 10-year note, which hasn’t climbed above
2.5 percent since August 2011, is projected to reach 2.18
percent by the end of the year, according to the weighted
average in a Bloomberg survey of 74 forecasters. The yield fell
to a record 1.39 percent in July of last year.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley has outlined what
the Fed looks for in determining if its unprecedented stimulus
campaign is causing disruption.  “We carefully monitor financial markets for signs that
market functioning has been impaired, looking at metrics such as
trading volumes, bid-offer spreads, failures to deliver
securities and our own ability to execute transactions,” Dudley
said in a March 25 speech in New York.  “On some of these metrics, market functioning has actually
improved in recent months,” he said. “So far, so good.”  Mortgage Disruption  The Fed is monitoring this risk in both Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities. The central bank’s concerns are more
than hypothetical: the mortgage market was disrupted after the
first round of so-called quantitative easing, or QE, concluded
in 2010 with $1.43 trillion of housing debt.  By acquiring about 25 percent of home-loan bonds with
government-backed guarantees in its bid to bolster housing
prices and the economy, the Fed made some securities so hard to
find that Wall Street was unable to complete an unprecedented
amount of trades. Weekly failures to deliver or receive mortgage
debt climbed above more than $1 trillion in 2010, compared with
a weekly average of $150 billion in the five years through 2009,
according to Fed data.  The open-ended nature of the current QE program could
create a new shortage in the Treasury or mortgage market as the
Fed’s balance sheet grows, said Stephen Stanley, the chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut .  “The longer QE goes on, the more likely it is to be more
of a problem from a liquidity standpoint,” said Stanley, a
former Richmond Fed economist.  Taper Forecast  Stanley said the Fed is unlikely to taper its purchases
until around the end of the year, even as the U.S. budget
deficit shrinks.  That’s in line with economists’ projections in an April 25-29 Bloomberg survey, taken before the Fed’s most recent meeting.
The median estimate called for the Fed to reduce its purchases
to a $50 billion monthly pace in the fourth quarter of this year
and end them in the first quarter of 2014.  Among the Fed’s concerns with its exit is avoiding a repeat
of 1994, when the central bank raised its target interest rate
from 3 percent in January to 6 percent by early 1995, setting
off an increase in bond yields that threatened the recovery from
the 1990-1991 recession.  1990s Experience  The yield on the 10-year Treasury climbed to more than 8
percent by November 1994 from as low as 5.57 percent in January
of that year. Mortgage rates climbed from under 7 percent to
more than 9 percent by year end.  In a March 1 speech, Bernanke said that improved
communication from the Federal Open Market Committee about the
plans for its target interest rates and bond purchases will help
avoid a repeat of 1994.  “FOMC communication should both make policy more effective
and reduce the risk that market misperceptions of the
committee’s intentions would lead to unnecessary interest rate
volatility,” Bernanke said, noting that in 1994, Fed
communications were “very limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  