-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as Stronger Yen Boosts Exporters
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-20T21:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/emerging-stocks-rise-to-one-week-high-as-chinese-developers-gain.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced to a
one-week high as a stronger Japanese currency lifted global
exporters. The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  surged to a record.  Hyundai Motor Co. gained 1.3 percent as a rising yen eased
concern about loss of competitiveness to Japanese rivals.  China
Resources Land Ltd. (1109)  and Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. paced gains
in Chinese developers in  Hong Kong , adding at least 3.7 percent.
PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia, the nation’s biggest phone
operator, jumped to a five-year high. African Bank Investments
Ltd. plunged 17 percent in Johannesburg, while Turkish shares
led losses among major developing-nation gauges.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.2 percent to
1,048.15. The yen rebounded from the weakest level since October
2008 as  Japan ’s economy minister expressed concern about its
slide.  China ’s new-home prices rose last month in 68 of 70
cities tracked by the government, indicating Premier  Li Keqiang 
will need to maintain efforts to cool the  property market  even
as economic growth slows.  While the yen could continue to fall, it “has some
breathing time,”  Martin Schulz , head of international equities
at PNC Capital Advisors LLC in Cleveland, said by phone. His
firm manages about $35 billion. “The big risk in China is still
what the government is going to do, because every time the
prices go up, they plug in some type of regulatory clampdown.
Near term, it’s a good sign that prices are up.”  Energy and technology shares had the biggest gains in the
developing-nations gauge. The broad measure has lost 0.7 percent
this year, compared with a 13 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund gained 0.3 percent to $43.53. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
dropped 1.8 percent to 18.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa rose a second day as iron-ore producer
Vale SA followed commodities higher, jumping 3.8 percent. Gafisa
SA led losses by homebuilders as economists covering Brazil
reduced their growth forecasts to less than 3 percent, the
lowest among the largest emerging markets. Mexico’s IPC Index
retreated 1.7 percent.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.4 percent in Moscow after losing
1.7 percent last week. VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-biggest
lender, climbed 3.5 percent.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index
slumped 1.9 percent, the most since Feb. 21. Dogus Otomotiv
Servis & Ticaret AS, the Turkish importer of Volkswagen AG
vehicles, tumbled on reports the German carmaker is planning to
retake distribution rights in the nation.  South Africa  South African (JALSH)  stocks fell the most in a month after the
nation’s largest provider of unsecured loans increased bad-debt
write-offs, hurting other lenders and retailers. African Bank
Investments dropped to the lowest price since 2005.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
climbed 1.5 percent, while the Shanghai Composite Index rose for
a fourth day. Both China Resources and Guangzhou R&F Properties
capped the biggest gains in a month. China’s  yuan  rose to within
0.2 percent of a 19-year high on speculation capital inflows
will spur appreciation.  Hyundai Motor jumped 2.9 percent in two days, while  India ’s
benchmark stock gauge fell from its highest level in more than
two years. The Jakarta Composite Index added 1.4 percent to a
record as Telkom Indonesia gained 2.9 percent after Credit
Suisse Group AG said it expects the company to post “double-digit” profit growth in 2013.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  was unchanged at 267 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  