-- ENRC Falls After Rejecting Bid From Founders, Kazakh Government
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-05-20T09:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/enrc-falls-after-rejecting-bid-from-founders-kazakh-government.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) , the
metals producer being probed by the U.K.’s  Serious Fraud Office ,
slid to a one-month low in  London  trading after rejecting an
offer to take the company private.  ENRC fell as much as 6.1 percent to 255 pence, the lowest
intraday price since April 19, and was at 264.40 pence as of
9:53 a.m. local time. The stock has lost 42 percent of its value
in the past year.  The independent committee set up by London-based ENRC’s
board to evaluate the proposal from the company’s three founding
shareholders and the Kazakh government, which together own 54
percent, said today it “materially undervalues” ENRC. The
offer amounted to 175 pence in cash and 0.231 shares of
 Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  for each share held, the committee said in a
statement, valuing ENRC at about $4.96 billion at the end of
last week.  “The low-ball offer from the consortium is likely an
effort to give them more time as well as wearing down the
minorities,” Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note today. “Small
upward revisions could be made to the cash portion but nothing
significant as they may find it difficult to leverage up the
target any more.”  The three ENRC founders --  Alexander Machkevitch , Patokh Chodiev and Alijan Ibragimov -- are seeking to take the company
off the market five years after it sold shares in an initial
offering in London. The SFO said April 25 it began its
investigation over allegations of fraud, bribery and corruption
relating to the company’s activities in Kazakhstan and  Africa .
ENRC said two weeks later that Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley quit as advisers.  Cash Component  The founders are raising $1.6 billion to fund the cash
component of the buyout, and the government is offering its 26
percent stake in London-based Kazakhmys, according to people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  Kazakhmys is being considered as part of the bidding group,
the U.K.’s Panel on Takeovers and Mergers said in a statement
today.  “Kazakhmys itself is not part of the consortium,” the
company said separately. The Kazakhmys shares offered by the
bidding group represent the entire shareholding of the
government “and does not involve Kazakhmys issuing any new
shares,” it said.  Kazakhmys doesn’t see its 26 percent holding in ENRC as a
strategic investment and will consider any proposal made by the
bidding group, it said. The copper producer will be offered $885
million and 77 million of its own shares for its ENRC
shareholding, the people said. One of the people said Kazakhmys
plans to cancel the 77 million shares it will get.  The Panel on Takeovers and Mergers agreed to extend to June
3 the deadline by which the group must either improve its offer
or walk away, according to ENRC.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  