-- Tepco Nuclear Restart Depends on Safety Call as Shares Surge
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-05-20T03:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/tepco-nuclear-restart-depends-on-safety-call-as-shares-surge.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  needs to
assess whether its Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant in northern  Japan 
meets the country’s new safety requirements before applying for
a restart of the nuclear facility.  Japan’s biggest power company by generation capacity, known
as Tepco, denied that it will ask to restart the idled reactors
in July, it said in a statement today, even as its shares surged
on a report that it will make an application.  Two other Japanese  utility companies , Shikoku Electric
Power Co. and Kyushu Electric Power Co. confirmed they will
apply to restart their reactors that month.  Tepco is still designing a filtered vent system, mandated
by the Nuclear Regulation Authority’s safety rules, and can’t
say when it can complete the installation, it said.  All but two of Japan’s 50 reactors remain offline after the
March 11, 2011 quake and tsunami caused three meltdowns and a
radiation release at Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.
The idled reactors must meet the NRA’s new safety standards, to
be put into effect in July, before resuming operations.  Tepco and four other power companies will apply to the
nuclear safety watchdog in July to restart their reactors, the
Yomiuri newspaper reported yesterday, without saying how it
obtained the information. In addition to Shikoku and Kyushu, the
other utilities are Kansai Electric Power Co. and Hokkaido
Electric Power Co.  Shikoku Electric plans to apply for restart of the Ikata
No. 3 reactor in July, spokesman Takuji Suzaki said by phone
today. Kyushu Electric wants to apply to restart two reactors at
the Sendai plant in western Japan in the same month, spokesman
Hiroki Yamaguchi said.  Kansai Electric and Hokkaido Electric haven’t decided when
they will submit an application, spokesmen for the companies
said.  Tepco shares rose 15 percent to 721 yen at the 11.30 a.m.
mid-session break in  Tokyo , heading for their highest since
March 25 in 2011. It was the best performer on the Nikkei 225
Stock Average, which was up 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  