-- Herbalife Ackman Squeeze Signaled by Rising Shares
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-05-20T20:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/herbalife-ackman-squeeze-signaled-by-rising-shares.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  rose the most in more
than four months, signaling that  Carl Icahn ’s prediction that
rival hedge-fund manager  Bill Ackman  would become the victim of
the “mother of all short squeezes” may be coming true.  The nutrition company’s shares advanced 11 percent to
$49.21 at the close in New York for the biggest increase since
Jan. 3. The Cayman Islands-based company has risen 49 percent
this year, compared with a 17 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Herbalife has fought accusations from Ackman, founder of
New York-based Pershing Square Capital Management LP, that it is
a pyramid scheme. The company has repeatedly denied the
allegations, saying it derives its profits from the sale of
unique products. Shareholders have added two directors
associated with Icahn, who has come to Herbalife’s defense.  “It’s a discrediting of the short thesis on multilevel
marketers,” Tim Ramey, an analyst with D.A. Davidson & Co. in
Lake Oswego,  Oregon , said today in an interview. “It looks like
a lot of short-covering, especially the copycats who got short
and don’t have any idea why they are short.”  In a short sale, an investor borrows stock and then sells
the shares in anticipation of returning them at a lower price in
the future. A short squeeze occurs when other investors begin
buying the same stock, pushing its price up and forcing the
short seller to buy back the shares, possibly at a loss.  Ackman disclosed in December that he had sold short more
than 20 million Herbalife shares, prompting Icahn to take a 16
percent  interest  in the company, which he began disclosing on
Feb. 14. In a Jan. 25 statement, Icahn said the stock may become
“the mother of all short squeezes.”  About 23 percent of Herbalife’s outstanding shares were
sold short as of today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and New York-based research firm  Data Explorers . Herbalife is
the 11th most-shorted company in the Russell 1000 Index, which
has an average short interest of 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  