-- Merck Insomnia Drug Safer at Lower Dose, FDA Staff Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-20T13:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/merck-insomnia-drug-safer-at-lower-dose-fda-staff-says.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s experimental insomnia
drug, designed to turn off wakefulness rather than subdue the
brain into slumber like Ambien, may only be safe at lower doses
than what the company has proposed, U.S. regulators said.  Doses that Merck studied of as much as 40 milligrams of the
drug suvorexant, while effective in helping the sleep deprived,
may not be safe, Food and Drug Administration staff said today
in a  report . Lower doses may work just as well with better
safety, but more information may be needed, the staff said.  “The lowest strength proposed for marketing by the sponsor
is 15 mg,” staff wrote. “If a dosage strength lower than 15 mg
is unavailable, we would need to consider if the drug could be
marketed safely at all, if we believe that a substantial
proportion of the indicated population needs a lower dose.”  Merck’s suvorexant would challenge branded and generic
versions of Sanofi’s Ambien and  Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. (4506) ’s
Lunesta, the most widely used insomnia medications. Suvorexant
may generate sales of $526 million in 2017 if approved, based on
the average of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Advisers to the FDA will meet May 22 to recommend a proper
dose, if any. The FDA is then expected to make a decision by the
middle of the year, said Pamela Eisele, a spokeswoman for
Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck.  Side Effects  Suvorexant blocks orexins to facilitate sleep while those
for sale now work with the body’s receptors that reduce neuron
activity. Merck’s approach intends to avoid next-day residual
side effects. Current insomnia medications carry side effects,
including suicidal thoughts and driving while not fully awake.  The staff said they were still concerned about severe
residual daytime effects of suvorexant that could lead to
driving while impaired. It also said there was concern about
suicidal thoughts and unconscious nighttime activity.  The FDA this year said it required  Sanofi (SAN)  and other makers
of insomnia pills to cut by half the recommended doses for women
after the agency found lingering effects of the drug in the
morning.  Women didn’t experience the same difference in how long
suvorexant stays in the body, Sable said.  Insomnia occurs in as many as 30 percent of adults, Carole Sable, project team leader and vice president of neuroscience
for Merck, said in an interview. Merck is seeking to gain
approval for suvorexant in two different doses to help patients
fall asleep and stay asleep, Sable said.  If the FDA approves Merck’s drug, the company would still
need to wait on the Drug Enforcement Administration to make a
designation on restrictions for distribution based on the
potential for abuse. That process could take four months or
longer, Sable said. Insomnia drugs have historically been
considered a Schedule IV medication, the second least
restrictive of the DEA’s five classifications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  