-- Teva Bets on Reformulating Old Drugs as Investors Say ‘Show Me’
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-05-20T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/teva-bets-on-reformulating-old-drugs-as-investors-say-show-me-.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
which just two years ago was analysts’ highest-rated stock among
the world’s 20 biggest drugmakers, is struggling to convince
investors that a key part of its strategy will revive growth.  A new focus to reformulate or repurpose existing drugs to
tackle unmet needs in areas such as HIV and pain will create a
“multibillion-dollar business,” Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin said in an interview this month. Investors may be less
optimistic. Teva shares had the worst performance this year
among the 25 largest drugmakers as analysts seek more details on
the strategy and fret over competition to best-selling Copaxone.  “Teva is trying to re-coin an existing strategy,” said
Ronny Gal, a New York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. “Our answer to that is: ‘Sure, let me know what those drugs
are and I’ll give you credit for them on a case-by-case
scenario.’”  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , became the biggest
generic-drug maker through an acquisitive strategy that led to
more than  20 deals  in the past decade. Now, with its generic
business facing fierce competition in the U.S. and price
pressure in austerity-minded  Europe , it’s seeking in-between
products --innovative enough to justify high price tags and
well-recognized by regulators so as not to require arduous
clinical trials.  Development Timetable  Teva’s initiative to tweak old medicines to create what it
calls new therapeutic entities, or NTEs, was announced in
December and the drugmaker plans to establish itself as a leader
in this market, which it said is underserved. Teva plans to
provide more details of the plan by the end of the year, Levin
said in the interview.  Teva considered as many as 50 candidates for NTEs this
year, said Levin. Each may take as long as five years to develop
and some drugs won’t have to go through clinical trials at all,
according to Chief Scientific Officer  Michael Hayden . The
company plans to have 10 to 15 drugs internally approved for
development this year and in each subsequent year, Hayden said.  “I like the idea of improving an existing drug and getting
branded-type sales for it,”  Randall Stanicky , an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity Inc. in  New York , said by phone. “This type
of pipeline can be built up very quickly and Teva is in a unique
position to combine their generic experience with their
established presence in respiratory and central nervous system.
But we really need more details to translate that excitement
into numbers on a spreadsheet.”  License Example  Levin, 59, became CEO at Teva last year. A Cambridge
University-educated physician, he previously worked at New York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  as senior vice president for
strategy. At Bristol-Myers, Levin helped oversee the so-called
“string of pearls” policy of partnerships and smaller
acquisitions to replace revenue lost as blood thinner Plavix
faced more generic competition.  Hayden said an agreement announced by Teva on May 8 to pay
an initial $40 million to  Alexza Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXA)  to license
U.S.-approved inhalation powder Adasuve for agitation in
schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder patients is a sign of things
to come. He said each product would cost less than $100 million
to develop and estimated the company will have 25 new approved
products by 2020.  With NTEs, “it’s a bit like looking at a drug at early
Phase III study without the expense of a huge Phase III study,”
Hayden said, referring to the final stage of human testing
usually required for regulatory approval. “All of these drugs
have to reach the market in five years.”  Trial Histories  Teva was making NTE-type products before Levin took the
helm. A mid-stage trial to improve  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Advair
asthma product by using Teva’s Spiromax device is under way and
a late-stage study for a tamper-resistant formulation of
Hydrocodone for pain relief is planned for this year. The two
products could have as much as $770 million in sales by 2020,
Sanford C. Bernstein’s Gal said in April.  Taking known ingredients and repurposing or reformulating
them is not new.  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  did it by reformulating a narcotic used for anesthesia
into its Duragesic slow-releasing patch to treat cancer pain and
Copenhagen-based  H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN)  used Memantine hydrochloride,
originally synthesized in 1963 by  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  for diabetes,
to treat Alzheimer’s.  Low Risk  Still, Teva said few companies are making a concerted push
into this form of development. Under Hayden, Teva brought
together its older generic research and development unit with
the newer branded-drug R&D team, much of which it got in the
$6.5 billion acquisition of Cephalon Inc. in 2011. Teva says the
new global R&D group will foster collaboration and synergies.  “This is the first time a company has created an
industrial base of such scale for this area of medicine,” Levin
said about the NTE business in an April 11 interview at Teva’s
Petach Tikva headquarters. “This will lead to a substantial
pipeline for products with mostly low risk and high reward. We
can really change the industry in a highly important area.”  Teva is trying to follow in the footsteps of its
billionaire chairman  Phillip Frost , said Ori Hershkovitz, a
partner at Sphera Funds Management Ltd., a Tel Aviv-based
health-care hedge fund. Under Frost, Miami-based Ivax Corp.
developed a long-acting form of verapamil, a drug used to treat
hypertension, helping it to boost sales that led to the $7.4
billion sale to Teva in 2006.  Revenue Decline  “Traces of Phillip Frost’s fingerprints are all over this
new strategy,” said Hershkovitz. “While this may have worked
for the likes of Ivax or Forest Laboratories, times are
different now and with pressure to reduce health-care
expenditures there isn’t much willingness to pay branded prices
for generic products, even if we’re talking about less pills or
a film instead of a patch.”  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  makes and
sells branded drugs.  Teva’s sales declined 3.9 percent to $4.9 billion in the
first quarter as revenue from generic drugs in the U.S. fell 27
percent to $895 million. Competition has also increased as
 Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s Tecfidera treatment for multiple sclerosis
won U.S. approval on March 28, posing a challenge to Teva’s
best-selling Copaxone treatment.  Share Performance  Teva has dropped 3.3 percent including reinvested dividends
since the end of May last year, the month when Levin took the
helm. That compares with a 38 percent advance for the 66-company
Bloomberg World Pharmaceuticals Index, increasing pressure on
the company to show drugs under development with blockbuster
potential.  Still, Teva said it is keeping its NTE ideas close to its
chest for now.  “I’m from the Midwest and so I know it’s show me,” Jon Congleton, senior vice president at Teva’s Global Medicines
Group, said at RBC Capital Markets health conference on Feb. 27
when asked whether Teva expects investors to trust the company
as details about the NTE business remain scant. “Until we have
some security around the asset that we’re moving into
development, we don’t want to play the hand out too quick.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  