-- Ex-BP Executive Won’t Face a Charge of Lying About Spill
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-05-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/ex-bp-executive-won-t-face-one-charge-of-lying-about-spill-1-.html
Former  BP Plc (BP/)  executive  David Rainey 
won a bid to dismiss a charge he obstructed a congressional
investigation into the 2010  oil spill  because his indictment was
flawed, a U.S. judge ruled.  BP’s former vice president of  Gulf of Mexico  exploration
still must face a New Orleans jury in October on one count of
lying to investigators about the size of the spill.  U.S. District Judge Kurt D. Engelhardt in federal court in
New Orleans yesterday threw out one of two obstruction counts.
In a pre-trial ruling, Engelhardt found Rainey lacked sufficient
knowledge he was responding to an official congressional inquiry
when he prepared flow-rate estimates the government claims
understated the size of the spill in May 2010.  “Because it is an essential element of this crime that the
defendant knew of this inquiry and investigation, the indictment
must allege such knowledge. It does not,” Engelhardt said in
his ruling. “Even construing the allegations strongly in the
government’s favor, it is simply impossible to ascertain from
the indictment whether this essential element was presented to
and found by the grand jury.”  Reid Weingarten , Rainey’s lawyer, said in a telephone
interview that the ruling “gutted the government’s case. Ninety
percent of the evidence against Rainey went to count one, and
now count one is gone. This is a huge development.”  “We’re reviewing the decision and will decline to comment
further at this time,”  Peter Carr , a  Justice Department 
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Oil Gushing  Rainey was indicted in November on two counts of making
false statements that understated the volume of oil gushing from
BP’s blown-out well during the worst offshore spill in U.S.
history. Rainey was at the time of the allegations deputy
incident commander of a joint U.S. and BP command task force
that led efforts to stop the spill.  Prosecutors claimed Rainey told Congressman  Edward Markey 
in a letter, and federal investigators in an interview, that he
had calculated the well’s flow rate at 5,000 barrels a day while
failing to disclose internal BP estimates that pegged the rate
at more than 60,000 barrels a day, according to court papers.  In November, BP agreed to pay $4 billion and plead guilty
to 14 felony counts to resolve all criminal allegations stemming
from its involvement in the disaster caused by the explosion of
the Deepwater Horizon rig. Eleven rig workers died and more than
4.1 million barrels of crude gushed into the Gulf of Mexico
after the rig exploded and sank while drilling BP’s well off the
Louisiana coast.  Stock Price  BP also agreed to pay $525 million to resolve separate
allegations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that
the company lied about the size of the spill in its regulatory
filings in order to prop up its stock price.  One count of BP’s guilty plea deals with the false flow-rate estimates Rainey allegedly helped prepare and provide to
Congress in May 2010.  Scott Dean , BP’s spokesman, declined to
comment on the judge’s ruling in Rainey’s case.  Markey, a Democrat from  Massachusetts  who led the
investigation into the BP spill, said in an e-mailed statement
that the Justice Department should appeal the judge’s ruling.  ‘Deeply Troubling’  “This was a congressional investigation, plain and simple,
and this kind of narrow and off-the-wall interpretation of how
Congress investigates wrongdoing is deeply troubling,” Markey
said in the statement.  A different federal judge concluded testimony in April in
the first phase of a separate civil trial over liability for
billions of dollars in economic and medical injuries resulting
from the oil spill. That trial will apportion fault between BP
and its subcontractors,  Transocean (RIG) , which owned the Deepwater
Horizon rig, and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing
services on the well.  The case is U.S. v. Rainey, 2:12-cr-00291, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  