-- Ex-Battery Maker B456 Wins Approval of Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-05-20T18:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/ex-battery-maker-b456-wins-approval-of-bankruptcy-plan.html
B456 Systems Inc., the bankrupt
electric-car battery maker formerly called  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) ,
won court approval of a plan to exit bankruptcy that pays
creditors from the proceeds of selling virtually all its assets.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey approved the company’s
plan after most objections were resolved prior to today’s
hearing in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “We are thrilled with the result, and believe it’s in the
best interest of creditors,” Caroline A. Reckler, a lawyer for
the company, said in an interview after the hearing. Reckler
told Carey that creditors voted “overwhelmingly in favor of the
plan.”  With an approved plan, B456 expects to exit court
protection in about three to four weeks, bringing an end to a
bankruptcy that sparked heated political debate over government
support for companies in nascent alternative-energy industries.  A123 was used as an example by 2012 Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  to attack President  Barack Obama  on what he
called the administration’s failed investments in so-called
green technology.  Following A123’s bankruptcy filing, Andrea Saul, a Romney
campaign spokeswoman, said in an e-mail the company was “yet
another failure for the president’s disastrous strategy of
gambling away billions of taxpayer dollars on a strategy of
government-led growth that simply does not work.”  Deal Skuttled  The Waltham, Massachusetts-based company filed for
 bankruptcy  in October after a proposed $465 million deal with
Wanxiang Group Co.,  China ’s biggest auto-parts maker, for an 80
percent stake was scuttled amid congressional Republicans’
reluctance to allow a sale to a Chinese company.  A123, which was awarded a federal grant of as much as
$249.1 million and only used about $132 million to build two
plants in  Michigan , listed assets of $459.8 million and debt of
$376 million as of Aug. 31 in court documents.  A123 got court approval Dec. 11 to sell the majority of its
assets to Wanxiang’s U.S. unit after it won an auction, beating
out the original proposed buyer, Milwaukee-based  Johnson
Controls Inc. (JCI)  Wanxiang America Corp. acquired substantially all
of A123’s automotive, grid and commercial business assets for
about $256.6 million. The deal received approval from the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. on Jan. 29.  Security Concerns  CFIUS, as it is known, is a federal interagency group led
by the Treasury Department that reviewed the sale after members
of Congress expressed national security concerns over allowing a
foreign competitor to obtain the technology developed with
government backing.  A123 and Wanxiang tried to mollify congressional anxiety by
excluding the battery maker’s government business from the deal.
It was sold to Woodridge, Illinois-based Navitas Systems LLC for
about $2.25 million.  Under the company’s plan, general unsecured creditors are
projected to recover between about 32.7 percent and 63.6 percent
of what they’re owed, an amount which hasn’t yet been
determined, according to court documents. The company reached
agreements with some creditors reducing the amount they are
owed, including a settlement with Fisker Automotive Inc., which
was its main customer, reducing its purported $140 million in
claims by 89 percent to $15 million.  Recovery Percentage  As part of the settlement, Anaheim, California-based Fisker
agreed to support the former battery maker’s liquidation plan.  If objections to claims are successful, “then the
estimated percentage recovery for general unsecured creditors
would be 63.6 percent,” A123 said in the disclosure statement,
an outline of the plan approved March 14.  Likewise, unsecured subordinated noteholders recovery on
about $146.4 million in claims would rise to 62.9 percent from
the current estimate of a 31.3 percent recovery if the claims
objections are accepted by the court. Unsecured senior
noteholders are expected to be paid in full.  The case is In re A123 Systems Inc., 12-bk-12859,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  