-- Ex-KPMG Auditor’s Friend Pleads Guilty in Insider Case
-- B y   V a l e r i e   R e i t m a n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-05-20T18:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/ex-kpmg-auditor-s-friend-pleads-guilty-in-insider-case.html
The owner of a  Los Angeles  jewelry
store pleaded guilty to receiving insider information about KPMG
LLP clients provided by a friend who was a senior partner at the
audit firm.  Bryan Shaw, 52, admitted to one count of conspiracy at a
hearing today before U.S. District Judge George Wu in Los
Angeles. Shaw agreed to pay $1.3 million in profits he made from
trading on non-public information he received about  Herbalife
Ltd. (HLF)  and  Skechers U.S.A. Inc. (SKX) , among other KPMG clients, from
2010 through 2012.  The judge ordered Shaw, who remains free on bond, to return
for sentencing on Sept. 16. The charge carries as long as five
years in prison. According to Shaw’s plea agreement, prosecutors
will ask for a reduced sentence. Shaw started cooperating with
investigators in February and recorded conversations with Scott  London , 50, the former KPMG auditor who was charged last month.  Prosecutors have accused London of providing Shaw with
confidential information about KPMG clients whose books he
audited sometimes days before a press release. Shaw gave London
bags with stacks of $100 bills near his jewelry story in Encino,
an affluent district of Los Angeles, prosecutors said.  Shaw’s attorney,  Nathan Hochman , said today that his client
had pleaded guilty “because he was guilty.” He “made
incredibly stupid decisions” in making the insider trades with
London, with whom he became friends after they met on a golf
course, Hochman said. Shaw didn’t speak to reporters after the
hearing.  Court Appearance  London is scheduled to appear in federal court in Los
Angeles on May 30, when he will either be indicted or enter a
plea agreement, Assistant U.S. Attorney James Bowman said.  “This case is unusual in that both men admitted guilt
before they were charged,” Bowman said after today’s hearing.
“It speaks to the strength of the evidence,” he said, citing a
photo of the two men in a parking lot with what he said was
“money passing hands.”  Hochman said when investigators confronted Shaw, he faced a
choice of either covering up his actions or cooperating.  “He chose to do the right thing,” the lawyer said, adding
that he hopes the sentence will reflect that cooperation.  The case is U.S. v. Shaw, 13-00314, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Valerie Reitman at  valeriereitman@yahoo.com ;
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  