-- Fed’s Fisher Says U.S. Fiscal Policy Hampering Job Growth
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-05-20T14:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/fed-s-fisher-says-u-s-fiscal-policy-hampering-job-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank will probably
maintain or slow the current pace of $85 billion a month of
asset purchases.  “The odds are in favor, right now as I see it, of dialing
this back a little bit or keeping it at its current pace,”
Fisher said, speaking on CNBC television. “I’m in favor of
dialing it back.”  Fisher, who does not vote on policy again until 2014, has
been among the most vocal of internal Federal Reserve critics.
In an April 10 speech in El Paso,  Texas , he said he’s not sure
the Fed is getting a “justifiable bang” for the trillions of
dollars pumped into the economy.  “The real question, is, is it working at this level?” he
said today, saying that he is focused on the Fed’s exit strategy
when it has to market the assets.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1 it will
keep buying $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed securities
and $45 billion a month of  Treasury securities . The policy-making FOMC said it would be prepared to increase or reduce the
pace of asset purchases in response to changes in the outlook
for inflation and the labor market.  “You can buy all you want, when you go to sell it, it’s a
different story,” Fisher said. He said mortgage-backed security
purchases do not need to proceed at their current pace.  Still, he said in the CNBC interview it would be “too
violent” for markets to stop MBS purchases altogether.  Fiscal Policy  Benefits from the  Federal Reserve ’s monetary policy are
being constrained by policy in  Washington , Fisher said.  “We’ve flooded the market with liquidity, but the boats
are still tied to the dock by fiscal policy,” he said. “You
can raise the tide, but if you’re still tied to the dock, you
don’t leave. We have not seen the kind of robust  job creation  we
would like to see.”  Fisher said he would not be surprised to see U.S. gross
domestic product grow by more than 2.5 percent toward the end of
the year.  “I think we’ll see things picking up as we go through the
year,” he said.  Asked about his predictions for the future of Federal
Reserve leadership, Fisher said he personally would like to see
 Ben S. Bernanke  stay on as Fed chairman after his term expires
in January. At the same time, he said, other people are
qualified to fill the spot, including vice chairman  Janet Yellen .  “It’s a presidential decision and we’ll see if it’s
driven by gender or other considerations and so on,” Fisher
said. “Janet’s extremely capable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe in Washington at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  