-- Fed’s Evans Says Economy Has Been ‘Improving Quite a Lot’
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-05-20T19:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/fed-s-evans-says-economy-has-been-improving-quite-a-lot-.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the  U.S. economy  has improved
“quite a lot” as the central bank maintains record stimulus
and expressed confidence policy makers have tools needed to
monitor markets for excesses.  “I’m optimistic that the labor market has been doing much,
much better and that unemployment is going to continue to go
down,” Evans said in a speech in Chicago today. “Currently we
have the appropriate monetary policy in place.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1
that it will keep buying $85 billion in bonds per month as it
seeks to bolster growth and reduce joblessness. The U.S. central
bank also said it would increase or decrease the pace of
purchases in response to the labor market and inflation.  The question now is “how much confidence we have that the
improvements that have been made will continue and be
sustained,” said Evans, who holds a vote on the FOMC this year.  Stocks fluctuated near a record today, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index little changed at 1,667.27 as of 3:05 p.m. in
 New York . The index has surged about 17 percent this year on
signs of an accelerating economic rebound.  In response to a question from the audience, Evans said the
Fed needs to be cautious about spillovers from its accommodative
 policy , and policy makers get regular reports on financial
markets that can help spot excesses.  Markets ‘Reasonable’  “So far it’s very difficult to argue that things are not
functioning at least as well as they were before we undertook
our asset purchasing programs,” Evans said. “And while asset
values have gone up, it still looks relatively reasonable. But
we’re going to continue to monitor that.”  Evans has been among the most vocal proponents of
 accommodative policy  within the Fed in recent years. He was an
early supporter of the Fed’s third round of quantitative easing
and was the first to advocate tying the zero-rate policy to
economic indicators.  The  Chicago  Fed chief said that he expects to see “self-sustaining growth” at “escape velocity” in 2014. “We would
like to see inflation closer to our objective,” he said.  When it comes time for the Fed to begin shrinking its
balance sheet, “we may or may not choose to sell” the assets
it has bought, he said.  Stronger Consumers  Reports since the FOMC’s April 30-May 1 meeting have
signaled a brightening outlook for the U.S. consumer. The
 unemployment rate  fell to 7.5 percent in April and employers
added 165,000 jobs, Labor Department figures showed May 3.
Retail sales advanced 0.1 percent in April, the Commerce
Department said May 13.  Evans said he’d like to see monthly employment growth of
200,000 or more for at least six months before judging the labor
market substantially improved.  “If I had high confidence that this was going to be
maintained over the next six months and beyond, I would be quite
amenable to discussions about adjusting the flow of purchases
downward,” Evans said.  “I’d like to see a few more months of data,” he said.
“We don’t have to adjust the pace all the time” and while “it
would be okay to keep going,” he’s open-minded, he said.  Some Fed officials in recent months have signaled they
favor tapering the quantitative-easing program in the next few
months.  San Francisco  Fed President  John Williams  said last week
that the Fed may want to reduce the pace of its purchases as
early as this summer “if all goes as hoped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  