-- FirstGroup Falls as Dividend Delayed by Share Sale: London Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-05-20T15:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/firstgroup-falls-as-dividend-delayed-by-share-sale-london-mover.html
FirstGroup Plc (FGP) , the company stripped
of Britain’s premier U.K. rail route in 2012, fell the most in
18 years after halting its dividend to focus on a 615 million-pound ($936 million) rights offer and avert a credit downgrade.  The stock  tumbled  30 percent, exceeding the 21 percent drop
on Oct. 3 when Aberdeen, Scotland-based FirstGroup was forced to
surrender the West Coast train contract. The three-for-two offer
of 723 million shares is priced at 85 pence, a 62 percent
discount to the 223.80 pence closing price on May 17.  FirstGroup, whose Chairman Martin Gilbert is to leave
after 17 years on the board, has been monitoring its  capital
requirements  since the government relieved it of the 5.5-billion-pound London-Scotland rail franchise, citing flaws in
the assessment process. The U.K. company said today the rights
offer will help it retain an investment-grade  credit rating ,
remove balance-sheet constraints and ease spending plans.  “The proceeds of the equity raising will give us the
flexibility and capital confidence to focus on the work that
needs to be done to create long-term value,” Chief Executive
Officer Tim O’Toole said. The company aims to remain a dividend-paying stock and the share sale should help it establish a
“progressive” policy on investor returns, he added.  FirstGroup  shares  closed at 155.6 pence in  London  in the
biggest drop since at least June 1995. The stock has declined 26
percent this year, giving a market value of 750 million pounds.  Dividend Plan  The company’s debt more than tripled to 2.2 billion pounds
in 2008 after it bought Greyhound bus operator Laidlaw in the
U.S. Net debt stood at about 2 billion pounds as of March 31, 8
percent higher than a year earlier,  FirstGroup is rated  BBB- at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, the lowest level above junk, with S&P saying in October
it might opt for a downgrade because of the weakening balance
sheet. The debt includes about 1.4 billion pounds of bonds
maturing between 2018 and 2024 and 390 million pounds-equivalent
of term loans, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  No final dividend will be paid for the 12 months ended
March 31 or first half of fiscal 2014, according to a statement.  Payments should resume with a final dividend for that year
totaling as much as 50 million pounds, subject to the company
meeting “business expectations,” FirstGroup said, with a
dividend cover of 2 to 2 1/2 times to be targeted thereafter.  Rail Commitment  The rights-offer is fully underwritten, with Goldman Sachs
and JPMorgan Cazenove as acting joint sponsors, bookrunners and
corporate brokers. Bank of America Merrill Lynch is also joint
bookrunner and HSBC is joint lead manager.  The selling price represents a 39.5 percent discount to the
theoretical ex-rights price, according to FirstGroup. That’s
comparable with a TERP of 36 percent for a share sale at Thomas
Cook Group Plc last week, Edward Stanford, an analyst at Oriel
Securities in London, said in a note to investors.  FirstGroup said it’s continuing talks with the U.K.
Department for Transport about the extension of its First
Capital Connect, First Great Western and First TransPennine
Express franchises, and remains “committed to retaining a
leading position in the U.K. rail market.”  Still, the “real long-term opportunity” lies in a
business recovery program focused on the company’s U.K. bus
division, where it’s mid-way through a 100 million-pound
disposal program, and First student, which runs yellow school
buses in the U.S., O’Toole said. FirstGroup also owns the
Greyhound bus brand.  Virgin Victory  Virgin Trains, controlled by billionaire entrepreneur
 Richard Branson , was told it can keep the London-Scotland West
Coast route following the probe into the FirstGroup award.  O’Toole said at the time that FirstGroup had bid in good
faith and in strict accordance with terms set by DfT.  FirstGroup posted a pretax profit of 172.4 million pounds
for the year to March 31, down almost 37 percent from a year
earlier. Stanford, who predicted a figure of 170 million pounds,
said the results “yielded no surprises.”  Chairman Gilbert will stand down once a successor has been
appointed, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Morris at   smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  