-- Freeport Death Toll Rises to Eleven as CEO Adkerson Arrives
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-05-20T02:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/freeport-death-toll-rises-to-eleven-as-ceo-adkerson-arrives-1-.html
The death toll from an accident at
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s mine in Papua province
rose to 11 as Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson arrived
in  Indonesia .  Mining has been halted since a tunnel collapsed at the
Grasberg complex on May 14. The company’s rescue team retrieved
three bodies overnight and another two yesterday, local unit PT
Freeport Indonesia said in statements today and yesterday. Of 38
workers who had been in a classroom in an underground training
facility at the time of the accident, 10 have been rescued and
17 are believed still buried under the rubble.  Phoenix-based Adkerson flew into Timika in Papua on May 18
and, together with Freeport Indonesia President Director Rozik
B. Soetjipto, has been visiting injured workers and the families
of those still missing, Freeport said in a separate statement
yesterday. Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  called
on Freeport to step up rescue efforts at the world’s second-largest copper mine.  “I have asked PT Freeport and apparatus to intensify
rescue,” Yudhoyono said in a statement posted on his official
Twitter account May 16. “With the accident in Freeport, I asked
all companies in Indonesia to improve the safety of their
workers.”  Accident Investigation  Grasberg in Mimika, Papua province, about 3,120 kilometers
(1,940 miles) east of Jakarta, includes underground and open-pit
operations and is the world’s second-biggest by output, Freeport
said in a March 14  presentation . The complex generated $3.92
billion of revenue for Freeport last year, or 16 percent of the
company’s  sales . Freeport owns 91 percent of the mine, which
also produces gold, and Indonesia’s government holds the rest,
according to the company’s website.  The government should conduct a thorough investigation of
the accident, said Virgo Solossa, head of the Mimika branch of
the All-Indonesian Workers Union in the Chemical, Energy and
Mining Sectors, whose members include the labor union at
Freeport Indonesia.  “The investigation must be transparent and comprehensive
to find, not only the cause, but also people that are
responsible for the accident,” Solossa said May 17 by phone
from Mimika. “We demanded that all operations at Freeport
remain halted until the investigation is concluded, that is the
least they can do to value the life and the families of the
victims.”  The government would seek to improve mining safety
procedures, Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa
told reporters in Jakarta May 17.  Safety Lesson  “A government team will conduct an investigation and after
they’re finished, we will see what needs to be done,” he said.
“This can be used as a lesson on how we can strengthen the
safety of underground mining.”  Freeport Indonesia was still shipping concentrate as of May
17, Daisy Primayanti, vice president of corporate communications
at the company, said by mobile-phone text message on May 18. The
company used concentrate that was delivered to the port site
before it suspended operations, she said.  Freeport has halted the negotiation process for the
2013-2015 Collective Labor Agreement because of the accident, it
said in the statement. The company and its labor union had
started contract negotiations on May 13.  Output at Grasberg was disrupted in 2011 and 2012 after
labor unrest and violence. The company said in a February filing
that 15 people died and 57 were injured in 37 shooting incidents
in and around the complex between July 2009 and Feb. 15 this
year.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s Escondida mine in  Chile  is the world’s
largest copper mine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  