-- Freeport Wins Plains Approval for $6.63 Billion Takeover
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-05-20T20:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/freeport-wins-plains-approval-for-6-6-billion-takeover.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
won approval from shareholders of  Plains Exploration &
Production Co. (PXP)  for a $6.63 billion takeover after sweetening the
bid for the largest U.S. oil and natural gas purchase announced
in the past year.  A majority of Plains  holders  voted in favor of the
takeover, the companies said in a statement today, sending the
shares to a more than four-year high. The vote comes after the
companies earlier today offered Plains investors an additional
$3 a share in the form of one-time special cash dividend plus
another $1 for each share in Freeport they own after the merger
closes.  The Plains acquisition is part of Phoenix-based Freeport’s
$9 billion bid to expand its natural resources supply base to
include oil and gas production and reduce its vulnerability to
metal prices. The largest publicly traded copper producer
announced plans on Dec. 5 to buy both Houston-based Plains and
 McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR) , an energy company that was spun off in
1994.  “It adds another avenue for growth, diversifies its cash
flows and increases the proportion of earnings from the U.S.,”
Paulson & Co., holder of 9 million Freeport shares, said in a
statement today. The hedge-fund manager is the largest
shareholder in Plains and the second-largest shareholder in
McMoRan, after Plains.  Investors including SAC Capital Advisors LP’s CR Intrinsic
Investors and Arrowgrass Capital Partners LLP had challenged the
offer after the mining company’s shares dropped on a decline in
copper and gold prices. The value of the stock-and-cash deal,
which was $50 a share when announced, was $46.34 as of the
closing price on May 17.  Four-Year High  Arrowgrass, which holds about 4.6 million shares in Plains,
is “pleased that the Freeport board has come closer to properly
acknowledging the significant value Plains brings to the merged
company,” Michael Edwards, a partner at London-based hedge
fund, said in response to the dividend announcement before the
vote results were released.  Plains increased 7.4 percent to $48.94 at the close in New
York, the highest price since September 2008. Freeport gained
0.6 percent to $32.88.  The dividends announced today effectively added $3.65 a
share to the offer,  Tony Robson , a London-based analyst for BMO
Capital Markets, wrote in a note to clients. With the added
dividend, the offer amounts to $50.12 a share at the current
stock price, or a total of $6.63 billion, based on the number of
shares outstanding.  The transaction is expected to close May 31, the companies
said.  Shareholders of McMoRan Exploration are scheduled to vote
June 3 on their takeover offer, comprised of about $2.4 billion
of cash and a share of future royalties from certain assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  