-- GE Capital Plans $6.5 Billion in Dividends to Parent
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-05-20T20:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/ge-capital-to-pay-6-5-billion-in-dividends-to-parent-correct-.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  plans to extract
$6.5 billion in dividends from its financial unit this year as
Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt ramps up shareholder
rewards while shrinking the business.  The payments from  GE Capital  will consist of 30 percent of
its total 2013 profit, or about $2 billion, and a $4.5 billion
special dividend, GE said today in a statement. GE Capital paid
a first-quarter earnings dividend of $447 million on April 19,
it said.  GE Capital resumed the payouts last year, returning $6.4
billion to its parent, after suspending them in 2009 as frozen
credit markets jeopardized its access to financing. Immelt is
tapping the financial division for cash to fund stock buybacks
and  dividends  that are slated to return $18 billion to
shareholders this year while shrinking its contribution to GE’s
total profit.  “This announcement is consistent with our goal to reduce
the overall size of GE Capital and for it to return significant
cash to GE,” Immelt said in the statement.  GE  climbed  0.5 percent to $23.57 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 12 percent this year,  compared  with a 17
percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company, the world’s largest manufacturer of  jet
engines , will obtain 65 percent of its profit from its
industrial units by 2015, compared with about 55 percent last
year, Immelt said in December at a meeting with analysts and
investors. Transportation, health care and energy, along with
other manufacturing businesses, are the focus of Immelt’s
expansion strategy for Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE.  Shrinking Finance  Ending net investment, a measure of GE Capital’s size that
excludes non-interest-bearing liabilities and cash, declined 22
percent to $402 billion as of March 31 from the beginning of
2009, according to the statement and GE regulatory filings.  “Management has weathered the financial crisis well,
improving their equity position even while shrinking the asset
base and improving the quality of their portfolio,” Steven Winoker, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst who has a market-perform rating on GE shares, wrote in a note to clients today.  Immelt is emphasizing the company’s industrial operations
after seeking government assistance for GE Capital in the wake
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse. The company
placed $16 billion of short-term debt through the  Federal
Reserve ’s Commercial Paper Funding Facility and issued $59
billion of bonds backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
during and following the financial crisis.  GE Capital had net income of $7.4 billion on $46 billion in
revenue last year. The unit had $68 billion in cash at the end
of the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  