-- Germany to Back EU Progress for Serbia, Kosovo If Accord Enacted
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-05-20T16:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/germany-to-back-eu-progress-for-serbia-kosovo-if-accord-enacted.html
Germany  will support Serbia’s bid to
secure a start date to begin European Union membership talks and
back pre-accession talks for  Kosovo  if the nations show progress
in implementing their April 19 political agreement.  It’s important “that an implementation agreement is found
and that the first achievable implementation steps are made,”
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said in the Serbian
capital of Belgrade today.  Serbian Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  and his Kosovo
counterpart, Hashim Thaci, will meet in Brussels tomorrow to
discuss the implementation of a preliminary, EU-mediated
agreement to normalize ties after years of conflict and tension,
paving the way for reconciliation and talks on joining the bloc.  “I can’t prejudge a decision of the government or a vote
in the Bundestag, but if this decision on implementation is
made, with substantial and visible results, I will give a
positive signal to the German Bundestag,” Westerwelle told
reporters after meeting with Dacic.  The Council of the EU will meet on June 28 to decide on
 Serbia  and Kosovo, a day after a debate in the German lower
house in Berlin, the Bundestag.  The deal with Kosovo, which Serbs consider the cradle of
their nation and culture, has raised criticism from Serbs in
northern Kosovo over concerns that their interests are being
sacrificed to benefit Serbia’s bid for EU membership. Dacic has
not yet convinced them to accept and implement the deal.  Mutual Steps  The progress means that Serbia’s “parallel structures must
be removed, but that also means that Kosovo must make it easier
to integrate into Kosovo,” Westerwelle said in Pristina after
talks with Thaci today.  Serbia and Kosovo have until June 15 to work out power
sharing in telecommunications and energy and make progress in
clarifying the fate of people missing on both sides since the
1998-99 war during the breakup of  Yugoslavia .  Dacic said he will “invest a new effort to reach a
solution and agree on an implementation plan tomorrow” as
failure to get the date “will be catastrophic.”  Thaci said in Pristina that he’s “very confident and
hopeful that we can reach an agreement tomorrow.” While the
implementation “won’t be easy,” it will be conducted
“peacefully,” he said.  Serbia and Kosovo have been at loggerheads since the wars
of the 1990s that led to the breakup of Yugoslavia and Serbia
had vowed never to accept its independence, declared
unilaterally in 2008. Kosovo is recognized by more than 90
countries worldwide, including the U.S. and 22 of the EU’s 27
member states.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Pristina at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  