-- Goldman Sachs Eyes Japan Renewable Energy Investments
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-05-20T05:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/goldman-sachs-eyes-japan-renewable-energy-investments.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plans to
invest as much as 50 billion yen ($487 million) in renewable
energy projects in Japan in the next five years, tapping demand
for electricity produced from solar and wind-power generators.  The Wall Street firm also plans to take as much as 250
billion yen of bank loans and project-financing over the same
period to move ahead with projects that would cost a total of
300 billion yen,  Hiroko Matsumoto , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for
Goldman, said by telephone. The Nikkei newspaper reported the
plan earlier today.  Japan began offering incentives in July through feed-in
tariffs to encourage renewables after the Fukushima nuclear-plant crisis stemming from the March 11, 2011 earthquake and
tsunami. Japan has been forced to slash its reliance on atomic
power generation since Fukushima.  “We believe that we can leverage our global expertise in
investing in renewable energy in places such as the U.S. and
India, to help expand Japan’s renewable power capabilities,”
Ankur Sahu, co-head of the merchant banking division in the
Asia-Pacific, said by e-mail.  Goldman Sachs formed the  Japan Renewable Energy Co.  unit in
August to plan, design and operate  power plants  run on sun,
wind, fuel cells and biomass fuels, it said on its website.  Investor Attraction  Renewable energy has attracted interest from investors
ranging from billionaire Masayoshi Son’s  Softbank Corp. (9984)  and
financial-services company  Orix Corp. (8591)  to the country’s biggest
banks led by  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)   Japan will probably become the largest solar market in the
world after  China  this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Commercial and utility-scale projects will boost solar
installations to a range of 6.1 gigawatts to 9.4 gigawatts in
2013, exceeding an earlier forecast of 3.2 gigawatts to 4
gigawatts, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in April.  Companies that stand to benefit include  Kyocera Corp. (6971) ,
Sharp Corp. and Suntech Power Japan Corp., all of which make and
sell solar panels for residential and industrial use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  