-- Gross to Buffett Omens Disregarded as Sales Soar: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-05-20T15:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/gross-to-buffett-omens-disregarded-as-sales-soar-credit-markets.html
Sales of corporate bonds in the U.S.
are surging toward the busiest May ever as borrowers race to the
market before demand dries up with  Bill Gross  and  Warren Buffett 
cautioning against buying debt at all-time low yields.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s $11 billion deal, the biggest on
record for an  emerging markets  issuer, leads sales this month of
$120.2 billion, on pace to exceed the unprecedented $162.6
billion sold in May 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Issuance has already eclipsed the  $108.2 billion  sold in all of
May 2012.  Borrowers are accelerating sales as speculation mounts that
yields may only rise amid signs the economy is improving. Three
Federal Reserve regional bank presidents called last week for
phasing out the central bank’s monthly purchases of $40 billion
in mortgage-backed securities as the housing recovery shows
signs of gaining momentum, potentially reducing demand for
riskier assets from stocks to speculative-grade bonds.  “Many issuers may decide it is not worth tempting that
fate,” Edward Marrinan, a macro credit strategist at RBS
Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. The firm is one of the 21 primary dealers of U.S.
government securities authorized to trade with the Fed.  Tempting Fate  Buffett, the billionaire chairman and chief executive
officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway Inc., told
Bloomberg Television this month that he felt “sorry” for
fixed-income investors with yields on corporate bonds so low.  Yields fell to an unprecedented 3.35 percent on May 2 from
more than 11 percent in 2008, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield index. That represents
interest savings of about $76.5 million a year on every $1
billion borrowed. Yields ended last week at 3.465 percent.  Gross, manager of the $293 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  for
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., said in a Twitter post on May 10 that a three-decade bull
market in bonds probably ended April 29. Investors chasing yield
have led to “frothiness” in some markets, analysts at Morgan
Stanley led by Adam Richmond in New York wrote in a May 17
report.  “Investors have cash to spend yet fewer alternatives to
buy,” the Morgan Stanley analysts wrote. Purchasers are having
to accumulate corporate bonds “at levels sometimes not
justified by fundamentals,” they wrote.  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. declined. The Markit
CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 0.06 basis point to a mid-price of 70.3 basis points
as of 10:46 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.1 basis point to 14.75 basis
points as of 10:45 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of government securities and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Cupertino, California-based Apple Inc. are the
most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, accounting for 4.44 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more as of 10:44 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ‘Substantial Appetite’  Corporate bond offerings in the U.S. have exceeded the
$29.5 billion weekly average for the past 12 months in each of
the past five weeks, propelling sales to the busiest pace ever.  Issuance has reached $689.6 billion this year, exceeding
the  $593.2 billion  in the corresponding period of 2012.
Globally, offerings total $1.66 trillion, the fastest pace
behind $1.8 trillion in the similar timeframe in 2009.  “Investors worldwide still have a substantial appetite to
own high-quality, fixed-income assets,” RBS’s Marrinan said.
“The crowding-out effect of central bank purchases of
government securities is forcing the investors into a
diminishing pool of buyable high-quality corporate exposure.”  Petrobras Bonds  Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras split its offering in six
parts, including fixed-rate bonds due in three, five, 10 and 30
years as well as three- and five-year floating-rate bonds,
Bloomberg data show.  Apple sold $17 billion of bonds in the biggest corporate
offering on record on April 30 as the iPhone maker issued its
first debentures since 1996, Bloomberg data show. The sale
included $4 billion of 1 percent, five-year notes paying a
relative yield of 40 basis points and $5.5 billion of 2.4
percent, 10-year securities with a 75 basis-point spread.  Proceeds from the Apple offering will help finance a $100
billion capital reward for shareholders. The sale was a “great
example of companies using funds for equity-friendly behavior,”
John Lonski, chief economist for Moody’s Capital Markets
Research Group in New York, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Not Buying’  Buffett said he isn’t investing in corporate debt,
including Apple’s record offering, because yields are too low.  “We’re not buying corporate bonds of any kind now,”
Buffett, 82, said May 4 during an interview with Bloomberg TV’s
 Betty Liu  in Omaha, where Berkshire held its annual meeting.
“Not at those yields.”  Gross, known as “The Bond King” in media outlets and
named fixed-income manager of the decade in January 2010 by
Morningstar Inc., said May 10 that returns will probably be in
the range of 2 percent to 3 percent.  Markets are entering “a 12-month period of time ahead in
which, combined, Treasury, corporate and high yields don’t move
much,” Gross, the co-founder and co-chief investment officer of
Pimco, said in a May 16 Bloomberg Television interview with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen.  “Given this juncture where we are, there are a lot of
different opinions and the range is pretty wide,” Dorian Garay,
a New York-based money manager for an investment-grade debt fund
at ING Investment Management, said in a telephone interview.
“Uncertainty is pretty high.”  Benchmark Maintained  The Federal Open Market Committee said May 1 it will keep
up its monthly purchases of mortgage bonds and $45 billion in
Treasuries, and is ready to increase or reduce the pace in
response to changes in the outlook for inflation and the labor
market.  Dallas Federal Reserve Bank President Richard Fisher said
May 16 that buying mortgage bonds risks disrupting the market,
while Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser said, “it’s
not good for the bank to be holding lots of mortgage paper.”
Jeffrey Lacker of Richmond said to reporters a day earlier that
the Fed should “get out of the credit allocation business.”  Policy makers also are maintaining benchmark interest
rates, kept in a range between zero and 0.25 percent since
December 2008, at record lows as long as the outlook for
inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent and unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent.  Issuance ‘Wildcard’  “The wildcard for issuance will likely be what rates do
during the remainder of the year,” analysts led by Jason Shoup
at Citigroup Inc. wrote in a May 17 report. “We fully expect to
see companies taking a more aggressive approach to prefunding
their 2014 maturities,” capital expenditures and mergers,
especially if discussion of the Fed withdrawing stimulus
continues, they wrote.  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President John Williams said last week that quickening economic growth and
gains in the job market may prompt the Fed in the next few
months to start reducing bond buying.  “It’s clear that the labor market has improved since
September” when the Fed began its third round of asset
purchases, Williams said in a May 16 speech in  Portland ,  Oregon .
“We could reduce somewhat the pace of our  securities purchases ,
perhaps as early as this summer” and end the program late this
year “if all goes as hoped.”  Refinancing Purposes  Of investment-grade companies selling debt in the U.S. in
April, 70 percent specified refinancing among their use of
proceeds, 10 percent cited mergers-and-acquisitions activity, 23
percent shareholder payments and 3 percent capital spending,
according to Lonski of Moody’s. Use of offerings can fall into
more than one category, while the figures exclude sales
designated for general corporate purposes.  The number of junk-rated companies that are under liquidity
stress was at almost all-time low levels this month as strong
investor demand allows firms to shore up cash, according to a
May 16 report from Moody’s Investors Service.  “Most U.S. speculative-grade companies are avoiding
liquidity problems despite tepid growth in corporate sales and
continued softness in the economy,” Moody’s analysts led by
John Puchalla wrote.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at Standard &
Poor’s.  The ratings company’s Liquidity-Stress Index, which falls
when corporations’ ability to manage cash needs appears to
improve and rises when it weakens, is at about an unprecedented
low, reaching 3.2 percent in mid-May from a record 2.8 percent
at the end of April, according to the report. That compares with
an historic average of 7.3 percent.  “Conditions for issuers could not be more ideal,” wrote
Shoup of Citigroup. “How much longer the party lasts is the
billion dollar question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  