-- Ground Control Names Major Tim as U.K.’s New Astronaut
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-20T10:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/ground-control-names-major-tim-as-u-k-s-new-astronaut.html
The U.K. named a former Apache
helicopter pilot to be the first astronaut it will put into
space in more than 20 years following an increase in government
investment in space research.  Tim Peake , who served as a major in the British army, will
work for six months on the International Space Station. He’s one
of six astronauts selected from among 8,000 hopefuls around the
world. The flight is expected to take place in November 2015,
the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, which
oversees Britain’s space program, said in an  e-mailed statement .  “This is another important mission for Europe and in
particular a wonderful opportunity for European science,
industry and education to benefit from microgravity research,”
Peake said at the Science Museum in London today, according to
remarks released by the business department. “I am extremely
grateful to the ground support teams who make it possible for us
to push the boundaries of knowledge through human spaceflight
and exploration.”  Today’s announcement follows increased investment by the
U.K. Space Agency in Europe’s space program to 240 million
pounds ($365 million) a year, including a 16 million-pound one-time payment to the International Space Station.  Peake joined the European Astronaut Corps in 2009 and will
become the second astronaut with solely British citizenship to
voyage into space.  Prime Minister David Cameron called the announcement of
Peake’s involvement in the program “a momentous day.” The
British space industry is worth 9 billion pounds to the nation’s
economy annually and employs almost 30,000 people, the
government said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  