-- GrubHub Merging With Seamless as Food Orders Go Mobile
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-05-20T18:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/grubhub-to-merge-with-seamless-as-food-orders-go-mobile.html
GrubHub Inc. and Seamless North
America LLC, two of the top food-delivery websites in the U.S.,
have agreed to combine their companies to take on rivals in the
growing market for online meal orders.  GrubHub Chief Executive Officer Matt Maloney will become
CEO of the merged group, and Seamless CEO Jonathan Zabusky will
serve as president, the two said in an interview. Neither
company is paying to acquire the other, Maloney said, declining
to share financial details of the agreement. The deal now awaits
the approval of U.S. regulators, he said.  Food-delivery sites and mobile applications are gaining in
popularity as more people order their meals online, instead of
calling or picking up orders at restaurants. That’s also driving
consolidation, as startups join forces to head off competition
from review sites such as  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  The merger will help the
combined company accelerate the addition of users and
restaurants, said Maloney, who co-founded GrubHub in 2004.  “This has nothing to do with cost savings; it has
everything to do with increasing growth,” Maloney said. “We’re
totally focused on the top line and how we continue to drive
more orders for our restaurants.”  Venture-capital firms including Amicus Capital LP, Origin
Ventures,  Benchmark Capital  and DAG Ventures LLC have invested a
total of $84.1 million in GrubHub. GrubHub has expanded in
recent years through purchases of smaller companies including
Dotmenu Inc.  Mobile Orders  GrubHub and Seamless haven’t picked a name for the combined
business, Maloney said. GrubHub, based in  Chicago , has about 350
employees, while New York-based Seamless has more than 300. Both
processed about $875 million in combined food sales in 2012,
resulting in revenue of more than $100 million, the companies
said. GrubHub works with more than 20,000 restaurants in the
U.S., while Seamless has 12,000 partners in the country and in
the U.K.  Software for smartphones and tablets is increasing the
frequency of customers’ food requests, Maloney said. About 30
percent of GrubHub’s orders are done via its mobile programs.
Seamless, which introduced an iPad app last year, said more than
40 percent of its orders come through on a mobile device.  The companies plan to combine their research and
development to introduce new technologies for online ordering,
Seamless’s Zabusky said in the interview. There aren’t any plans
to eliminate jobs as a result of the merger, both executives
said.  Merger Challenge  Mergers between two closely-held companies are rare because
it’s often difficult to combine capital structures and get two
sets of investors to agree on terms of a deal, according to Bill Gurley, general partner at Benchmark and a director on GrubHub’s
board.  “The real question is how do we split the company amongst
the two players,” Gurley wrote in a blog  post  today. “Had they
not started from day one of our discussions with a partnership
mindset, we would have never have reached this milestone.”  Citigroup Inc. served as an adviser in the merger talks.
Reuters reported in November that Citigroup had been hired to
lead GrubHub’s planned initial public offering.  “The rumors are true that we had engaged Citi,” Maloney
said. “We have been focused on this merger, and we’re not
thinking about an IPO right now,” Maloney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  