-- Ikos, Las Vegas Sands, Ericsson: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-22T23:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/ikos-las-vegas-sands-ericsson-intellectual-property.html
Elena Ambrosiadou, co-founder of Ikos
Asset Management Ltd., won a U.K. court case brought by her
estranged husband, Martin Coward, over who owns the computer
software that runs the hedge fund’s trading platform.  While Coward wrote the original software, he did so as a
member of Ikos, making it an asset of the Cyprus-based hedge-fund firm’s partnership, Judge Sarah Asplin wrote in her ruling
handed down May 17. Coward sued his wife’s businesses saying he
was the architect of Ikos’s success and owns the copyright for
the $1.36 billion fund’s trading algorithms.  The couple’s relationship “turned toxic,” Coward’s lawyer
Michael Bloch said at the trial. They have filed more than 40
lawsuits against each other in at least four countries amid
accusations of stealing and spying.  “Unfortunately, their approach to giving evidence was
tainted by the obvious and deep animosity and the extremely
close correlation between their business and their personal
affairs,” Asplin said in her ruling.  The May 17  decision “vindicates Ikos’s defense of its
lawful rights to its IP and strengthens the case for an overhaul
of the European laws regarding protection of  intellectual
property ,” Ambrosiadou, chief executive officer of Ikos, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Ambrosiadou testified that she was responsible for building
the business while Coward, who left Ikos in 2009, was part of
the trading team. She was dropped as a defendant in the case
before the March trial. Her companies counter-sued Coward for
using Ikos’s software.  Coward is considering whether to appeal the ruling, his
lawyers said.  “Coward is gratified that the judge found that he had
written the software that he claimed to have written,” Liam
Hemmings, a lawyer representing Coward, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Martin John Coward v Phaestos Limited & Ors.,
U.K.  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division , case no.
HC10C02788  Warner Music Group Unit Sued Over Rights to ‘Sex Room’ Song  Warner Music Group Corp.’s Warner-Tamerlane Publishing unit
was sued for copyright infringement by a Chicago-based musician
and composer.  The suit is related to the song “Sex Room,” recorded by
Trey Songz and released in May 2010.  Ralph Metcalf, who performs as “Marvo,” claims he is the
author of the composition and that he registered his copyright
in March 2010. He said he met with a producer named Kris
“Kajun” Johnson in 2009 and composed the verses and the chorus
to “Sex Room” in May 2009.  He said Kajun contacted him in December, telling him of an
interest the rapper Ludacris had in the composition and a
possible desire the rapper had in buying the song.  He then received a work-for-hire agreement offering him a 1
percent control in the composition in return for the transfer of
all of his rights. He declined to sign the agreement, he said in
his pleadings, because he thought there was too little money
offered.  When “Sex Room” was released, Kajun was listed as the
producer, with Trey Songz and Ludacris credited as writers,
according to court papers. The published “Sex Room”
incorporated substantial original portions of his composition,
and an arrangement he established for “the majority” of the
song, Metcalf claims.  He says his work is willfully infringed by the publisher,
the performer and the producers, and seeks an order barring
performance of the song and the seizure of all recordings and
musical compositions in the defendants’ possession that violate
his rights.  Additionally, Metcalf asked for awards of attorney fees,
litigation costs, money damages and the defendants’ profits
attributable to the alleged infringement, and extra damages
intended to punish the defendants for the actions.  New York-based Warner Music Group, which was acquired in
2011 by Access Industry Holdings LLC, didn’t respond immediately
to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Metcalf v. Bridges, 1:13-cv-03679, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  ( Chicago ).  For more copyright news, click here.  For patent news, click here.  Trademark  Melco Crown and Las Vegas Sands Dispute Macau ‘Cotai’ Marks  Hong Kong-based  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  and  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  are battling over the rights to the “Cotai
Strip” trademark, Macau Business Daily  reported .  In its most-recent ruling, Macau’s Court of Second Instance
barred Las Vegas Sands from registering “Cotai Strip
CotaiTravel” as a trademark, overruling the Economic Services
Bureau, which had approved the mark in December 2011, according
to the Business Daily.  Responding to Melco Crown’s efforts to halt the Nevada
company’s trademark registration, the court said whatever the
“Cotai Strip CotaiTravel” was meant to communicate was too
vague, and, in any case, Cotai’s success flows from the efforts
of multiple entities, according to the newspaper.  Business Daily reported that Las Vegas Sands Chairman
 Sheldon Adelson  has said his vision for Macau’s Cotai Strip is a
second Las Vegas strip.  Mozilla Tells Gamma Group to Quit Using Firefox Name on Spyware  Mozilla Corp., the  Mountain View , California-based
developer of the free Firefox web browser, accused the U.K-based
 Gamma Group  of producing spyware that can trick users into
thinking it is Firefox.  In a  posting  on Mozilla blog, Mozilla’s Alex Fowler said it
has sent Gamma a cease-and-desist letter demanding an end to
this practice, claiming it infringes the Firefox trademarks.  “We cannot abide a  software company  using our name to
disguise online surveillance tools,” Fowler said in the blog
posting. Gamma’s products have been used by some of its
customers to violate citizens’ human rights and online privacy,
he claimed. Fowler leads Mozilla’s public policy and privacy
efforts.  Gamma “misrepresents” its program as “firefox.exe,”
Mozilla said. A research team from the University of Toronto
Munk School of Global Affairs’  Citizen Lab  provided Mozilla with
samples from three instances in which its brands were used in
Gamma’s spyware products, according to the blog posting.  One of these, Mozilla said, was a spyware attack in Bahrain
aimed at pro-democracy activists.  In March, the Citizen Lab group published a study showing
that Gamma Group’s FinSpy tool which can remotely take over
computers and phones, have been found in 25 countries.  Gamma Group didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  South Carolina Episcopalians Seek to Claim Diocese Name, Seal  A group of  South Carolina  Episcopalians who are remaining
with the national Episcopal Church is seeking to take a conflict
with a breakaway organization to federal court over trademark
issues, Columbia, South Carolina’s State newspaper  reported .  The group, known as the Episcopal Church in South Carolina,
said questions over rights to the name “Episcopal Diocese of
South Carolina” raise federal trademark issues that must be
decided in U.S. court, according to the State.  A breakaway group that uses the name “The Diocese of South
Carolina” is asserting that the dispute is a question of legal
identity, and properly belongs in state court, the State
reported.  The Episcopal Church in South Carolina said it was never
given notice of a state court hearing that resulted in a judge’s
issuing an order in January temporarily giving the breakaway
group the use of the diocese’s name and seal, according to the
newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ericsson Settles Software Licensing Dispute With Airvana  Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest maker of wireless
networks, agreed to settle an intellectual-property dispute with
software maker Airvana Networks Solutions Inc., according to a
court filing.  Airvana sued Stockholm-based Ericsson in  New York  state
 Supreme Court  in  Manhattan  in February 2012 for more than $330
million, accusing it of developing software based on Airvana’s
 trade secrets  and using it to operate wireless  network equipment 
to avoid paying license fees.  Justice Barbara Kapnick in March granted Chelmsford,
Massachusetts-based Airvana a preliminary injunction blocking
Ericsson from “using, operating, testing or deploying” certain
hardware unless it’s using software licensed from Airvana.  The parties reached an agreement in principle to resolve
the dispute as a result of a mediation session on May 9,
although the resolution is “complicated” and the details of
the settlement are still being negotiated, Ericsson said in a
court filing May 17.  Ericsson asked Kapnick in the filing to adjourn a May 24
hearing as the agreement “would obviate the need for the
hearing and the extensive work required by Ericsson in advance
of the hearing.”  Kathy Egan, a spokeswoman for Ericsson, said in an e-mail
that the company had “no additional comment at this time beyond
the filing that we have submitted to the court.”  Airvana didn’t immediately respond to a phone message left
at its headquarters seeking a comment on the filing.  The case is Airvana Network Solutions Inc. v. Ericsson
Inc., 650360-2012, New York state Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  Opera Software and Ex-Employee Settle Trade-Secret Case  Norway’s  Opera Software ASA (OPERA)  and former employee Trond
Werner Hansen settled a trade-secrets dispute, CNet News
reported.  The Oslo-based company sued Hansen in 2012, claiming he had
shared trade secrets with Mountain View,  California ’s Mozilla
Corp., maker of a competing web browser, according to CNet.  Details of the settlement weren’t disclosed, the website
reported.  Opera claimed Hansen violated contractual and other
obligations to his employer, while Hansen maintained that he was
wrongly accused, CNet reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 