-- Lincoln National’s Cooper Adds Narayanan for Investments
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-05-20T22:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/lincoln-national-s-cooper-adds-narayanan-for-investments-1-.html
Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  hired Paul
Narayanan as managing director of portfolio management analytics
as Chief Investment Officer Ellen Cooper builds her team.  Narayanan was most recently head of credit risk analytics
at  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s property-casualty unit,
according to a statement today from Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
Lincoln.  Cooper has been adding staff at Lincoln after joining last
year from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to oversee a portfolio valued
at more than $99 billion, mostly in bonds. Earlier this month
she hired Jayson Bronchetti from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as
managing director of tactical strategies in fixed income.  “Paul is a recognized leader in investment management and
portfolio analytics and brings more than 30 years of extensive
experience in quantitative analysis and portfolio modeling
across many asset classes,” Cooper said in today’s statement.  Narayanan co-authored “Managing Credit Risk: The Great
Challenge for Global Financial Markets” and “Managing Credit
Risk: The Next Great Financial Challenge,” according to the
statement. He has a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering
from India’s University of Pune, formerly known as University of
Poona, Lincoln said. He has a master’s degree in finance from
 New York  University’s Stern School of Business.  Lincoln advanced 0.2 percent to $35.32 in New York trading
today. The company has rallied 36 percent this year.  Allianz SE,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, and  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. are among rivals that have hired
veterans of New York-based AIG this quarter. Allianz’s Fireman’s
Fund unit said today it hired Erik Matson, previously regional
president of the Americas at the small- and medium-commercial
business at AIG.  Jim Ankner, a spokesman for AIG, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  