-- Intuitive Resembled a Car Dealership, Lawyer Tells Jury
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   G u t h r i e   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/intuitive-resembled-a-car-dealership-lawyer-tells-jury.html
Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG)  acted like a
“car dealership” in training doctors to use its robotic
surgery system and should pay more than $8 million in damages to
the estate of a man who lost his life because of the company’s
practices, a lawyer for the estate said.  The attorney, Richard Friedman, in closing arguments
yesterday in state court in Port Orchard,  Washington , said
Intuitive wanted to retain hospitals as customers and increase
the number of robotic surgeries using its da Vinci system. It’s
the first case to go to trial of at least 26 lawsuits against
Intuitive alleging injuries tied to the system. The robots were
used in more than 300,000 U.S. operations last year.  Intuitive acted “just like a car dealership” attempting
to tie auto sales and service for its customers, Friedman said.
Intuitive “wanted to do all the training to keep control of
surgeons, to keep control of hospitals and keep control of
surgeries,” he said.  The Sunnyvale, California-based company knew it wasn’t
providing adequate instruction to doctors after 2006 when it
simplified the training program requirements it had committed to
in 2000 to win U.S. Food and Drug Administration clearance of
the da Vinci system, he said.  ‘Pain, Suffering’  Fred Taylor, who experienced multiple medical complications
following his September 2008 robotic-assisted surgery to remove
his cancerous prostate gland and died four years later, should
be awarded $4 million for his four years of “pain, suffering,
anxiety, depression and humiliation,” Friedman told the jury.
That money would go to his estate.  His widow, Josette Taylor, who cared for her husband
around-the-clock for those four years, is entitled to $4
million, Friedman said. Taylor’s son and two stepdaughters
should be awarded $150,000 each, the lawyer told the jury.  The urologist who operated on Taylor, Scott Bildsten, had
performed 100 successful prostatectomies using traditional
methods. Taylor was Bildsten’s first patient using the da Vinci
unassisted. After seven hours of difficulty, Bildsten and other
doctors turned to traditional surgery and then emergency care to
repair a rectal laceration.  Intuitive has denied the allegations, arguing that it
maintained the integrity of its training program and that it met
all the objectives submitted to federal regulators to win
approval to  market  the da Vinci system. Lawyers for the company
are scheduled to present closing arguments tomorrow.  Robotic Surgery  In robotic surgery, a doctor sits at console several feet
from the patient and peers into a high-definition display. Foot
pedals and hand controls maneuver mechanical arms equipped with
surgical tools, guided by a 3D camera that shows the work as it
is done inside a patient.  Friedman cited 10 ways in which Intuitive was negligent,
telling jurors that the most egregious of these was recommending
that a surgeon needs only two supervised robotic surgeries
following a one-day session at company  headquarters  before being
ready to perform the procedure alone.  That recommendation, which appears in company documents
describing “best practices,” was the idea of Gene Nagel, who
was an executive in charge of training and development and “a
former wine salesman with no prior training” in medicine or
medical devices, Friedman said.  “That recommendation was absolutely the worst,” Friedman
said. “There’s absolutely no support for that.”  Friedman also told jurors to consider the actions of Damon
Daniels, a former sales representative who was in the operating
room during Taylor’s surgery.  Simple Cases  Daniels testified that while he didn’t remember the Sept.
8, 2008, procedure, Intuitive told surgeons to select simple
cases for their first four to six operations, meaning patients
with a low body-mass index and no previous surgeries. Taylor
weighed 280 pounds and had a body-mass index of 39, which
Intuitive has said made him obese.  Daniels testified he didn’t see Taylor’s body because the
patient was draped for surgery, Friedman said. When Bildsten
couldn’t position the robotic arms around Taylor, however,
Daniels moved underneath the surgical table, lowering it so the
robot fit over him, Friedman said.  “He helps them dock an inappropriate patient,” Friedman
said. The failed operation “might never have happened if Mr.
Daniels had not rolled up his sleeve and helped dock the table.
Is that reasonable conduct?” he asked. “That’s the question
for you.”  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v. Intuitive
Surgical Inc., 09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of
Washington, Kitsap County (Port Orchard).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Guthrie in state court in Port Orchard, Washington,
at  freepsg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  