-- Investors Leave London for Property Yields: Real Estate
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-05-21T13:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/investors-leave-london-for-property-yields-real-estate.html
For most property investors, the U.K.
is a country with one city.  Private-equity firms, pension funds and millionaires from
 Russia  to Qatar spent more on real estate in  London  than the
rest of the country for the first time last year, lifting values
there while prices elsewhere sank. Now investors such as  Legal &
General Group Plc (LGEN)  and  Aviva (AV/)  Plc are being attracted by higher
returns available from cheaper real estate outside the capital.  The value of income-producing properties outside London
fell 7.2 percent from September 2011 through March while rising
7.4 percent in the city’s center, as a double-dip recession
prompted buyers to avoid all but the safest prime assets,
according to Investment Property Databank Ltd. That pushed non-London yields, or income as a percentage of the price, to 6.5
percent in March compared with 4.3 percent in London’s most
expensive districts, IPD said.  “The shift away from core to a higher-risk mentality is
the dominant trend that I see in 2013 and 2014,” Joe Valente,
head of research and strategy at JPMorgan Asset Management, said
in an interview. “Not everyone is well equipped to go up that
risk curve.”  That doesn’t mean all markets are appealing. Investors are
focused on properties with steady rental income or those that
can be put to better use. Few in the property industry predict
that commercial property values outside the capital will
appreciate meaningfully until the U.K. economy improves.  Birmingham, Manchester  Pension funds and insurance companies like Legal & General
and Aviva are hunting in larger regional cities such as
Birmingham and Manchester, where the value of some properties
has started to rise and the amount of empty space is lower than
in previous recessions.  The Co-Operative Group Ltd.’s headquarters in Manchester
was bought by Chinese sovereign wealth fund Gingko Tree
Investment and German fund Grundbesitz Europa in February, a
person with knowledge of the deal said. The price was 142
million pounds ($216 million), according to the person, who
asked not to be identified because the matter is private. Gingko
declined to comment.  Billionaire  George Soros ’s Quantum fund got a slice of the
development market outside London when it bought 5.7 percent of
 Development Securities Plc (DSC)  in January and increased its stake to
6.8 percent this month, according to stock exchange filings.
About 90 percent of the developer and property investor’s
income-producing assets are outside London, according to its
annual report.  Growth Pockets  Although average values continue to fall outside of London
and Cambridge, there are pockets of growth. More than 30 percent
of non-London commercial properties tracked by IPD rose in the
year through March, including top-tier warehouses in Manchester
and shops in the best parts of Birmingham. Those assets gave
investors returns that beat office buildings in the City of
London financial district, IPD said.  Commercial properties in Leeds now produce an annual yield
of 7 percent after values fell about 42 percent from their peak
in 2007, according to the research firm. Broker Colliers
International estimates City of London yields are 5.25 percent.  “In the first quarter, we saw a growing percentage of
assets outside of London delivering flat or positive capital
growth, and that trend has continued in April,” Phil Tily, IPD
managing director for the U.K. and Ireland, said in a May 15
report. “Hopefully, the recent economic news will lead to
further confidence and selective recovery in the regions.”  Worst Towns  The decline is far from over in some parts of the U.K. In
Middlesbrough, northwest  England , values fell 15 percent in the
year through March and total return, which combines price with
income, decreased by 7.9 percent, IPD said. Buyers in Leicester
in the Midlands region saw values drop by 9.4 percent and a 2.2
percent fall in total return.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  gave his most upbeat
forecast for the U.K. economy in five years on May 16, raising
growth estimates and lowering inflation projections. Employment
rose in the first quarter after the country narrowly averted its
third recession since 2008.  For those willing to bet that values won’t fall further,
buying conditions across Britain are the best since 2002 as
returns rise while the yield on 10-year gilts remains below 2
percent, according to broker DTZ.  “We’re ready to take a bit of risk on income and buy
assets that might need some capital expenditure,” Ben Stirling,
managing director of European real estate at Aviva Investors,
said in an interview. The manager of 274 billion pounds of
assets sees value in “good quality, institutional type of
assets in the U.K. which, depending on where you are in the
cycle, are called prime or secondary,” Stirling said.  Converting Properties  Development Securities has achieved internal rates of
return, a measure of performance used by private-equity
managers, of more than 20 percent from its trading and
development division by “regenerating functionally obsolete
buildings and turning them into useful ones,” Chief Executive
Officer Michael Marx said in an interview.  The company converted a warehouse and office property into
a supermarket as part of a development in Littlehampton in the
southern county of Sussex. It then sold the building to tenant
 William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW) , bringing the internal rate of
return to 27.2 percent, Development Securities said this month.  The developer rose as much as 7.6 percent to 193.75 pence
in London trading, the highest in more than 18 months. The stock
was up 6.3 percent at 191.25 pence as of 2:16 p.m.  Moderate Vacancy  Investors have stayed away from buildings outside London
even though the U.K.’s economic woes have resulted in fewer
empty properties than in previous recessions, Valente and Peter Reilly, head of JPMorgan Asset Management’s European real estate
unit, said in a report.  Slightly more than 8 percent of the space throughout the
U.K. is empty, compared with more than 14 percent in the
recession in the early 1990s, according to the report. Demand
from businesses for new space outside London has fallen 22
percent compared with a 40 percent decline in the early 2000s.  “The real estate market has not only overreacted, but is
also lagging the gradual improvement in sentiment,” they wrote.
“It is clearly unrealistic to expect yield spreads to revert
back to pre-2007 levels anytime soon, but neither is it sensible
to expect them to remain at current levels.”  Legal & General Property, the U.K.’s third-largest
institutional real estate fund manager, is raising a fund that
will spend as much as 1 billion pounds on buildings outside
London.  Turning Point  This year will be a  turning point  for the regions, Charlie Walker, the company’s director of business development, said in
a telephone interview. “From a pricing point of view, there are
higher entry yields and they are looking out of kilter with
central London.”  The fund will target assets valued at more than 50 million
pounds because some rivals will struggle to secure the funding
required to bid above that level, reducing competition, Walker
said. The company will seek “distressed capital held by banks
and funds in the wrong places that can’t afford to keep it or,
frankly, don’t have the skill set to maintain the value.”  Max James, chief executive officer of  Quintain Estates &
Development Plc (QED) , is among investors who don’t see potential for
growth outside of London as long as the economy struggles. The
company plans to sell its 25 regional properties to focus on
large redevelopment projects in London and has yet to find a
buyer for the assets it put on the market in September.  “We are struggling to see a significant correction” in
regional property values, James said by telephone. “For the
capital our shareholders have given us, we see far better
returns in London than the regions.”  Foreign Forays  Though most foreign investors are sticking to London, some
are looking further afield. Norges Bank Investment Management,
the world’s largest sovereign wealth fund, acquired a 50 percent
stake in the Meadowhall Shopping Centre in Sheffield, northern
England, for 348 million pounds in October. The net yield was
about 5.1 percent.  Marx, the Development Securities CEO, said overseas money
won’t drive up prices outside London like it has in the city.  “Cheap capital being transported to the U.K., mainly
London, from the  Far East  will not go to places like Rotherham”
in the northern county of Yorkshire, he said. “They might go to
places like the center of Manchester or a couple of big shopping
centers, but that’s as far as they go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at  ablackman@bloomberg.net  