-- Iran Plan for Low-Key Race May Be Threatened by Rafsanjani
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-05-21T14:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/iran-plan-for-low-key-election-may-be-threatened-by-rafsanjani.html
Iran ’s political leaders face the
choice of blocking Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani’s late bid for
the presidency, or allowing him to run and wrecking a carefully
crafted field of loyalists.  The ex-president, who kept his plans to himself until
minutes before registration closed, stole the limelight from the
more consensual candidates favored by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, according to analysts. If his candidacy was
approved, it would “mobilize people to participate, whether for
or against him,” said Mahjoob Zweiri, a professor of Middle
East politics at Qatar University.  There were signs that it may not happen. Mehr news agency,
citing “hearsay” from its correspondent, said Rafsanjani would
be excluded from a final shortlist of eight candidates, due to
be announced by May 23. Iran’s Guardian Council is vetting more
than 650 applications for the June 14 vote, and usually narrows
the field to less than a dozen.  With an economy feeling the strain of international
sanctions imposed to halt its nuclear program, and  Israel  and
the U.S. threatening military action, Iran’s leaders have
signaled they prefer a presidential contest less divisive than
the last one. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s re-election triggered
allegations of ballot fraud to defeat a reformist candidate, and
street protests that were violently crushed.  Security Tightened  Security in Tehran has been tightened in the past 24 hours
as the deadline approached, with anti-riot units and other
police deployed at several of the capital’s main squares.  Rafsanjani challenged the 2009 crackdown, urging respect
for the opposition and the release of detainees. That helped
sideline him politically, and in the past year two of his
children were jailed on charges of inciting unrest.  This year, only politicians who “in their hearts have a
belief” in the Islamic Republic will be approved, said the
council’s spokesman, Abbas Ali Kadkhodaei. He added: “Perhaps
some errors have been committed in the past.”  Some say letting Rafsanjani run would be another error.  Rafsanjani is backed by supporters of “sedition,” the
editor-in-chief of Kayhan newspaper, appointed by Khamenei,
wrote on May 13. The same word was used in a letter to the
Guardian Council by about 100 lawmakers, calling for Rafsanjani
to be excluded from the vote. Other top officials in recent days
have hinted at oppositions regarding his candidacy.  The Shark  Kadkhodaei said yesterday that the Guardians won’t allow
candidates to run if they’re not physically fit enough for the
job, a possible reference to Rafsanjani, who was born in 1934.
Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, who heads the Guardian Council, said on
May 17 that the president must “lead a simple life” in order
to empathize with poor people, another indirect jab at
Rafsanjani, who’s known for his wealth.  There may be repercussions, though, from rejecting such a
prominent figure, analysts said.  Rafsanjani is one of the republic’s founders and was
president from 1989 to 1997. He ran again in 2005, when he lost
to Ahmadinejad. He heads the Expediency Council, a top advisory
body, and has been chairman of the Assembly of Experts, which
nominates the supreme leader. His political nickname is “the
Shark.”  Barring Rafsanjani would “provoke a frenzy within the
system,” Suzanne Maloney, a senior fellow at Brookings
Institution’s Saban Center for Middle East Policy, said in a
phone interview. “To suggest that he doesn’t meet the
qualification to run for president would call into question the
credibility of institutions that he has engaged with.”  ‘Rock the Boat’  Rafsanjani has been endorsed by Mohammad Khatami, who as
president until 2005 eased restrictions on the press and on
women’s clothing, making him a figurehead for reformists. Yet
he’s really a “pragmatic conservative” with a foot in both
camps, said David Hartwell, a Middle East analyst for IHS
Jane’s. “He’s not one who’s going to rock the boat.”  There’s also an advantage, as well as risks, for Khamenei
if Rafsanjani engages more of the public, according to Hartwell.  Iranian leaders cite voter turnout as a gauge of the
system’s legitimacy. Khamenei on May 15 urged Iranians to
participate, saying an “exciting and populous” election would
display support for the Islamic Republic and thwart its enemies.  The supreme leader wants “a contest that has legitimacy.”
Hartwell said. The ruling elite “would like to organize that
without having Rafsanjani in the contest. But if having him will
boost the legitimacy and the credibility of the results, they
may choose to allow him to stand.”  Ahmadinejad Protege  Another high-profile candidate is even less likely to make
it through the Guardians’ vetting, according to analysts.  Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei is a confidante of Ahmadinejad, who
has backed him for the post. Mashaei portrays himself as a
nationalist, tapping a current of anti-clerical feeling, and
he’s been charged with representing a “current of deviation”
by critics. Mehr said he was excluded along with Rafsanjani from
the shortlist.  “There’s no possibility they would want someone in this
election who they’ve defined as an enemy of the system,”
Maloney said.  Ahmadinejad has an increasingly fractious relationship with
the Iranian establishment, engaging in public disputes with
senior officials and earning a rebuke from Khamenei.  He’s also been criticized for his handling of the economy.
 Inflation (IACIGY)  has surged as sanctions deprived Iran of hard currency
and pushed  oil output  to the lowest levels since the 1980s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  