-- Lithuania State-Company Management Breaks OECD Norms, BICG Says
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-05-20T12:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/lithuania-state-company-management-breaks-oecd-norms-bicg-says.html
Lithuania  doesn’t meet standards for
running state-owned companies set by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, which the nation seeks to
join, the Baltic Institute of Corporate Governance said.  Undue political influence on business decisions and weak
anti-corruption efforts are hurting profits from the roughly 9
billion euros ($12 billion) of assets in Lithuania’s 137 state-owned companies, the institute based in the Lithuanian capital,
Vilnius, said today in a  report  on its website.  The governance flaws are also harming the country’s
reputation, BICG said. Lithuania is seeking an invitation from
the OECD to start accession talks as soon as this month. The
Paris-based group of the world’s wealthiest nations is dedicated
to promoting global economic development.  “Much needs to be done to bring Lithuanian practices up to
OECD standards,” the institute said, noting the country fails
to comply with six of 10 norms for the hiring, firing and
oversight of top management at state companies, and only partly
complies with the other four.  BICG is an association that speaks on behalf of its more
than 100 members, according to its website.  Corporate members 
include Baltic units of the Nasdaq OMX exchange group, auditor
Ernst & Young, Nordic lenders DNB, SEB, Swedbank, and Nordea,
Statoil Fuel & Retail, Novo Nordisk, and others.  Lithuania’s state-owned companies had preliminary total net
income of 354 million litai ($132 million) last year for a 1.4
percent return on assets, the State Property Fund said last
month. That compared with losses of 42 million litai in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  