-- TiVo Loss Narrows After Biggest Subscriber Lift in 7 Years
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-05-20T21:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/tivo-quarterly-loss-narrows-as-company-boosts-pay-tv-subscribers.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the developer of digital-video recorders, posted a narrower first-quarter loss after
adding the most pay-TV subscribers in seven years.  The net loss of $10.3 million, or 9 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $20.8 million, or 17 cents, a year earlier,
Alviso, California-based TiVo said today in a  statement .
Analysts had forecast a loss of 14 cents. Sales rose 22 percent
to $82.6 million in the quarter ended April 30, beating
estimates of $77.2 million.  The company is holding “constructive” talks with John Malone’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , which is buying  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) ,
a TiVo customer, Chief Executive Officer Tom Rogers said today.
TiVo is increasing subscribers by providing its Web-connected
digital-video recorders to pay-TV systems, including the U.K.’s
 Virgin Media  and Atlantic Broadband, a new U.S. client.  “We’ve looked at it as a potential opportunity,” Rogers
said in an interview. “Liberty Global has a lot of subs around
the world. So far the relationship has developed quite well.”  TiVo  rose  1.1 percent to $12.80 in extended trading after
the announcement. The stock added 0.6 percent to $12.66 at the
close in New York, and has advanced 2.8 percent this year.  The company added 277,000 pay-TV users in the quarter, the
most in seven years, according to the statement.  TiVo has been widening gross  margins  by selling advanced
set-top boxes with more storage and the ability to record
several shows at once.  Quarterly Forecast  This quarter, TiVo anticipates service and technology
revenue of $68 million to $70 million. The company expects a net
loss of $13 million to $16 million and cash flow ranging from $1
million to a deficit of $2 million.  The company is pursuing patent infringement  litigation 
against Motorola Mobility, which  Google Inc. (GOOG)  bought last year,
and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  over use of recording technology in set-top boxes they made.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is a defendant in
both cases. Rogers has said a victory could result in billions
of dollars.  TiVo has already received more than $1 billion in awards
and settlements over patent cases against  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ,
AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. since 2011.  The company will use proceeds from litigation to continue
repurchasing stock, Rogers said. In the first quarter, the
company bought $31 million of its stock, according to the
statement. Rogers said TiVo would also consider “small, tuck-in” acquisitions.  “We continue to think about how we can drive the share
price and deliver value to our shareholders,” Rogers said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  