-- Lizal Sees Faster Impact From Czech Koruna Sales
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-05-20T10:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/lizal-sees-faster-impact-from-czech-koruna-sales.html
Koruna sales would have a faster
impact on inflation than the standard monetary-policy tool of
changing  interest rates , Czech central bank board member Lubomir Lizal said.  After cutting the  benchmark  interest rate three times to
effectively zero last year, Czech policy makers are debating
whether weakening the koruna through foreign-exchange
interventions is needed to boost inflation to their target.  With zero rates, influencing the exchange rate is a “much
faster and more effective instrument than the standard ones used
to be,” Lizal said, according to the transcript of an interview
published by the Prague-based newspaper Hospodarske Noviny
today. While rate changes influence domestic prices in 12 to 18
months, the delay in the impact of interventions on  inflation  is
about half a year, he said.  “For me, this is a signal that we don’t have to act as
early as in other circumstances of a standard change in monetary
conditions,” Lizal said, according to Hospodarske.  The koruna weakened 0.4 percent to 26.119 per euro as of
11:39 a.m. in Prague. It’s lost 3.9 percent this year, the
fourth-worst performance among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg behind the Japanese yen, the South African rand and
the British pound.  The Ceska Narodni Banka left the benchmark two-week
repurchase rate at 0.05 percent for a fourth meeting on May 2.
After rate cuts last year exhausted the scope for further
reductions, the koruna is at the center of policy makers’
deliberations as a weaker  exchange rate  boosts exports that
account for about 80 percent of economic output, increases
import prices and limits deflation risks.  The inflation rate has held at 1.7 percent since February,
matching the lowest in two years. The central bank’s target is 2
percent, with a tolerance band of 1 percentage point on each
side.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  