-- Japan’s New Loans for Investment Climb 7.1% in First Quarter
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-05-20T08:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/japan-s-new-loans-for-investment-climb-7-1-in-first-quarter.html
Japan ’s new loans for fixed
investment rose 7.1 percent in the first three months of the
year, the sixth straight quarterly gain, helped by increased
borrowing from non-manufacturing, logistics and welfare
companies.  The borrowing totaled 12.1 trillion yen ($118 billion) in
the three months to March 31, the highest level since the first
quarter of 2008, according to a  statement  from the Bank of Japan
today. Lending to non-manufacturing companies, which accounted
for half of the total, rose 14 percent to 6.15 trillion yen,
while loans to logistics companies jumped 30 percent to 705.1
billion yen, the data show. Loans to manufacturers accounted for
603.2 billion yen, a 1.7 percent decline from last year.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who came to power in December,
vowed last week to increase private investment and
infrastructure exports as part of his strategy to end more than
a decade of deflation and spur growth in the world’s third-largest economy. The numbers released today don’t reflect the
central bank’s April 4 announcement of an unprecedented stimulus
that sparked a 22 percent advance in the  Topix Index (TPX)  of shares
and depreciated the yen to the weakest since October 2008.  “We are at a turning point,” said Hiroshi Ikari, the
chief manager of economic and industrial research at Development
Bank of Japan Inc. “Capital spending is rebounding from the
austerity of the past few years and the economic recovery signs
all point to an increase in outlays this fiscal year.”  Exporter Spending  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Mitsubishi Electric
Corp. (6503)  are among exporters which announced plans to increase
investment this fiscal year. Honda Motor, targeting to sell a
record number of vehicles this year, plans to bolster spending
18 percent to 700 billion yen in the year ending March 2014, it
said last month. The automaker is focusing on investing in
factories in Mexico and  Thailand , it said.  “We want to establish operations” in these newly
developing countries as soon as possible, Tetsuo Iwamura,
Honda’s executive vice president and chief operating officer for
North America, said at an April 28 briefing.  The central bank has doubled government bond purchases to
more than 7 trillion yen a month, marking an expansion of
monetary stimulus that was larger than analysts expected and one
that is aimed at achieving 2 percent inflation in two years.  Abe said in a speech in Tokyo May 17 he aims to get annual
private investment back to 70 trillion yen, the level before the
2008 financial crisis, via deregulation, taxes, spending, and
equipment leasing deals. He also outlined a target of tripling
infrastructure exports to about 30 trillion yen by 2020. Abe has
said he will reveal his full growth plan ahead of the Group of
Eight summit in Northern Ireland on June 17-18.  Japan’s first-quarter gross domestic product increased an
annualized 3.5 percent, versus 1 percent growth in the last
three months of 2012, according to the Cabinet Office numbers.
The economy is expected to expand 3 percent in the current
three-month period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emi Urabe in  Tokyo  at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  