-- Jones Day, Davis Polk, Cooley, Sheppard: Business of Law
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-05-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/jones-day-davis-polk-cooley-sheppard-business-of-law.html
Jones Day said it added two new
partners, Alejandro Chico and Antonio Gonzalez, to its Mexico
City office, marking the fifth new hire for the office this year
and bringing the total number of lawyers there to 37.  Chico will join the firm’s Banking & Finance practice,
moving from Bufete Robles Miaja, where he was a partner in that
firm’s capital markets practice, according to an e-mailed
 statement . Gonzalez will work in Jones Day’s Global Disputes
practice, arriving from Lopez Melih, Gonzalez, Facha & Estrada,
where he was a founding and administrative partner.  “Alejandro’s appointment is part of our strategy to add
depth to our capital markets and banking & finance practices in
Mexico, and more broadly in Latin America,” Fernando de Ovando,
partner-in-charge of Jones Day’s Mexico City office, said in the
statement. “His arrival, along with the addition of Antonio and
his vast experience in high-profile disputes throughout Mexico,
strengthen our full service capabilities in Mexico City.”  Chico has practiced law for more than 15 years with
experience in private and public offerings in both Mexican and
U.S. markets representing issuers and underwriters, as well as
financings, acquisitions, and other transactions in Mexico and
abroad. He’s a graduate of the Universidad Anahuac and has an
LL.M. from the University of Miami.  Gonzalez has represented public agencies and private
companies in litigation and arbitration concerning contractual
disputes, shareholder disputes, and restructurings for more than
15 years. In 2007 Gonzalez became a founding partner of the firm
Lopez Melih, Gonzalez, Facha & Estrada. He is a graduate of the
Universidad Panamericana.  Jones Day is a global law firm with more than 2,400 lawyers
on five continents.  Deals  Davis Polk Advises Vikram Pandit on Stake in JM Financial  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is advising former  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit on his deal to buy a stake
in India’s  JM Financial Ltd. (JM) , according to a statement from the
law firm.  Pandit will also take a leadership role as JM Financial
seeks to set up a bank, the Mumbai-based company said in a May
16 statement to stock exchanges. Pandit and business partner
Hari Aiyar will jointly take a 3 percent equity stake in JM
Financial through an issuance of warrants, according to the
statement.  The Davis Polk corporate and tax team representing Pandit
includes partners Avishai Shachar and Louis L. Goldberg and
associates Ethan R. Goldman and Brian L. Friedman, all from
Davis Polk’s New York office.  The company said it is applying for a banking license and
will nominate Pandit as non-executive chairman. He’ll also help
JM Financial create a fund to buy distressed assets and expand
its lending and financing businesses.  The deal is Pandit’s first public investment since
Citigroup  directors  ousted him as CEO in October. The board
concluded that Pandit, 56, a native of Nagpur, India, had
mismanaged the bank’s operations, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time. Pandit had staked Citigroup’s
turnaround in part on boosting profit from  emerging markets 
including India.  “I continue to believe in the long-term growth prospects
of India,” Pandit said in the statement. “JM Financial can
provide the banking and financial services that the country
needs.”  For more, click here.  Skadden Advises Ares Commercial Real Estate on Acquisition  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is representing
Ares Commercial Real Estate Corp. in its acquisition of EF&A
Funding LLC, which does business as Alliant Capital LLC, from
the Alliant Co. and Alliant Inc.  The Skadden partners from the mergers & acquisitions team
representing Ares includes David Eisman from  Los Angeles  and
Sven Mickisch and William Rubenstein from New York.  Ares will pay about $62.8 million in a combination of cash
and stock, according to an e-mailed  statement .  Under the terms of the deal, Alliant Capital LLC is
expected to become a wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiary of
ACRE. Alliant Capital Ltd., which on a national scale provides
tax credit equity for the financing and development of
affordable housing, is not included in the acquisition and will
remain a part of the Alliant Co.  Alliant Capital LLC is a financial services company focused
on multifamily lending with about 90 employees in 15 offices
throughout the U.S., according to the statement. Alliant Capital
LLC has primarily originated and serviced multifamily loans
through the  Fannie Mae  delegated underwriting and servicing
program.  The company had a servicing portfolio of about $3.9 billion
in multifamily loans as of March 31. It has mortgage servicing
rights at a fair value of about $61 million as of Dec. 31. The
company’s loan originations have increased at a compound annual
growth rate of 12.7 percent for the five-year period ending Dec.
31, and loan originations exceeded $600 million for 2012.  “This highly strategic transaction with Alliant Capital
LLC will enable ACRE to better meet the short- and long-term
financing needs of multifamily owner/operators,” John Bartling,
chief executive officer of  Ares Commercial Real Estate Corp. (ACRE) ,
said in the statement. “We expect that the transaction will
benefit shareholders by being accretive to earnings as revenue
synergies follow the advancements of scale.”  Cooley LLP Represents Tableau Software in Successful IPO  Cooley LLP represented  Tableau Software Inc. (DATA) , the provider
of digital-charting tools, in its successful initial public
offering that raised $254.2 million and saw shares surge after
pricing an increased number of shares above the proposed range.  The shares climbed 50 percent to $46.61 as of 10:19 a.m.
New York time on May 17, after earlier rising as much as 55
percent. Seattle-based Tableau and existing shareholders on May
16 sold 8.2 million shares for $31 each after offering 7.2
million for $28 to $30.  The Cooley team that worked on the IPO included partners
Jodie Bourdet in San Francisco and Charlie Kim in San Diego,
according to an e-mailed statement. Associates Siana Lowrey,
Chris Yamaoka and Julia Conway were also part of the core team
working on the equity offering.  Specialists working on the deal included compensation and
benefits partner Laura McDaniels, technology transactions group
special counsel  Charles Schwab  and tax partners Mark Windfeld-Hansen and Mark Hrenya.  Cooley has 12 offices with about 700 lawyers throughout the
U.S. and China.  Tableau, whose software helps users without programming
skills create complex graphics and maps out of data, aims to
join a crop of recent business technology providers to thrive on
the public markets. Workday Inc. and ServiceNow Inc. have more
than doubled since their debuts last year, while  Palo Alto
Networks Inc. (PANW)  had  gained  29 percent through May 16.  Tableau was co-founded in 2003 by Pat Hanrahan, an Academy
Award-winning Stanford University professor, whose software has
created movie special effects and animations. The company has
more than 10,900 customers across various industries and
competes with International Business Machines Corp., Microsoft
Corp., Oracle Corp. and Qlik Technologies Inc.  For more, click here.  Moves  Sheppard Mullin Adds Partner to Century City Office  Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP added Michael R. Heimbold as a partner to its 60-attorney Century City office.
Heimbold joins the firm’s business trial and intellectual
property practice groups from Steptoe & Johnson in Century City.  Heimbold has represented clients in business and
intellectual property litigation and has experience in licensing
and technology transfer transactions, according to a company
statement. He has advised clients in the consumer products and
entertainment industries on over $1 billion worth of mergers and
acquisition transactions.  Heimbold’s “knowledge and experience is both complementary
and supplementary to our existing practices, and we welcome him
to the firm,” Sheppard Mullin Chairman Guy N. Halgren said in
the statement.  Heimbold earned his JD from Loyola Law School in 1994 and
his Bachelors of Science in Mechanical Engineering from
California State University, Long Beach in 1988.  On May 16 Jung Son also joined Sheppard Mullin as a partner
in the firm’s corporate practice group, based in its Palo Alto
office. Son joins from Technology Crossover Ventures in Palo
Alto, where she served as associate general counsel.  Sheppard Mullin, practicing since 1927, has 630 attorneys
across 16 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Baker & McKenzie Bolsters Italian Banking and Finance Practice  Law firm Baker & McKenzie LLP has added a new lawyer, Luigi
Rizzi, to its banking and finance department in its Rome office.  Rizzi was in charge of the financial services and capital
markets at  DLA Piper , prior to joining Baker & McKenzie,
according to a company statement. He was also a member of the
managing committee and location head of the finance and project
department at DLA Piper.  “The firm decided, in line with what is already being done
by other offices of Baker & McKenzie, to invest in the area of
investment fund and asset management regulation with the hiring
of Luigi Rizzi,” Baker & McKenzie partner Alberto Fornari said
in the statement.  “The financial system and the international financial
markets are living through a moment of great change, also owing
to the actions of the legislators and other policy makers that
approved extensive new regulations,” Rizzi said in the
statement.  “This gives rise to an increase in demand for professional
advice from law firms that, like Baker & McKenzie, are well
established in the most important financial markets,” he added.  Rizzi, with experience in finance regulatory matters, will
be responsible for developing the investment fund and asset
management area of the Banking and Finance department, headed by
Fornari. Ilaria Di Mario will also be joining the law firm as
associate.  The firm, which has been advising companies since 1949, has
more than 4,000 lawyers in 72 offices spanning 45 countries,
according to its  website .  Verdicts  Dow Chemical Damages Rise to $1.2 Billion in Urethane Case  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  was ordered by a federal judge to pay a
$1.2 billion judgment in a urethane price-fixing case after
losing its bid to undo a jury’s verdict that it colluded with
competitors.  U.S. District Judge John W. Lungstrum in Kansas City,
Kansas, rejected Dow’s request to overturn the $400 million
February jury verdict on May 15. Lungstrum tripled the damages
under U.S. antitrust law, making the award the biggest U.S.
verdict this year, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg News .
Dow said in a statement it will appeal.  Lungstrum rejected the company’s challenge to the verdict
on grounds the purchaser plaintiffs alleged a conspiracy
spanning the years 1999 to 2003 and were unable to prove its
existence before November 2000.  Purchasers’ attorney  Joseph Goldberg , a partner in the
Albuquerque law firm Freedman Boyd Hollander Goldberg Urias &
Ward PA, said in an e-mailed message that he was “pleased” the
court upheld the jury’s verdict.  “What Dow did was wrong,” Goldberg told the jury Feb. 19
in his closing arguments. “It colluded with its competitors and
entered into a price-fixing conspiracy.”  David Bernick, a lawyer for Dow, disputed that allegation
in his final remarks.  “What kind of cartel is it where everybody is doing
exactly what they would be doing otherwise?” Bernick asked
jurors.  The purchasers’ case was “empty of truth, empty of facts
and empty of fairness,” said Bernick, a partner in New York-based Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP.  The case started in 2005 with allegations that Dow plotted
with  BASF SE (BAS) , Huntsman International LLC and Lyondell Chemical
Co. in violation of federal law. Only Dow didn’t settle.  At the heart of the suit were urethane-based products used
in the automotive, construction, appliance and furniture
industries.  The case is In re Urethane Antitrust Litigation, 04-md-01616, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas (Kansas City).  For more, click here.  Video/Interviews  Blackstone’s Restructuring Head Coleman on Bankruptcy Fees  Timothy Coleman , head of restructuring and reorganization
at Blackstone Group LP, talks about bankruptcy fees, including
the more $2 billion charged in the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
bankruptcy case, with Bloomberg’s  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen.  He also discusses  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc .’s credit rating to AA from AA+,  Jamie Dimon ’s
chairman and chief executive officer roles at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., and the distressed investment market in Europe on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  To watch the video, click here.  Jones Day’s Profusek Says State of M&A Is ‘Lumpy’ (Audio)  Robert Profusek, head of mergers and acquisition practice
at Jones Day, discusses the Cross Border Mergers and
Acquisitions Summit. Profusek talks with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox
and  Carol Massar  on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Taking Stock.”  To listen to the interview, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  