-- JPMorgan, Barclays Boost Forecasts on Junk-Bond Returns for 2013
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-05-20T14:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/jpmorgan-barclays-boost-forecasts-on-junk-bond-returns-for-2013.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Barclays Plc
are lifting their forecasts for U.S. junk-bond returns as this
year’s rally exceeds the expectations of top-rated credit
strategists.  Barclays analysts predict high-yield bonds may gain 8
percent in 2013, as much as four percentage points more than
their original expectation, wrote strategists led by Jeffrey Meli and Bradley Rogoff in a May 17 report. JPMorgan sees
“modest upside risk to our original full-year return forecast
of 7 to 8 percent for U.S. high yield” and now expects gains of
as much as 10 percent, according to strategists led by Jan
Loeys.  Speculative-grade  bonds  have posted average annual returns
of 21 percent since 2008 as the  Federal Reserve  pumped more than
$2.5 trillion into the financial system to galvanize economic
growth. Junk notes have gained 5.3 percent this year, almost the
same as in the similar period of 2012, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data, and exceeding the 3.1 percent
full-year 2013 prediction in December by  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
strategists led by Adam Richmond.  Junk debt’s “value is still higher than fixed-income
alternatives given low defaults and volatility,” wrote JPMorgan
strategists in a May 17 global asset allocation report.  Investors are funneling cash into high-yield securities as
central banks from the U.S. to  Japan  suppress borrowing costs
through bond purchases to ignite a global economy that grew at
the slowest pace last year since 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Junk Issuance  Borrowers have sold $176.9 billion of dollar-denominated,
speculative-grade bonds this year, the most for the period on
record, the data show. Yields on the notes plunged to an
unprecedented 5.98 percent on May 9, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  While the  Barclays (BARC)  U.S. High Yield Index has never returned
between 6 percent and 10 percent in its 23-year history, this
year may be different, Barclays strategists wrote in a report
titled “The Year of the ‘Coupon’ Return.” The lack of
volatility in both interest rates and credit may result in 2013
returns “that are the closest to coupon that we have ever seen
in high yield,” according to the report.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are graded below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s . JPMorgan and Barclays had the top-ranked teams in
speculative-grade debt strategy in 2012, according to
Institutional Investor magazine’s All-America fixed-income
rankings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  