-- Knicks’ Options to Improve Roster Are Limited After Playoff Exit
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/knicks-options-to-improve-roster-are-limited-after-playoff-exit.html
The  New York  Knicks have little
financial flexibility to improve an aging roster enough to end a
40-year championship drought, while some of the elite teams in
their conference stand to get stronger.  The Knicks’ best  National Basketball Association  season in
13 years ended two days ago with a six-game loss to the  Indiana
Pacers  in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference semifinals. While
the Pacers take on  LeBron James  and the defending champion  Miami
Heat  for a spot in the NBA Finals, the Knicks face questions
about what’s next for a franchise that this season had its most
wins in 16 years and won its first playoff series since 2000.  With almost $60 million in salary allotted to  Carmelo Anthony , Amar’e Stoudemire and  Tyson Chandler  each of the next
two seasons, the Knicks’ core may be the same through 2014-15,
leaving General Manager Glen Grunwald few options under the
NBA’s salary cap to overhaul the league’s oldest roster. The
Heat, meanwhile, may be coming off a second straight title with
James,  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh , while the Bulls and Celtics
next season will both probably have All-Star guards back from
injury: former NBA Most Valuable Player  Derrick Rose  in Chicago
and Rajon Rondo in Boston.  “The Knicks have issues in the NBA Eastern Conference
called the Miami Heat with LeBron James and the  Chicago Bulls 
with Derrick Rose,” said Jalen Rose, who played 13 seasons in
the league and is now an analyst at  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC
network. “They’re not better than those two teams. They don’t
get points in the paint, they don’t make each other better and
they don’t compete defensively for long periods of time. All
things you need to do to win in the playoffs.”  One Star  The Knicks were built in a fashion similar to the  2010-11
Dallas Mavericks , who assembled the right mix of players to
complement forward  Dirk Nowitzki . The Mavericks that year beat
the Miami Heat in the NBA Finals for Nowitzki’s lone title.  Avoiding the recent mold of NBA championship teams having
at least two star players, the Knicks sought to build around
Anthony, who was the league’s leading scorer this season. The
Knicks set an NBA-record for three-pointers and had the best
turnover margin in the league, averaging three fewer than their
opponents in winning a division title and earning the No. 2
playoff seed in the Eastern Conference.  Against the Pacers, Anthony’s supporting cast faded.  Chandler averaged 6.2 points and six rebounds per game and
was outplayed inside by the Pacers’ 7-foot-2  Roy Hibbert , who
had series averages of 13.3 points and 10.3 rebounds. Stoudemire
appeared in four games, averaging 3.8 points and 2.3 rebounds in
limited playing time, while J.R. Smith was held to 29 percent
shooting, including 23 percent from three-point range.  “I wasn’t there for my teammates,” Smith told reporters
after the Knicks’ 106-99 Game 6 loss in which he missed 11 of 15
shot attempts. “My teammates are supposed to be able to rely on
me. I didn’t step up.”  Better, Stronger  Anthony, who averaged 28.8 points a game in the playoffs,
said the Knicks will take the offseason to regroup and come back
“better and stronger” next season. How much different they’ll
be from this year’s squad remains to be seen.  Like Anthony, Chandler and Stoudemire,  Raymond Felton ,
 Jason Kidd , Marcus Camby and  Steve Novak  are all under contract
for the next two seasons. Iman Shumpert is set to make $1.6
million next season, with a club option for 2014-15. Smith may
test free agency this offseason -- with a $2.9 million player
option for next season -- yet the NBA’s Sixth Man of the Year
said two days ago that he wants to “retire a Knick.”  Stoudemire, who has had two knee surgeries in eight months,
is due a team-high $21.7 million next season and $23.4 million
in 2014-15. The 30-year-old’s declining production and injury
history will make it difficult for the Knicks to trade him and
have the flexibility to pursue a potential free agent such as
All-Star point guard  Chris Paul  of the  Los Angeles Clippers .  Leadership Need  A player like Paul may be just what the Knicks need to take
the next step, according to Earl “The Pearl” Monroe, who was
part of the Knicks’ last championship team in 1973.  “They need somebody who can run the team, a real leader,”
Monroe, a Hall-of-Fame guard, said on the Madison Square Garden
network. “Not only a leader on the floor, but also in the
locker room because you have a lot of guys who have a lot of
different issues on this team. The name of the game is trying to
pull it all together.”  Former NBA player Wally Szczerbiak, who also covers the
Knicks for the MSG network, said the team has many of the pieces
in place to make another playoff run next season, though the
pressure on Anthony will only increase.  “It’s championship or bust at this time in his career,”
Szczerbiak said. “The Knicks have got to make a bold move but
still knowing they have some really good pieces right now.”  Time Left  Anthony, who turns 29 on May 29, said he’s optimistic about
what’s in store for the Knicks, even if the path through the
Eastern Conference could be even tougher next season.  “I still have a lot of time left in this league,” said
Anthony, who is under contract for $21.4 million next season and
$23.3 million in 2014-15.  “We took some steps forward as an
organization. It’s a learning curve for us and we’ll be back
better and stronger next season for sure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  