-- Kuwait Petroleum Replaces Units’ Chiefs After Dow Compensation
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-05-20T14:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/kuwait-petroleum-replaces-units-chiefs-after-dow-compensation.html
Kuwait , the third-biggest producer in
OPEC, replaced senior executives of its state oil industry in an
infusion of “fresh blood” after the government paid $2.19
billion in compensation for a cancelled joint venture.  The appointments include Hashem Hashem as managing director
of Kuwait Oil Co., the state producer; Asaad Al-Saad as managing
director of Petrochemical Industries Co.; and Mohammed Al-Mutairi as managing director of Kuwait National Petroleum Co.,
the state refiner, Kuwait Petroleum Corp. said today in a
statement.  The changes follow Kuwait’s payment of $2.19 billion to Dow
Chemical Co., a step that prompted an extraordinary cabinet
meeting on May 16 to discuss “massive losses resulting from
this decision,” according to a statement released after the
session. The government said that day that it reorganized KPC’s
board, installing Nizar Al-Adsani as chief executive officer to
replace Farouk Al-Zanki. Unidentified “leading officials” at
Petrochemical Industries were also suspended, the cabinet said
in that day’s statement.  Dow Chemical said May 7 it received $2.19 billion from
Petrochemical Industries as compensation for the cancellation of
a joint venture more than four years ago. The latest
appointments aren’t linked to the Dow issue and are expected to
help KPC deal with “current and future challenges” and improve
performance, the company said today. Kuwait pumped 2.9 million
barrels a day of crude oil in April, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, and it ranks behind  Saudi Arabia  and  Iraq  in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Today’s announcement also named Ahmad Behbehani as managing
director of Kuwait Oil Tanker Co., Sheikh Nawaf Al-Sabah as
managing director of Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Co.,
Bakhit Al-Rashidi as managing director of Kuwait Petroleum
International and Ali Al-Shimmari as managing director of Kuwait
Gulf Oil Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  