-- N.J. Revenue May Fall $937 Million Short, Analyst Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-05-20T21:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/n-j-revenue-may-fall-937-million-short-analyst-says.html
New Jersey  revenue may miss Governor
 Chris Christie ’s targets by as much as $937 million over the
next 13 months as collections from online gambling and energy
taxes fall short, the legislature’s chief fiscal analyst said.  Revenue from Internet wagers through fiscal 2014 may be $30
million, or $150 million less than Christie’s $180 million
projection,  David Rosen  of the nonpartisan Office of Legislative
Services told lawmakers today. Energy taxes will fall short by
$348 million after  Hurricane Sandy  led to service disruptions
and less consumption, he said.  Christie, a 50-year-old Republican seeking re-election in
November, told reporters in Lavallette today that his
administration will cut its forecast for energy taxes by about
$150 million. Christie’s and Rosen’s latest budget projections
differ by about $800 million, the governor said.  “I don’t know, candidly, whether he’s just lost it or
whether he’s playing politics,” Christie said of Rosen. The
analyst has been wrong in the past and may be “doubling down”
on an incorrect prediction, the governor said.  Christie has been critical of Rosen, 66, and his forecasts,
calling him a “handmaiden” for Democrats who control the
Senate and Assembly. Last year, the governor called Rosen the
“Dr. Kevorkian” of budget estimates, referring to the deceased
pathologist who advocated assisted suicide.  Five Months  The governor is counting on a 4.9 percent increase in
revenue to balance the $32.9 billion budget he proposed for
fiscal 2014. His spending plan is “structurally imbalanced”
for a second straight year because it’s based on revenue goals
the state hasn’t met,  Standard & Poor’s  said in March.  New Jersey’s revenue collections have exceeded budgeted
expectations for five months in a row after missing them for
five. For the 10 months ended April 30, collections are 0.2
percent above revised projections, the state’s Treasury
Department said in a May 16 statement.  Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff told the budget panel
today that the administration won’t lower its estimates for
online gambling revenue and that the drop in estimates is
primarily due to the lagging energy receipts. A $183 million
decline in energy taxes will be offset by the lowered targets
and transferring funds from other accounts, the treasurer said.  Renewed Calls  Christie last month renewed calls for a 10 percent tax cut
that Democrats have blocked, saying that revenue is rebounding
and the state can afford it.  Rosen told lawmakers that the state may miss revenue
projections by $444 million in the fiscal year ending June 30,
and $492 million in the next 12-month span. Six weeks ago, he
placed the two-year gap at $637 million.  “This was sort of like dropping a bombshell,” said
Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat from Wood-Ridge who chairs the
budget panel. “It’s really going to impact his proposed budget
going forward. We can get through this budget year, but it’s
going to impact the next year and even years to come.”  Sarlo said he expects lawmakers in the Democratic majority
to negotiate a budget with Christie and offer him the minimum
number of votes needed to ensure its passage. The legislator
said he expects the latest dispute to complicate that process.  Christie signed legislation in February authorizing online
gambling to help New Jersey’s struggling casino industry. His
2014 budget anticipated a $1.2 billion market from Internet bets
in its first year. Analysts at Moody’s Investors Service,
Deutsche Bank AG and Bloomberg Industries have all said that
sounds too optimistic, with their estimates ranging from $250
million to about $850 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  