-- N.Z. Says China Refusal of Meat Imports Is ‘Short-Term Hiccup’
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-20T04:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/n-z-says-china-refusal-of-meat-imports-is-short-term-hiccup-.html
China ’s refusal to allow New Zealand
meat to leave its ports is a “short-term hiccup” relating to
documentation and doesn’t affect the two nations’ trading
relationship, Prime Minister John Key said.  New Zealand officials are providing Chinese authorities
with the necessary details and expect the issue will be resolved
within days, Key told reporters in Wellington. He declined to
say how much meat is being blocked or how long the delays have
been in place.  “The Chinese are working through the information quickly
and constructively and we’re hopeful the issue will be resolved
this week,” he said. “We are doing everything we can to get
the issue resolved as soon as possible.”  China is  New Zealand ’s largest export customer and the
biggest buyer of milk powder and logs. Its purchases of New
Zealand beef and sheep meat more than tripled to NZ$283 million
($230 million) in the first quarter from a year earlier and make
up about 17 percent of all meat shipments.  “Chinese have got a very significant appetite for New
Zealand meat,” Key said. “They see New Zealand as a very good
supplier. The potential for meat exports to China is
exponential.”  Frozen meat remains in storage at the Chinese ports while
chilled meat is being processed by the authorities, Key said. He
said he couldn’t confirm reports that hundreds of tons of meat
have been held up, and that the block has been in place for
between two and three weeks.  Chinese authorities blocked imports of meat when the New
Zealand ministry that certifies the authenticity of the
products, and the suitability of processing plants, changed its
name, Key said. The Chinese also tightened their procedures to
combat the risk of counterfeit imports of meat, he said.  “In the long-term that is a good thing for New Zealand,”
he said. “This is a short-term hiccup.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  