-- Netcare Says U.K. Improvement to Continue in Second Half
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-05-20T15:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/netcare-earnings-gain-on-rising-demand-for-private-health-care.html
Netcare Ltd. (NTC)  predicted continued
improvement from its U.K. business in the fiscal second half and
said its hospitals will also benefit from rising South African
demand for private health care.  Netcare posted a 26 percent increase in six-month profit
from continuing operations, excluding one-time items, to 868
million rand ($92 million), the Johannesburg-based owner of
hospitals in  South Africa  and Britain said today in a statement.
Revenue rose 8.5 percent to 13.3 billion rand in the six months
through March, with a weaker rand contributing to the gain.  “Our aim was to get the U.K. operations to break even,”
Chief Executive Officer Richard Friedland said in Johannesburg
today. “We exceeded that and the positive earnings contribution
made is continuing in the second half.”  The U.K. still has “a very tough macro environment and
operations there will be challenging for at least six months,”
he said. As Britain’s economic environment has weakened, the
number of patients coming from the national health system has
grown to 32 percent, from 3 percent in 2006, Friedland said.
Netcare has still been able to profit from this lower-margin
work, he said.  Primary Care  In South Africa, revenue growth in hospital and emergency
services was offset by a drop in primary care. Netcare plans to
add 89 beds in the second half. These will range from intensive
care to pediatric, said Jacques du Plessis, managing director of
the hospital division.  Netcare is also looking to expand its mental-health
offering. The group has 150 beds dedicated to mental health,
with approval for a further 119 beds in progress, he said.  The company plans to spend about 800 million rand in South
Africa and 40 million pounds in the U.K. on capital improvements
in the fiscal year. Total  capital spending  amounted to 455
million rand in the first half.  The  shares  fell 2.9 percent to 22.13 rand by the close in
Johannesburg, valuing the company at 32.5 billion rand. The
stock has gained 48 percent in the past 12 months.  Finance expenses dropped to 389 million rand, from 962
million rand, on lower interest charges after Netcare reduced
its interest in the property business of its General Healthcare
unit to less than 50 percent. The interim dividend was raised 23
percent to 27 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  