-- Nigeria’s Central Bank Will Probably Hold Rate to Support Naira
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-05-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/nigeria-s-central-bank-will-probably-hold-rate-to-support-naira.html
The Central Bank of Nigeria will
probably keep its benchmark lending rate unchanged at a record
high to bolster its foreign-currency reserves and support the
naira after oil prices fell last month.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, will hold its  policy rate  at 12 percent for a 10th
consecutive meeting today, according to all 11 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  “Their primary concern is the currency,” Alan Cameron, an
economist at CSL Stockbrokers Ltd. in  London , said by phone.
“Their goal is to maintain high interest rates until they can
find a substitute for portfolio inflows” with reforms pending
in other areas of the economy, such as the power industry, he
said.  Portfolio inflows have slowed this year partly because of
the decline in oil prices, said Cameron. Africa’s largest oil
producer relies on crude exports for about 80 percent of
government revenue and more than 90 percent of foreign income,
according to the central bank.  Bonny Light crude , one of
Nigeria’s main export grades, has declined 4.8 percent this
year.  The  inflation  rate rose to 9.1 percent in April from 8.6
percent the previous month, staying within the central bank’s
target of less than 10 percent. Consumer-price growth will
probably remain between 9 and 11 percent this year, Sanusi said
on March 24.  While Sanusi said he supports keeping the benchmark rate
unchanged, three MPC members voted for a reduction in the March
19 meeting, up from two in January.  Main Export  “Even though inflation is in single digits, that in itself
doesn’t guarantee that the exchange rate will be resilient,”
 Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by phone. The Nigerian central
bank “feels that if you let the currency weaken, then you’re
going to have an impact on inflation, on investment, on other
key macroeconomic variables.”  Nigeria is also battling an insurgency by Boko Haram
Islamists, with President Goodluck Jonathan declaring emergency
rule in three northeast states on May 14 to tackle militants he
said were taking over parts of the region. Islamist attacks have
been restricted to Abuja and the mainly Muslim north, leaving
oil facilities and financial markets in the commercial hub of
Lagos, in the south, undisturbed.  The yield on the 16.39 percent government bond maturing in
January 2022 rose 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to
11.44 percent on May 20 from the last MPC meeting on March 19,
according to latest data compiled by Bloomberg. Bonny Light
crude fell to $107.32 a barrel yesterday from $110.67 on March
19. It reached a low of $100.31 on April 17. The Nigeria Stock
Exchange All-Share Index has advanced 29 percent this year, the
world’s sixth-best performer.  “They need to send a signal to the market that the
fundamentals for carry trade, which are high interest rates,
aren’t going to go away anytime soon,” said Cameron. “They
don’t want to jeopardize portfolio inflows because they fear the
oil prices may fall.”  Foreign-currency reserves declined 0.8 percent to $48.5
billion on May 16 from May 2, after rising by a third in the
previous year, according to central bank  data .  The naira has
dropped 1.4 percent against the dollar since the beginning of
the year and was trading at 158.25 naira as of 15:24 p.m.
yesterday in Lagos, the commercial capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  