-- Nigeria Military Chases Militants Fleeing to Chad, Niger Borders
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-05-20T19:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/nigeria-military-chases-militants-fleeing-to-chad-niger-borders.html
 Nigeria’s military is chasing
Islamist fighters as they flee to the borders of Chad and Niger
from the northeast, where President Goodluck Jonathan has
declared emergency rule, spokesman Chris Olukolade said.  The military has destroyed “all terrorist camps” and
secured towns and villages in the areas of New Marte, Hausari,
Krenoa, Wulgo and Chikun Ngulalo, Olukolade said today in an e-mailed statement.  The Nigerian military began an air and ground offensive
last week after Jonathan imposed emergency rule in the
northeastern states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa on May 14.  Parts of the country’s northeast had been taken over by
Islamist militants, Jonathan said. Authorities in  Africa ’s
largest oil producer have been fighting the Boko Haram Islamist
group which has been blamed for carrying out attacks that have
killed thousands of people since 2009.  “Terrorists fleeing toward Chad and Niger republic are
being contained as they have had encounters with a multinational
joint task force in various locations toward the border,”
Olukolade said. “Advancing troops also observed a few shallow
graves believed to be those of hurriedly buried members of the
terrorist groups.”  About 120 militants were arrested in Maiduguri, capital of
Borno state, and are being interrogated, Olukolade said.  Troops in the northeast will protect civilians and respect
internationally accepted rules of engagement, Doyin Okupe, a
spokesman for Jonathan, said an e-mailed statement.  Western Education  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin”
in the local Hausa language, has carried out gun and bomb
attacks across Nigeria’s north and Abuja, the capital, since
police killed its founder,  Mohammed Yusuf , while in custody for
his role in clashes with the security forces in Maiduguri in
2009. The group says it wants Islamic rule in Africa’s most
populous country, almost evenly split between a mainly Muslim
north and a predominantly Christian south.  Troops mounted air and ground attacks on May 16 on camps
used by the militants, destroying anti-aircraft and anti-tank
weapons, according to the country’s defense headquarters. At
least 24 militants have been killed and 85 others arrested since
the military operation began on May 16, according to figures
compiled by the army.  The emergency rule declaration was needed to restore
security in the northeast as the government tries to boost
economic activity in industries such as agriculture and mining,
Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said today in Abuja.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  