-- Nigeria Sovereign Wealth Fund to Start Investing in June
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-05-20T20:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/nigeria-sovereign-wealth-fund-to-start-investing-in-june.html
Nigeria ’s $1 billion sovereign wealth
fund will start investing in June, as its board has approved the
investment policy statements for the three funds it includes,
Chief Executive Officer Uche Orji said.  The SWF, inaugurated in October, was set up to invest
savings made from the difference between budgeted oil prices and
actual market prices. Africa’s biggest oil producer relies on
crude exports for more than 90 percent of foreign income and
about 80 percent of government revenue, according to the central
bank, making it vulnerable to swings in prices.  The future generations fund and the infrastructure fund
will each account for 32.5 percent of total holdings, Orji told
reporters today in Abuja, the capital. The stabilization fund
will receive 20 percent of savings in the fund, he said.  The composition of the fund reflects “the need of
infrastructure for the current generation and the need of future
generations, which is savings,” he said.  The future generations fund will invest “across the
spectrum” globally in equities, fixed income, private equity,
and real estate, and aim for returns that beat inflation, Orji
said.  The stabilization fund will invest in “safe, liquid
instruments,” such as treasuries and investment-grade corporate
bonds, he said. The fund, which will also invest globally, will
be outsourced initially “and soon be transitioned to in-house
management,” he said.  The infrastructure fund will invest in areas such as
housing, agriculture, power, water resources, health care, and
transportation, he said.  The stabilization and future generations funds will start
investing in June, while the infrastructure fund will begin
investing in the second half of the year and is restricted to
investing only in Nigeria, he said.  The remaining $150 million is currently not allocated in
any of the funds. “The idea is to allow us the flexibility as
opportunities arise to top up each of the other funds,” Orji
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  