-- Nigeria’s Okonjo-Iweala Says Bank Rate Cut Would Boost Economy
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-05-20T16:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/nigeria-s-okonjo-iweala-says-bank-rate-cut-would-boost-economy.html
Nigeria’s economy would benefit from
 interest-rate  easing even though it’s likely that the central
bank will keep the key indicator unchanged tomorrow, Finance
Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said.  “We would be very grateful if we saw an easing of the
interest rate, a little bit, in order to also help more economic
activity,” she said, speaking to Standard Chartered Plc on a
conference call from Abuja, the capital, today. “Knowing the
central bank governor and perhaps the tone and trend of the
Monetary Policy Committee, I’m sure that they may end up
maintaining tight monetary stance.”  The MPC, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, will hold the
 policy rate  at a record high 12 percent for a 10th consecutive
meeting, according to all 11 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
The bank held the rate last year to curb price pressures and
support the naira.  The excess crude account, in which the country saves
revenue above the benchmark oil price set in the budget, is now
down to about $5 billion, Okonjo-Iweala told reporters after the
call. The account had $9.2 billion in Janaury. The West African
country,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, will probably continue
to draw from the account in the next two or three months to
finance a shortfall in oil production, she said.  “We do have a quantity shock” at the same time that  oil
prices  have started to decline, she said. Security is expected
to improve in the oil-producing Niger River delta in the next
three months, the minister said.  Crude production fell to 1.81 million barrels a day in
March, the lowest since September 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Oil theft in the delta caused production
to decline to an average 2.2 million barrels a day in the first
quarter, according to figures released by state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. on April 17.  This year’s budget is based on a production forecast of
2.53 million barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  