-- Nigeria’s Poverty Should Be Lower Given Growth, IMF Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-05-20T13:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/nigeria-s-poverty-should-be-lower-given-growth-imf-says.html
Nigeria’s poverty rate should be
falling faster given its economic growth this decade, an
official of the International Monetary Fund said.  The share of citizens in  Africa ’s most populous country of
more than 160 million who are considered poor fell to 62.6
percent in 2010 from 64.2 percent in 2004,  figures  published by
the World Bank show. The economy of Nigeria, Africa’s largest
oil producer, expanded an average 7.2 percent a year during the
same period, according to IMF estimates.  “It’s a bit of a conundrum,” W. Scott Rogers, the senior
resident  representative  of the IMF in Nigeria, said in a May 16
interview in Abuja, the capital. “Income per capita has gone up
yet poverty isn’t improving and we’re having a difficult time
understanding why that is or how that could be.”  Economic growth has been largely driven by the non-oil
industries, which expanded an average 8.5 percent a year from
2003 to 2011, the IMF said in a May 10 report, citing figures
from the Abuja-based National Bureau of Statistics. Oil accounts
for about 15 percent of the country’s gross domestic product.  Agriculture accounted for 48.7 percent of the country’s
non-oil economic output from 2001 to 2011 while wholesale and
retail accounted for 21.4 percent, according to the IMF.
Agriculture expanded an average 6.6 percent a year, while
wholesale and retail trade grew 12.2 percent a year, according
to the lender.  Accurate Picture  “This is one thing we’ve learned over the last decade or
two, that it’s not just the rate of growth in the aggregate that
matters, it’s where it’s coming from and who’s enjoying it,”
said Rogers. Still, “in Nigeria the growth is everywhere.”  The re-basing of the country’s GDP to a more recent year
will probably provide a more accurate picture of the composition
of the economy and where growth is coming from and may help
understand why poverty hasn’t reduced by a larger rate in the
country, said Rogers. The IMF started providing technical
assistance to the statistics office in September on the re-basing exercise, he said.  Solid Estimate  The West African country’s GDP is currently based on
production and consumption patterns in 1990. The statistics
bureau will decide before the end of the month whether to use
2010 or 2012 as the new base year, the head of the agency, Yemi
Kale, said on May 9. The updated data, to be released next year,
will probably boost the reported size of the Nigerian economy
while decreasing the annual rate of growth, according to Kale.  The IMF recommends that Nigeria should increase savings in
its excess crude account, in which Nigeria saves revenue above a
budgeted oil price, and the Sovereign Wealth Fund, to $20
billion, where the savings were in 2008, said Rogers. The ECA
has savings of $7 billion, down from $9.2 billion in January,
Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said in a May 10 interview.  Accruing Savings  Annual negotiations between lawmakers and the government
over what the benchmark price should be aren’t “meaningful” as
long as funds that go into the account are spent, said Rogers.
The oil price has rarely gone below the set price in the past
seven years, and the country should have been accruing savings
“the entire time,” he said.  Lawmakers raised the benchmark oil price in this year’s
budget to $79 a barrel from the $75 price proposed by the
government. Okonjo-Iweala and central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said the move would stoke inflation and proposed that the
price should be be determined in future by a technical committee
instead of politicized negotiations.  “What’s important is that what’s saved is saved until the
rule says when” it can be spent, said Rogers.  One of the risks to the achievements of Nigeria’s fiscal
and monetary management is if government spending rises again
ahead of the 2015 elections, including that of the states’
budgets and the excess crude account, said Rogers. The central
bank may have to raise rates from the current record high if
this happens, he said. The Abuja-based regulator’s Monetary
Policy Committee will hold its  policy rate  at 12 percent for a
10th consecutive meeting tomorrow, according to all 11
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  “If fiscal policy starts to loosen as we go towards the
elections, one of the jobs of central banks is to clean up the
mess,” he said. “It doesn’t really have any other choice, and
what does that do? It raises the cost of borrowing at a time of
fiscal policy expansion. That’s just economics, that’s not
Nigeria, but that’s the risk they’re facing now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  