-- NIH-Grant Researchers Charged by U.S. in China Bribe Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-20T17:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/nih-grant-researchers-charged-by-u-s-in-china-bribe-scheme-1-.html
Three former employees of a New York-based university were charged in a bribery scheme tied to
research funded under a multi-million dollar grant from the U.S.
National Institutes of Health on magnetic resonance imaging.  The three conspired to have a Chinese medical imaging
company provide them financial benefits in exchange for research
and non-public information being developed at the unidentified
university, according to  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s
office.  Yudong Zhu, a Chinese national who was a former associate
professor at the university, and Xing Yang, a Chinese citizen
who was employed by the university as a research engineer, were
arrested by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , said  Peter Donald , a spokesman for the FBI’s New York office. A third
defendant, Ye Li, who the U.S. said was employed at the
university as a post-doctoral fellow, remains at large, Donald
said.  All three are charged in a complaint unsealed today with
one count of commercial bribery conspiracy. Zhu is charged with
one count of falsification of records. Lawyers for Zhu and Yang
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment on the charges. Zhu
and Yang are set to appear in federal court in Manhattan today.  Three people with the same names as the defendants are
listed in the directory of the New York University Langone
Medical Center in the radiology department, according to the
university’s website. A university spokeswoman didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at her office
seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Zhu, 13-mag-1309, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 