-- Nippon Yusen Soars as LPG Rates Rise Most on Record: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-05-20T06:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/nippon-yusen-soars-as-lpg-rates-rise-most-on-record-tokyo-mover.html
Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) , the world’s
largest publicly traded operator of liquefied petroleum gas
ships, surged the most in more than four years in  Tokyo  after a
record weekly advance in rates for carrying the cargo.  Nippon Yusen rose 11 percent, the biggest gain since
October 2008, to close at 295 yen as of the 3 p.m. end of
trading in Tokyo. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. and  Kawasaki Kisen
Kaisha Ltd. (9107) ,  Japan ’s second- and third-biggest shipping lines,
increased 7.6 percent and 6 percent respectively. All three
companies are based in Tokyo.  LPG rates jumped 28 percent last week, the largest weekly
rally based on data going back to 2005, according to the Baltic
Exchange, a London-based publisher of shipping prices. The U.S.
is shipping more LPG than ever as a byproduct of record natural
gas output, Energy Department data show.  “The jump in rates for carrying LPG is giving Nippon Yusen
a boost,” said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at Barclays Securities
Japan Ltd. “It backs up Nippon Yusen’s decision to invest in a
U.S. LPG terminal.”  Nippon Yusen, Mitsui & Co., and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  said last
week that they will jointly take a one-third stake in a U.S.
liquefied natural gas export facility to be built in Louisiana.
Construction of the plant is to begin next year, with the first
phase slated to start operating in the second half of 2017,
according to  Sempra Energy (SRE) , which will retain 50.2 percent of
the project.  Natural gas futures rose the most in almost three weeks May
17, after the U.S. conditionally approved a Texas LNG project.
The Freeport LNG export project gained only the second approval
from the Energy Department to export gas to nations that don’t
have free-trade agreements with the U.S.  Nippon Yusen operated 3.8 million cubic meters of LNG
carrying capacity as of March, making it the largest listed
carrier based on figures from the  company .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  