-- Norden Bets on Ship Rally After Worst Market Since ’02: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-05-21T12:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/norden-bets-on-ship-rally-after-worst-market-since-02-freight.html
D/S Norden A/S (DNORD) , Europe’s biggest
owner of ships hauling iron ore and coal, is making its first
bet in three years that rates for Panamax vessels will rally
from the lowest in more than a decade.  The operator of 64 of the ships booked 6 percent less cargo
than its capacity this year, keeping reserves that can be used
once earnings rise, according to a May 15 statement. Norden’s
strategy since 2010 was to book more than it could carry and
hire extra vessels as rates dropped. Shares of the Hellerup,
Denmark-based company will advance 8.9 percent in a year, the
average of nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Expectations for a rebound are building after rates plunged
93 percent from a record five years ago and ship prices adjusted
for inflation collapsed to an all-time low. Norden is adding
$445 million of new vessels to its fleet. Greek shipping
companies, the owners of one in six merchant vessels, ordered
the most iron ore-carrying Capesizes since 2008. The Bloomberg
Dry Ships Index of 12 companies rose 13 percent this year as
equity investors also became more bullish.  “It’s a clear signal that Norden is expecting the market
to turn around,” said Stig Frederiksen, an analyst at Carnegie
Bank AS in Oslo, whose recommendations on shipping companies
returned 9.2 percent in the past six months. “Switching to
being long Panamaxes tells me there’s a market for Panamaxes
this year.”  Expanding Faster  Rates for the 750-foot-long carriers averaged $7,579 a day
this year, the worst start since 2002, according to data from
the Baltic Exchange, a London-based publisher of maritime costs.
Panamax capacity is expanding faster than any other part of the
 fleet  after orders surged since 2007, when rates were as much as
12 times higher than now, according to data from the bourse and
 Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the largest shipbroker.  Shares of Norden rose 16 percent to 189.80 kroner in
Copenhagen trading this year. They will advance to 206.76 kroner
in 12 months, according to the analysts’  forecasts . The
company’s Panamaxes are part of its fleet of 218 vessels, some
of them operated on behalf of other companies.  Norden’s so-called Panamax coverage ratio for 2013 is 94
percent, giving it spare capacity once rates rebound, the
company said May 15. The average since the second quarter of
2010 was 120 percent, meaning it had fewer vessels than pre-booked cargoes. Rates plunged 68 percent since then, according
to Baltic Exchange data.  “The market won’t get much worse,” Martin Badsted, an
executive vice president responsible for market analysis,
planning and risk management at Norden, said by phone May 15.
“Medium term, rates and values will move higher.”  Freight Swaps  Panamaxes, each capable of hauling about 75,000 metric tons
of cargo, will earn an average of $9,000 a day this year,
according to nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Freight swaps anticipate rates no higher than $7,342 until the
end of the year.  Swaps traders are betting this year will be the worst since
at least 1999. Rates will average about $6,500 for the remainder
of the period, according to the Baltic Exchange’s assessments
for the forward contracts. A typical Panamax needs about $10,300
a day to break even, estimates Arctic Securities ASA, an Oslo-based investment bank.  Supply and demand projections for this year suggest any
rally may be limited. The Panamax fleet will expand 12 percent,
according to Clarkson. The broker is anticipating growth of 5
percent in cargoes including coal, iron ore and grains.  Iron Ore  China ’s economy will expand 8 percent this year, the
second-weakest growth since 1999, according to the average of 52
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The nation accounts
for about 66 percent of all seaborne iron-ore trade and 18
percent of coal cargoes, according to Clarkson.  The glut in Panamaxes is being mirrored across the merchant
fleet, with 20 percent more vessels than cargoes in March, the
biggest imbalance since the early 1980s, Clarkson estimates.
About 90 percent of world trade moves by sea, according to the
Round Table of Shipping Associations.  Excess shipping capacity should start to diminish because
the rout in rates curbed orders for new vessels. The total order
book for dry-bulk ships now equates to 17 percent of the
existing fleet, compared with as much as 74 percent in 2009,
according to data from IHS Fairplay, a Redhill, England-based
maritime research company.  The ratio for Panamaxes dropped to 23 percent, from 53
percent in 2010. The actual order book may be even lower because
owners canceled some projects and that information has yet to be
made public, according to Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at
Arctic in Oslo.  Dry Ships  Ten of 12 companies in the Bloomberg Dry Ships Index will
report net income or narrowed losses for next year, according to
analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. No projections were
available for Oslo-based Belships ASA.  Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd. (2343) , based in Hong Kong, has the
biggest weighting in the gauge. It will return to a $36.9
million profit this year, according to the mean of 11 analyst
predictions. Norden’s loss will narrow to $35.8 million in 2013,
from $53.8 million last year, the estimates show. The company
will return to profit next year, according to the projections.  Norden also said May 15 it was acquiring 17 new ships by
either buying them or operating the  vessels  on long-term
charters for other investors. The orders include dry-bulk
carriers as well as tankers hauling refined oil products such as
jet fuel.  “The cycle is turning upward,” said Frode Moerkedal, an
analyst at RS Platou Markets AS in Oslo, whose recommendations
on the shares of shipping companies returned 17 percent in the
past year. “Rates will see a gradual improvement this year and
accelerate toward 2015.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  