-- NTSB Defends Study Preceding Chinatown Bus Safety Sweep
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-05-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/ntsb-defends-study-preceding-chinatown-bus-safety-sweep.html
The U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board is defending itself against accusations it skewed a
study that preceded the shutdown of 26 so-called Chinatown bus
operations in the Northeast.  Anomalies in how the board classified motorcoach operators
and calculated fatality rates raise doubts about its conclusion
that curbside companies, including most Chinatown carriers, are
about seven times more probable to have passenger deaths than
companies using terminals, according to the Reason Foundation, a
Los Angeles-based advocacy group for limited government.  Safety board officials in interviews confirmed they
classified Greyhound, the largest U.S. terminal-based operator,
as a curbside company. Counting Greyhound as a terminal operator
would narrow the gap in fatality rates, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “They committed statistical malpractice by refusing to
make the data available to the public and by presenting the
‘seven times’ figure without the gigantic qualification” that
the margin of error could have eliminated the difference between
the two carrier types, said  Aaron Brown , a risk manager trained
in statistical mathematics.  Brown, who works for AQR Capital Management in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , first critiqued the NTSB study last July in  an
article  on the financial news website Minyanville.  The recalculations don’t alter the finding that curbside
operators have been more dangerous, Eric Weiss, a board
spokesman, said.  Bronx Crash  The NTSB study was requested by Senator  Charles Schumer  and
Representative Nydia Velazquez, both New York Democrats,  two
days after a bus traveling to New York’s Chinatown crashed in
the Bronx in March 2011, killing 15 people. The NTSB, better
known for crash investigations that can take more than a year,
produced the bus report in a little more than seven months.  NTSB Chairman  Deborah Hersman  released the findings at a
news conference in  Manhattan ’s Chinatown on Oct. 31, 2011,
surrounded by buses loading passengers waiting on sidewalks.
Seven months after that, the U.S. Transportation Department
conducted its largest one-day safety sweep on bus companies,
closing 26 Chinatown lines in a single day.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s action
against the Chinatown carriers was based on its own yearlong
probe that predated the NTSB’s findings, said Duane DeBruyne, an
agency spokesman.  The NTSB counted as curbside carriers FirstGroup Plc’s
Greyhound Lines Inc., the largest U.S. intercity bus company, as
well as Peter Pan Bus Lines Inc., Martz Trailways, Adirondack
Trailways, Fullington Trailways and Greyhound’s Americanos
subsidiary.  Methodology Flawed  All of those appear to operate as terminal-based companies,
said Jim Epstein, a television producer with Reason who wrote
about the study in a  Reason.com article  posted May 7. He said he
called each company before writing his critique.  “Statistical studies have to be rigorous when it comes to
using data,” Epstein said. “The fact that the NTSB
misclassified so many bus companies shows something went
wrong.”  Epstein, in his article, said Greyhound accounted for 24 of
37 of the fatal accidents attributed to curbside operators in
the six years studied and 34 of the 51 fatalities.  He also questioned the NTSB’s decision to calculate
fatality rates by dividing deaths by the number of buses each
company operates, rather than how many miles they drove. The
agency said in its report it couldn’t use the latter method
because many bus companies don’t report miles driven to the U.S.
Department of Transportation.  The NTSB gave companies with hundreds of buses criss-crossing the country the same weight as companies with a single
bus, Brown said.  ‘Very Dubious’  “They don’t have enough data, they have no data on the
length of bus trips, and there just aren’t enough accidents,”
Brown said in an interview. “Averaging companies is a very
dubious technique.”  Greyhound, (FGP)  with 1,515 buses, dominates the curbside
category in the safety board study, while  New Jersey Transit ,
with 2,172 buses, is the largest company counted as a terminal
operator.  “They’re really comparing Greyhound to New Jersey
Transit” instead of commercial curbside carriers with terminal
operators, Brown said.  Timothy Stokes, a Firstgroup Plc spokesman, declined to
comment on the NTSB’s research.  Counting the companies cited by Epstein as terminal
operators would narrow the ratio of fatal-crash risk between
curbside and terminal operators to 4.6 to 1, according to
Bloomberg calculations from study data provided by the safety
board.  Safety Culture  Just moving Greyhound would slightly increase the fatality
rate of terminal operators while not changing the rate for
curbside carriers. That’s because Greyhound’s fatal-crash rate,
1.39 per 100 buses, was almost exactly the curbside companies’
average during the period evaluated.  The NTSB stands by the study and its conclusions, said
Weiss, the agency spokesman. The study focused on the safety
record of the companies, not their size, route system or types
of buses, he said.  “Safe bus operations should not depend on whether
passengers are picked up or dropped off at a traditional bus
station or down on the corner,” Weiss said. “It should depend
upon safety culture and other issues such as driver training and
bus maintenance.”  The agency counted Greyhound as a curbside carrier because
of its BoltBus brand, the second-biggest U.S. curbside operator
after  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) ’s Megabus.com.  No Definition  Because there is no standard government definition of
“curbside,” the board’s researchers included any company in
the category that operated at least one curbside route.  The agency looked at curbside carriers more broadly, rather
than those based in Chinatown, because that’s what the lawmakers
asked it to do, Weiss said. NTSB research reports can take six
to 18 months to produce, depending on the complexity of the
topic and availability of staff resources, he said.  BoltBus, which Greyhound operates as a joint venture with
Peter Pan, operated fewer than 100 buses in 2011, Stokes said.  The fatal-crash rate was only one measure used to compare
the record of curbside bus companies in the 67-page report,
Weiss said. Researches also looked at non-fatal crashes,
inspection records and traffic violations, among other metrics,
he said.  375 Percent  Three fatal crashes on the U.S. East Coast last year
involved Chinatown buses. Two, bound for  New York ’s Chinatown,
were subject of NTSB investigations.  World Wide Travel of Greater New York Ltd., the company
involved in the crash that spurred Schumer and Velazquez to ask
NTSB for the study, had an accident rate of 5.7 per million
miles traveled, 375 percent higher than the threshold the motor
carrier regulator deems unacceptable.  The company was rejected by the U.S. Defense Department
when it tried to win a contract to carry military personnel in
2009.  Three Chinatown operations in New York and Philadelphia
were the primary targets in the May 31, 2012, U.S. safety
crackdown, while 26 individual companies were shuttered.  The increased enforcement continued this year, when Fung
Wah, the largest Chinatown bus company operating between New
York and  Boston , was shut after the Massachusetts Department of
Public Utilities found cracked bus frames and attempted repairs
that appeared to worsen the defects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  