-- NYC Police’s Low Arrest Rate From Stops Troubles Judge
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-05-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/nyc-police-s-low-arrest-rate-from-stops-troubles-judge.html
A federal judge told a lawyer for  New
York City  she was troubled by the number of stops police made
that failed to result in arrests, summonses or seizure of
illegal weapons.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan  yesterday
asked the lawyer about data showing that 90 percent of people
stopped and questioned or frisked by city police aren’t found to
have done anything illegal.  New Yorkers  challenging the practice claim that officers
often make stops, particularly of Hispanic and black men,
without the reasonable suspicion of illegal activity required by
law.  “What troubles me is the fact that the suspicion seems to
be wrong 90 percent of the time,” Scheindlin said during the
city’s closing argument at a trial challenging the so-called
stop-and-frisk policy. “That’s a high error rate.”  Scheindlin made the remarks as the nine-week trial drew to
a close. The plaintiffs have asked Scheindlin, who is hearing
the case without a jury, to order sweeping changes to  New York 
City Police Department policies, training and supervision.  The lawsuit was filed in 2008 by four black men who said
they were stopped and questioned or frisked by New York police
without reasonable suspicion. They represent a citywide class of
New Yorkers who claim they were illegally stopped since January
2005. New York police made more than 500,000 such stops in 2012.  Illegal Stops  David Floyd, Lalit Clarkson, Deon Dennis and David
Ourlicht, who represent the citywide class, also claim the
department fails to train officers in proper procedures and
imposes quotas that encourage illegal stops.  “The NYPD has laid siege to black and Latino neighborhoods
over the past eight years,” Gretchen Hoff Varner, a lawyer for
the plaintiffs, said in her closing argument.  Varner said that 85 percent of the 4.3 million people
stopped and frisked by police are black or Hispanic. Police
recover illegal guns in only .14 percent of the stops, she told
Scheindlin.  During the trial, the plaintiffs presented testimony from
12 members of the class who claim they were stopped illegally a
total of 19 times.  The city has rejected claims that its policies are illegal.
City lawyers claim the police department’s stop-and-frisk
policies have helped reduce crime rates to record lows. Lawyers
for the city claimed the individuals representing the class
failed to show their stops violated the law or were the result
of improper quotas.  ‘Race-Based Reason’  “There is no race-based reason that the plaintiffs can
come forward with,” said Heidi Grossman, a lawyer for the city.  Brenda Cooke, another city lawyer, criticized the testimony
of Jeffrey Fagan, a Columbia University professor who analyzed
police stop-and-frisk data from 2003 through the first half of
2012, as “biased, flawed and unreliable.”  Scheindlin didn’t say when she will rule in the case.  The Floyd case is one of three federal court challenges to
the department’s stop-and-frisk practices. In Ligon v. City of
New York, Scheindlin in January ordered that police cease making
suspicionless “trespass” stops outside privately owned
buildings in the borough of the Bronx.  She suspended that order while the city appeals. Davis v.
City of New York, also in Scheindlin’s court, challenges police
stops in public housing.  ‘Reasonable Suspicion’  The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that police must have
“reasonable suspicion” of crime to justify such stops. New
York state appeals courts last year threw out at least two
convictions of teenagers who were found with guns in stop-and-frisk searches.  The New York Civil Liberties Union said in a statement in
March that police made 97,296 street stops in 2002, New York
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s first year in office. The number of
stops grew to 685,724 in 2011, the group said. The police made
533,042 stops last year, according to the NYCLU.  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg
News .  The case is Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  