-- Obama Says Myanmar’s Democratic Progress Fuels Economy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-20T22:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/obama-lauds-myanmar-s-progress-as-opening-economic-opportunities.html
President  Barack Obama  told Myanmar
President  Thein Sein  that building democracy and ending human
rights abuses will bring greater prosperity to the Southeast
Asian nation.  Thein Sein’s White House visit yesterday was the first by a
leader from the country formerly known as  Burma  in 47 years and
comes amid warming relations and U.S. support for its budding
democratic institutions after decades of military rule.  The U.S. wants to assist in spurring broad-based economic
development “and that includes the prospect of increasing trade
and investment in Myanmar, which can produce jobs and higher
standards of living,” Obama said at the conclusion of an Oval
Office meeting with Thein Sein. “As President Sein is the first
to admit, this is a long journey.”  Obama said he also expressed “deep concern” about
violence against ethnic and religious minorities and that abuse
of human rights “needs to stop.”  The meeting took place as Thein Sein, who took office two
years ago, is clearing the way for overseas investment in
Myanmar, which is sandwiched between China and  India . U.S. and
European companies including  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and
 Unilever NV (UNA)  are scouting for opportunities in Myanmar. As
western sanctions are lifted, Sein’s government is seeking to
modernize the country’s financial system and infrastructure
before elections in 2015.  U.S. Rebalancing  “The U.S. has decided to rebalance its foreign policy
toward  Asia , and the idea behind that rebalancing is that the
U.S. can benefit from Asia continuing to be a growth engine for
the global economy,” said Vikram Nehru, a senior associate at
the Carnegie Endowment for Peace in  Washington  who focuses on
 East Asia .  While human-rights organizations criticized Obama’s
invitation as premature, the White House said in a statement
that Obama was hosting the former military leader to signal
support for “those governments that make the important decision
to embrace reform.”  Obama referred to the nation as Myanmar in his remarks,
even though the U.S. officially uses the name Burma. White House
press secretary  Jay Carney  said the U.S. “has begun to allow
limited use of the name Myanmar as a diplomatic courtesy” to
show respect for the progress made there.  In yesterday’s talks, the two leaders discussed the rule of
law, proper use of courts and property rights of farmers, among
other items, Thein Sein said.  ‘Daunting Task’  “It is a daunting task ahead of us,” Thein Sein said of
the changes toward greater democracy, while thanking the U.S.
government and Obama for hastening changes.  The Myanmar leader said on May 2 that the growth of
democracy in his homeland must go hand in hand with economic
development and that improved relations on a global scale will
create jobs and provide the country with advanced technology.  During its decades of isolation, the Myanmar’s economy was
dependent on  China  but the shift toward democracy offers “a
little more a little more counterbalance,” said Murray Hiebert,
senior fellow and deputy director of the Sumitro Chair for
Southeast Asia Studies at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington.  “This gives them a little more leverage, they can look at
other places for foreign investment, they can look at other
places for aid and advice,” Hiebert said in a telephone
interview.  Obama Visit  Obama hailed Myanmar’s progress in democracy and human
rights during a November visit that was the first by a U.S.
president. His stop in Myanmar marked the end of U.S. diplomatic
isolation.  The U.S. relaxed sanctions on Myanmar, which the U.S. still
officially calls Burma, in 2012 after Sein engaged with
political opponents, released dissidents and relaxed censorship
following his party’s victory in a 2010 election that ended five
decades of repression and direct military rule. The European
Union lifted sanctions last month.  The former British colony is one of the world’s least
developed nations. Citizens average just four years of
education. Myanmar is also one of Asia’s last untapped frontier
markets. Even so, the nation’s economy will expand 6.2 percent
this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said in October 2012.  U.S. Companies  Ford said April 30 it opened its first dealership in
Myanmar after the U.S. eased sanctions last year. Companies such
as  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are already working
with the U.S. and Burmese governments to help train local
teachers and computer programmers.  Sein released at least 19 political prisoners, the
 Associated Press  reported, before his White House visit.  Human rights advocates accused Sein of dragging his feet on
promises for change and said many pledges haven’t been met,
including a panel to review political prisoner cases.  “The last year has seen devastating violence against
minorities and a stalled reform process,” John Sifton, Asia
advocacy director at  Human Rights Watch , said in an e-mailed
statement. Obama must “make it clear that there are
consequences if the Burmese government fails to implement its
previous human rights pledges.”  Sifton said both governments should set goals for progress
to ensure “free and fair parliamentary elections in 2015”
including a constitutional amendment removing Myanmar’s military
authority over its civilian government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  