-- Obama’s Not Nixon, He’s Harding
-- B y   J o h n   D e a n
-- 2013-05-20T19:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/obama-s-not-nixon-he-s-harding.html
During President  Barack Obama ’s May
16 news conference, reporter Jeff Mason asked as part of his
question: “And, more broadly, how do you feel about comparisons
by some of your critics of this week’s scandals to those that
happened under the Nixon administration?” The president
responded, “I’ll let you guys engage in those comparisons, and
you can go ahead and read the history, I think, and draw your
own conclusions.”  Actually, reading the  history  of President  Richard Nixon 
and Watergate might not make much difference for a couple of
reasons. Even those familiar with that history are still
misusing it, but more important, it’s certainly not the only
history relevant to presidential scandals.  Start with those playing the Nixon card who understand this
history, yet don’t seem to care that the situations aren’t truly
analogous.  For instance, the Washington Post’s most celebrated
Watergate reporter,  Bob Woodward , knows better. On Nov. 18,
2012, Woodward appeared on “Fox News Sunday” to talk about “the
Libyan scandal.” At that time he dismissed the thought that a
Watergate-style investigation was necessary. The only real
question was “what did  Susan Rice  know and when did she know
it,” he said, referring to the U.S. ambassador to the  United
Nations , who delivered the misleading statements about the
attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,  Libya . Woodward didn’t
think the answer to that question ranked very high on the scale
of what the public needed to know.  Yet on May 18, 2013, during a visit to  MSNBC ’s “Morning
Joe,” after dismissing the IRS’s scrutiny of Tea Party groups
and the Associated Press phone-records situation as merely a
“mess,” Woodward did a 180-degree turn on Benghazi, saying it
now brought to mind Nixon and Watergate.  Transcripts Examined  Woodward focused on the interagency e-mail trail of the
edits to the “talking points” being prepared after the Benghazi
attacks for members of Congress and administration officials,
which the Obama White House publicly released after Republicans
falsely characterized the e-mails to the news media.  Woodward said, “I have to go back 40 years to Watergate
when Nixon put out his edited transcripts of the conversations
and he personally went through them and said ‘Let’s not tell
this; Let’s not show this.’” Because Woodward thought the Obama
White House editing process similar to Nixon’s Watergate
actions, he added, “I would not dismiss Benghazi. It’s a very
serious issue. As people keep saying, four people were killed.”  I’ll not speculate on Woodward’s motives, but his
comparison is absurd. Anyone who takes time to look at the
redactions in the Benghazi e-mails, and compares them with the
deletions and distortions Nixon made with his taped
conversations, will discover Woodward’s contention is baseless,
not even close.  First, the only redactions from the Benghazi e-mails are
the names of CIA personnel and e-mail addresses -- not the
content of the exchanges. And with 100 pages of e-mails
released, there is no evidence any are missing. Second, there is
no evidence whatsoever that Obama was personally involved in the
release or redacting process. Woodward knows, as he wrote in his
book “The Final Days,” “Nixon spent hours reviewing the
transcripts, often working late into the night. Almost
immediately he began making deletions. Long passages were cut by
bold slash marks from his pen.”  I mention Woodward because those involved in scandal
quickly discover -- and he can attest to this from his own mini-scandals -- nothing about them is fair or necessarily fully
accurate. Scandals create their own climate, which persists as
long as fuel exists to feed them. Presidents, however, are often
in a unique position to reduce and eliminate such combustible
material.  Presidency Maligned  And that’s where the history of other, more relevant
scandals comes in. When I  look  at Obama’s travails, he seems to
be suffering less from a Nixon complex than a Harding syndrome,
after the ill-fated Warren G. Harding.  I believe Harding is the most unfairly maligned president
in American history. In 2004, I wrote a brief  biography  of
Harding for Arthur Schlesinger’s presidential series.
Schlesinger called after he read my manuscript, and told me he
had always been very critical of Harding based on what he
thought he knew of his presidency, but thanked me for changing
his mind.  Harding has been blamed for an illegal kickback scheme at
the Veterans Bureau and the infamous Teapot Dome  scandal  that
sent his secretary of interior, Albert Fall, to prison. In fact,
Harding was involved in no wrongdoing whatsoever regarding these
scandals. When Harding got the first whiffs of illicit activity,
he was outraged and demanded answers. A trusting man, he took
those involved at their word and proceeded to play his weekend
golf games, and then took a trip to  Alaska , on which he died.
Because he had failed to take more decisive action, history has
blamed him for scandals that developed after his death.
Harding’s lack of action ruined his presidency.  In fact, the same can be said of every presidency that has
been damaged by scandal. In varying degrees, all the scandals
were ignored until it was too late. Nixon’s failure to act let
Watergate get out of hand.  Ronald Reagan ’s lassitude allowed
Iran-Contra to become a scandal. And  Bill Clinton ’s indolence
fueled the Lewinsky affair into his impeachment. The oxygen
created by presidential inaction allows White House-related
scandals to smolder and smoke, until they almost inevitably
erupt.  In the tradition of Harding, Obama played golf this past
weekend and instructed his staff to largely ignore the emerging
scandals. Yet as many presidents discover to their chagrin,
inattention won’t end a scandal; it’s more likely to do the
opposite. President Obama needs to read a bit of history to
better understand the workings of scandals and to knock down
those that are increasingly engulfing his presidency.  (John Dean is a columnist for Justia’s  Verdict  and a
visiting scholar at the University of Southern  California ’s
Annenberg School of Communication. He served as counsel to
President Richard M. Nixon from July 1970 to April 1973. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
John Dean at https://twitter.com/JohnWDean.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 