-- Hockey Leapfrogs Swan as Better Australia Treasurer After Budget
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-20T00:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/hockey-leapfrogs-swan-as-better-australia-treasurer-after-budget.html
Shadow Treasurer Joe Hockey overtook
incumbent Wayne Swan in a poll on who is more capable of
managing  Australia ’s economy, as the government failed to gain a
boost from its last budget before a Sept. 14 election.  Hockey surpassed Swan for the first time since he became
Treasury spokesman for the opposition Liberal-National coalition
in February 2009, leading 39 percent to 35 percent, a Newspoll
published in  the Australian  today showed. The ruling Labor party
trailed the opposition by 12 percentage points on a two-party
preferred basis that reflects the likely distribution of votes
on election day, unchanged from two weeks earlier.  Swan on May 14 delivered his sixth budget that projected
Australia will remain in deficit until 2016, and recorded a
A$19.4 billion ($18.9 billion) shortfall this fiscal year,
compared with a A$1.1 billion surplus forecast in the
government’s mid-year review released seven months ago. Swan
blamed the stronger currency slowing growth for the deficit and
pledged to fight an election on jobs rather than slash spending.  “They painted themselves into a corner by saying they
would be delivering a surplus this year,” said Zareh Ghazarian,
a politics lecturer at Monash University in  Melbourne . “Now
that they haven’t delivered, that’s reflecting very poorly on
Mr. Swan. There’s also the issue of the extra revenue they were
expecting just not being there, so voters are starting to think
Swan just mightn’t be across the details in his portfolio.”  Revenue Shortfall  To make up for the tax revenue shortfall, the government
announced in the budget it would scrap a cash payment to the
parents of newborns and cap family payments for a saving of
A$2.4 billion. It is also seeking to save more than A$4.2
billion through June 2017 by closing tax loopholes for
multinational and other large companies. The measures include
addressing “aggressive tax minimization strategies” that shift
profits by artificially loading debt into Australian units.  The Newspoll of 1,143 people conducted May 17-19 showed
voters almost evenly split on whether the budget was positive or
negative: 35 percent rated it good and 37 percent bad, with 7
percent responding neither and 21 percent uncommitted. Prime
Minister Julia Gillard’s satisfaction rating increased 2
percentage points to 31 percent, while opposition leader Tony Abbott’s climbed 1 percentage point to 37 percent, it showed.  The survey’s margin of error was plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  