-- Hollande Bonds Without AAA Shine Brighter Than Gold
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-05-21T11:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/hollande-bonds-without-aaa-shine-brighter-than-gold-euro-credit.html
Credit downgrades, recession and
President  Francois Hollande ’s gaping budget shortfall have done
little to prevent French bonds from outshining gold.  Investors who bought French bonds when Standard & Poor’s
stripped the country of its top  credit rating  on Jan. 13, 2012,
have chalked up a 12 percent return, about triple the gains of
German debt. Gold, touted by some investors as the world’s
safest asset and a potential beneficiary when AAA rated
governments are downgraded, lost 17 percent in the same period.  The rate on 10-year French  government securities  tumbled to
a record low of 1.659 percent this month. Unprecedented stimulus
from central banks, including interest-rate cuts and asset
purchases, are eroding yields from top-rated bonds, forcing
investors to ignore credit ratings and the shortcomings of
Hollande’s economic fundamentals for higher returns.  France ’s
bond market,  Europe ’s second biggest after  Italy ’s, also offers
investors comfort they can exit the market without difficulty.  “French bonds are fundamentally weak, but they are
attracting strong demand,” said Soeren Moerch, the head of
fixed-income trading at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “France
may be at risk of further downgrades, but that doesn’t matter
much as long as there’s massive amount of money out there
seeking returns. France is part of a global story of liquidity
boosts and search for yield pick-up.”  Ignoring Ratings  French bonds  outperformed Europe’s top-rated government
debt this year, gaining 1.4 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. AAA rated  Germany  returned 0.1 percent, the
Netherlands gained 0.3 percent and  Finland  0.3 percent. France
was stripped of its top credit ratings last year by  Standard &
Poor’s  in January and Moody’s Investors Service in November.  France’s 1.42 trillion-euro ($1.83 trillion) market is
bigger than the Austrian, Finnish and Dutch government debt
markets combined, according to data from respective debt
management agencies. Germany’s tradable debt outstanding stands
at 1.14 trillion euros.  Sovereign debt yields moved in the opposite direction from
what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32 upgrades, downgrades,
and credit-outlook changes, data compiled by Bloomberg in
December show. That’s worse than the longer-term average of 47
percent, based on more than 300 changes since 1974. Last year,
investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s ratings and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by S&P, the data showed.  Losing Glitter  While  Warren Buffett , the third-richest investor in the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , made the right call on gold when
he warned investors to avoid it in his annual letter to
shareholders last year, his skepticism on bonds has so far been
unfounded. The chief executive officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. told Bloomberg Television this month he
was sorry for fixed-income investors with corporate bond yields
so low.  Gold prices, which gained the past 12 years in the longest
bull run in at least nine decades, has had the fifth-worst
performance among the S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities since
January 2012, when France lost its top credit rating. The S&P
GSCI declined 3 percent during that time, compared with a gain
of 5.06 percent for  government bonds , according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Government Index. Corporate bonds
returned 11.6 percent.  France’s Chance  “Gold is a good investment at a time when you think the
world is in the severe danger, but it started to lose its allure
once people stopped jumping at every shadow,” said  Frances Hudson , an Edinburgh-based strategist at Standard Life
Investments Ltd., which manages about $273 billion.  With the  European Central Bank  bolstering the region’s
finances, the speculation about the demise of the euro has
evaporated, aiding debt from countries such as France, she said.  “As people’s confidence that the euro zone will continue
to survive goes up, that benefits assets like French bonds,
which are still considered high quality, despite the country’s
short-term problems,” Hudson said.  The extra yield 10-year French bonds offer investors over
equivalent German bunds was 52 basis points as of 12:01 p.m.
London time, compared with the average of 29 basis points in the
past decade. The yield on French securities maturing in 2023
fell to a record low of 1.659 percent on May 2. The French-German spread rose to 200 basis points in 2011 and was 143
points when Hollande took office in May 2012.  Economic Doldrums  French bonds have outperformed their AAA counterparts in
the region even with the country’s economy in one of its worst
periods.  French gross domestic product shrank 0.2 percent in
the first three months of 2013, following a revised 0.2 percent
contraction in the previous quarter. The country’s jobless
claims rose to a record in March as companies pared payrolls.  Propelled by firings at companies such as Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Co. and  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , the number of claimants reached
an all-time high of 3.2 million. France’s 10.6 percent
unemployment rate is the highest in almost 14 years. Its debt as
percentage of GDP rose to 90 percent last year from 79 percent
in 2009, according to data from Eurostat.  The economic gloom has rendered Hollande the most unpopular
French president with his approval rating falling to 24 percent
in April, according to a TNS Sofres poll.  Liquidity Rules  A shrinking amount of quality bonds and a market sloshing
in cheap money from central banks means demand for assets such
as French bonds will be underpinned, said Salman Ahmed, a
London-based global strategist at Lombard Odier Investment
Managers, which oversees $46 billion.  The number of bonds with top rating has dropped to 3,478 on
May 17, from 5,254 five years ago, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s AAA Global Fixed Income Markets Index.  “I’m not saying fundamentals are not important, but at the
moment there are other more important factors at play which
allow French bonds to behave like a core-market asset,” said
Ahmed. “The world is awash in liquidity and investors will have
to put that money to work. Rating agencies’ action on major
markets is usually a confirmation of what you already knew.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ; 