-- London’s Battersea Development Lures $1 Billion in Home Sales
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-05-20T06:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/london-s-battersea-development-lures-1-billion-in-home-sales.html
London ’s Battersea Power Station site
has attracted buyers who have reserved about 95 percent of
apartments and townhouses worth about 681 million pounds ($1
billion) since January, according to the developer.  Purchasers have signed sales contracts on 824 of the 866
homes in Circus West, the project’s first phase, Battersea Power
Station Development Company said in an e-mailed statement today.
 SP Setia Bhd. (SPSB)  and  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  led a Malaysian consortium
which bought the site for 400 million pounds in July after its
previous owner was put into administration.  London’s reputation as a haven is attracting increasing 
investment from overseas buyers, who make up half of the city’s 
new-home purchasers, according to figures from Chicago-based 
broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  Foreigners, six out of seven of 
whom plan to rent out the properties they buy in London, spent
more than 3 billion pounds on new homes in the U.K. capital last
year, 25 percent more than in 2011, the broker said.  “We’ve seen phenomenal interest which has continued
unabated over the last few months,” Rob Tincknell, the
developer’s chief executive officer, said in the statement. The
pace of sales makes Circus West “one of the fastest selling
developments in London in recent years,” he said.  Album Cover  Battersea Power Station, featured on the cover of  Pink
Floyd ’s 1977 album “Animals,” has frustrated a series of
developers since it closed more than 29 years ago.  SP Setia and palm oil producer Sime Darby each own 40
percent of the developer. The Employees Provident Fund, which
oversees $176 billion for more than 13 million Malaysians, owns
the rest.  The Battersea development is part of the Vauxhall Nine Elms
Battersea Opportunity Area south of the  River Thames  and across
from the Kensington & Chelsea and Westminster boroughs. It is
London’s largest redevelopment area and includes a new U.S.
embassy and an extension of the London underground.  Construction of Circus West will begin in July and will be
completed by 2017, the developer said today. It will include one,
two and three-bedroom apartments, townhouses and penthouses, and
have a commercial component including offices, retail and
hospitality  Reservation fees were around 2,500 pounds for the
apartments, which cost as much as 3.3 million pounds for a 2,383
square-foot (221 square-meters) property including outdoor space,
Jo Eccles, managing director of broker Sourcing Property, said
in January.  Less than a mile from the Battersea station, Ballymore
Group Ltd. is developing Embassy Gardens, where a three-bedroom
apartment is being marketed for 2 million pounds, according to
the developer’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc in  Hong Kong  at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  