-- Moscow Terror Plot Foiled After 2 Militants Killed, Russia Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-05-20T16:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/moscow-terror-plot-foiled-after-2-militants-killed-russia-says.html
Russia ’s security forces thwarted a
planned terror attack in Moscow by striking against a group of
three suspected militants near the country’s capital, according
to the National Anti-Terrorist Committee.  Two militants believed to be involved in the plot were
killed and another detained during an operation by the Federal
Security Service in Orekhovo-Zuyevo in the Moscow region, an
official at the committee’s information center said by phone
today, declining to be identified in line with government
policy. The suspected attackers were Russian citizens who had
arrived from the “Afghan-Pakistan region,” where they received
training in preparation for the assault, it said.  The raid by the FSB, as the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB is known in Russian, left one of its special forces
lightly wounded, according to the  committee , which is headed by
FSB Director Alexander Bortnikov.  President  Vladimir Putin  was kept informed of the
operation, his spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said by phone. The
militants were blocked in a building and opened fire after
refusing to surrender, the Anti-Terrorist Committee said,
without elaborating when the operation took place.  Russia has suffered a series of terrorist attacks in recent
years, including a suicide bombing claimed by Islamic militants
at Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport, the busiest air hub in Russia,
that killed at least 37 people in January 2011. Two car blasts
rocked the regional capital of Makhachkala in the southern
Russian region of Dagestan today, killing four people and
injuring 35, according to the Health Ministry.  Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the brothers accused in
last month’s  Boston Marathon bombings , were immigrants of
Chechen descent who had moved to the U.S. from Dagestan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  