-- Mota-Engil Looking at Africa Projects Worth More Than $5 Billion
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-05-20T23:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/mota-engil-looking-at-africa-projects-worth-more-than-5-billion.html
Mota-Engil SGPS SA, the Portuguese
construction company that said March 20 it was seeking $5
billion of contracts in Africa, is now looking at an even larger
figure, its chief executive officer said.  “The global value of the projects we are studying or have
pre-qualified for is now superior to that,” Goncalo Martins
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “Some of
those projects will definitely be awarded to us.”  Mota-Engil is among Portuguese builders expanding in Africa
and  Latin America  as Portugal cuts spending to comply with terms
of a 78 billion-euro ($101 billion) bailout. The company, which
reported a 22 percent increase in first-quarter net income
yesterday, said in March it planned to enter new markets in
Africa, including Zambia,  Ghana ,  Uganda  and Kenya.  With operations in more than 20 countries, Portugal’s
biggest construction company is “confident” it will meet its
year-end goal of an order book exceeding 3.5 billion euros, said
Martins. The order book was 3.4 billion euros at the end of
March.  “The first-quarter results enable us to reaffirm all of
our forecasts for the year and reinforce our expectation of
complying with our  strategic plan ,” Martins said.  Mota-Engil has already carried out the sale of non-essential assets this year, although gains obtained from these
deals have so far been small, said Martins, declining to give
details.  Mota-Engil is also monitoring demand to decide when to
advance with a sale of convertible bonds, he said.  Companies including  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, Europe’s largest
airline,  Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s biggest oil company, and Spanish
hotelier  Melia Hotels International SA (MEL) , raised $10.1 billion
from the sale of these bonds in the first quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest first-quarter
figure since 1999, when Bloomberg began compiling records.  Mota-Engil said on April 16 it may sell as much as 80
million euros in convertible bonds this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  