-- How to Humble a Wing Nut
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-05-20T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/how-to-humble-a-wing-nut.html
There is no standard definition of
the all-important term “wing nut,” so let’s provide one. A wing
nut is someone who has a  dogmatic  commitment to an extreme
political view (“wing”) that is false and at least a bit crazy
(“nut”).  A wing nut might believe that  George W. Bush  is a fascist,
that  Barack Obama  is a socialist, that big banks run the
Department of the Treasury or that the U.S. intervened in  Libya 
because of oil.  When wing nuts encounter people with whom they disagree,
they immediately impugn their opponents’ motivations. Whatever
their religion, they are devout Manicheans, dividing their
fellow citizens into the forces of light and the forces of
darkness.  Wing nuts have a lot of fellow travelers -- people who
don’t fit the definition, yet who are similarly dogmatic and
whose views, though not really crazy, aren’t exactly evidence-based. You can be a wing nut on a particular issue without being
a wing nut in general. Most human beings can  hear  the voice, at
least on occasion, of their inner wing nut.  The good news is that wing nuts usually don’t matter. The
bad news is that they influence people who do. Sadly, more
information  often fails  to correct people’s misunderstandings.
In fact, it can backfire and entrench them. Can anything be
done?  Stunning Conclusion  For a positive answer, consider an intriguing  study  by
Philip Fernbach, a  University of Colorado  business school
professor, and his colleagues. Their central finding is that if
you ask people to explain exactly why they think as they do,
they discover how much they don’t know -- and they become more
humble and therefore more moderate.  The  study  came in four stages. First, people were asked to
state their positions on a series of political issues, including
a cap-and-trade system for carbon emissions, a national flat
tax, merit-based pay for teachers and unilateral sanctions on
 Iran  for its nuclear program. They were asked to describe their
position on a seven-point scale whose endpoints were “strongly
in favor” and “strongly opposed.”  Second, people were asked to rate their degree of
understanding of each issue on a seven-point scale. The third
step was the crucial one; they were  asked  to “describe all the
details you know about [for example, the impact of instituting a
‘cap and trade’ system for  carbon emissions ], going from the
first step to the last, and providing the causal connection
between the steps.” Fourth, people were asked to rerate their
understanding on the seven-point scale and to restate their
position on the relevant issue.  The  results  were stunning. On every issue, the result of
requesting an explanation was to persuade people to give a lower
rating of their own understanding -- and to offer a more
moderate view on each issue. In a follow-up experiment, Fernbach
and his co-authors found that after being asked to explain their
views, people were less likely to want to give a bonus payment
to a relevant advocacy group.  Interestingly, Fernbach and his co-authors  found  no
increase in moderation when they asked people not to “describe
all the details you know” about the likely effects of the
various proposals, but simply to say why they believe what they
do. If you ask people to give reasons for their beliefs, they
tend to act as their own lawyers or public relations managers,
and they don’t move toward greater moderation. The lesson is
subtle: What produces an increase in humility, and hence
moderation, is a request for an  explanation  of the causal
mechanisms that underlie people’s beliefs.  Motivated Reasoning  In an unnoticed essay, the economist  Albert Hirschman 
lamented the “overproduction of opinionated opinion.” He feared
that strong opinions, as such, “might be dangerous to the health
of our democracy,” because they can make it harder for people to
understand one another and to find mutually agreeable solutions.  If Fernbach and his co-authors are to be believed, the
problem is  curable  -- at least if those who have “opinionated
opinions” have less than solid foundations for their beliefs and
if they can be convinced of that fact.  For wing nuts and their many fellow travelers, however,
there is a serious obstacle, and it goes by the name of
“motivated reasoning.” When people have a strong emotional
attachment to their initial convictions, they tend to heap
ridicule on anything that runs counter to those convictions and
to give a lot of weight to anything that supports them.  Motivated reasoning helps to account for two defining
characteristics of wing nuts and their fellow travelers: a
 readiness  to attack people’s good faith, rather than their
actual arguments, and an eagerness to make the worst, rather
than the best, of opposing positions.  If Fernbach and his co-authors are right, this obstacle may
not be insuperable. Serious efforts to examine the assumptions
behind your own beliefs, and to identify what you don’t know,
are likely to produce an  increase  in humility. Whether or not
you change your view, you may well be humbled -- and end up
being a bit more charitable to those who see things differently.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University Professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 