-- Pactera Surges on Buyout Plan as Qihoo Jumps: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-05-20T21:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/pactera-surges-on-buyout-plan-as-qihoo-jumps-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities rose to the highest
level in three months in New York as  Pactera Technology
International Ltd. (PACT)  jumped after receiving a proposal to go
private and Qihoo 360 Technology Co. climbed to a record high on
a stronger-than-estimated sales forecast.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. surged 1.7 percent to 97.01
yesterday, the highest price since Feb. 6. Pactera, a Dalian-based information technology outsourcing company, surged 31
percent, while software developer Qihoo extended a five-day
rally.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  climbed 16 percent after
an upgrade by Bank of  China International Holdings Ltd. (CHIH)  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. led a rally in solar producers.  Pactera said yesterday a group, consisting of members of
its senior management and funds managed by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
offered to acquire outstanding company shares to take it private
for $7.5 each, a 43 percent premium over its closing level May
17. A week earlier,  AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA)  agreed to be bought by
a consortium led by Citic Capital Holdings Ltd.  “The stocks have been completely ignored, which has made a
good value proposition for the private-equity funds,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc., which
manages $700 million in assets including Chinese stocks, said by
e-mail yesterday from Lisle,  Illinois . “While the private
offers reflect a good premium, I don’t think they accurately
reflect the future value these companies can trade.”  ETF Advances  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., advanced 1.2 percent in New
York to $38.37, rising the most in three weeks. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  retreated less than 0.1 percent to 1,669.66.  Pactera’s American depositary receipts surged to a two-month high of $6.87, the steepest gain on record. The company
was formed after a merger between HiSoft Technology
International Ltd. and VanceInfo Technologies Inc. on Nov. 9.
The surge trimmed the ADRs’ loss this year to 13 percent.  AsiaInfo, a Beijing-based telecommunications software
developer, agreed to be bought by private investors for $12 per
share on May 13, 52 percent above the level on Jan. 12, 2012, a
day before it received the going-private offer.  “Some of the China names that once were darlings and since
have fallen from grace are especially appealing” to PE
investors, Papp at Oberweis said, adding these companies could
seek listing in Hong Kong in a few years after leaving the U.S.
stock market.  Search Engine  Beijing-based  Qihoo (QIHU) , owner of the most-used web browser in
China,  forecast  second-quarter sales of at least $142 million,
beating the $122 million average projection of seven analysts
compiled by Bloomberg before its earnings release May 19 . The
company’s first-quarter revenue of $109.9 million and net income
of $5.6 million also exceeded what analysts had estimated.  The copmany’s new web search engine, started in August,
will contribute to about 10 percent of its sales in the second
quarter to stoke faster revenue growth, up from about 5 percent
in the January-March period, analysts led by Timothy Chan at
Morgan Stanley wrote in a note yesterday. They raised a price
target for Qihoo’s ADRs to $46 from $39, reiterating a rating of
overweight, equivalent to buy.  Qihoo’s ADRs jumped 7.6 percent to $44.19 on its fifth day
of gains, the highest price since its U.S. listing in March
2011. Trading volume was more than three times the daily average
over the past three months.  Dangdang Profit  E-Commerce, the biggest online book retailer in  China ,
soared 16 percent to $6.62, the highest level since June.  Analysts at BOC International, the investment banking arm
of Bank of China Ltd., upgraded its recommendation on the
company known as Dangdang to buy from hold yesterday, citing
expectations the company will become profitable from the second
half of 2014, a year earlier than their previous estimate.  Suntech, the world’s largest solar-panel maker in 2011,
jumped 27 percent to 84 cents in New York.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) 
advanced 20 percent to $6.78, the highest price since July,
while LDK Solar Co. also climbed 20 percent to a three-month
high of $1.83.  JA Solar Holdings Co., the largest solar-cell producer by
capacity, surged 70 percent to $9.56, after first-quarter
shipments exceeded the Shanghai-based company’s forecast on
strong demand in  Japan .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. plans to invest as much as 50
billion yen ($487 million) in renewable energy projects in Japan
in the next five years,  Hiroko Matsumoto , a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman for Goldman, said by phone yesterday.  The U.S. government and the European Union have decided to
negotiate settlements involving China’s solar-panel shipments to
the West, which is valued at about $30 billion, The New York
Times reported yesterday, citing officials and trade advisers in
Beijing, Brussels and  Washington .  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
added 0.7 percent to 2,299.99, the highest level since March 27.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong advanced 1.5
percent to 11,186.54, rising the most since May 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  