-- Pension Bonds Rejected as Water Deal Aids Allentown: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-05-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/pension-bonds-rejected-as-water-deal-aids-allentown-muni-credit.html
Allentown,  Pennsylvania , is leasing
its water and sewer systems instead of borrowing to fund pension
payments set to double by 2020. The deal shows how localities
are exploring alternatives to debt to meet retirement costs.  Mayor Ed Pawlowski, a 47-year-old Democrat, didn’t want to
sell bonds to plug an unfunded pension liability of as much as
$170 million. Instead, the city of 119,000 will hand over its
systems to a regional water agency for an upfront payment of
$220 million in a 50-year lease that will finance pension costs.  The case of Allentown, about 60 miles (97 kilometers) north
of Philadelphia, reflects how debt is losing its appeal for U.S.
cities grappling with retiree obligations after the recession
that ended in 2009. Municipalities have sold $312 million of
pension bonds this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
down from last year’s pace, when issuance tallied about $1
billion, the most since 2008.  For localities, a deal such as Allentown’s “could be a
lump-sum benefit to help other issues they have on the balance
sheet,” said John Loffredo, co-head of MacKay Municipal
Managers, which oversees $7.6 billion of munis, including
Allentown general obligations, in Princeton,  New Jersey . “The
outcome is you have better, efficient services” and lower costs
for taxpayers.  Credit Reward  The decision to forgo debt may reward Allentown with lower
borrowing costs. Moody’s Investors Service, which rates
Allentown A3, seventh-highest, said the lease deal is a “credit
positive” because it reduces general-fund obligations.  Investors have been bidding up some city bonds. Tax-exempt
Allentown general obligations maturing in August 2018 were
valued at a yield spread of about 1.1 percentage points over
benchmark munis this month, down from about 1.5 percentage
points in mid-2012, BVAL pricing data show. The securities are
insured by Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.  Pension securities are riskier for cities facing fiscal
strains since interest payments are fixed while pension
contributions can be deferred, said Jean-Pierre Aubry, assistant
director at the Center for Retirement Research at  Boston
College . The issuance is a bet that investment returns will
exceed borrowing costs.  ‘No Buffer’  “They really would have no buffer” if investments trailed
expectations, he said from Chestnut Hill,  Massachusetts .
“They’re really giving up a lot of flexibility, and for cash-strapped localities that’s a problem.”  Municipalities are contending with a pension-funding crisis
left over from the 18-month recession. The Standard & Poor’s 500
 Index (SPX)  fell about 38 percent in 2008, the most since 1937.  Local plans had 72 percent of assets required to meet
pension obligations in 2011, down from 81 percent in 2007,
according to a February report from the Boston College center.
Allentown’s ratio was 64 percent in 2011, according to the
state’s Public Employee Retirement Commission.  Some issuers have seen pension-related borrowing weaken
their credit.  Standard & Poor’s  revised its outlook to stable
from positive on Hackensack University Medical Center last week
because the New Jersey facility funded its plan with debt.  Communities’ Choice  Loffredo said he expects more communities to tap assets
such as water and parking systems to generate funds.  Bayonne, New Jersey, and Rialto,  California , have struck
deals to turn over municipal operations of their water systems.
Philadelphia plans to sell its gas utility and may use proceeds
for expenses such as pensions.  In Allentown, Pennsylvania’s third-largest city and
formerly a manufacturing and shopping hub, 26 percent of
residents live below the poverty level. The local jobless rate
was 10.4 percent in March, compared with 7.9 percent statewide,
according to preliminary data from the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. City officials have embarked on projects to revive
the downtown, including an arena for minor-league ice hockey.  Pension strains were exacerbated by labor agreements struck
in 2004. Police and firefighters were allowed to retire early
and select the period to use as the basis for retirement
benefits, which “artificially inflated” them, said a 2011
 audit .  Growing Obligation  The annual pension payment required by state law, at $13.6
million this year, will jump to $29.2 million in 2020, according
to actuarial projections. The city’s general fund is about $89
million this year, the mayor said.  Pawlowski, who is running for a third term this year, said
once the lease with the Lehigh County Authority closes in July,
proceeds will first go toward retiring about $30 million in
water and sewer bonds. At least $160 million would be used for
pensions.  He also wants to retire some pension debt, which totaled
$30.6 million as of the city’s 2011 audit released in July 2012.
Allentown issued pension bonds in 1996 and refinanced that
borrowing in 2004.  Opponents of the leasing plan said officials were giving up
an asset at the expense of future generations. They also said
customers will face higher water fees.  “Fifty years is a long time,” said Councilwoman Jeanette
Eichenwald, a 69-year-old Democrat who called the deal “a tax
on the tap” and voted against it. “Water will only become more
precious.”  ‘Good Deal’  The mayor said the lease was the best option. Issuing more
pension bonds wouldn’t solve the city’s challenges since it
would be “exchanging one debt for the other,” he said.  Pawlowski said the lease takes care of the city’s biggest
challenge, the unfunded pensions.  “It’s going to cripple us and cripple our economy and
cripple our potential for growth for decades to come,” he said.
“To ignore it and do nothing, that would be irresponsible and
bad government. This is a good deal.”  In the municipal-debt market this week, issuers led by  New
York  City plan to offer $5.6 billion of bonds with benchmark
yields close to a five-week-high, Bloomberg data show.  At  1.83 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  1.95 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two  interest rates , a gauge of relative
value, is about 94 percent, after rising from a two-month low
reached last week. The higher the figure, the cheaper local
bonds are when compared with federal securities. The ratio has
averaged 92 percent since 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  