-- Philippines Further Limits Access to Special Deposit Accounts
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-05-20T07:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/philippines-further-limits-access-to-special-deposit-accounts.html
The Philippine central bank will
further limit access to special deposit accounts, stepping up
efforts to curb inflows and reduce costs of managing liquidity.  Starting 2014, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will ban so-called investment management activities, a type of account in
banks’ trust departments, from SDAs, according to a  memorandum 
posted on its website today. The central bank will begin to
gradually phase out these funds this year, according to the memo.  The  Philippines , which won its first investment-grade
ranking from  Fitch Ratings  and Standard & Poor’s this year, is
seeking to slow surging capital inflows that boosted the peso
and sent stocks to a record-high this month. Bangko Sentral cut
the rate on SDAs three times this year to 2 percent, after
banning foreign funds from the facility in 2012.  “BSP continues to fine-tune the SDA to try and limit the
possibility of offshore money finding its way into the
facility,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based regional
economist for Barclays Plc. “They also want to reduce the
overall amount of SDA deposits given that it continues to
pressure the central bank’s balance sheet. I won’t be surprised
if the central bank announces more measures.”  Bonds due December 2035 fell, with the yield rising 2.5
basis points to 4 percent, according to Tradition Financial
Services. The peso was little changed at 41.182 per dollar as of
3:35 p.m. in  Manila . It is the third-best performer in  Asia  in
the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The central bank had a 95.4 billion-peso ($2.3 billion)
loss in 2012 from 33.7 billion pesos a year earlier, according
to data on its website. Almost half those losses were due to
exchange-rate fluctuations, the BSP has said.  Greater Flexibility  The monetary authority expanded access to the SDA in May
2007 after  money-supply growth  climbed to 28 percent the
previous month. Monetary growth accelerated to 11.41 percent in
March this year, a three-year high.  The review of SDAs is part of “continuing efforts to fine-tune monetary policy instruments and thereby gain greater
flexibility in conducting monetary operations, and also to
ensure adequate liquidity,” the BSP said in its memo today.  The SDAs held 1.93 trillion pesos  as of April 26 . Portfolio
inflows climbed to $3.51 billion in April, about 137 percent
higher than a year earlier, according to  central bank data .  The central bank said April 18 it had broadened the range
of approved outward investments to spur capital outflows and
slow the peso’s gains. It held the rate it pays lenders for
overnight deposits at a record low at its review April 25.  “We’re concerned about the impact of inflows, that’s why
we have to undertake certain measures to minimize potential
negative threats,” Governor  Amando Tetangco  said in an
interview on May 17. He didn’t respond to questions seeking
comments on the memo today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  