-- Philippines Team Meets With Taiwanese to Probe Fisherman’s Death
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-05-20T09:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/philippines-may-evacuate-workers-in-taiwan-if-attacks-escalate.html
Teams from the  Philippines  and  Taiwan 
met today as each side investigates the death of a Taiwanese
fisherman that led to a ban on new work applications for
Filipinos seeking jobs on the island.  Taiwan wants to inspect the Philippine Coast Guard ship
that opened fire on the Taiwanese fishing vessel May 9, while
the Philippines wants to speak with witnesses and see the boat
that came under attack, Philippine Justice Secretary Leila de Lima said.  “There is no joint probe but both are undertaking
respective investigations,” de Lima said after the meeting
today. “Proper collaboration will be made. It is understood
that neither side will be interfering with the other.”  The shooting has soured trade ties after Taiwan refused to
accept Philippines President  Benigno Aquino ’s offer to apologize
and imposed a series of economic punishments. Taiwanese grocers
have pulled Philippine goods from stores and travel agencies
canceled trips amid a broader Taiwanese halt to diplomatic
engagement.  The Philippines may evacuate its 87,000 workers in Taiwan
if tensions over the killing lead to widespread violence against
Filipinos, Abigail Valte, a spokeswoman for Aquino, said by
phone today. At least three Filipinos in Taiwan have been
attacked since the shooting.  “Now, there seems to be no need,” Valte said. “Should
the need arise, we are prepared to evacuate.”  $650 Million  Filipinos working in Taiwan remit more than $650 million in
total to the Philippines each year, according to a statement
today by the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Manila.
Almost 1.7 million Filipinos overseas send home about $20
billion a year.  The Philippines may consider directing more citizens to
 South Korea ,  Malaysia  and the  Middle East  if they leave Taiwan,
Valte said.  “The Labor Department continues to search for alternative
markets, mostly in the manufacturing sector,” Valte said.
Taiwan has “taken every necessary measure to protect”
Filipinos, its economic office in Manila said.  Speaking at today’s briefing, de Lima declined to comment
on Taiwan’s findings that the killing of the fisherman was
intentional, saying it’s premature to come to any conclusion.
The shooting occurred in waters claimed by both sides.  A Taiwanese statement from May 18 said the number of
bullets fired at the vessel show that “the Philippine law
enforcers were intentionally shooting the Guang Ta Hsin 28 crew
members, which indicates their intent of murder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Guinto in  Manila  at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  