-- Pimco Favors Brazil, Mexico Bonds as Yields Overtake U.S. Junk
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-05-20T11:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/pimco-favors-brazil-mexico-bonds-as-yields-overtake-u-s-junk.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. is
favoring local bonds in Brazil, Mexico and  South Africa  as
emerging-market notes pay more than U.S. high-yield corporate
debt for the first time in two years.  Relatively high amounts earned on securities in developing
nations offer compensation for risks from slower growth to
faster inflation worldwide, according to Ramin Toloui, global
co-head of  emerging-markets  portfolio management at Pimco. The
manager of the world’s biggest fixed-income fund has a positive
outlook on the currencies of Brazil, Mexico,  China  and India and
likes “high-quality” dollar sovereign debt from the first
three countries, along with  Russia  and South Korea, he said.  Emerging-market local debt offered 5.22 percent on May 7,
25 basis points  more  than high-yield bonds in the U.S., the
biggest premium since May 2011, according to indexes from
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc. Developing economies will
expand 5.3 percent this year, compared with a 1.2 percent growth
in advanced nations, according to forecasts by the  International
Monetary Fund  released on April 16.  “I would prefer to be compensated by the yield for the
risk of currency volatility in emerging markets in this global
environment where growth is going to be challenged, which would
pressure corporate profits,” Toloui said in an interview on the
sidelines of the CFA Institute Annual Conference in  Singapore .
An economic slowdown would be “negative for U.S. high yields
but could produce a desire for central banks and emerging
markets to keep  interest rates  low and potentially cut.”  ‘Seeking to Diversify’  Local-currency notes in emerging markets lost 1.5 percent
this month through today in dollar terms, paring the advance in
the past year to 14.2 percent, according to JPMorgan’s GBI-EM
Global Diversified Index.  The bonds of Brazil, Mexico and South Africa are attractive
as their nominal and inflation-adjusted yields are relatively
high, said Toloui.  “You have some countries like Brazil, where they are
raising rates but that is already anticipated in the yield
curve,” he said. “You make money as a bond investor by finding
investments in places where central banks are going to be hiking
rates less than what is priced in the yield curve.”  Ten-year  government bonds  pay 9.85 percent in Brazil, 4.65
percent in Mexico and 6.32 percent in South Africa, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called real rate on real-denominated 10-year government bonds is 336 basis points, or
3.36 percentage points. Pimco also likes “quasi-sovereign”
securities from Russia, Brazil, Mexico, China and South Korea,
according to Toloui.  “Investments in local-currency emerging-market yields,
which have the capacity to continue to come down in this
environment, are good,” said Toloui. Such assets are a
“destination for investments for many sovereign wealth funds
that are seeking to diversify away from what historically is a
lopsided allocation to developed countries’ bonds,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  