-- Plains and Freeport Offer Dividends as Takeover Sweetener
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-05-20T17:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/plains-and-freeport-offer-one-time-dividends-for-merger-approval.html
(Corrects share exchange rate in third paragraph and per-share value in sixth paragraph.)  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
sweetened its bid for  Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP)  to win
shareholder support for the takeover, offering special cash
dividends to raise the value of the deal to $6.6 billion.  Plains investors will get a one-time, $3-a-share dividend
before the stock-and-cash transaction closes and Freeport will
pay $1 a share after, the companies said today in separate
statements. The payments are conditioned on completion of the
deal and were announced hours before shareholder voting is
scheduled to end on the transaction.  Rejection by shareholders would crimp Phoenix-based
Freeport’s planned expansion into U.S. oil and natural gas, part
of an effort to mitigate the largest publicly traded copper
producer’s vulnerability to metal prices. Freeport on Dec. 5
announced it would buy Plains for 0.6531 share and $25 in cash,
then equivalent to about $50 a share. The value of the bid has
slumped as Freeport shares declined.  “It is likely that Freeport-McMoRan management has
obtained reasonable assurances from large Plains shareholders
that the revised offer would be agreeable,” Cowen Securities
LLC analysts including Anthony Rizzuto and Nicholas Pope wrote
today in a note to clients. The payouts add $525 million,
“bringing the current deal economics in line with the original
$50-a-share offer.”  Paulson Support  Paulson & Co., the largest Plains shareholder with a 9.9
percent stake, will vote for the takeover, the hedge-fund
manager said in a statement today. The deal diversifies cash
flow and increases Freeport’s proportion of earnings from the
U.S., Paulson said.  Plains investors stand to get about $3.65 in dividends a
share,  Tony Robson , a London-based analyst for BMO Capital
Markets, wrote today in a note to clients. That would be added
to the offer price of $46.34 a share based on the May 17 close.  Today’s shareholder meeting in Houston was recessed until 1
p.m. local time while votes are counted, Hance Myers, a Plains
spokesman, said in an interview.  Shareholders Arrowgrass Capital Partners LLP and CR
Intrinsic Investors, a unit of SAC Capital Advisors LP, had
opposed the takeover, saying the price was too low. Jonathan Gasthalter, a Sard Verbinnen & Co. spokesman for CR Intrinsic,
declined to comment on the vote today.  Arrowgrass, which holds about 4.6 million shares in Plains,
is “pleased that the Freeport board has come closer to properly
acknowledging the significant value Plains brings to the merged
company,” Michael Edwards, a partner at London-based hedge
fund, said in a written message today. He declined to comment on
how Arrowgrass would vote.  Adkerson Talks  Freeport Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson, who was
in  Indonesia  in response to a mining accident that killed at
least 17 workers, was in talks with Plains shareholders last
week to salvage support for the acquisition, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Freeport will sell $1.5 billion of the combined company’s
assets, reduce capital spending or both to fund the dividend.
The company said it remains committed to a target of reducing
debt to $12 billion in a three-year period.  Plains rose 7.3 percent to $48.86 at 12:34 p.m. in New
York, the highest intraday price since September 2008. Freeport
slipped 0.6 percent to $32.87.  The agreement to buy Plains was announced alongside
Freeport’s acquisition of  McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR) , a business it
had spun off, for cash and a stake in future royalties. Plains
is the largest shareholder of McMoRan Exploration, with 31
percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  McMoRan shareholders will get  $14.75 a share  and units of a
royalty trust that will hold a 5 percent stake in future
production from shallow-water, geologically deep deposits the
company is trying to develop. The cash portion represented a 74
percent premium to McMoRan’s closing price before the deal was
announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  