-- Pritzker Yields Party Role Reversal on Offshore Trusts
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-05-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/pritzker-yields-party-role-reversal-on-offshore-trusts.html
Republicans defended  Mitt Romney 
against criticism from Democrats that he avoided taxes by
keeping money stashed overseas. Those roles are now reversed
with the disclosure that President  Barack Obama ’s pick to run
the Commerce Department does the same thing.  The nomination of Chicago billionaire  Penny Pritzker  marks
the second time this year that Obama has put forth a cabinet
nominee with offshore accounts -- months after he castigated
Romney, the Republican presidential candidate, for utilizing
them. In a financial disclosure released last week, Pritzker
said she received $53.6 million in income last year from a trust
in the Bahamas.  Republicans say Pritzker, 54, should expect tough
questions, just as Treasury Secretary Jack Lew was called to
account for an investment in the Cayman Islands during his
confirmation hearings.  “It isn’t just about her or the offshore stuff, it’s about
the fact that the president made a big deal out of Romney’s
offshore accounts,” Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican, said in an interview. “You’d think if that’s a big
deal for his opponent, then the president of the United States
wouldn’t be appointing people who make use of that in his own
cabinet. If it’s wrong, it’s wrong.”  Cayman Islands  In February, Grassley grilled Lew over a $56,000 Cayman
Islands investment. He said the president is duplicitous on  tax
havens  and he may oppose Pritzker over it.  Other senators are also on the attack.  “There are members on our side who think there’s a good
amount of hypocrisy in the arguments the president made last
year, and then he keeps sending up nominees that have these
offshore investments and tax shelters,” said Senator  John Thune 
of South Dakota, the top Republican on the Senate Commerce panel
that will consider her nomination, beginning with a hearing May
23.  Whether the issue threatens Pritzker’s approval remains to
be seen. Charges of hypocrisy could be leveled at both parties,
said  Bruce Buchanan , a professor of government at the  University
of Texas  at Austin.  “The demerits on each side may cancel out,” he said.
“The credibility of the issue used as a weapon is mitigated by
the weakness of the critic. The Republicans will have to decide
whether they really want to hammer this issue and have their own
complicity in these activities aired.”  Hyatt Hotels  Pritzker’s family founded the  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  and she
has vast experience in business -- including top jobs in the
real estate, credit reporting and hospitality industry -- which
engenders good will among some Republicans.  “I’m certainly leaning toward supporting her,” said
Senator  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican. “I think she brings a
background to the job that fits the job well. I believe she
understands this department as well as anyone the president
would likely nominate, and I think they need a permanent
leader.”  Still, Pritzker faces risks in a political environment that
has become more toxic since Lew eschewed criticism over his
offshore account and was confirmed Feb. 27 on a 71-26 vote.  Republicans are bearing down on the administration, seeking
more probes into September’s attack on the diplomatic outpost in
Benghazi, Libya, and investigating the IRS’s singling out of Tea
Party groups for extra scrutiny. They have delayed approval of
his picks for Labor Secretary and head of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency.  ‘Different Mood’  “We’re in a different mood in Washington,” said  Clint Stretch , senior tax policy counsel for Tax Analysts, a
publishing company in  Falls Church , Virginia. “Somebody is
going to pay a price for all this.”  Pritzker, nominated May 2, said if confirmed she would
divest 221 separate financial holdings and resign from 158
entities -- including her board position with the hotel company.  All told, she reported assets that range between $400
million to $2.2 billion, excluding the value of more than $50
million in Hyatt Hotels stock. The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index 
says her net worth is more than $1.5 billion.  The income last year from the Bahamas trust, administered
by CIBC Trust Co. Ltd., is described as for consulting services.  The White House referred requests for comment to Pritzker’s
office. Susan Anderson, a spokeswoman for Pritzker, said
offshore trusts in which the heiress and her family are
beneficiaries were created when Pritzker was a young girl, and
that she does not control them and has not received
distributions from them. Anderson said that after a
restructuring of Pritzker family business interests that ended
in November 2012, she has requested that a U.S. trustee be
established who could relocate the trusts benefiting her and her
immediate family to the U.S.  Legal Process  “She has no control over this legal process, its timing or
outcome,” Anderson said in an e-mail.  Pritzker and her family have dealt with questions over
their finances for decades.  The  Internal Revenue Service  sued her family to collect
taxes from the estate of Abram Pritzker, Penny’s grandfather,
after his 1986 death when heirs claimed an estate worth $25,000.
The case centered on hundreds of trust funds he’d set up in the
Caribbean with the assistance of Chicago attorney Burton W. Kanter, to avoid taxes. The IRS sought $53 million in taxes,
before the two sides settled in 1994 for $9.5 million.  Presidential Race  In the 2012 White House contest, Romney released tax
returns that showed blind trusts invested in an array of funds
in tax-favored jurisdictions, including the Caymans, Ireland and
Luxembourg. The Obama campaign aired TV ads accusing Romney, the
co-founder of Bain Capital LLC, of stashing his money in
overseas accounts.  Democrats in Congress joined in. Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat, introduced a bill that would require
presidential candidates to release 10 years of tax returns and
disclose overseas investments. In the Senate, Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the No. 2 Democratic leader, and Senator
 Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, proposed requiring disclosure
of overseas investments, including Swiss bank accounts.  Republicans defended their candidate, with  Senator Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina saying last July that Romney didn’t
deserve the criticism because “it’s really American to avoid
paying taxes, legally.”  Defending Investments  The Pritzker pick puts Democrats in the position of
defending her use of offshore investments. Durbin said in an
interview that Pritzker had little say in the decision to make
them in the first place.  “There were investments made by her family, I think even
before she was old enough to have any voice in the process,”
Durbin.  Asked whether Republicans can effectively make it an issue,
he laughed. “I wouldn’t say it’s a double standard, I’ll just
let people draw their own conclusions.”  Senator  Jay Rockefeller  of West Virginia, who chairs the
Senate Commerce committee, predicted Pritzker will be confirmed,
and he scoffed at Republican criticisms. “They probably all
have the accounts themselves,” Rockefeller said.  Grassley serves on the Finance Committee that considered
Lew’s confirmation and which makes it a practice to probe tax
returns of executive-branch nominees. He said the Commerce panel
typically does not, and he’s urging panel members to do that
with Pritzker. If the committee doesn’t, he said he’ll find a
way to keep Pritzker’s investments in the spotlight.  Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee, said the bigger issue for Pritzker could
be her role in the collapse of Superior Bank, a pioneer in the
securitization of subprime mortgages. The Pritzker family once
owned half of the bank, and she was chairman of the Hinsdale,
Illinois-based bank from 1991 to 1994 and later was a director
of a holding company before its 2001 failure.  “Obviously, she was involved in an institution that
failed, and appropriate questions will be asked,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  