-- Property Will Attract Buyers to Angolan Companies, Banker Says
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-05-20T10:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/property-will-attract-buyers-to-angolan-companies-banker-says.html
Land is the most attractive asset of
state companies being sold by Angola,  Africa ’s largest crude oil
producer behind Nigeria, Banco Angolano de Investimentos SA
Executive Director Joao Fonseca said.  The southwest African country plans to sell about 30
companies that are mostly inactive and date from when the
formerly Marxist state was fighting a 27-year civil war that
ended in 2002, Minister of the Economy Abrahao Gourgel said in
an e-mail exchange yesterday. A ministry list includes
agricultural mills, textile manufacturers, builders and a hotel.  “The most valuable asset should be the land and premises
as most of the equipment will be obsolete,” Fonseca of Banco
Angolano, the country’s  largest  bank by assets, said by e-mail
yesterday. “It will be very important to do a proper due
diligence of the company status, mainly related to the property
rights and commitments.”  Angola  sold 198 state companies over the last decade as it
sought to cut costs and improve efficiency while rebuilding from
the war that destroyed most of its infrastructure. The
government still owns about 90 companies, including petroleum
producer Sonangol EP, diamond explorer Endiama EP and insurer
Ensa Seguros de Angola SA, which aren’t for sale. It’s keen to
diversify the economy away from crude oil which accounts for
more than 40 percent of its output.  “Most of the enterprises to be privatized, for instance in
the sector of civil construction, reveal generalized structural
constraints,” said Gourgel, who has held government posts since
the early 1990s and was a central bank governor. They lack
“complete and organized accounting and management control.”  Construction Boom  At least two companies on the list, Refrinor UEE, a
refrigeration manufacturing company, and Panga Panga UEE, a
plywood maker, have good locations in  Luanda , the capital,
Fonseca said.  Luanda is Africa’s most expensive city for expatriates to
live in and the costliest worldwide after  Tokyo , according to
Mercer’s annual  survey  on the cost of living. Dozens of new
high-rises and construction cranes stab the skyline, which has
experienced a building boom over the past decade fuelled by the
expansion of the offshore oil industry.  “It is an encouraging sign the Angolan government is
seeking to privatize a number of the smaller, non-strategic
state-owned companies,” Lucy Corkin, a sovereign-risk analyst
at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said today in an e-mail.  “This indicates that there is more openness to private-sector participation in the economy, where the government has
long dominated the landscape.”  Working Companies  Industrial plastics producer Cipal, a division of Enepa
Lda., and public-works builder Bricomil SARL, are some of the
few companies on the list with work. Investors will have to
consider bank loans, labor relations and environmental effects,
Fonseca said.  Most of the companies for sale prevailed during the war
when there was no competition and the private sector was almost
non-existent, he said. They suffered as Angola shed its Marxism
in the 1990s after the Soviet Union collapsed and  oil production 
soared, while the end of the civil war boosted entrepreneurship.  “These state companies weren’t able to cope with the
changes in the market after 2002,” Fonseca said. “The
government clearly wants to stay away from where the private
sector can be more efficient, reducing the burden on the  budget 
while promoting employment and the diversification of the
economy.”  Angola probably pumped 1.8 million barrels of oil a day in
April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Production is
mostly from offshore fields operated by companies such as  Total
SA (FP) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  BP Plc. (BP/)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  