-- Putin Bill May Shut Down Independent Pollster, Levada Head Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-05-20T13:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/putin-bill-may-shut-down-independent-pollster-levada-head-says.html
The  Levada Center , a Russian
independent pollster, may be forced to close after prosecutors
said it may be violating President  Vladimir Putin ’s law on
foreign agents, said Lev Gudkov, head of the researcher.  The center received a warning from prosecutors in Moscow
about receiving foreign funds for its sociological research and
publications, saying they amount to “political activities”
within  Russia , according to a scanned copy of the notification
published on Levada’s website.  Russia last year required groups that accept money from
abroad to register as foreign agents and submit to tighter
controls. The Justice Ministry threatened to close human-rights
organization Memorial, Golos and the Moscow branch of anti-graft
watchdog  Transparency International  after they vowed to flout
the rules. The Kremlin ordered the closing of U.S. aid agency
USAID, which has financed Golos and Memorial.  “The prosecutors office is hanging our organization on the
hook of possible sanctions and undermining its credibility and
business reputation,” Gudkov said today on the Levada Center’s
website. The organization faces the possibility of fines or
sanctions as well as backlash from partners, clients and the
people it surveys, which may force it to halt work as an
independent researcher, he said.  Grants Won  The Levada Center received more than $777,000 in grants
from the MacArthur Foundation, Ford Foundation and  George
Soros ’s OSI Assistance Foundation in the past four years, and
carried out research projects for foreign clients including the
National Endowment for Democracy and the  University of
Massachusetts , according to the prosecutor’s letter.  The move shows that the authorities are cracking down on
external funding for non-commercial organizations, Mikhail Vinogradov, head of the St. Petersburg Politics Foundation
research group, said by phone.  “Levada Center is one of the most important research
groups in Russia,” Vinogradov said. “It will be a great loss
if it’s closed.”  The Savelovskaya prosecutor’s office, which sent the letter
according to the copy published on Levada’s website, didn’t
immediately answer phones when called by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  