-- Qatar Creates $1 Billion Foreign Water and Power Investment Arm
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-05-20T15:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/qatar-creates-1-billion-foreign-water-and-power-investment-arm.html
Qatar created a $1 billion investment
arm to add foreign power and water assets to stakes it already
has in businesses from  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to Harrods department store.  Nebras Power will be 60 percent owned by publicly traded
 Qatar Electricity and Water Co. , while Qatar Holding LLC and
Qatar Petroleum International, the foreign investment arm of the
state energy company, will each control 20 percent stakes,
Energy Minister Mohammed Saleh Al Sada told journalists.  Nebras will invest in power generation, water desalination,
and cooling and heating projects, as well as facilities to fuel
the overseas projects, Qatar Electricity said in a statement.  “All the three parties, in one way or another, are
investing in the power sector,” General Manager Fahad Hamad Al Mohannadi said. “We felt that this company will stand alone.”  Qatar, the biggest liquefied natural gas producer, used
hydrocarbon revenue to invest $60 billion a year abroad from
2008 through 2012, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  Qatar Holding, the foreign investment arm of the Qatar
Investment Authority, bought Volkswagen AG, Credit Suisse AG and
Tiffany & Co. stakes. In February, it said it set up the $12
billion Doha Global Investment to be listed in the emirate.  Nebras will invest in power and water projects in countries
with as much as 8 percent growth in electricity demand a year,
mainly in the  Middle East  and  East Asia , Mohannadi said. Qatar
Electricity will retain sole ownership of its current assets
abroad, including a power plant in  Jordan , he said. Future
expansion outside Qatar will be carried out by Nebras, he said.  Qatar Petroleum  plans to sell shares in four of its units,
Hussein al-Abdulla, a Qatar Holding board member, said May 9.
There are no immediate plans to sell Nebras shares, he said.  “It’s too early to have that,” Mohannadi said. “I think
it will go for 10 years before we think of going public.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  