-- Quantum Says New Team Could Recover Intrepid Indonesia Stake
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-05-20T09:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/quantum-says-can-recover-intrepid-indonesia-stake-with-new-team.html
Quantum Pacific Investment Ltd., the
third-biggest shareholder in  Australia ’s  Intrepid Mines Ltd. (IAU) ,
said that with a new leadership team it can recover some of the
explorer’s stake in a key Indonesian asset.  Intrepid lost control of its 80 percent stake in
Indonesia’s Tujuh Bukit deposit, which may contain 25 million
ounces of gold and 15 billion pounds of copper, in July. The
Hong Kong-based private equity investor has held talks with the
asset’s new title holders each month since then to try and
resolve the dispute, Greg Mazur, a founding partner at Quantum
Pacific, told reporters today in a conference call.  “Unfortunately, the current board has pursued a strategy
that has not gone over well with the new title holders,” Mazur
said. “Instead of going in as a bull in a china shop, we have
gone in and tried to sit down with the new local title holders
and that has gone over well, and we’ve gotten confidence that
there is a negotiated deal to be done.”  Intrepid entered into an agreement with  Indonesia ’s PT Indo
Multi Niaga in 2008 for its stake in the Tujuh Bukit deposit in
East Java. The owners of Indo Multi sold it with the mining
license to a separate company last year. Intrepid, which has
spent A$95 million to develop the project, filed complaints with
the Indonesian police alleging fraud and embezzlement by the
original shareholders of Indo Multi and associated parties, the
company said in a stock exchange filing Feb. 26.  ‘Commercial Settlement’  “All we have done is what any sensible or prudent company
would do, we are protecting our legal rights to 80 percent of
the project through legal action,” Chief Executive Officer Brad Gordon said in a phone interview today. “The only way this
imbroglio is going to be resolved is through a commercial
settlement.”  The gold explorer wouldn’t accept a refund of what it has
spent as resolution, Gordon said.  Intrepid, based in Spring Hill, Queensland, rose 1.9
percent to 27 Australian cents at the close in Sydney today. The
shares have  declined  51 percent since the company announced a
suspension of operations at the mine on July 20.  PT Bumi Sukses Indo, the new holder of the project license,
is controlled by Indonesian businessman Edwin Soeryadjaya. Mazur
said he has spoken with him as recently as last week.
Soeryadjaya was not immediately available for comment when
called on his mobile phone today.  Recovering Stake  Quantum Pacific is seeking to remove five Intrepid
directors, including Gordon, at a shareholder meeting on June
20. A new leadership could recover a stake in the Indonesian
asset in six to nine months, Mazur said.  Taurus Funds Management is Intrepid’s biggest shareholder
with 8.7 percent stake followed by Van Eck Associates with 7.5
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The group
represented by Quantum owns 5.4 percent.  Mazur declined to comment on whether Quantum’s plan to
replace directors had received support from other shareholders.  Gordon said all major institutional and private
shareholders are supporting the current management, without
naming any investor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  