-- Rays’ Moore Becomes Youngest AL Pitcher to Start 8-0 Since Ruth
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-20T04:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/rays-moore-becomes-youngest-al-pitcher-to-start-8-0-since-ruth.html
Matt Moore  became the youngest
American League left-handed pitcher to start a season with an
8-0 record since  Babe Ruth  in 1917, allowing one run over seven
innings as the Tampa Bay Rays beat the Baltimore Orioles 3-1.  Moore, 23, leads  Major League Baseball  with eight wins in
his nine starts this season. Ruth was 22 and in his third full
season when the Hall-of-Famer started 8-0 for the  Boston Red Sox 
96 years ago.  “If you compare historically, he ranks up there with Babe
Ruth, and that’s not a bad thing,” Rays manager Joe Maddon said
of Moore after Tampa Bay’s three-game series sweep.  The Rays and Orioles are 23-20, four games behind the
first-place  New York  Yankees in the AL Eastern division. The
Yankees had yesterday’s home game against the Toronto Blue Jays
rained out and are now a half-game ahead of the Boston Red Sox,
who beat the Minnesota Twins 5-1 for their fifth straight win.  The Texas Rangers withstood three home runs from  Miguel Cabrera  in an 11-8 win over the Detroit Tigers last night. The
Rangers finished with 18 hits to offset a 4-for-4 performance by
Cabrera, the AL’s reigning Most Valuable Player.  The  New York Mets  beat the Chicago Cubs 4-3 as Daniel Murphy’s solo home run in the eighth inning snapped a 3-3 tie.
The Mets scored all four runs from the sixth inning on.  The Philadelphia Phillies beat the Cincinnati Reds 3-2 as
Erik Kratz and Freddy Galvis hit back-to-back home runs off
Aroldis Chapman in the bottom of the ninth inning.  The Cleveland Indians won for the 17th time in 21 games by
beating the Seattle Mariners 6-0 and scoring six runs -- five
earned -- in five innings against 2010 AL Cy Young Award-winner
 Felix Hernandez . The Indians have a 7-1 record this season
against former Cy Young winners, who have a collective 8.21
earned run average in those games.  “I’m sure the guys would love to be 8-0,” said Indians
pitcher Justin Masterson, who had 11 strikeouts in seven
scoreless innings. “What makes this team special is when a guy
out there is good, they get excited. The boys get excited, want
to go out there and have solid at-bats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  