-- RBI Buying $1 Billion a Month on Inflows Into Debt: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-05-21T05:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/rbi-buying-1-billion-a-month-on-inflows-into-debt-india-credit.html
India  is using a surge in inflows
into local bonds and equities to rebuild its currency  reserves ,
boosting its ability to avoid a junk debt rating.  The  Reserve Bank  of India bought $820 million more than it
sold in March, the first net purchase since 2010, official data
published May 13 show. The RBI has purchased $1 billion since
then and will buy an additional $8 billion through March 2014,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimated in a May 16 report. The
promise of the highest returns in  Asia  has boosted overseas
 holdings  of Indian debt 15 percent this year to an all-time high
of $38 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said this month India should
be prepared for the probability of outflows next year as
developed economies consider withdrawing stimulus measures. Even
so,  Standard Chartered  Plc recommends investors buy the rupee to
profit from a 3.9 percent gain by the end of this year as
foreigners load up on debt after the government reduced taxes on
the investments.  “Given India’s foreign-exchange reserve adequacy has
worsened considerably, the central bank will use capital inflows
to rebuild its reserves,” said Priyanka Kishore, a strategist
at Standard Chartered in Mumbai. “The RBI is likely to let the
rupee strengthen once it is more comfortable with the current-account outlook.”  The rupee is little changed in 2013 after slumping 22
percent in the past two years as inflation overshot the central
bank’s target and the current-account deficit widened to a
record. The currency stabilized after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government further opened Asia’s third-largest economy
to foreign investors and price pressures eased.  ‘Biggest Risk’  The shortfall in the broadest measure of trade is “by far
the biggest risk to the economy,” Subbarao said May 3, the day
he cut the RBI’s benchmark repurchase rate for a third time this
year to boost the slowest economic growth in a decade.  Foreign-currency  reserves  stood at $294 billion as of May
10, official data show, 8.4 percent lower than an all-time high
of $321 billion in 2011. That’s enough to cover about seven
months of imports as of end-March, the lowest level among the
largest  emerging markets  of  Brazil ,  Russia , India and  China ,
according to Bank of America.  The reserves “are low but not worryingly so” as
organizations such as the  International Monetary Fund  consider
three months of import cover as adequate, according to Credit
Suisse AG.  Rupee Returns  Dollar-based investors will earn 9.4 percent including
interest by holding rupees until the end of 2013, compared with
4.6 percent for the  Thai baht  and 3.1 percent for  South Korea ’s
won, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on surveys
and prevailing interest rates. Indian debt returned 7.4 percent
this year, the second-highest gain among the 10 Asian markets
monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Global funds bought a net $13.5 billion of Indian equities
this year through May 17, and boosted purchases of rupee-denominated bonds by $5 billion, the highest inflows for the
period, exchange data show.  Total purchases of sovereign and corporate debt could rise
by as much as $18 billion in the year through March 2014,
Standard Chartered estimates, after the government said last
month it will cut a tax on interest earned by foreigners to 5
percent from 20 percent effective June.  ‘Decent Inflows’  “Since the start of the year, we’ve seen decent inflows
into Indian assets, which is naturally creating rupee demand,”
 Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in
 Singapore , said in a May 15 telephone interview. “The RBI is
probably using that opportunity to push reserves back up.”  The central bank bought $3.2 billion in March and sold $2.3
billion, RBI  data  show, while its outstanding dollar sales in
the forward market fell to $11 billion, the lowest since May
2012. The rupee plunged to a record 57.3275 per dollar in June
last year. The currency rose 0.1 percent to 55.0450 today.  “The RBI is intervening in both directions, trying to keep
the rupee in the range of around 54 to 55 per dollar,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at Credit Suisse in Singapore,
said in a May 15 telephone interview. “The effort would be
symptomatic of the RBI’s belief that it would be comfortable in
meeting its twin goals of keeping inflation in check and not
letting growth slip too much by keeping the currency stable at
these levels.”  While a stronger currency helps keep India’s import bill in
check, a weaker rupee helps exports stay competitive, he said.  Downgrade Risk  The nation’s current-account deficit will stay at about 4
percent of gross domestic product this fiscal year, compared
with 2.5 percent considered sustainable by Indian policy makers,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a May 17 statement.  India’s foreign-exchange reserves support its ’BBB-’
sovereign rating, the lowest investment-grade, S&P said, even as
it reiterated a one-in-three chance of downgrading the nation in
the next 12 months due to the government’s budget deficit.  Bond risk in India has fallen for all but one month since
September, when Prime Minister Manmohan Singh started unveiling
policy changes aimed at reviving economic growth and improving
public finances to ward of the threat of a downgrade. Besides
lowering the levy on foreign purchases of bonds, the government
has reduced energy subsidies and allowed overseas investment in
industries including aviation and retail.  Default Risk  The cost to insure the debt of  State Bank , considered a
proxy for the sovereign by some investors, for five years
against non-payment using credit-default swaps has fallen 49
basis points this year to 177, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. The swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The RBI will look to keep the rupee between 52 and 56 a
dollar as long as the U.S. currency trades in a range of 1.2 to
1.3 per euro, according to Bank of America. The monetary
authority will buy the greenback when $5.4 billion pours in next
month as Unilever Plc increases its stake in its Indian unit,
the lender predicts. The open offer may start June 21 and close
July 4, according to a tentative schedule published in an
advertisement in the Economic Times newspaper.  “We are relieved that the RBI has resumed buying foreign-exchange,” Indranil Sen Gupta, a Mumbai-based economist at Bank
of America, wrote in the research report. The bank forecasts the
rupee will strengthen to 52.50 per dollar by the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  