-- Jose Mourinho Will Leave Real Madrid After Trophy-Less Season
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-05-20T22:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/real-madrid-coach-jose-mourinho-to-leave-at-end-of-soccer-season.html
Jose Mourinho  will leave as coach of
Real  Madrid  at the end of the season after calling his third
campaign in charge of the record nine-time European soccer
champion a failure.  Mourinho and the club agreed by mutual consent for him to
leave after Real plays its final two league matches of the
season, team president  Florentino Perez  told a televised news
conference yesterday. Real hasn’t signed an agreement with a
replacement coach, he added.  “We both agreed it was the right time to end this
relationship,” Perez said.  Real didn’t win a major trophy this season. It failed to
defend its Spanish league title, lost to  Borussia Dortmund  in
the Champions League semifinals and fell to  Atletico Madrid  in
the Copa del Rey final four days ago.  After losing to Atletico, the 50-year-old Mourinho said the
season had been a failure and the worst of his career. He’s been
consistently linked with a return to England’s Chelsea, which he
managed between 2004 and 2007.  The pressure of being coach of Real has taken its toll on
Mourinho and his family, Perez said.  “It’s permanent pressure,” Perez said. “Mourinho once
told me that in England, soccer lasted the two hours before and
after a game. At Real Madrid it’s 24 hours a day, seven days a
week.”  Perez denied newspaper reports that Mourinho’s relationship
with the squad was fraught, saying that wasn’t a true reflection
of the situation.  ‘Big Leap’  Mourinho guided Real to last year’s La Liga title, ending a
three-year streak by Barcelona, which regained the championship
this season with four games to spare.  The Portuguese coach also led the club to three straight
 Champions League  semifinals. Real hadn’t reached the
quarterfinals of Europe’s elite club competition since the
2003-04 season before he arrived.  He has given the club a “big leap” forward in
performance, Perez said.  Mourinho won the Champions League with Porto in 2004 and
with  Inter Milan  in 2010, and led Chelsea to two Premier League
titles in a three-year stint through September 2007.  He has been linked to a return to Chelsea in U.K.
newspapers including The Sun and Daily Telegraph.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  