-- Real Rebound Seen as Brazil Addresses Inflation: Market Reversal
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-05-20T13:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/real-rebound-seen-as-brazil-addresses-inflation-market-reversal.html
Brazilian central bank President
Alexandre Tombini’s commitment to fighting inflation is
increasing the prospects that the real will rebound from a four-month low, trading patterns show.  The currency weakened 0.7 percent against the dollar last
week, sending it outside the so-called trading envelope for the
first time since March, which typically indicates that a decline
will be difficult to sustain. The real is deviating the most
from its typical Bollinger band among the 31 most-traded
currencies after the Turkish lira and  Singapore dollar .  Tombini told reporters in  Rio de Janeiro  on May 16 that he
will “do what’s needed” to lower inflation, which breached the
6.5 percent ceiling of policy makers’ target range in March. The
currency is trading 1 percent weaker than the rate that
triggered the last central bank intervention, on March 27.  “ Brazil  is a unique case in terms of the fact that you
have a much more alarming inflation situation than almost any
other emerging-market country,” Eamon Aghdasi, a strategist at
Societe Generale SA in New York, said in an interview on May 17.
“Policy makers are still concerned enough about inflation that
they don’t want a sharp depreciation and what that might imply
for domestic prices.”  A central bank official declined to comment on the
possibility of currency intervention.  The real appreciated 0.2 percent to 2.0310 per  U.S. dollar 
at 10:01 a.m. in  Sao Paulo . The currency dropped 0.4 percent to
2.0352 per dollar on May 17, the weakest close since Jan. 23. It
dropped last week for a third week on concern the  Federal
Reserve  will scale back stimulus measures, reducing investment
in the largest developing economy after  China .  Brazil Inflows  Brazil’s foreign currency inflows from trade and investment
have amounted to $2.3 billion this year through May 10, compared
with $22.6 billion in the first five months of 2012, central
bank data show.  The central bank sold $995 million in currency swaps, which
is equivalent to selling dollars in the futures market, on March
27, a day after the real slid to a two-month low of 2.0173 per
dollar. On Jan. 28, it sold $1.8 billion in currency swaps to
limit the real’s decline, triggering the biggest rally in seven
months.  Policy makers have switched over the past few months
between selling currency swaps to prevent the real from falling
too much and offering reverse swaps to protect exporters by
reining in gains. The measures have kept the real in a range of
1.95 and 2.05 per dollar this year.  SocGen Target  Aghdasi advised his clients to buy the real through non-deliverable forwards, targeting an advance to 1.978 per dollar.  Trading envelopes show the real’s decline over the past 20
days has strayed from its average by more than two standard
deviations, which typically occurs about 2.5 percent of the
time. When such a pattern last happened on March 27, the real
gained 1 percent in following month. A similar breach in
December also marked the trough of the currency.  The currency also crossed the upper end of its Bollinger
band, which typically signals a trend may reverse. Bollinger
bands, developed by  John Bollinger  in the 1980s, are used by
technical analysts to identify the turning point in an asset’s
trajectory.  The real’s decline has surpassed the forecasts of all but
one of the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for the second
quarter. Only Morgan Stanley was looking for further declines in
the real to 2.05 per dollar by June.  Currency Policy  The central bank will rely on interest-rate increases
instead of propping up the currency to control inflation,
according to Gustavo Arteta, a foreign-exchange strategist for
 Latin America  at UBS AG. The real’s drop is in line with other
currencies, reflecting a stronger dollar trend rather than a
weaker Brazil currency against its peers, he said.  “I don’t see it coming in at these levels,” Arteta said
in a telephone interview from  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  All five economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
central bank to lift the target lending rate by a quarter-percentage point to 7.75 percent at its May 28-29 policy
meeting.  The central bank raised its benchmark rate last month for
the first time since July 2011, increasing it from a record low
7.25 percent amid signs that inflation is undermining Brazil’s
economic recovery.  Consumer prices rose 6.49 percent in the 12 months through
April, following an increase of 6.59 percent through March.
Policy makers target inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points. Inflation has stayed above the midpoint
target since August 2010.  “The central bank is vigilant and will do what’s needed,
in a timely way, to put inflation in a declining trend in the
second half, and to ensure that that trend will continue next
year,” Tombini said in Rio on May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  