-- U.S. 10-Year Yield at Almost 2-Month High Before Bernanke Talk
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-05-20T21:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/treasury-yields-near-2-month-high-on-bets-fed-to-taper-stimulus.html
Treasury 10-year note yields traded
at almost a two-month high before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  discusses the economic outlook in congressional
testimony this week.  The benchmark  yields  rose the past three weeks, the longest
streak this year, as the economy showed signs of strength,
prompting speculation the Fed may taper its monetary-stimulus
program, known as quantitative easing. Fed Bank of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the  U.S. economy  has improved
“quite a lot.” The Fed publishes minutes of the April 30 to
May 1 policy meeting on May 22, while Bernanke will testify that
day on the economic outlook.  “Will-they-or-won’t-they-taper speculation has become the
dominant theme in the Treasury market, regarding the Fed,” said
 Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at GMP
Securities LLC in New York. “We’ve gotten to the point where
the market is oversold. Absent a catalyst, we are hovering in
this trading range until Bernanke’s testimony or the Fed minutes
gives us news.”  U.S.  10-year yields  were little changed at 1.97 percent as
of 5 p.m. New York time, after climbing five basis points last
week. The yield touched 1.98 percent on May 15, the highest
since March 15. The price of the 1.75 percent note due in May
2023 traded at 98 1/8.  Ratings Outlook  U.S. policy makers must address debt loads projected to
rise later this decade to avoid a 2013 downgrade, even as the
latest budget projections are “credit positive,” according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  The  U.S. budget deficit  will drop to $378 billion in 2015
from a record $1.4 trillion in 2009, according Congressional
Budget Office data. The federal government will post an $642
billion deficit this year, the first time in five years that the
shortfall has been less than $1 trillion. Moody’s said Sept. 11
that the U.S.’s top Aaa rating would likely be cut to Aa1 if an
agreement on the debt ratio isn’t reached.  While 10-year yields rose last week, they are 60 basis
points  higher than  similar-maturity German bunds. That’s about
double the average since 2003. The U.S. rate is five basis
points more than that on U.K. gilts, versus an average of about
30 basis points below during the same period.  “The Treasury market is cheaper than almost any other
comparable market on a relative value basis,”  Jim Vogel , an
interest-rate strategist at  Memphis , Tennessee-based FTN
Financial, said by phone May 15. “There is the thought out
there that Treasuries are expensive when in reality they offer
the most value.”  Debt Returns  Treasuries have handed investors a loss of 1.1 percent this
month, according to Merrill Lynch bond indexes. German bunds
have lost 0.6 percent, the indexes show.  Investors reversed to a net-short position from a net long
in U.S. 10-year note futures in the week ended May 17, the first
time since the period ended March 22 that they are betting
prices will fall, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Speculative short positions outnumbered longs
by 11,153 contracts on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. The previous
week, traders were net-long 37,956 contracts.  The Fed purchases $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt
a month, and bought $1.5 billion of securities maturing between
February 2036 and February 2043 today.  “Currently, we have the appropriate monetary policy in
place,” Evans said in a speech in Chicago today. “The U.S.
economy seems to be performing pretty well right now.”  Economic Outlook  Evans said he expects to see “self-sustaining growth” at
“escape velocity” in 2014. “We would like to see inflation
closer to our objective,” he added.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-maturity TIPS shrank to 2.24 percentage points, at almost the
2.23 percentage points reached May 17, the least since Aug. 9,
according to Bloomberg data. The  consumer price index  decreased
0.4 percent, the biggest decline since December 2008, after
falling 0.2 percent in March, according to Labor Department
figures released last week.  Volatility rose last week to the highest level since March.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index measuring price
swings in Treasuries increased to 61.33 basis points on May 17,
the highest level since March 22. The index fell to an all-time
low of 48.87 basis points on May 9. The measure averaged 62.5
basis points during the past 12 months.  Existing home sales  increased 1.4 percent in April after a
0.6 percent decline the previous month, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists before a May 22
report from the National Association of Realtors.  “The market will be focused on Bernanke speaking on
Wednesday,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in  New York 
of government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “There’s a
lot of chatter about tapering and QE, so people will be
listening if Bernanke gives any hints on that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  