-- Rebar Swings Between Gains, Losses as Investors Weigh Property
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-20T04:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/rebar-swings-between-gains-losses-as-investors-weigh-property.html
Steel reinforcement-bar futures swung
between gains and losses in  Shanghai  as investors weighed a
rally in  China ’s stock market and positive data on  home prices 
against high output and low raw material prices.  Rebar for delivery in October on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange was little changed at 3,619 yuan ($589) a metric ton at
the 11:30 a.m. break. The contract earlier advanced and fell as
much as 0.6 percent.  Chinese stocks rose to the highest level in seven weeks,
led by property developers, after a report showed new home
prices climbed last month in 68 out of 70 cities tracked by the
government.  High output and lower raw material prices are weighing on
rebar prices while “the equity market rally is a shot of
adrenalin,” said Xu Jiashun, analyst at Yongan Futures Co. in
Hangzhou. Gains in the  property market  are “a double-edged
sword” that may trigger further government curbs on
speculation, said Jiang Yuying, analyst at Chengdu Brilliant
Futures Co. in Shanghai.  Iron ore  with 62 percent iron content for immediate
delivery to the Tianjin port in China fell for a seventh day on
May 17, by 1.5 percent to $123.10 a ton, according to an index
compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  China’s daily crude steel output nationwide in early-May
was estimated to rise 3 percent to 2.19 million tons, compared
with daily output in late-April, according to Custeel.com
analyst Hu Yanping on May 17, citing data from the China Iron &
Steel Association.  The average  spot price  for rebar was little changed at
3,563  yuan  a ton on May 17, according to Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  