-- Parties Split on Tracking Foreigners Who Remain in U.S.
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-05-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/republican-immigration-backer-aims-to-stop-visa-overstays.html
Republicans in the House and Senate
are insisting that a revision of immigration law include ways to
prevent foreigners from staying in the U.S. on expired visas.  A House panel will hear testimony today on the potential
national security implications of foreigners remaining in the
country on expired visas. Senate Republicans yesterday urged
adopting a fingerprinting or other biometric visa tracking
system as they debated amendments on the Judiciary Committee’s
fourth day considering a revision to immigration law.  “Solving the challenge of tracking down and removing those
who overstay their visa is critical to our national security,”
said Representative Candice Miller, a Michigan Republican who
will lead today’s hearing of a House Homeland Security
subcommittee. “At the same time we look to make changes to our
immigration process, we must also strengthen our border security
efforts.”  The Senate Judiciary Committee yesterday adopted two
proposals to help prevent foreign citizens from staying in the
U.S. on expired visas, in an effort to build Republican support
for the bipartisan legislation to revise immigration policy.  A proposal from Republican Orrin Hatch of  Utah , adopted
13-5, would require setting up a biometric screening system at
the nation’s 30 busiest airports to track the departure of
foreigners on international flights. Such systems can include
fingerprinting or facial-recognition scans.  Taxes, Benefits  Also yesterday, Hatch said he won’t support the broader
bill unless lawmakers agree to his changes regarding the taxes
immigrants must pay and social benefits they receive. Hatch is a
critical vote.  “It won’t be going anywhere without these amendments,
because you’re not going to get any Republicans,” Hatch told
reporters.  Hatch said he wants to require immigrants who seek
citizenship to pay additional taxes and to make clear that
unauthorized employment can’t count toward eligibility for
Social Security benefits. He is proposing a five-year waiting
period before people on the path to citizenship can receive
subsidies under the 2010 health-care law.  Hatch also has said he will oppose the bill unless
Democrats agree to amendments favoring technology companies that
seek to hire more high-skilled foreign workers. He has been
meeting with Democrats to work toward a compromise.  “I am working in good faith, they’re working in good
faith,” Hatch said. He said he would vote for the bill in the
Judiciary Committee if lawmakers reach what he views as an
acceptable compromise on the high-technology visa issue.  Rubio’s Support  Hatch’s amendment on biometric screening was praised by
Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican who co-authored the
immigration legislation and whose support is critical to its
passage. In a statement, Rubio said he would “continue to fight
to make the tracking of entries and exits include biometrics in
the most effective system we can build when the bill is amended
on the Senate floor.”  Last week Rubio criticized the defeat of an amendment from
Alabama Republican Jeff Sessions to require use of a biometric
system at all U.S. airports.  New York  Senator Charles Schumer, a Democratic co-author of
the bill, supported the amendment, which he called “a good
start.” Schumer opposed Sessions’s proposal last week.  The panel also adopted an amendment by South Carolina
Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican co-author of the
legislation. The proposal would create a database to help
federal law enforcement and national security agencies identify
individuals who remain in the U.S. after their visas expire.  Overstaying Visas  Graham said his proposal was the product of negotiations
with the Obama administration, adding that it was “very
important that we do a better job when it comes to visa
overstays.” The measure was adopted by voice vote.  The Senate bill seeks to balance a path to citizenship for
11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S., sought by
Democrats, with enough border-security improvements to satisfy
Republicans. It was written by a group of four Republican and
four Democratic senators. So far, the measure has survived
proposed changes in the Judiciary Committee that might doom it
on the Senate floor.  The Judiciary Committee has adopted about 100 amendments.
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said last week he
wants to bring the measure to the full Senate “as soon as it’s
ready,” probably in early June.  A separate bipartisan House group last week reached a
tentative agreement on its immigration proposal and may
introduce a bill in June, said Representative John Carter, a
Texas Republican and member of the group.  Senator Flake  Graham and another Republican co-author of the bill on the
Judiciary Committee, Senator Jeff Flake of  Arizona , have opposed
many of their fellow Republicans’ attempts to change the bill in
ways that would lose Democratic support.  About 40 percent of the estimated 11 million undocumented
immigrants in the U.S. have stayed after their visas expired.
Azamat Tazhayakov, a Kazakhstani who was a friend of a Boston
Marathon bombing suspect and is charged with hindering the
investigation of that attack, re-entered the U.S. in January on
an expired student visa, authorities have said.  Sessions, a chief opponent of the immigration bill, called
Graham’s proposal “a step in the right direction.” Still, he
said the measure should go further and require use of a
biometric entry-exit tracking system before allowing
undocumented immigrants to become citizens.  The panel adopted a second Graham amendment that would
terminate an individual’s asylum or refugee status in most cases
where the person returns to his or her home country.  Misusing Passports  Senators adopted an amendment offered by Utah Republican
Mike Lee making the attempted misuse of a passport a criminal
offense.  Senators rejected a proposal from Senator Charles Grassley
of  Iowa , the panel’s top Republican, that would prevent
provisions on asylum and student visa provisions from taking
effect until one year after the director of national
intelligence submits to Congress a review of issues related to
the April 15 Boston Marathon bombing.  “We need to understand what happened in the Boston case so
we can prevent something like this from happening again,”
Grassley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  