-- Royalty Pharma Raises Elan Bid to $12.50 a Share in Cash
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-05-20T20:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/royalty-pharma-raises-elan-bid-to-12-50-a-shae-in-cash.html
Royalty Pharma, an investor in
royalty streams from pharmaceuticals, raised its offer to buy
 Elan Corp. (ELN)  by 12 percent to $6.4 billion after the Irish
drugmaker made acquisitions to boost revenue and resist the bid.  The all-cash offer of $12.50 per American depositary
receipt is higher than a previous bid of $11.25 per ADR and
compares with the $11.67 closing price on May 17.  Pablo Legorreta, Royalty’s founder and a former Lazard
banker, is pursuing the Dublin-based company after Elan Chief
Executive Officer Kelly Martin, a former Merrill Lynch & Co.
banker, initially offered to buy Royalty. Elan’s board, which
unanimously rejected New York-based Royalty’s previous takeover
bid on April 22, will assess today’s announcement and advise
shareholders, the company said today in a statement.  “In the meantime, Elan shareholders are strongly advised
to take no action in relation to the Royalty Pharma offer,” the
company said.  Elan rose 3.2 percent to $12.04 at the close in New York.
The company said today it plans to buy back $200 million in
shares, with details to be announced. Elan last month bought
back $1 billion in stock, reducing the number of shares
outstanding to about 510 million.  Martin’s Strategy  An acquisition by Royalty would allow Elan shareholders to
avoid the risks of Martin’s strategy of reinvesting the $3.25
billion Elan received from  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  for  divesting  its
stake in the multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri, Royalty said. Elan
has said it will pay investors dividends directly linked to
Tysabri sales as a 20 percent share of the royalty received from
Biogen.  Elan this month announced a $1 billion investment in
 Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s royalties, a $340 million takeover of Vienna-based AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals AG and the purchase of a 48
percent stake in Dubai-based NewBridge Pharmaceuticals for $40
million. The company also plans to issue $800 million in debt.  Elan has “dramatically overpaid” in the Theravance deal
by agreeing to spend $1 billion on 21 percent of a portion of
royalties when all of South San Francisco, California-based
Theravance was trading at $3.5 billion, Royalty said in a
statement. Today’s increased offer is contingent on Elan
investors voting against the Theravance transaction and all
deals announced today that are put to a vote, Royalty said.  Hasty Deal  “The Theravance transaction public disclosure suggests
that the transaction was pursued in haste and without critical
confidential information which could significantly impair the
value of the asset,” Royalty said. “Royalty Pharma expects
that the same may be true of the transactions announced today.”  In addition, Elan’s board can’t recommend Royalty Pharma’s
offer at any price without breaching its agreement with
Theravance, thereby compromising its ability to freely advise
its shareholders and making itself “irrelevant” to them,
Royalty said.  Royalty’s offer is “fully financed, cash confirmed and not
conditional on due diligence,” the company said. Royalty also
said it reserved the right to waive down the acceptance
threshold for the increased offer from 90 percent to 50 percent
plus one Elan share.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Groton
Partners are advising Royalty Pharma. Elan’s financial advisers
include Davy Corporate Finance, Morgan Stanley, Ondra Partners
and Citigroup Inc.  Founded in 1996, Royalty Pharma owns royalty interests in
38 approved and marketed pharmaceutical products. For example,
in 2004, the firm bought Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center’s U.S. royalty interest in Amgen Inc.’s Neupogen drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  