-- Ryanair Boosts Full-Year Profit 13% as Routes Spur Sales
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-05-20T11:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/ryanair-boosts-full-year-profit-13-as-routes-spur-sales.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s
biggest discount airline, boosted full-year profit 13 percent as
it added routes and planes to target short-haul markets in which
full-service operators are struggling to stem losses.  The Dublin-based carrier’s earnings after tax rose to 569
million euros ($732 million) in the 12 months to March 31, minus
one-time items, from 503 million euros a year earlier, it said
today in a statement. Analysts had predicted a profit of 560
million euros, based on the average of 19 estimates.  Chief Executive Officer Michael O’Leary, who has occupied
the role for almost two decades, said last week he’ll probably
stay for another five years to consolidate Ryanair’s European
dominance as network carriers increasingly exit short-haul
flying. The Irish company said today it aims to win a 20 percent
share of the European short-haul market by 2018 after adding 5
percent more passengers last year for a total of 79.3 million.  “We see tremendous opportunities right across Europe,
there’s a lot of retrenchment going on,” Chief Financial Officer
Howard Millar said in a phone interview. Ryanair said it will
idle fewer planes than usual next winter, boosting the passenger
total by 2 million for the year to 81.5 million and lifting
earnings to between 570 million euros and 600 million euros.  Winter Rethink  Shares of Ryanair , which had said Jan. 28 it expected a
profit close to 540 million euros, rose as much as 8.9 percent,
the biggest gain since Feb. 1, and were trading 8.7 percent
higher at 6.88 euros as of 12:13 p.m. in Dublin.  The stock has gained 46 percent this year, valuing the
company at 9.98 billion euros.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-largest discount airline, has added 61 percent as it lures more
business passengers with higher frequencies and paid-for perks.  While passenger traffic will increase by only 2 percent
during the summer, Ryanair will operate about 20 aircraft next
winter that were grounded a year ago, driving a 5 percent
traffic gain for the period, Millar said, adding: “Our big
challenge is we don’t have a huge amount of capacity available
to us and that’s why we’re changing our tactics.”  Net income this quarter will be lower than last year due to
the timing of Easter, the carrier said.  Morocco, Poland  Ryanair’s full-year revenue rose 13 percent to 4.33 billion
euros and the carrier added 15 new aircraft, taking the fleet to
305 planes as of the year’s end. It also opened 217 new routes
to bring the total to more than 1,600 and established seven new
bases in  Greece , the Netherlands,  Morocco , Poland and  Croatia ,
while still achieving an 82 percent occupancy level.  Ryanair is expanding as carriers including  Air France-KLM (AF) 
Group,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and British Airways parent
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  undergo the latest
revamp of unprofitable short-haul flights. O’Leary, who predicts
the experiment will fail, told Bloomberg TV’s Surveillance
program its rivals are “like drunks holding up the bus shelter.”  CFO Millar said at a London briefing that Ryanair could bid
for slots at London Gatwick airport held by regional operator
Flybe Group Plc. That could heighten competition with EasyJet,
which has its main base there and may also be interested in the
slots, and lead to a greater overlap with British Airways, which
generally operates from bigger airports than the Irish company.  Currency Impact  “Network carriers and weak carriers are shrinking,” Liberum
Capital analyst Peter Hyde said in a note to investors. “Ryanair
and EasyJet are maintaining capacity discipline.”  Ryanair is 90 percent hedged for its fiscal 2014 fuel bill
at $980 a ton and partially hedged for the financial year ending
2015 at $930 a ton. The strengthening of the euro against the
dollar will create a “currency headwind,” with kerosene costs
per passenger increasing by 7 percent, Millar said.  The airline has sought to consolidate its grip in Ireland
with last June’s revived bid to buy  Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)   The offer, which valued the smaller company at 694 million
euros, was blocked in February by European Union regulators who
ruled it would increase fares and reduce choice. A separate
inquiry by the U.K. Competition Commission may require Ryanair
to reduce or dispose of a remaining 30 percent holding.  Ryanair ordered 175  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-800 single-aisle jets in
March, with the first due for delivery in March, 2014, and has
appointed a team to work on a follow-up deal to add a further
100, most likely the U.S. company’s new 737 Max model, giving a
total list price of more than $20 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  