-- SAC Digs In as Deadline Nears for U.S. Insider Cases
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n ,   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-05-20T08:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/sac-digs-in-as-deadline-nears-for-u-s-insider-cases.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP’s  Steven Cohen  is hunkering down as a deadline approaches for the federal
government to file criminal or civil  insider-trading  cases
against the billionaire hedge- fund manager .  A five-year statute of limitations will expire at the end
of July for the U.S. Attorney in  Manhattan  to charge Cohen with
illegally selling shares of two stocks based on tips received by
Mathew Martoma, a former fund manager at his firm. The
Securities and Exchange Commission, which won a record $602
million settlement with SAC Capital over the trades in March,
also must move by July to sue Cohen personally.  The firm, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , signaled a new
phase in its defense of insider claims when it told clients in a
May 17 letter that it was no longer cooperating unconditionally
with the government. SAC Capital, which manages $15 billion,
said it expects “substantially more clarity” in coming months,
according to the letter, portions of which were provided to
 Bloomberg News .  “When they say they are no longer fully cooperating, they
may end up in front of a judge arguing over the subpoena or the
breadth of it,” said  Erik Gordon , a business and law professor
at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor .  Following the settlement in the Martoma case, the SEC said
it wasn’t precluded from pursuing additional claims against the
firm or Cohen. Since the government’s five-year crackdown on
market corruption began, at least nine current or former SAC
employees have been tied to allegations of illegal trading. Four
have pleaded guilty.  Full Cooperation  The Martoma case, which centered on trades in drugmakers
Elan Corp. and Wyeth Inc., was the first to link Cohen, 56,
directly to alleged inside information. Cohen hasn’t been
accused of any wrongdoing.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital at Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on the letter.  Ellen Davis ,
a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, and
 John Nester , an SEC spokesman in  Washington , also declined to
comment on SAC’s disclosure.  Full cooperation generally means that recipients of a
subpoena will turn over the requested information while
complying with the strictest interpretation of what is being
demanded, Gordon said.  “You don’t give them more than they ask for unless you
think it will exculpate your client,” he said.  Withdrawals Due  To avoid potential investor lawsuits, SAC Capital may have
felt compelled to tell clients it had changed its stance on
cooperation before a June 3 deadline to put in withdrawal
notices, Gordon said. Before last week, Cohen’s firm had said it
was cooperating with the investigation.  The letter may indicate that either the SEC or the U.S.
attorney is preparing to sue or indict Cohen, said lawyers who
asked not to be named because of the sensitive nature of the
case.  Cohen received a subpoena to testify before a grand jury in
the probe as part of a broader round of requests from
prosecutors last week that included other SAC executives, the
 New York  Times reported late yesterday, citing lawyers and
executives briefed on the case.  “More often than not, hedge-fund managers feel that the
SEC demands more information than it is entitled to, or is not
sensitive to the costs related to providing the information” in
the course of an investigation, said Ron Geffner, a partner at
Sadis & Goldberg in New York who was previously an enforcement
lawyer with the SEC.  Five Years  Some of those costs include fleeing clients. In February,
investors asked to pull $1.68 billion from SAC’s funds. About
$660 million was returned at the end of March, with the
remainder coming out by the end of the year. Earlier this month,
the firm told clients it was extending the deadline to ask for
withdrawals for the second quarter to June 3 from mid-May. It
also recently told them it was beefing up its compliance.  The statute of limitations for  securities fraud  is five
years, which means the U.S. is running out of time to file new
charges based on the Wyeth and Elan trades, which occurred in
late July 2008. The U.S. Supreme Court in February, ruling in an
unrelated case, said that the five-year clock for seeking civil
penalties starts ticking when the fraud occurs, not when it is
discovered.  If the deadline passes, SAC Capital may potentially face
charges based on trading in other stocks. The U.S. is
investigating the firm’s trading in  InterMune Inc. (ITMN)  and  Weight
Watchers International Inc. (WTW) , a person with knowledge of the
matter said in December. The transactions may have occurred more
recently than those in Elan or Wyeth. Neither SAC Capital nor
Cohen has been accused of any wrongdoing in relation to
InterMune or Weight Watchers.  Wells Notice  In addition, the SEC told the firm on Nov. 20 that it
planned to sue for securities fraud and control-person liability
for failing to supervise employees. The litigation threat took
the form of a Wells notice, which invites the recipient to
explain why it shouldn’t be sued, and came the same day the U.S.
accused Martoma of insider trading.  Under a provision of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, the
SEC must bring an action within 180 days, though the director of
enforcement can extend the deadline.  The Wells notice cited fraud and control-person liability
related to the unit that employed Martoma, a person familiar
with the matter said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  