-- San Bernardino School Bonds Test City’s Bankruptcy: Muni Deals
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-05-20T15:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/san-bernardino-school-bonds-test-city-s-bankruptcy-muni-deals.html
The public school district in San
Bernardino,  California , plans to sell $152 million in bonds for
repairs and improvements this week, its first issue since the
separate city government filed for bankruptcy last year.  Voters in the San Bernardino City Unified School District,
California’s  eighth-largest  with more than 54,000 students,
 authorized  $250 million in bonds in November to replace roofs,
upgrade wiring and lighting, and add libraries.  The vote came as San Bernardino, which is financially
independent, struggled to cut spending after becoming the
second-largest U.S. city to seek protection from creditors.  “We’re totally separate,” Linda Bardere, a spokeswoman
for the district, said in an interview. “The district is an
attractive investment opportunity.”  While the city skipped a $1 million interest payment on
pension bonds, Moody’s Investors Service rates this issue from
the school district A2, its sixth-highest level, bond documents
show.  Standard & Poor’s  grades it A, also sixth-highest.  This week’s sale is set for May 22 and includes taxable and
tax-exempt debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Tax-exempt
bonds from the district that are callable in August 2014 traded
May 16 with an average yield of 1.87 percent, for a yield spread
over benchmark debt of about 1.6 percentage points. The
securities are insured by Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.  Bardere said some vendors have asked whether the city
bankruptcy would affect payments, and district officials assured
them that there was no reason for concern.  San Bernardino, with a population of 213,000 about 60 miles
(100 kilometers) east of Los Angeles, sought  bankruptcy
protection  after sales and property taxes failed to recover from
the 18-month recession that ended in 2009.  Stockton, California, with about 296,400 residents, became
the largest U.S. city to seek bankruptcy protection in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  