-- Sarbanes-Oxley Whistle-Blower Rules Get Top Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-05-20T20:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/sarbanes-oxley-whistle-blower-rules-get-court-review.html
The U.S. Supreme Court will rule on
the reach of the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley investor-protection law,
agreeing to decide whether the law’s whistle-blower protections
cover the employees of a publicly traded entity’s contractors.  The justices today said they will hear an appeal from two
former employees of a privately held company that provides
investment advice and management services to the Fidelity mutual
funds. The workers say they lost their jobs after reporting
fraud.  The case will likely pit business groups against President
 Barack Obama ’s administration, testing the scope of a law
enacted after the collapses of Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc.  The case “presents a question of pivotal importance to the
integrity of the securities markets and to the preservation of
investor confidence,” the two employees, Jackie Hosang Lawson
and Jonathan M. Zang, argued in their appeal.  The case will be of particular importance to the mutual
fund industry because of its unusual corporate structure. While
the funds themselves are publicly traded, they typically have
few if any employees, instead using privately held companies to
conduct day-to-day activities.  Fraud Complaints  Lawson and Zang worked for units of FMR LLC, Fidelity’s
corporate holding company. Lawson complained that expenses were
being inflated and, ultimately, passed on to fund shareholders.
Zang contended that a Fidelity statement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission misrepresented how portfolio
managers were compensated.  FMR denies the allegations and says both employees had
performance problems. Zang was fired in 2005 and Lawson resigned
in 2007.  A federal appeals court ruled that Lawson and Zang can’t
sue for retaliation under Sarbanes-Oxley because they didn’t
work for publicly traded companies.  The Sarbanes-Oxley law bars publicly traded companies from
discriminating against an “employee” who reports fraud or a
violation of securities regulations.  FMR argued that letting the suits go forward “would upset
the balance struck by Congress by exposing thousands of private
companies that do business with public companies to a new type
of employment litigation.”  The Obama administration urged the court not to take up the
case, even while contending that the suits should be allowed to
proceed.  The court will take up the case during the nine-month term
that starts in October.  The case is Lawson v. FMR LLC, 12-3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  