-- HSBC Sees Euro Area Revenue Drag Without Bad Debt Boom
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-05-20T19:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/hsbc-sees-euro-area-revenue-drag-without-bad-debt-boom.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, forecast that the euro region will prove to be a drag on
revenue growth without threatening an explosion in bad debts.  Weakness in the world economy and quantitative easing by
central banks are also hindering revenue growth, Chief Executive
Officer  Stuart Gulliver  told an informal meeting of shareholders
in Hong Kong yesterday.  “We have significantly reduced our exposure and risks to
the European banks and to the European governments,” Gulliver
said. “The  euro zone  represents a revenue headwind rather than
the risk of very large bad debts.”  Gulliver, 54, is focusing on reducing costs, selling assets
and expanding in faster-growing markets as he struggles to boost
revenue that’s been crimped by the sovereign debt crisis in
Europe. HSBC will eliminate as many as 14,000 jobs over the next
three years, helping cut an additional $2 billion to $3 billion
of costs, he said during a May 15 investor day.  “Profit before tax won’t go up from revenue, so we’ve
really got two levers, which are costs and loan impairment
charges, that we can actually move with,” Gulliver said.  Gulliver has already cut more than $4 billion of annual
costs, beating his initial target, and eliminated 46,000 jobs,
since he took over in 2011. While HSBC has met its original cost
savings target, it hasn’t met the goal to reduce costs as a
percentage of revenue because  income  hasn’t grown, he said on
May 15.  The bank will seek to reduce expenses to about 55 percent
of revenue in 2014-2016, HSBC said. That compares with a target
of 48 percent to 52 percent for the previous three-year period.
The additional job cuts will be global and not focused on any
particular area of the business, Gulliver said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  