-- Scottish Government Says Economy Stifled by U.K. Control
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-21T11:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/scottish-nationalists-say-economy-stifled-by-u-k-budget-control.html
U.K. economic policy prevents
 Scotland  from developing its strengths and is holding back a
country that would be better off independent, the government in
Edinburgh said in a report published today.  The cuts in spending by the past two U.K. governments, the
boom in credit, the growth in income inequality, the failure to
establish an oil fund for future generations, austerity and the
decision to concentrate economic activity in  London  have all
taken their toll, according to the report.  “The U.K. government’s economic policies have been holding
Scotland back for generations,” Nicola Sturgeon, deputy first
minister in Scotland’s semi-autonomous administration, said in
the statement. “Only with the powers of independence can
Scotland meet its full potential.”  The paper on the economy follows one yesterday from the
U.K. Treasury on financial services, which said that an
independent Scotland would have a banking system too big to save
in the event of another crisis and might lack the resources to
protect depositors. Scotland will hold a referendum on
independence on Sept. 18, 2014, with polls showing more people
want to keep the status quo than leave the U.K. by a margin of
about 20 percentage points.  Scotland has generated more profit per head of the
population than the U.K. as a whole for each of the past 30
years, Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond said in an e-mailed
statement today.  ‘Natural Advantages’  “We have a vast array of human, financial and natural
resources, which many other countries do not enjoy,” Salmond
said. “Despite all of these inherent economic strengths,
Scotland’s long-term economic growth has lagged behind that of
comparable European nations, many of which do not have the
natural advantages we do.”  Scotland has the potential to be an economically successful
independent nation, with strengths in life sciences, oil and
gas, renewable energy, food and drink, financial services and
other industries, Sturgeon said.  “The policies pursued by the Westminster government are
not optimal for Scotland and are not fit for Scottish
circumstances,” Sturgeon said. “Those policies have hindered
growth, cost jobs and held Scotland back from pursuing policies
best suited to our own economic priorities.”  Having control over spending would have meant the Scottish
government could have protected 19,000 jobs lost as a result of
cuts. Control of air passenger duty would have allowed it to
attract more international flights and boost tourism, she said.  The Treasury paper was the third published by the U.K.
setting out why it believes Scotland should reject independence.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said last month the
prospect of an independent Scotland keeping the British pound as
part of a formal currency union was “highly unlikely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  