-- Seahawks’ Irvin Suspended Four Games for NFL Substance Violation
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-20T14:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/seahawks-irvin-suspended-four-games-for-nfl-substance-violation.html
Seattle Seahawks defensive end Bruce
Irvin was suspended without pay for the first four games of the
regular season for violating the  National Football League ’s
policy on performance-enhancing substances.  Irvin, 26, will be eligible to return to the team on Sept.
30, following the team’s road game against the Houston Texans
the previous day, according to a Seahawks news release. He is
allowed to participate in all offseason activities and preseason
games before the start of the regular season.  Irvin, in a separate news release, apologized to teammates,
coaches and fans for taking an unidentified prohibited substance
“without a medical exemption.”  “I am extremely disappointed in the poor judgment I showed
and take full responsibility for my actions,” he said. “I look
forward to contributing to the team the moment I return.”  Seattle’s first-round pick in the 2012  NFL Draft , Irvin had
eight sacks in his rookie season, second-most on the team. The
Seahawks defense allowed 306.2 yards per game last season,
second-fewest in the National Football Conference behind the
division-rival  San Francisco 49ers .  Irvin was scheduled to make $814,645 this season, according
to the NFL Players Association. In addition to the game against
the Texans, he will miss games against the  Carolina Panthers ,
49ers and Jacksonville Jaguars.  The Seahawks also probably will open the season without
defensive end Chris Clemons, who had a team-high 11 1/2 sacks
last season before tearing a ligament in his left knee during
the playoffs.  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  