-- Serbia to Discuss IMF Loan After EU Entry Talks, PM Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-05-20T12:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/serbia-to-discuss-imf-loan-after-eu-entry-talks-pm-says.html
Serbia  may discuss a possible new
precautionary loan with the  International Monetary Fund  once the
Balkan nation wins the right to begin European Union membership
talks, Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  said.  The IMF is waiting for an EU decision in June on whether
Serbia will be given a start date, Dacic said in Belgrade today.
The mission that wraps up a two-week inspection tomorrow of the
Serbian economy as part of a periodic Article IV consultation
hasn’t opened negotiations with the former Yugoslav republic on
a new loan, he said.  “The second half of the year will be more favorable for
loan talks,” Dacic said after meeting executives of foreign
companies in Serbia.  Serbian officials hope to start membership talks on June
28, taking another step closer to the Brussels-based bloc.
Dacic’s 10-month old Cabinet last month signed a political
agreement with the breakaway province of  Kosovo  and now needs to
make progress to start implementing the pact to get the date.  The IMF suspended a $1.3 billion precautionary loan with
Serbia in February 2012 on evidence the previous government was
slipping on deficit and debt targets. It told Serbia in November
to cut debt without choking economic growth, citing an
unsustainable fiscal gap, volatile inflation and high
unemployment.  The government has pledged to implement a fiscal
consolidation plan to narrow the budget gap to 3.6 percent of
economic output from 6.7 percent last year. Finance Minister
 Mladjan Dinkic  said on May 10 the gap will likely be 4.5 percent
of GDP.  Serbia’s budget gap reached 62.3 percent of the full-year
target in the first four months as social-benefit payments
doubled and payments of  interest rates  on debt more than
tripled.  The central government deficit expanded to 75.9 billion
dinars ($880 million), compared with a 122 billion-dinar
shortfall planned for the entire year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  