-- Sifma Names Gregg CEO to Mend Wall Street-Washington Divide
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-05-20T16:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/sifma-names-gregg-ceo-to-help-mend-wall-street-washington-divide.html
Judd Gregg , the former U.S. senator
who has been an adviser to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , was named
chief executive officer of the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, Wall Street’s largest lobby group.  The selection of Gregg, a  New Hampshire  Republican who left
the Senate in 2011, was announced by Sifma in a statement today.  “Our members provide the resource and expertise that make
the economic engine of America work and create a more prosperous
life for Americans,” Gregg, 66, said in the statement. “We are
facing a great many challenges and I look forward to working
with legislators and regulators together as we improve our
economy and the lives of our citizens.”  In replacing  Tim Ryan , who left Sifma for  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  this year, Gregg faces the task of rebuilding Wall Street’s
credibility in Washington, after banks were blamed for causing
the biggest financial crisis since the 1930s. In  New York , at
his first news conference as CEO, Gregg emphasized his desire to
explain to the public Wall Street’s crucial role in the economy.  “There has been in the last few years this rise of
populism which has basically not accepted the concept that
capitalism, markets, profits and individual entrepreneurship are
what give America prosperity,” Gregg said. “We need to
reconnect on that issue.”  Split Position  Kenneth E. Bentsen, 53, who served as interim CEO after
Ryan left, was named president of Sifma. In response to a
question about why Sifma’s board split the top position after
Ryan filled both roles, Gregg said he and Bentsen would play
complimentary roles, though there has been no specific division
of labor decided yet.  Gregg was New Hampshire’s governor before running for
Senate in 1992. He was nominated by President  Barack Obama  to
become U.S. commerce secretary in 2009 before withdrawing from
consideration amid disagreements over policy.  Since retiring from Congress, he has been an adviser to New
York-based Goldman Sachs and serves on the board of Atlanta-based IntercontinentalExchange Inc.  The Sifma job had been one of Washington’s highest-paid
lobbying positions. Ryan earned $3 million in compensation and
benefits in 2011, according to the trade group’s most recent tax
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  