-- Slovenian Bonds Extend Rally as Investors Shrug Off Fitch Cut
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-05-20T08:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/slovenian-bonds-extend-rally-as-investors-shrug-off-fitch-cut.html
Slovenia’s benchmark bonds rallied,
pushing the yield to the lowest in almost two weeks, as
investors disregarded a credit rating cut by Fitch Ratings amid
government efforts to pull the nation out of a recession.  The yield on the dollar-denominated bonds maturing in 2022
dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.3
percent, the lowest since May 9, as of 9:25 a.m. in the capital
Ljubljana. The yield retreated 2 basis points last week, the
fifth weekly drop. Slovenia’s credit score was cut one level to
BBB+ by Fitch on May 17, the third-lowest investment grade, with
a negative outlook amid a worsening economic situation and a
widening budget deficit.  “I don’t expect this downgrade to have a pronounced impact
on the bonds as the credit is already trading as sub-investment
grade and a one-notch downgrade still leaves Fitch far behind
the market’s assessment of Slovenia’s creditworthiness,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an  emerging markets  economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in London, said in an e-mailed note May 17.
“Crucially, Standard & Poor’s maintains an A- rating on
Slovenia, which allows local banks to use their government bond
holdings as top-quality collateral with the European Central
Bank.”  Junk Rating  The Adriatic nation, which had its credit rating cut by
Moody’s Investors Service to junk amid a bond sale last month,
presented an overhaul program including a direct bank
recapitalization plan of 900 million euros ($1.2 billion) to
reassure investors and the European Union Slovenia can avoid
seeking outside aid.  “Realistically in our minds, Slovenia should be investment
grade, given the attitude of the government so far and the way
the 9 May plan was put together,” Peter Attard Montalto, an
economist at Nomura International in  London , said in a May 17
note. “As Fitch highlights, it will only really be on
implementation of the banking recapitalization and
privatizations that there can be success in removing perceived
credit risk. Once again the ball is very much in the
government’s court.”  The government will “effectively” carry out all necessary
measures from its overhaul program, the Finance Ministry said in
an e-mailed statement May 18. Rebuilding the bank system is
based on independent due diligence and stress tests of
Slovenia’s central bank, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  