-- Smashburger CEO Sees Doubling Stores Before Potential IPO
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-20T18:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/smashburger-ceo-sees-doubling-stores-before-potential-ipo.html
Smashburger, a Denver-based burger
chain, will expand to about 500 units in the U.S. in the next
two to three years and may consider an initial public offering,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dave Prokupek said.  A U.S. IPO is “definitely a possibility down the road,”
Prokupek said during an interview in  Chicago  today. “The idea
of good food fast isn’t going to go away anytime soon.”  The closely held chain, which has about 200 domestic
locations, competes with fast-casual restaurants including
 Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) ,  Panera Bread Co. (PNRA)  and Five Guys
Burgers & Fries. Smashburger has been expanding to new cities in
the U.S., as well as overseas in markets such as  Panama ,  Canada 
and Saudi Arabia.  Consumer Capital Partners, also based in Denver, owns
Smashburger, as well as restaurants including Tom’s Urban 24 and
Live Basil Pizza. Smashburger sales will increase as much as 47
percent to $250 million this year from about $170 million in
2012, Prokupek said.  Many fast-casual chains, which typically sell pricier fare
than fast-food restaurants, aren’t yet big enough to attract IPO
investors who want chains with about 400 to 500 locations and
$400 million in sales, Prokupek said. This year, Smashburger
will open about 65 shops, he said.  Sales at U.S. fast-casual chains are outpacing the growth
of other dining segments, according to data from Chicago-based
researcher Technomic Inc. Revenue at fast-casual restaurants
rose 13 percent to $24.2 billion last year, compared with a 4.6
percent gain for fast food, the data show.  Classic Smash  Smashburger, founded in 2007, sells hamburgers and chicken
sandwiches, as well as salads and a veggie burger. A “Classic
Smash” burger with American cheese is $4.99, while a larger
version topped with avocado and bacon is $6.99, according to the
company’s  website .  The chain’s beef costs will be about 6 percent to 8 percent
higher in 2013 than last year, Prokupek said. That compares to
moderating prices for items such as potatoes and oils, he said.
Smashburger locks in beef prices about 12 to 18 months ahead of
time.  Smashburger raised prices by about 2 percent at the
beginning of the year on items such as fries and drinks. The
chain has never increased the $4.99 price for its basic burger
at almost all of its restaurants. The exceptions are a few
franchises in high-rent markets that have boosted the price to
$5.19 or $5.29, Prokupek said.  The burger seller, which has stores in  Kuwait  and  Costa
Rica , is looking to expand to other international markets.
Smashburger will open its first store in the U.K. in about two
years and is talking to potential partners in  Mexico , Prokupek
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  