-- SocGen Joins UniCredit in Warsaw as Equity Sales Surge
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-05-21T10:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/socgen-joins-unicredit-in-warsaw-as-equity-sales-surge.html
Record stock sales and a growing
economy are helping Poland solidify its position as central
 Europe ’s busiest financial center, even as euro-area neighbors
struggle to shake the sovereign-debt crisis.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) 
are establishing  investment-banking  hubs in Warsaw, where equity
sales of 15 billion zloty ($4.6 billion) this year exceed the
$490 million in the rest of central Europe.  Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk, 56, is building on the
economic and political transformation started by former
President  Lech Walesa , an electrician whose Solidarity labor
movement negotiated the end of Communist Party rule in 1989.
Spurred by pension industry reform and a swathe of public
offerings, daily trading volume on the Warsaw exchange has
climbed to an average 1.08 billion zloty this year, exceeding
bourses in Vienna,  Prague , Ljubljana and Budapest combined.  “The development of regional capitalism here is
irreversible,” Krzysztof Walenczak, 44, Societe Generale’s
country manager, said in an interview in Warsaw. “The verdict
is out -- Poland will be a hub for central and eastern Europe
and we are building a franchise that will last.”  Walenczak, who as deputy Treasury minister helped raise $9
billion by selling stakes in the  Warsaw Stock Exchange  and coal
miner Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA in 2010 and 2011, hired
bankers to lead Paris-based Societe Generale’s expanded
equities, mergers and debt teams in Warsaw over the past six
months. The firm ranks second together with PKO Bank Polski SA
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and behind  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in arranging
equity offerings this year, with a total of 10.4 billion zloty,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regional Hub  UniCredit, employing 80 people in investment banking in
Warsaw, made the city its regional center for equities last year
as it closed offices in Moscow, Bucharest and Istanbul. Warsaw
is the sole investment-banking and brokerage office for
Citigroup in the region and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  runs some
of its regional investment-banking services from the city.  Sixteen international investment banks and brokerages
registered to be able to trade shares on the Warsaw bourse since
the start of 2008, including London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
Goldman Sachs,  UBS AG (UBSN)  of Zurich and  Russia ’s VTB Capital,
according to data provided by the exchange. Foreign
institutions’ share of trading volume rose to 30 percent last
month from 7.4 percent five years ago.  Since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, Warsaw has hosted public offerings by 86
companies. Vienna had one and Prague had two. The sales were
spurred by legislation in 1999 requiring a portion of Poles’
monthly income to be invested in private funds, which built the
pensions industry into an $83 billion business, dwarfing those
of Poland’s neighbors, including Russia.  Communist HQ  The Solidarity-led government established the Warsaw
exchange in 1991 at the Communist Party’s former national
headquarters.  The development of the private pensions industry and the
funds that came with it means there are now 53 foreign-owned
companies among the 440 listed on the bourse, compared with just
one in 2003. Four trade on Vienna’s 71-member bourse.  The firms include Austrian property developer  Immofinanz
AG (IIA) , Czech coal miner  New World Resources Plc (NWR) , Ukrainian food
producer Kernel Holding SA and Slovenian drugmaker Krka d.d.  For New York-based Goldman Sachs, such equity offerings and
investment-banking deals make Poland “a strategic market in
central and eastern Europe and in general in growth markets,”
Artur Tomala, 36, chief of the firm’s central and eastern
European operations, said in an interview in Warsaw.  Vienna Rivalry  The market value of companies traded on the Warsaw bourse
exceeds the capitalization of firms listed on the CEE Stock
Exchange Group, headed by Vienna’s exchange and including
Budapest, Prague and Ljubljana. The rivalry with Vienna has
intensified with Warsaw’s growth as a financial center.  In 2010, CEE Stock Exchange Group expressed an interest in
buying the Warsaw bourse just as it prepared for an initial
public offering. The two are now in merger talks and any
agreement would require Warsaw to become the main owner, Adam Maciejewski, 46, chief executive officer of the Warsaw Stock
Exchange, said last month.  Gdansk Connection  JPMorgan, based in  New York , was the leading equity
underwriter in Poland last year, arranging transactions worth
5.87 billion zloty, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sales
included the 2.1 billion-zloty IPO of Alior Bank SA, a record
for a privately held Polish company. Local broker Ipopema
Securities SA ranked second, followed by UBS, Amsterdam-based
 ING Groep NV (INGA)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  of Zurich.  Poland’s  WIG20 (WIG20)  Index of the biggest and most liquid stocks
on the Warsaw bourse rose 20 percent last year, compared with 14
percent increases in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index and the Czech PX
Index. This year, the WIG20 has declined 7.7 percent and the PX
5 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 600 has advanced 11 percent.  Walesa, 69, was Poland’s first democratically elected
president, from 1990 to 1995. He started the country’s asset
sales program, the transition to a free market economy and
negotiated the withdrawal of Soviet troops. He backed Tusk’s
successful election to prime minister in 2007.  Tusk is from Gdansk, the birthplace of Walesa’s Solidarity
movement, and was active in the opposition to the Communist
Party in the 1980s. In addition to continuing Walesa’s market
policies, his  Civic Platform  advocated adopting the euro and
embraced better relations with neighboring Germany and Russia.
Tusk was re-elected in 2011.  Asset Sales  Equity offerings on the Warsaw exchange this year have
eclipsed the 10 billion zloty sold in the whole of 2012. The
government sold a 12.3 percent stake in PKO Bank Polski,
Poland’s largest lender, for 5.24 billion zloty in January. KBC
Group NV and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  sold 21.4 percent of Bank
Zachodni WBK SA, the country’s third-biggest bank, for 4.89
billion zloty in March.  Tusk is targeting sales of state-owned assets amounting to
at least 5 billion zloty in 2013, even as he foresees economic
growth slowing to 1.5 percent, the weakest in more than a
decade, from 1.9 percent last year. Poland’s $514 billion
economy is larger than any in central Europe and ranks eighth in
the 27-member European Union. It’s the only EU economy that
hasn’t experienced a recession since the financial crisis in
2008.  By contrast, the economy of the 17-nation euro area shrank
0.2 percent in the first three months of 2013, extending a
recession to a record sixth quarter, as policies implemented to
curb public deficits restrain growth.  Scaling Back  Some international banks, under cost-cutting and regulatory
pressures, are scaling back their operations in Poland. Credit
Suisse, the Swiss bank that’s cutting costs across its business,
moved its Polish equity trading to  London  from Warsaw.  KBC Securities NV, under pressure from the European Union
to dispose of assets in exchange for state aid, halted
operations in Warsaw last month including retail brokerage,
institutional sales, research and corporate finance.  “Poland might have become a victim of global changes and
cost-cutting initiatives,” Miklos Kormos, 50, Deutsche Bank’s
head of investment banking for central and eastern Europe, said
in a phone interview from  Frankfurt . “I don’t see us going in
that direction.”  Pension Funds  For bankers, one attraction of Poland is the region’s
biggest pool of pension funds. The 14 pension funds, including
ING’s Polish unit, the biggest of them, have bought 101.5
billion zloty of shares listed in Warsaw since their
establishment a decade ago. By contrast, Russia’s pension funds
own $6.5 billion of stock in Moscow, according to a Goldman
Sachs report in February.  “We decided to lead our regional equities business from
Warsaw because this isn’t just a temporary phenomenon for us,”
Jacek Radziwilski, 41, head of Milan-based UniCredit’s Polish
operations, said in a telephone interview.  Societe Generale  is expanding in Poland after cutting 1,600
corporate and investment-banking jobs globally last year and
outlining 900 million euros of extra cost savings by 2015.  In December, Walenczak brought Filip Paszke from Bank
Zachodni as chief of equities. Last month, he hired Andrzej Olszewski, former chief of corporate finance at ING Securities
in Warsaw, to develop the local investment banking business.  The pace of mergers and acquisitions is also attracting
banks to Warsaw, according to Alicja Kornasiewicz, 62, head of
investment banking for Poland and the region at  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
and deputy Treasury minister from 1997 to 2000.  Targets Abroad  Transaction volume was $9.83 billion last year, more than
tripling from 10 years before and exceeding all deals in the
rest of central and eastern Europe except Russia, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Polish companies have less experience in growing their
businesses through M&A than, say, companies in developed markets
like France and Germany, but that could easily change,”
Kornasiewicz said in an interview. “Local companies are
increasingly looking at targets at home as well as abroad.”  Morgan Stanley and Santander lead the mergers rankings this
year after advising on 1.84 billion zloty of deals. Rothschild
and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP follow. Goldman Sachs and
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp.  tied for
first in 2012.  ‘Green Island’  Among the largest transactions was the $5.7 billion sale of
Polkomtel Sp. z o.o., Poland’s second-largest mobile phone
operator, to billionaire Zygmunt Solorz-Zak in 2011. Spain’s
Santander paid $5.2 billion for Bank Zachodni WBK SA,  Allied
Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) ’s Polish unit, the same year.  More deals are in the works. BNP Paribas Bank Polska SA
picked Bank Handlowy SA, owned by Citigroup, to help manage a
secondary public offering this year, Frederic Amoudru, CEO of
BNP’s unit in the country, said in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg questions today.  Carlo Tassara SpA, a holding company controlled by French
financier  Romain Zaleski , hired UBS to sell its remaining stake
in Alior Bank, three people familiar with the matter said in
January.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Scandinavia’s largest bank, hired Bank
of America to explore selling Nordea Bank Polska SA, two people
with knowledge of the matter said in February.  Deutsche Bank says the size of transactions in the country
provide a unique opportunity in the region. Poland’s economy and
the level of “recurring investment-banking business” make the
nation “a green island in the storm,” Kormos said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  