-- South Africa’s Rand Weakens to Four-Year Low Amid Rate Cut Talk
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-05-20T10:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/south-africa-s-rand-weakens-to-four-year-low-amid-rate-cut-talk.html
The rand depreciated to the lowest in
more than four years against the dollar amid speculation slowing
inflation will give South  Africa ’s Reserve Bank room to lower
borrowing costs, reducing the currency’s yield advantage.  The central bank has left its benchmark repurchase rate
unchanged at 5 percent since a surprise cut in July to support
growth in Africa’s biggest economy. The Monetary Policy
Committee announces its decision on interest rates on Thursday
as lower commodity prices and slowing consumer demand reduce
pressure on prices.  “We stick with our long-standing call that the next move
from the Reserve Bank will be a cut of 50 basis points by the
first quarter of 2014, and think that the chances of this
occurring materially earlier have increased,” Bruce Donald, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “It would be fair to
suggest that increasing optimism on domestic interest rate
prospects has most likely also played a role in rand weakness.”  South Africa’s currency dropped 0.7 percent to 9.4673 per
dollar by 11:51 a.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its decline in
the past eight days to 5.1 percent. Yields on benchmark 10.5
percent bonds due December 2026 rose for a seventh day, adding
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.89 percent.  Inflation probably slowed to 5.7 percent in April from 5.9
percent the previous month, a report may show on Wednesday,
according to the median estimate of 19 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  The MPC will leave its repo rate unchanged this week,
according to 19 of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Charles
Robertson, chief economist at Renaissance Capital Ltd. in
 London , predicts a 25 basis-point cut.  Forward-rate  agreements  starting in December are pricing in
more than a 60 percent change of a 50 basis-point cut this year,
according to Standard Bank. The contracts climbed two basis
points today to 4.81 percent, or 32 basis points lower than the
Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  