-- South African Gold Stocks Drop After Above-Inflation Pay Demands
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-05-20T12:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/south-african-gold-stocks-drop-after-above-inflation-pay-demands.html
Unions have asked  South Africa ’s
biggest gold and coal producers to raise wages by as much as 61
percent, or 10 times the inflation rate. The country’s gold-stocks index dropped to an almost 12-year low.  The  National Union of Mineworkers , or NUM, wants surface-level employees to be paid a minimum basic salary of 7,000 rand
($740) a month, it said in e-mailed statement. That compares
with 4,350 rand paid now, Elize Strydom, the chief negotiator
for the Chamber of Mines, the body through which wage talks take
place, said today. Solidarity wants a raise of 10 percent for
all members, General Secretary Gideon du Plessis said.  “The chamber has circulated these demands to all its
members and the members will now meet,” Strydom said by phone.  Mining companies in South Africa are reining in spending
plans amid rising costs, declining metals prices and labor
disruptions that halted output last year. Gold producers in the
country, the world’s fifth-biggest producer of the metal, last
year raised wages by 7.5 percent to 10 percent.  Annual inflation 
averaged 5.3 percent from 2010 to 2012 and was 5.9 percent in
March.  The FTSE/JSE Africa Gold Mining Index declined 3.4 percent
to 1,318.49, the lowest intraday level since November 2001.
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., the world’s third-largest producer,
dropped 3.6 percent to 156.16 rand, the lowest in 4 1/2 years,
while  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  declined 3.5 percent to 53.62 rand, at
2:30 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Other Categories  The NUM wants opencast employees’ basic salary to be raised
to 8,000 rand a month. They are paid 5,000 rand now, Strydom
said. The union wants workers in all other categories to get a
15 percent increase and has made other demands on benefits
including housing and transport.  The wage demands are “usually high'' but this is more 
politicking than being realistic,  David Davis , a mining analyst 
at SBG Securities Ltd., said by phone. “They can’t afford it.”  The NUM has lost membership to the Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union in rivalry that contributed
to unrest that halted production at gold, coal, and platinum
mines last year and cost the continent’s biggest economy .  While the AMCU has been invited to wage talks for gold, the
union hasn’t indicated whether it will participate, Strydom
said.  “We’ve told the AMCU that we’ve bargained centrally over
many many decades in gold and that’s where we will be bargaining
and we’re inviting them to be part of central-level
negotiations,” she said.  Solidarity’s wage-increase demands include a request that
their members be compensated for working during last year’s
stoppages, Du Plessis said by phone.  “There was a gentleman’s agreement during the unrest where
our members worked under difficult circumstances and they would
be rewarded for that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  