-- Spurs Target Moutinho as First Offseason Signing: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-20T07:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/spurs-target-moutinho-as-first-offseason-signing-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Tottenham Target  Porto’s Joao Moutinho is the first offseason target for
Tottenham Hotspur manager Andre Villas-Boas,  the Sun reported .  Moutinho, 26, almost joined Spurs last year before the move
collapsed and would cost at least 30 million pounds ($45.5
million), the newspaper added. The club must strengthen its
squad after missing out on a Champions League place by a point,
the Sun cited Villas-Boas as saying.  “We got so close but our rivals will do their job in the
window,” Villas-Boas  was cited  as saying. “We will do our job
the Tottenham way; scouting properly, looking for good grabs in
the summer to make it a stronger squad.”  Proactive Search  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger vowed to invest in new
players after the Gunners secured a Champions League berth for
the 16th straight season, the  Daily Mail reported .  “We want additions but we want to keep the structure and
spirit and quality of the team,” the Mail cited Wenger as
saying. “But let’s not forget there are many clubs with big
money and maybe not enough talent to strengthen all the teams.
But we will go out in a proactive way.”  Juve Wants Tevez  Italian champion Juventus wants to sign Manchester City’s
Carlos Tevez and is also looking at his fellow Argentine striker
Gonzalo Higuain of Real Madrid, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “I have to say that Higuain is a bit younger and has a
higher market value,” the Mirror cited Giuseppe Marotta,
Juventus’s sporting general manager, as saying. “Tevez on the
other hand has a year left on his contract so maybe between the
two, the Tevez deal is easier.”  PSG Possibility  Tevez said he’s still interested in a move to French
champion Paris Saint-Germain, whom he almost joined last year,
the  Daily Mail reported .  Manuel Pellegrini, who’s set to be appointed as City’s new
manager, has been linked with a move for Real Madrid’s Pepe, the
newspaper added. The Portuguese defender, 30, has been out of
favor in recent weeks with Real preferring 20-year-old Frenchman
Raphael Varane, the Mail said.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  