-- Steak-Loving Japan Seen Propelling JBS Profits: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-05-20T18:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/steak-loving-japan-seen-propelling-jbs-profits-corporate-brazil.html
JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s biggest beef
producer, is counting on steak-hungry consumers in  Japan  and
other Asian nations to help propel total exports past $10
billion for the first time this year.  “I’m very optimistic about Japan,” Chief Executive
Officer Wesley Batista, 43, said about the nation that is the
world’s third-largest beef importer. “We’re increasing export
volumes and the variety of products we ship,” he said in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in Sao Paulo.  JBS, whose sales to  Asia  jumped 30 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, is boosting shipments after Japan
eased import curbs and  China  became its biggest market. Soaring
demand from Asia, the destination for about a third of JBS’s
beef, pork and poultry exports, may help cut debt after
Batista’s brother, former CEO Joesley Batista, embarked on a
$2.3 billion  acquisition  spree that turned the family business
into a $10 billion  company .  The meat provider’s 17 percent return in the past month
makes it the best performer among the world’s five biggest
meatpackers by market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
It’s trading at about 11 times its estimated 2013 earnings,
compared with a ratio of 24 for BRF SA, Brazil’s biggest food-processing company, and 19 for Marfrig Alimentos SA, the second
largest.  JBS rose 1.5 percent to 6.98 reais at 3:37 p.m. in Sao
Paulo.  Plant Ramp-Up  The company, which produces about 13 percent of the world’s
beef, took over four slaughterhouses in Brazil this year, along
with two in the U.S. and a pair in  Canada . This will help boost
profit as JBS steps up output, Batista said.  “As the ramp-up at new plants matures, we’ll see margins
improving across the continent,” said Batista, who succeeded
his younger brother in 2011 after the company increased sales
13-fold following 11 acquisitions.  First-quarter net income doubled from a year earlier to
227.9 million reais ($112 million), JBS said on May 14. The
result was in line with the 231 million-real average of five
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Wesley Batista’s biggest purchase so far has been the $132
million takeover of Brazilian meatpacker Independencia SA in
January, compared with his brother’s acquisitions of global
rivals from Swift & Co. to Greely, Colorado-based  Pilgrim’s
Pride Corp. (PPC)   Cargill, FPBQ  The shutdowns of Minneapolis-based Cargill Inc.’s
slaughtering plant in  Texas  in February and Quebec-based FPBQ’s
Levinoff-Colbex plant last year have reduced competition for
JBS, leaving it better poised to tap rising demand in Asia and
in the U.S. as summer approaches, said Luiz Carlos Cesta, an
equity analyst at Banco Votorantim SA.  “Wesley is doing a good job since taking over,” said
Cesta, whose recommendations returned the most to investors in
the past 12 months among 14 analysts tracked by Bloomberg. “The
shutdown of a rival plant in the U.S. and the start of the
barbecue season there tell me Batista will keep on delivering on
his promises,” he said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  JBS has  advanced  7.5 percent in Sao Paulo since Batista
took office on Feb. 1, 2011, compared with a 19 percent decline
in the benchmark Ibovespa index. It’s rated a hold by 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Six, including Cesta, rate the
stock a buy and none say sell.  The company’s JBS USA unit, which accounts for about 75
percent of revenue and ships from plants in the U.S. and
 Australia , is responsible for most of the beef sales to Asia.  Japanese Imports  Japan eased restrictions on U.S. beef in February by
raising the age limit for the cattle that the meat is taken from
to 30 months from 20 months, broadening supplies that are
eligible for exports. Sales to the Asian nation from JBS’s U.S.
plants jumped 70 percent in March from a year earlier, Batista
said.  Batista may be overestimating gains from exports as prices
for beef shipped out of  Brazil  decline and shrinking cattle
supplies in the U.S. may limit sales out of the country, Banco
Itau BBA SA equity analyst Alexandre Miguel said.  “I’m cautious,” Miguel, who has a hold recommendation on
the stock, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.
“Wesley is being too optimistic about his assumptions.”  Batista is counting on rising cattle supplies from Canada
to offset the drop in U.S. herds, which decreased to the
smallest in 61 years after last year’s drought in the Midwest
and South damaged pastures and cut output of corn and soybeans
used to feed livestock.  Canadian Cattle  Canada will export 875,000 live cattle this year, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said April 10, up 25 percent from an
October estimate. Most of the animals will be shipped to the
U.S., Batista said. Live cattle futures have dropped 8.3 percent
in  Chicago  this year, touching a 10-month low of $1.19275 a
pound on May 17.  “I thought this year would be more volatile, with cattle
prices hovering near record highs,” Batista said. “The
scenario has changed. Plant closures and imports from Canada
made me change my mind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  