-- Swedish Banks Get No Mercy as EU Agenda Ignored: Nordic Credit
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-05-20T10:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/swedish-banks-get-no-mercy-as-eu-agenda-ignored-nordic-credit.html
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg
said he won’t cave to pressure from banks or the European Union
to harmonize standards and insists capital ratios in the largest
Nordic economy need to be higher than those elsewhere.  “We will push ahead with higher capital requirements,”
Borg said in an interview in Stockholm. “We won’t take any
risks regarding the  Swedish economy ; we have a large banking
sector and highly indebted households, so we need to be sure
what’s ahead.”  Some of Sweden’s biggest banks have argued the government’s
approach is hurting their ability to lend. Without harmonized
capital rules, banks will suffer competitive distortions,  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  Chief Executive Officer Christian Clausen has repeatedly
warned. Clausen, who is also president of the European Banking
Federation, said in February lenders need “one rule book.”  Yet Borg’s tougher stance is supported by debt markets,
which have rewarded Sweden’s banks with some of Europe’s lowest
funding costs and default risks.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB, the EU’s best-capitalized major
bank, boasts credit-default swaps on level with the government
of  Japan , at about 60 basis points, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Its five-year swaps also trade about 17 basis
points lower than similar contracts on JPMorgan Chase & Co., the
biggest U.S. bank by assets.  Nordea shares rose 1.2 percent to 82.3 kronor at 12:24 p.m.
in Stockholm, while  SEB AB advanced  0.1 percent to 71.90 kronor.
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  slipped 0.6 percent to 168.1 kronor and
Handelsbanken fell 0.5 percent to 300.3 kronor.  Basel III  Sweden’s four biggest banks need to hold at least 10
percent core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted assets this
year, and no less than 12 percent by 2015. That compares with
Basel III’s 7 percent requirement by 2019 and a 9 percent
minimum standard for some European banks.  “All of Europe will benefit from having a harmonized
system and less discretion,” Nordea CEO Clausen said in an
interview in Dublin last week. “One thing is regulation. The
other is the market -- the market is putting more demand on
banks for more capital.”  Sweden’s biggest banks already exceed the country’s capital
requirements. Nordea reported a 13.2 percent core Tier 1 ratio
of risk-weighted assets for the first quarter, under Basel II
rules. At Swedbank AB, the ratio was 17.3 percent while SEB AB
had 15.3 percent, by that measure. Under Basel III regulation,
 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  had a 17.5 percent ratio while Swedbank
and SEB had 16.4 percent and 13.4 percent, respectively.  ’Not Reasonable’  Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman, who oversees
banks, argues harmonized capital rules make no sense because
each country has its own financial risks to deal with.  “The bank concentration is so different across Europe,”
he said in an interview. “It’s not reasonable that Swedish
taxpayers be exposed to higher risk in a financial crisis than
other taxpayers in Europe.”  Sweden’s government has backed the U.K. in its calls to
give individual EU members the freedom to set their own capital
rules. Sweden’s banking industry has combined assets that are
more than four times the $500 billion economy.  Speaking in  Stockholm  in February, Chairman of the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority Adair Turner said setting
individual standards is each country’s “right.” Nations that
design their own rules will “get advantages from it in the
longer term, rather than disadvantages,” he said.  Crisis Exacerbated  Europe’s crisis has been exacerbated by the link between
its under-capitalized banks and over-indebted governments. After
three years of fiscal turmoil, only four of the euro area’s 17
member states will comply with the bloc’s 60 percent debt rule
this year, according to European Commission estimates published
May 3.  Germany ’s debt will reach 81.1 percent, while the euro
area’s average will swell to 95.5 percent of GDP.  Greece ’s debt
burden will be almost three times the bloc’s targeted limit, at
175.2 percent, the commission estimates. Cyprus will see its
debt swell to 109.5 percent.  Commission data also show euro-zone governments have
injected 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) into their banking
systems since 2008 as the fates of nations depended on the
survival of their financial industries.  To avoid such costs, some of  Sweden ’s most influential
economists have argued in favor of requiring banks to hold 20
percent capital relative to their risk-weighted assets. Assar Lindbeck, a research fellow at the Research Institute of
Industrial Economics and one of the main architects behind
Sweden’s budget surplus rule, said in an interview last month
existing capital requirements should be “raised
substantially.”  According to Norman, Sweden’s banks are lobbying against
stricter rules in vain.  “There are no doubts that we will be able to have higher
capital requirements than other countries,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  