-- U.K. to Pilot Illumina Genetic Test for Breast, Ovarian Cancer
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-05-20T13:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/u-k-to-pilot-illumina-genetic-test-for-breast-ovarian-cancer.html
The U.K. is piloting a new genetic
test developed by  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  to help cancer patients and
their doctors better identify appropriate treatments and help
determine if relatives have cancer risk.  Illumina’s TruSight test, to be introduced in 2014 at the
Royal Marsden hospitals in London and Sutton, can analyze 97
genes that are linked to cancer within a few weeks for a few
hundred dollars, the Wellcome Trust said in a  statement  today.
The pilot program will start for women with breast and ovarian
cancer and may eventually be rolled out to the rest of the U.K.
National Health Service and for other types of cancers, it said.  About 2 percent of cancers develop because of a mutation in
a gene predisposed to the disease, such as BRCA1, which prompted
actress Angelina Jolie to have a double mastectomy. Knowing
whether a genetic mutation was the cause of a family member’s
cancer will help relatives decide whether they need to get
tested themselves, Nazneen Rahman, head of genetics at the
Institute of  Cancer Research  and lead investigator of the new
testing program, said in the statement.  “Sometimes a relative is found to also have an increased
risk of cancer and screening or preventative measures can be
employed,” Rahman said. “Just as frequently, testing provides
the reassuring news that a relative is not at increased risk of
cancer and does not need interventions.”  Illumina’s test is more affordable than other available
options.  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s BRCA tests cost about $4,000 for
the most comprehensive screens.  It is also a faster way of testing than existing models, as
cancer doctors can conduct the test at the treatment center
without having to refer patients to geneticists, Rahman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  