-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Hold as Investors Await Fed
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-20T21:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/u-s-company-credit-swaps-hold-before-bernanke-s-hill-testimony.html
(Corrects date of Fed meeting in fifth paragraph.)  A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
held at the lowest in almost two weeks as investors await
congressional testimony this week from  Federal Reserve  Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  and minutes of the central bank’s April meeting.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.2
basis point to a mid-price of 70.2 basis points at 12:08 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index,
which ended last week at the lowest since May 8, typically falls
as investor confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates.  Derivatives traders will scrutinize minutes of the Federal
Reserve’s latest meeting for clues about when the central bank
may reduce stimulus that has been bolstering liquidity and
demand in credit markets. The Fed, which releases the minutes
May 22, the same day Bernanke is scheduled to testify before
Congress, currently purchases $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage debt each month.  “A lot of the uplift in the market has been attributed by
investors to central banks’ actions,” Marc Pinto, head of
corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna International Group LLP
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “Therefore as the
Fed in particular starts to change course, investors are going
to be looking at that very closely. Any words uttered by  Ben
Bernanke  are going to be scrutinized.”  Tapering Purchases  San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said on May 16
the central bank may start tapering its bond purchases as soon
as this summer and end the program late this year amid an
improved labor market. Two days earlier, Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  said the U.S. central bank should
start to curtail its purchases as early as its next gathering,
scheduled for June 18-19.  Despite the calls for immediate tapering, “the hurdles
still appear to be quite high,” RBS Securities Inc. analysts
led by Edward Marrinan wrote in a note today. “As such, we
don’t expect any asset purchase adjustments, in either direction
until late 2013.”  CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF) , the largest U.S. maker of
nitrogen fertilizer, is selling benchmark debt in its first
offering in more than three years.  The company may issue 10- and 30-year securities as soon as
today, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
Proceeds, which may reach as much as $1.5 billion, will be used
to fund capacity expansion projects, working capital and for
other general corporate purposes, including stock repurchases,
the Deerfield, Illinois-based company said today in a statement.  Junk Risk  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index was unchanged at 341.3 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  lifted their
forecasts for U.S. junk-bond returns amid suppressed borrowing
costs for even the least creditworthy of issuers.  Barclays analysts predict high-yield bonds may gain 8
percent in 2013, as much as four percentage points more than
their original expectation, strategists led by Jeffrey Meli and
Bradley Rogoff said in a May 17 report. JPMorgan sees “modest
upside risk to our original full-year return forecast of 7 to 8
percent for U.S. high yield” and now expects gains of as much
as 10 percent, according to strategists led by Jan Loeys.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt eased 0.6 basis point to 485 basis points, Bloomberg
data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  