-- U.S. Attorney Leaked Memo to Undermine Operation Critic
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-05-20T17:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/u-s-attorney-leaked-memo-to-undermine-operation-critic.html
A federal prosecutor involved in the
botched gun operation known as Fast and Furious gave an internal
memo to the news media, possibly to undermine a federal agent’s
criticisms, the  Justice Department ’s inspector general  said .  Dennis Burke , then the U.S. attorney for Arizona, in 2011
provided a memo written by John Dodson, a special agent with the
Bureau of Alcohol, Firearms, Tobacco and Explosives, to a Fox
News reporter. Burke was not authorized to release the memo and
may have intentionally given it to the press to damage Dodson,
according to a 23-page report from Michael Horowitz, the Justice
Department’s inspector general.  “We believe this misconduct to be particularly egregious
because of Burke’s apparent effort to undermine the credibility
of Dodson’s significant public disclosures about the failures in
Operation Fast and Furious,” said the report, which was
released today.  Dodson was one of the first law enforcement officials to
publicly criticize operations where agents allowed guns to
“walk” -- be purchased by straw buyers and cross into  Mexico .
The operations were intended to lead  law enforcement  to
individuals in Mexican drug cartels, which utilize straw
purchasers to get guns for their organizations.  One of the operations, known as Fast and Furious, became a
focal point for  congressional investigators  as they sought to
identify the origins and driving forces behind the program.  The inspector general’s office referred its findings to the
Justice Department’s  Office of Professional Responsibility  for a
determination of whether the conduct “violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct for the state bars in which Burke is a
member,” according to the report.  Burke, through his lawyers, acknowledged in 2011 that he
provided the memo in which Dodson proposed to work undercover as
a straw purchaser of firearms. Burke gave it to the Fox News
reporter to “give context to information that the reporter
already had,” according to a letter sent to the Justice
Department’s inspector general by Lee Stein, one of Burke’s
lawyers, in November of that year.  Burke resigned as U.S. attorney in August 2011. Chuck
Rosenberg, another lawyer for Burke, declined to comment on the
inspector general’s report.  Horowitz released a 471-page report last year outlining
management failures at the ATF and the Justice Department as
part of the operation that lost track of about 2,000 guns
purchased by straw buyers. Two of those guns were found at the
scene of the 2010 killing in  Arizona  of U.S. Border Patrol Agent
Brian Terry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  