-- U.S. Faces Downgrade in 2013 Without Budget Deal, Moody’s Warns
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-20T16:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/u-s-faces-downgrade-in-2013-without-budget-deal-moody-s-warns.html
U.S. policy makers must address debt
loads projected to rise later this decade to avoid a 2013
downgrade, even as the latest budget projections are “credit
positive,” according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The  U.S. budget deficit  will drop to $378 billion in 2015
from a record $1.4 trillion in 2009, according Congressional
Budget Office data. The federal government will post an $642
billion deficit this year, the first time in five years that the
shortfall has been less than $1 trillion. Moody’s said Sept. 11
that the U.S.’s top Aaa rating would likely be cut to Aa1 if an
agreement on the debt ratio isn’t reached.  “The fact that it showed much lower debt levels going
forward, we view as a positive development,”  Steven Hess ,
senior vice-president at Moody’s and based in  New York , said
today in a telephone interview of the CBO forecast. “More needs
to be done on the policy front to address this rising debt
ratio.”  While projections from the non-partisan budget office
forecast the  ratio  of  U.S. debt  to gross-domestic-product
declining to less than 71 percent by fiscal year 2018, the CBO
forecasts the measure will increase “thereafter, pointing to
the uncertain long-term outlook if reform of entitlement
programs does not take place at some point,” Moody’s said today
in a report.  Budget Proposals  President  Barack Obama  sent a $3.8 trillion budget to
Congress in April calling for more  tax revenue  and slower growth
for Social Security benefits. The House passed a plan that
balances the U.S. budget by fiscal 2023 without raising taxes.  “All of the proposals that are out there, including the
budget by the Republicans in the House, and also the
administration’s Obama budget that was proposed, all of those
show a lower debt ratio in the second half of the decade,” Hess
said. “We will wait and see the outcome of all of those
negotiations.”  Downgrades don’t necessarily correspond to higher borrowing
costs.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December on
Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s grades.  Debt Ceiling  S&P, the world’s largest credit rater, cut the U.S. ranking
to AA+ from AAA in August 2011, contributing to a global stock-market rout and sending  yields (USGG10YR)  on Treasury bonds to record lows
rather than driving up rates. Yields on 10-year Treasuries
dropped 0.74 percentage point in the seven weeks following the
downgrade to a then-record 1.67 percent. The yield stood at 1.97
percent today. Moody’s is the second-biggest credit rater.  Political wrangling over raising the U.S. debt limit was
among the reasons S&P downgraded the U.S. in 2011. Hess said the
debt ceiling will likely be raised to avoid a default.  “It always has been, and we think always will be”
increased and default avoided, he said.  The date the nation hits the ceiling on borrowing could be
pushed back as far as mid-September to Sept. 30 from a previous
estimate of late August to mid-September, Steve Bell, senior
director of economic policy at the Bipartisan Policy Center in
 Washington , said in an interview. The date has moved as changes
in  tax policy  and an economic rebound boost federal revenue.  There are “big differences between the parties still,”
Hess said. “On the positive side, the economy is doing a bit
better than one might have expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  