-- Ugandan Newspaper Accuses Government of Harassment Over Raid
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-05-20T15:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/ugandan-newspaper-accuses-government-of-harassment-over-raid.html
The Daily Monitor,  Uganda ’s biggest
independent daily newspaper by readership, accused the
government of harassment after police raided its offices and
halted broadcasts by two affiliated  radio stations .  The police obtained a court order to search the newspaper’s
offices for a letter written by General David Sejusa,
coordinator of intelligence services, police spokeswoman Judith
Nabakooba said by phone today from the capital, Kampala. The
document refers to an alleged plot to assassinate government
officials opposed to plans for President Yoweri Museveni’s son,
Brigadier Muhoozi Kaneirugaba, to succeed his father, she said.  “We don’t have what they are looking for,” Don Wanyama,
the Daily Monitor’s managing editor, said by phone from Kampala.
“We published the information. This is media harassment.”  Museveni, 69, has ruled Uganda since 1986 when a five-year
bush war ended. He has won all four elections held since 1996,
though the last vote in 2011 was criticized by international
observers and rejected by opposition parties who said it was
marred by voter intimidation and fraud.  The East African nation is the continent’s biggest coffee
exporter and is set to become an oil producer after  Tullow Oil
Plc (TLW)  found crude deposits in 2006. The government estimates its
oil reserves at 3.5 billion barrels.  The government has denied there is a  succession plan 
involving the president’s son, and accuses Sejusa, who left the
country after the letter was published, of trying to build his
own  political support base . Bloomberg News was unable to find
contact information for Sejusa to seek comment.  Switched Off  KFM and Dembe FM radio stations, which like the Daily
Monitor are owned by Nairobi-based Nation Media Group, the
region’s biggest media company, were switched off air, Wanyama
said.  Umeme Ltd., the country’s power distributor, sent officials
to the Daily Monitor’s offices to disconnect its electricity,
the newspaper said on its Twitter page. Umeme spokesman Henry
Rugamba’s phone was switched off when  Bloomberg News  called him
seeking comment.  Police last week interrogated three journalists from the
newspaper, including Wanyama, over a May 7 article that cited
Sejusa, according to the Daily Monitor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  