-- Vietnam Says Economy at Great Risk of Macroeconomic Instability
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-20T05:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/vietnam-says-economy-at-great-risk-of-macroeconomic-instability.html
Vietnam  still faces “great risk” of
macroeconomic instability, a deputy premier said, as credit
growth trails behind targets while banks work to reduce elevated
bad debt that has hampered  growth .  While Vietnam is targeting a 12 percent expansion in credit
this year, local businesses are facing difficulties getting
loans, Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc told the National
Assembly in Hanoi today. Credit grew about 2 percent in the
first four months of the year, the government said last week.  The economy expanded 5.03 percent last year, the slowest
pace since 1999, and the  International Monetary Fund  last month
 cut  this year’s forecast to 5.2 percent from 5.8 percent.
Lending grew last year by what the  World Bank  described as an
“anemic” 9 percent, and while the central bank has cut  policy
rates , its attempts to spur growth have been countered by delays
in forming a vehicle to address bad debt.  “Vietnam’s economy still has shortcomings and
weaknesses,” Phuc said.  Banks are reluctant to lend due to concern over bad debts,
which Phuc said today was gauged by lenders to be 4.51 percent
at the end of March. That compares with a central bank estimate
of 7.8 percent at the end of last year. The government plans to
ask lenders with bad-debt ratios greater than 3 percent to
transfer non-performing loans to an  asset management company ,
which was scheduled to be formed by the end of March.  “The restructuring of the banking system and the
resolution of bad debts have been slow,” said Nguyen Sinh Hung,
chairman of the National Assembly.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  