-- Vodacom Plans Purchases In Three Countries by End of 2014
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-05-20T13:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/vodacom-plans-purchases-in-three-countries-by-end-of-2014-1-.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , South  Africa ’s
largest wireless operator, plans to begin operating in three
additional countries by the end of 2014 as it seeks to bring
data services and smartphones to new markets.  The company will look to enter the countries by acquiring
local operators, Chief Executive Officer Shameel Joosub said in
an interview after a full-year earnings presentation. He
declined to identify the target nations.  “We’ve cracked the African model,” Joosub said at the
company’s Johannesburg headquarters. “Our formula is working.
We’re a lot more confident today in terms of accessing new
markets and pursuing those opportunities.”  Vodacom is expanding its data services in Africa to take
advantage of increasing demand for smartphones. The company has
operations in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Tanzania,
 Mozambique  and  Lesotho  as well as South Africa. Revenue grew 11
percent in international markets in the year through March,
compared with 2.9 percent in South Africa, the company said
today.  The company is looking at acquisitions in African countries
with a population of more than 10 million and with high gross
domestic product growth, low mobile phone penetration and a
stable political situation, Joosub said.  Two or three deals “in the next two years would be
great,” he said in the interview. “There are some good
opportunities out there and we are actively pursuing it. We hope
to be able to add some acquisitions this year.”  Ethiopia Interest  Telma Group, the biggest telephone company in the island
nation of Madagascar, is seeking buyers, two people familiar
with the matter said in February. Joosub declined to comment on
whether Vodacom is interested in Telma.  Ethiopia  is a market where Vodacom would like to be as it’s
largely free of operators and mobile phone usage is low, the CEO
said. He declined to say whether the country is among those
targeted before 2015.  “We are all interested in Ethiopia,” Joosub said. “You’d
be crazy not be.”  Ethiopia, which has a population of about 89 million, is
among the most under-penetrated wireless markets in Africa.
About 17 percent of the population had a mobile phone in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 117
percent in Gabon and 65 percent in  Kenya .  “Ethiopia has a big population that’s under penetrated in
terms of mobile phones and could be a key player in the African
growth story,” Aadil Omar, an analyst for Macquarie, said by
phone. “If mobile money takes off there, alongside other
African countries, you could have a really strong African
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net 
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  