-- Websense Agrees to Private-Equity Buyout for $906 Million
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-05-20T20:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/websense-agrees-to-private-equity-buyout-for-about-1b.html
Websense Inc. (WBSN) , a website-filtering
company that is shifting into  Internet security , will be
acquired by private-equity firm  Vista Equity Partners  for about
$906 million.  Websense investors will receive $24.75 a share in cash, a
premium of about 29 percent over the stock’s closing price on
its last trading day, according to a statement today. The deal
will turn the San Diego company into a closely held business.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  RBC Capital Markets  and Guggenheim
Partners are providing debt financing for the transaction.  The company is trying to transition from its roots blocking
inappropriate websites in the workplace -- described by Chief
Executive Officer John McCormack as the “porn-filtering
market” -- into a provider of broader online-security services.
Vista, an Austin, Texas-based firm that specializes in
technology investments, will help bring “operational
discipline” to the company, McCormack said in the statement.  “Vista shares a similar vision for the company, including
a dedication to developing and delivering best-in-class  cyber
security  to our customers,” he said.  Websense shares rose to $24.76 at the close in New York
after the buyout was announced. Shares of the company, which has
long been viewed as a takeover target, were already up 28
percent this year before today.  Who’s Next?  Today’s deal validates Websense’s new focus and the growing
importance of the security software industry, said  Daniel Ives ,
an analyst at FBR Capital Markets & Co. in New York.  “This morning’s acquisition speaks to the value of
security software in the overall tech food chain as we believe a
surge of M&A activity is poised to hit the sector over the next
six to 12 months,” Ives said in a report.  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit served as
Websense’s financial adviser on the Vista buyout, while Cooley
LLP was its legal adviser. Kirkland & Ellis LLP was Vista’s
legal adviser.  Websense is refocusing on content security, including
services that protect e-mail and other data. That market is
worth about $5 billion to $6 billion, compared with less than $1
billion for Web-content filtering, McCormack said last week at a
JMP Securities conference.  Sales and profit are both in decline as the company makes
its transition. Revenue fell about 1 percent last year to $361.5
million, while net income dropped 41 percent to $18.3 million.  Still, demand for the new products is accelerating,
McCormack said last week.  “We still are a company that has a bit of an identity
crisis,” he said. “Websense is a well-known brand. It’s a
beautiful brand. But it’s a brand that’s most likely thought of
as a porn-filtering company, not a security company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  