-- Wilbur Ross Says he Will Weigh Buying Spanish Bank, Loan Assets
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-05-20T11:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/wilbur-ross-says-he-will-weigh-buying-spanish-bank-loan-assets.html
U.S. billionaire  Wilbur Ross  said he
will consider investing in Spanish banks amid signs the country
is following Ireland in starting “to come to grips” with its
financial crisis.  WL Ross & Co.’s purchase of a 9.3 percent stake in  Bank of
Ireland (BKIR)  Plc in 2011 “is turning out to be a very good
investment,” Ross said in an interview with Francine Lacqua and
Manus Cranny on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” today. He
said the stock has risen more than 80 percent since then amid
signs of stabilization in Ireland’s export-oriented economy.  “I’m going to  Spain  later on this week because, I think,
Spain too has a real economy,” Ross said. “It’s got terrible
problems, 27 percent unemployment and a banking system that I
think is just beginning to recognize the severity of its
problems.”  Spain’s real-estate market is nearing a bottom, Banco
Santander SA, the nation’s biggest bank, said last month, after
 home prices  fell more by than a third from their 2007 peak.
Ross, who originally indicated in October he’s interested in
investing in Spain’s financial industry, will consider buying
assets put up for sale by Sareb, the country’s bad bank, as well
as investing in distressed loans and banks, he said today.  Spain created Sareb to help lenders facing capital
shortages sell assets as part of the commitments the government
agreed to last year in return for a 100 billion-euro ($129
billion) European Union bailout. The bad bank plans to sell its
first 1.5 billion euros of assets this year, out of a total of
50.4 billion euros of assets turned over to it by state-aided
lenders, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said March 12.  Irish Experience  Ireland set up a similar bad bank, the National Asset
Management Agency, in 2009 to absorb about 72 billion euros of
commercial real-estate loans from the country’s debt-laden
banks. The sovereign and its largest banks, Bank of Ireland and
Allied Irish Banks Plc, each returned to public debt markets
last year for the first time since the country received a 67.5
billion-euro international bailout in 2010.  While Greece and Italy under former Prime Minister  Mario Monti  have done a “good job” reining in their finances,  France 
“going in the opposite direction” to other European countries
that are seeking to become more productive and competitive, Ross
said.  France “is doing a very good job discouraging foreign
direct investment from coming in,” Ross said. “We’re looking
at southern  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  