-- Wildly Varying Hospital Prices Keep Health Care Expensive
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-20T22:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/wildly-varying-hospital-prices-keep-health-care-expensive.html
If further proof were needed that
price competition doesn’t exist in the  expensive  U.S. health-care market, it arrived this month. The Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services  published  2011 charges for medical treatments
set by more than 3,000 American hospitals.  In suburban Denver, a patient treated for a respiratory
infection with complications  could be billed  $28,000, $46,000 or
$97,000, depending on the hospital. In the Los Angeles area,
knee and hip replacements cost  seven times  as much at one 
hospital as another.  The wide -- and wild -- variation exposes a critical
weakness in the national effort to control costs. Hospital
charges, which account for  about a third  of spending on health
care in the U.S., are uncontrolled by either government or
competition. Even as states and the federal government work to
hold down health-insurance rates, hospital prices will continue
to exert powerful pressure on them to rise -- along with the
overall cost of care.  Private insurers negotiate for discounts, but with many
hospitals they bargain at a disadvantage. Why? Because health-insurance buyers, including companies that purchase group
coverage for employees, demand a choice of hospitals. They
especially want their insurance to cover treatment at hospitals
that have strong reputations or provide a special service such
as organ transplantation or neonatal intensive care. Such
hospitals are  able to command  the highest prices, while stand-alone community hospitals accept rates similar to the
standardized payments made by Medicare.  Growing Clout  In the past decade and a half, the “must have” hospitals
have compounded their clout,  merging  into regional and national
health-care chains that typically negotiate for all their
institutions in a single package.  So prices keep rising. Although the Affordable Care Act
gives states greater ability to control increases in insurance
premiums, it doesn’t restrict what hospitals can charge
insurers.  Instead, the law aims to lower prices indirectly by
encouraging the creation of “accountable care organizations” --
groups of hospitals, doctors and other providers that coordinate
patient treatment to make it more efficient. If these
organizations achieve lower costs, they get to keep some of the
savings -- a welcome incentive. If they are successful, though,
accountable care organizations will also increase cooperation
among health-care providers, which may further consolidate their
market power.  Publicizing prices, as CMS and  others   have done , is a step
in the right direction, raising awareness of how arbitrary
hospital charges can be. Ideally, it also signals to hospitals
that aggressive price-setting strategies may invite regulators’
attention.  States might consider, for instance, rules to prevent
hospitals from charging different rates to different insurers,
or to set caps on what hospitals can charge patients with little
or no insurance. (Even as more Americans gain insurance on the
state exchanges that are gearing up to operate next year, some
people are expected to remain uninsured or buy catastrophic-care
policies that won’t cover all their hospital bills.)  Standard Payments  Maryland sets the prices that hospitals can charge all
payers, including private insurers, uninsured patients, Medicare
and Medicaid. The state takes into account the hospitals’ costs,
the quality of treatment and the level of uncompensated care
they provide. As a result, Medicare and Medicaid pay hospitals
more in  Maryland  than elsewhere, but the state’s average
hospital cost per case is 2 percent lower than the national
average. Since 1976, when the state program started, Maryland’s
rate of cost increase per hospital admission has been the
second-lowest in the U.S.  Another way for a state to achieve uniform hospital charges
without actually setting them would be to let public and private
insurers collectively negotiate them with hospitals, as health-care-policy experts writing in the New England Journal of
Medicine last fall  recommended . Once set, such charges could
then be allowed to rise at the same rate as average wages in the
state.  This “all payer” strategy keeps hospitals from cost-shifting -- charging private payers more to make up for
underpayments from Medicaid. Getting rid of cost-shifting, in
turn, saves administration costs.  Not all states would want a system as regulated as
Maryland’s. But all states -- and the federal government, too --
would be remiss not to address out-of-control hospital charges.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 