-- Won Erases Loss as South Korea Targets Volatility; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-05-20T10:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/won-falls-to-four-week-low-on-north-korea-tensions-bonds-drop.html
The won recovered from a four-week
low after  South Korea  said it will act to curb currency swings
amid renewed regional tensions as  North Korea  fired missiles.
Government bonds declined.  Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said South Korea should seek
to limit the won’s volatility if it intensifies because of the
yen’s slide, according to Choi Hee Nam, the ministry’s director
general. Financial Services Commission Chairman Shin Je Yoon
said today foreign-currency liquidity will be closely monitored
as North Korean risks escalate. The North fired a short-range
missile for a third day today, the South’s  Defense Ministry 
said. That followed four such tests over the weekend.  The won closed at 1,116.63 per dollar in  Seoul , little
changed from 1,116.60 on May 16, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It earlier touched 1,121.08, the weakest level since
April 23. South Korean markets were closed on May 17 for a
public holiday. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 8.98 percent.  “The authorities expressing concerns about the won’s
volatility helped prevent investors from aggressively selling
the currency amid missile firings by North Korea,” said Son Eun
Jeong, an analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul. “The
government seems more concerned about the weak yen hurting the
South Korean economy.”  The yen’s depreciation has been much faster than previously
anticipated and competitiveness of Korean companies should be
strengthened to fight currency volatility, the  Finance
Ministry ’s Choi said.  Yen Moves  The won has fallen 4.7 percent versus the dollar and gained
14 percent against the yen this year. That makes it harder for
South Korean exporters such as Samsung Electronics Co. and
Hyundai Motor Co. to compete against Japanese rivals overseas.
 Foreign funds  sold $4.7 billion more Korean equities than they
bought this year through May 16, exchange data show.  The yen gained 0.6 percent today after reaching 103.31 per
dollar on May 17, its weakest level since October 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Citigroup Inc. said in a May 17
research note the yen’s weakness and geopolitical risks were
weighing on the won.  South Korea urged the North to accept its repeated calls
for working-level talks on bringing completed goods to the South
from the Gaeseong industrial zone, the Unification Ministry
spokesman Kim Hyung Suk said at a briefing yesterday. The
jointly-run factory in the North Korean border city of Gaeseong
has been shut since the North decided on April 8 to withdraw all
its workers from the complex.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent  government bonds 
due March 2018 climbed four basis points to 2.69 percent, the
highest level since April 17, prices from Korea Exchange Inc.
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  