-- World’s Biggest Volatility Jump Spurs Fund Outflow
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2013-05-20T01:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/world-s-biggest-volatility-jump-spurs-fund-outflow.html
Investors are starting to flee what
used to be the slowest-moving major debt market after Bank of
Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s stimulus caused price swings to
increase by the most in the world this year.  Price  volatility  for Japanese government bonds has surged
2.6 percentage points this year to 3.66 percent, the biggest
advance among 26 sovereign-debt markets tracked by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Swings
in German bunds rose 0.48 percentage point during the period,
while those for U.S. Treasuries increased 0.07 point.  Japanese money managers bought more overseas bonds than
they sold for three straight weeks through May 10, in line with
Kuroda’s  goal  of pushing investors out of sovereign debt and
into riskier assets such as foreign notes. While the increase in
investments abroad is a sign that his monetary stimulus is
gaining traction, it’s been accompanied by rising JGB volatility
and higher interest rates that could weigh on the economy.  “The BOJ’s aim was to spur portfolio rebalancing by
keeping bond yields low, but it now faces the chance of
triggering that in an unintended way by increasing volatility,”
said Shogo Fujita, the chief Japanese bond strategist in  Tokyo 
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, one of the 24 primary dealers
obliged to bid at government debt auctions. “It’s ironic --they
may accomplish their goal, but not quite in the way they
intended.”  Yield Swings  The central bank decided on April 4 to double government
bond purchases to more than 7 trillion yen ($68 billion) a
month, marking an expansion of monetary stimulus that was larger
than analysts expected, aimed at achieving 2 percent inflation
in two years.  The policy move caused  benchmark 10-year yields  to fall to
a record low of 0.315 percent the next day, before rising as
high as 0.92 percent last week as the easing sparked a 22
percent advance in the  Topix Index (TPX)  of shares and boosted
inflation expectations.  Kuroda and his policy board will discuss the impact of the
rising bond yields at their two-day meeting starting May 21, the
Nikkei newspaper reported last week, without citing anyone.  The yield swings caused the historical volatility for JGBs
to surge to 3.66 percent as of May 17 based on a 60-day reading,
compared with 1.06 percent at the end of last year, the lowest
globally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the EFFAS.
The measure of price fluctuations for  bunds  was at 3.68 percent
last week and 3.12 percent for U.S. Treasuries.  Rabobank Samurai  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Rabobank Nederland
offered 101.5 billion yen of Samurai bonds split into four
tranches on May 17, including 43.5 billion yen of 0.708 percent,
five-year notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was
the Dutch lender’s first sale of the yen notes in seven months.  Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corp. hired banks for a three-tranche bond offering, according to Nomura Holdings Inc., which
is managing the deal with four other firms including Daiwa
Securities Group Inc.  Samurais, which are yen-denominated bonds offered in  Japan 
by overseas borrowers, have handed investors a 0.14 percent loss
this month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
That compared with a 0.38 percent drop for domestic corporate
notes and a 0.55 percent decline for company paper worldwide.  The yen has depreciated more than 15 percent this year
against the dollar, the biggest loser among 16 major currencies.
It touched 103.31 per greenback last week, the weakest since
October 2008, and was at 102.84 at 10:37 a.m. in Tokyo today.  Fund Outflow  As bond-market volatility jumped in Japan, the country’s
money managers sent their cash abroad.  Japanese investors  increased holdings  of overseas debt by
186.4 billion yen in the week ended May 10, bringing total net
purchases to 692 billion yen since April 19, according to a
report from the Ministry of Finance last week. Prior to that,
they had cut their stakes in the securities for six straight
weeks, the longest streak since January 2010.  The yen’s weakening is also spurring investments abroad as
overseas assets turn more appealing in Japanese currency terms.
Government bonds issued by Group of Seven countries excluding
Japan have returned 18 percent this year in yen terms, compared
with 0.55 percent for Japan’s government bonds, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Japan’s five-year note  yield  rose above similar-maturity
bunds last week for the first time on record, according to
Bloomberg data going back to 1990. The JGB rate was at 0.37
percent on May 17, compared with 0.35 percent in  Germany .  BOJ Support  The local debt market may settle down as the BOJ continues
to snap up bonds, according to Makoto Yamashita, the chief Japan
rates strategist in Tokyo at Deutsche Securities Inc., a primary
dealer. The central bank is set to buy more than 50 percent of
the debt the government plans to issue this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Bond yields will probably stop rising,” Yamashita said.
“Even when there are sell-offs of bonds, the BOJ is there to
absorb them with large-scale purchases.”  In a test of investor demand for the nation’s longest-maturity sovereign securities, the Ministry of Finance will
 auction  400 billion yen of 40-year bonds tomorrow. The previous
offering on Feb. 13 drew  bids  valued at 3.51 times the amount
available, down from 3.82 at the prior sale in November.  The world’s third-largest economy has grown faster than
analysts expected after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took power in
December, pledging to end more than a decade of deflation.  Gross
domestic product  expanded at an annual pace of 3.5 percent in
the first quarter, the most in a year, according to government
figures released last week.  Inflation Expectations  The  breakeven rate , a measure of investors’ outlook for
consumer prices, signaled last week annual inflation in Japan of
1.84 percent over the next five years, the most on record going
back to June 2009.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.5
percent from a year earlier in March, the fifth straight month
of declines, according to government data released last month.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield completed a second
consecutive weekly advance on May 17, rising 23 1/2 basis points
to 0.795 percent, the biggest increase in five year. It was at
0.83 percent today, still the lowest globally after Switzerland.  “If yields rise further, the rationale behind the BOJ’s
plan will be called into question -- indeed, to some extent, it
already is,”  Nicholas Spiro , the managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in  London , said in an e-mail interview,
referring to Japanese bonds. “And JGBs themselves may prove
more attractive to yield-hungry investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  