-- WTC Properties Loses Bid to Bar Act-of-War 9/11 Defense
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/wtc-properties-loses-bid-to-bar-act-of-war-9-11-defense.html
World Trade Center Properties LLC
lost its bid to prevent American Airlines and its parent  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ)  from raising “act of war” as a defense to its alleged
negligence in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  U.S. District Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein in  Manhattan 
denied the bid by the leaseholder of the twin 110-story towers
in a May 17 ruling posted yesterday on the court’s docket. The
buildings collapsed after hijackers flew an American Airlines
jet into one and a United Airlines jet into the other.  The airlines promised Congress and the U.S. public they
wouldn’t raise “act of war” to avoid paying claims, lawyers
for the leaseholder, an affiliate of Silverstein Properties,
argued in a February court filing.  “Whether there is any merit to this defense depends on how
it is to be presented at trial, and therefore it is premature to
decide this issue now,” Hellerstein said.  About 3,000 people were killed in the Sept. 11 attacks, in
which two other planes were hijacked. One crashed into the
Pentagon near  Washington . The fourth crashed in a field in
 Pennsylvania .  The Silverstein organization accused American of breaking
promises that coincided with a federal bailout of the aviation
industry.  American Airlines  has “timely, consistently and vigorously
asserted the act of war defense,” during the 11 years of post-attack litigation, its lawyers said in a March 5 court filing.
There is no act-of-war exclusion it its insurance coverage, its
attorneys said.  ‘No Shortcut’  “There is no shortcut” for WTC Properties, the defense
lawyers said. “It is entitled to payment from American’s
insurance proceeds if and only if it prevails on the merits of
its litigation against American,” including overcoming the act-of-war defense.  In the same two-page order, the judge also declined to rule
on a defense motion for a reduction of the amount of money
damages for which they may be responsible associated with the
collapse of 7 World Trade Center, an  office tower  adjacent to
the twin towers site in lower Manhattan, which was struck by
debris as the other buildings fell.  The defendants asked for an interpretation of agreements
between World Trade Center Properties and its carrier,
Industrial Risk Insurers, which wasn’t before the court,
Hellerstein said.  The case is In Re September 11 Litigation, 21-MC-101, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  