-- WTI Crude Slips From Seven-Week High Before U.S. Inventory Data
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-05-21T12:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/wti-crude-trades-near-seven-week-high-as-stockpiles-seen-falling.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
declined from the highest closing price in seven weeks on
speculation that supplies will remain sufficient in the U.S.
even if stockpiles decreased as forecast last week.  Futures fell as much as 0.7 percent in  New York  after
advancing for a fourth day yesterday. U.S. crude supplies fell
by  800,000 barrels  last week, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before a report tomorrow from the Energy Information
Administration. That would still leave inventories 3 percent
higher than a year ago. The industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute  is scheduled to release its stockpile data today.  “There’s nothing here to fundamentally justify a sustained
price push” to higher levels now, said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an
analyst at VTB Capital in  London . “Expectations of future
supplies are rather comfortable.”  WTI for June delivery was at $96.39 a barrel, down 32
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:40 p.m. London time. The contract expires today. The volume
of all contracts traded was 12 percent below the 100-day
average. The more active July future fell 28 cents to $96.65.
Front-month prices increased 69 cents yesterday, or 0.7 percent,
to $96.71, the highest close since April 2.  Brent for July settlement slid 55 cents to $104.25 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark grade was at a premium of $7.56 to WTI for the same
month, down from $7.87 yesterday.  Fuel Supplies  WTI may extend gains after futures settled yesterday above
a downward-sloping trend line going back to September, signaling
a possible breach of technical resistance, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This line, at about $96.45 a barrel
today, connects to the high of January and is near where prices
halted rallies every month since then. Investors typically buy
contracts when chart resistance fails.  U.S. gasoline supplies decreased by  550,000 barrels  last
week, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Distillate-fuel inventories, including heating oil
and diesel, probably gained 1 million barrels, the survey shows.
The U.S. Memorial Day holiday on May 27 marks the start of the
nation’s peak driving period.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  Refinery Rates  U.S. refineries probably operated at 88.4 percent of
capacity in the seven days ended May 17, up 0.4 percentage
points from the prior week and the  highest rate  in four months,
the survey showed. Units often restart in the spring, after
maintenance in late winter, as refiners prepare to meet the
summer surge in demand for driving fuels.  Crude rose yesterday as Syrian government forces started an
offensive against rebels, renewing concern that conflict may
destabilize the  Middle East . Troops loyal to President Bashar al-Assad have retaken parts of the strategic city of Al-Qusair,
destroying tunnels used by rebels and seizing weapons, the
state-run SANA news agency said yesterday.  The Middle East accounted for 33 percent of global oil
output in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of
World Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  