-- Yahoo to Take Space in Former New York Times Headquarters
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-05-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/yahoo-will-expand-in-new-york-city-with-new-times-square-office.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  will lease four floors in
the old  New York  Times building near Times Square as part of an
expansion in the city that includes its agreement to purchase
Tumblr Inc.  The 176,000-square-foot (16,400-square-meter) lease of
floors nine through 12 in the 16-story tower will enable Yahoo
to increase its presence in New York by as much as 60 percent,
with a focus on expanding its engineering team, Yahoo Chief
Development Officer Jackie Reses said in a blog post. The deal
is also the first large lease for owner  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
which bought the building’s top 12 floors in 2011.  “We love the symbolism of our Yahoo NYC team moving into
the former New York Times building,” Reses said in the post.
“There has been a revolution in how users around the world
consume media.”  The deal helps ratify Blackstone’s vision that the 100-year-old tower, which the Times in 2007 vacated for a new
skyscraper nearby, could appeal to the city’s growing computer-technology industry, even in tourist-dominated Times Square. New
York’s technology sector has clustered in Soho, Chelsea,
Flatiron and other trendier neighborhoods to the south of
Midtown, driving vacancies there to the lowest in the U.S.
Blackstone bought the top 12 floors at 229 West 43rd St. in 2011
for $160 million.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , plans to move its
New York workers into the new space by December. Its local
employees now work in three different locations around the city.  ‘Simply Awesome’  The company is seeking to put its logo on top of the tower,
a prospect Reses called “simply awesome.” Blackstone, which
said last year it had invested $105 million in renovating the
building, was offering prospective tenants the opportunity to
put its name on the tower’s rooftop cupola, where the Times’s
Gothic-type logo once shined.  The announcement yesterday coincided with Yahoo’s plan to
buy New York-based Tumblr, the blogging network, for about $1.1
billion, its largest acquisition since  Marissa Mayer  became
Yahoo’s chief executive officer. About 500 Yahoo employees will
move into the tower, and Tumblr workers will stay in their
current offices, she said at an event yesterday in New York.  Yahoo joins two other technology firms in the tower, said
 Christine Anderson , a Blackstone spokeswoman. 10gen Inc., a
developer of Internet infrastructure, has 29,000 square feet,
and Citysearch, a producer of Web-based city cultural guides,
has 26,000 square feet, she said. The Blackstone-owned parts of
the building have about  480,000 square feet , according to
marketing materials provided last year.  The deal makes the building “a hub for the city’s growing
technology and media tenants,” Anderson said.  She declined to say what Yahoo will pay in rent or give the
length of the lease.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  