-- Thyssen Woes Tarnish 99-Year-Old Steel Baron’s Legacy
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-05-21T17:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-20/thyssenkrupp-woes-tarnish-99-year-old-steel-baron-s-legacy.html
For 60 years, the name of Berthold Beitz has been synonymous with  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker,
ThyssenKrupp AG, at first for his role in rebuilding the former
arms supplier and helping it break with its Nazi past.  Now, as head of the foundation that holds a 25.3 percent
blocking minority, the 99-year-old has become a symbol of much
that has gone wrong at the Essen-based company, whose stainless
steel was used in  Manhattan ’s Chrysler and Empire State
buildings. ThyssenKrupp is again seeking renewal after a botched
expansion in the Americas and bribery and price-fixing scandals
pushed it to a 4.7 billion euro ($6.1 billion) annual loss.  The power wielded by the industrialist, who was a little
known insurance executive when he was hired as general manager
by the last Krupp family owner in 1953, is under attack from
investors who hold him partly accountable for lax corporate
governance that led to the missteps. With the company refusing
to rule out a capital increase to repair its balance sheet, the
foundation over which Beitz presides risks losing its influence.  “ThyssenKrupp needs a capital increase, it cannot survive
without it,” Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH
& Co., said by phone from Kronberg near  Frankfurt . “The
question is what the foundation will do? It probably couldn’t
afford to participate in a share sale.”  The Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation, which
Beitz has headed since 1968, last month appointed two new
members to ThyssenKrupp’s supervisory board, keeping the number
of seats it holds at three, even after investors had asked it to
ease its grip.  Less Dominance  “We would prefer it if the foundation acted less
dominantly in the supervisory board,”  Ingo Speich , a  fund
manager  at Union Investment GmbH, one of ThyssenKrupp’s 10
biggest shareholders, said in a phone interview from Frankfurt.
“It is at least indirectly responsible for what happened in the
past.”  Beitz has shown no desire to step aside from what he’s
described as his personal mission for more than half a century.
In a March 18 interview with  Sueddeutsche Zeitung , the veteran
steel baron said he “will continue as long as I can.”  Beitz still goes to the office every day, said an official
at the foundation, who asked not to be named and declined to
comment for this story, as did ThyssenKrupp. Beitz refused
requests to be interviewed.  The organization manages the Krupp family fortune and has
donated about 615 million euros to philanthropic projects since
it was established, according to its  website .  Cannot Survive  Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger , brought in from
 Siemens AG (SIE)  and appointed in January 2011, is seeking to fortify
the company by selling assets, including unprofitable plants in
 Alabama  and  Brazil ’s Rio de Janeiro state.  ThyssenKrupp has been hurt by a succession of writedowns
and corruption probes that resulted in half the board being
ousted in December as well as antitrust fines. The events have
helped wipe about 11 billion euros off ThyssenKrupp’s market
value since the start of 2008 and prompted the steelmaker to
forgo its last full-year dividend.  ThyssenKrupp rose 1.5 percent to 15.25 euros in Frankfurt.
The shares are down 14 percent this year.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, Brazil’s third-largest
steelmaker, has emerged as the leading bidder for  ThyssenKrupp
AG (TKA) ’s Brazilian and U.S. steel-plant assets, people with
knowledge of the talks said earlier this month.  Intense Negotiations  “We are in intense negotiations for Steel Americas,”
Stefan Ettwig, a spokesman for ThyssenKrupp, said in an e-mailed
statement on May 3.  Hiesinger is also seeking to build up the non-steel base
that ranges from elevators to automotive parts and marine
services.  The biggest shareholder rebellion in the 14 years since the
1999 merger of Thyssen AG and Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp to
form ThyssenKrupp has forced some degree of change. Gerhard Cromme, handpicked by Beitz more than 27 years ago and groomed
as his successor, resigned as chairman in March after initially
ignoring calls to stand down.  The writing may now be on the wall for Beitz himself after
the company said May 15 that it has reviewed its relationship
with the foundation.  Hiesinger pledged in December to rid ThyssenKrupp of “old
structures and habits.” The company displayed “an
understanding of leadership, in which old boys’ networks and
blind loyalty were more important than business success,”
Hiesinger said at the time.  Totalitarian Leadership  “His leadership is totalitarian,” Friedrich von Bohlen und Halbach, a nephew of Alfried Krupp, the last family owner,
said about Beitz. Von Bohlen, who fought unsuccessfully to
reclaim his family’s influence over the estate, holds Beitz
responsible for the company’s decades-long decline. “This has
created broken corporate governance and a dysfunctional
organization.”  The foundation’s dominance stems from two mistakes made by
Alfried before his death in 1967, according to his nephew.
Alfried had wanted to make his son Arndt his successor “come
hell or high water and had no plan B,” von Bohlen said in an
interview in Heidelberg.  When Arndt unexpectedly renounced his inheritance, Alfried
only had outsider Beitz to turn to, and thus made him the head
of the foundation to which he transferred the entire family
holdings, he said.  Honorary Citizen  “Beitz exploited the vacuum to make himself Sun King of
the Ruhr,” said von Bohlen, referring to the German industrial
region situated in the Ruhr River valley. “He views himself as
Mr. Krupp.”  Among his admirers is Essen mayor Reinhard Pass, whose city
made Beitz an honorary citizen in May 2007. The foundation’s
blocking minority “has made the group less susceptible to
takeovers and has contributed to secure employment,” said Pass.  The foundation structure that Beitz oversees is not
uncommon among wealthy European families, such as Germany’s
 Dieter Schwarz ,  Sweden ’s  Ingvar Kamprad  and  Switzerland ’s
Margarita Louis-Dreyfus. Each have set up independent structures
in the form of foundations or trusts that are legally “self-owning” and managed by professional boards with the goal of
preventing hostile takeovers and generational feuding over the
fortunes.  Although the foundation’s stake has been diluted over the
years, it’s still worth about 2 billion euros. While its veto
rights were initially designed as a bulwark against a hostile
takeover, critics accuse Beitz of using them for his own
outdated agenda.  Germany Inc. Fossil  Beitz is a “fossil of Germany Inc.,” said Michael Adams,
a professor of economic law and specialist in corporate
governance at the University of Hamburg. He’s “unwilling to let
go of the reins of power. Compared with Beitz, even the pope
resigned relatively young,” he said, referring to the
resignation of German-born Benedict XVI at the age of 85.  The veteran industrialist has long been the public face of
the company. He played a key role in helping to restore business
ties with eastern  Europe  and  Russia  after the war and counted
heads of state including East Germany’s Erich Honecker as
friends. During the European steel crisis in 1974, he was
instrumental in persuading  Iran  to buy a stake in the company to
bolster its finances.  Rescued Jews  Beitz is feted for his wartime record. As head of oil
supplies in Nazi-occupied  Poland , he rescued hundreds of Jews
from trains bound for death camps, warned others of impending
deportations and hid many more in his home at great personal
risk.  In 1973, Yad Vashem,  Israel ’s holocaust memorial,
recognized Beitz as Righteous Among the Nations, an honor for
non-Jews who risked their lives to save Jews during the
Holocaust.  “From the bottom of my heart, I am proud to have helped
all these Jews escape the death trains,” Beitz told author
Marek Halter in an interview for “Stories of Deliverance,” his
1995 book. “But, truthfully, how could I have lived if I had
not done it?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  