-- 
✓ Gasoline Cargoes to U.S. to Slide 35% on European Refinery Maintenance

-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 
2011-10-06T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/-gasoline-cargoes-to-u-s-to-slide-35-on-european-refinery-maintenance.html
Gasoline shipments to the U.S. from
 Europe  will decline over the next two weeks as refineries on
both sides of the Atlantic Ocean enter a maintenance period to
prepare for accelerated winter fuel production.  Twenty tankers were booked or due to be chartered for
loading in the two-week period, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of three shipbrokers, one owner and
one trader yesterday. That’s the lowest since the end of August
and down 35 percent from 31 tankers last week.  Refiners in Europe have cut production to conduct plant
maintenance and in response to declining processing profits.  Eni
SpA (ENI) , Hellenic Petroleum SA and Ineos Group AG are among
companies to have halted or slowed output.  “We have seen many refiners cutting runs because crude-oil
prices are too high compared to product prices,” Ehsan Ul-Haq,
senior market consultant at KBC Energy Economics, said yesterday
by phone from Walton-on-Thames,  England . “As long as they don’t
make a profit, it doesn’t make sense to carry on refinery
operations.”  Gasoline stockpiles in independent storage in Amsterdam-
Rotterdam-Antwerp, Europe’s oil-trading hub, plummeted to the
lowest level in almost eight years in the week to Sept. 29,
according to PJK International BV. The auto fuel for November
delivery rose 0.5 percent to $2.5828 a gallon by 1 p.m. London
time on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Shipments to Asia  The closing of Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s largest refinery, in
 Singapore , may also draw more refined oil products from Europe,
according to James Zhang, an energy strategist at Standard Bank
Plc. Shell said today the offshore plant would stay shut until
investigations into last week’s fire conclude.  Of the 20 vessels in the survey, known in the industry as
medium-range tankers, 11 have been booked and nine will probably
be hired, according to the responses. They will be able to carry
about 6.3 million barrels of gasoline, or 450,000 barrels a day
over the next two weeks. The daily rate is 54 percent of the
835,000 barrels the U.S. imported over the past year, according
to the U.S. Department of Energy.  There are 32 vessels likely to be available to carry trans-
Atlantic gasoline cargoes, nine more than in last week’s survey.  Daily rental income for tankers carrying the fuel across
the Atlantic yesterday fell 14 percent, the most in almost a
month, to $9,314, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London.  The survey is based on so-called single-voyage, or spot,
charters and excludes loadings under longer-term contracts. It
assumes shipments to the U.S. East Coast from northwestern
Europe. Each tanker would normally haul about 37,000 tons of
cargo, or 315,000 barrels.  Charter rates on the route fell 5.1 percent to 159.17
industry-standard Worldscale points yesterday, according to the
exchange.  The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  