-- 
‘Huge’ Bank Bailouts Need to Be Probed by EU, Almunia Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-06T11:33:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/-huge-bank-bailouts-would-need-to-be-probed-by-eu-almunia-says.html
The European Union needs to examine
any “huge” state recapitalizations of banks in the region as
part of its oversight of government subsidies, according to
 Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner.  Almunia, who is responsible for checking that state
handouts don’t distort competition in the 27-nation region, said
governments should stand by to act “as the last resort” to
help banks if the market won’t provide the level of capital they
need.  “It is necessary to have state-aid control for this huge
amount of public resources channeled in support of the banking
sector through public capital injections” or help “for the
treatment of impaired assets or guarantees for liquidity,” he
said at a conference in Brussels today.  Signals that European politicians may step up efforts to
aid banks and push investors to accept bigger losses as part of
a Greek bailout reflect international pressure to end the debt
crisis and domestic opposition to expanding rescues. Moody’s
Investors Service followed its three-level downgrade of  Italy  on
Oct. 4 by warning that euro-area nations rated below the top AAA
level may see their rankings cut.  Almunia’s comments “in no way suggest huge public support
to come” and he was “making the case for state aid control
which is sometimes contested,” his spokeswoman Amelia Torres
said in an e-mail.  Coordinated Capital Injection  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is hosting the heads of the
 International Monetary Fund  and World Bank today as European
bank shares gained for a second day as officials discuss a
coordinated capital injection.  Almunia said that EU state-aid controls fill the gap left
by the absence of region-wide resolution rules to allow the
orderly winding down of lenders.  The European Commission has typically forced banks that
received public support to restructure and shrink their balance
sheets in return for the EU’s approval for handouts.  EU regulators are currently working on restructuring plans
for 21 banks, Almunia said in a speech earlier this week. It has
ruled on restructuring plans for 25 banks and the orderly
liquidation of 11 lenders since October 2008.  EU governments have granted banks some 1.24 trillion euros
($165 trillion) in aid from October 2008 until the end of 2010,
mostly in the form of guarantees, the commission says.  Almunia said earlier this week he would need to probe any
new French and Belgian state aid for  Dexia SA (DEXB)  after shares of
the municipal lender plunged the most since its creation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net  