-- 
Kelusa Capital China Seeks Money for Fund After Gains

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-10-21T09:09:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/-tiger-cub-kelusa-seeks-money-for-china-hedge-fund-after-beating-stocks.html
(Corrects to clarify that the fund isn’t backed by Julian
Robertson in the first paragraph of story published Oct. 6.)  Kelusa Capital  China , a Singapore-
based hedge fund firm, plans to increase assets almost five
times to $250 million after its fund outperformed the nation’s
stocks.  Kelusa Capital China, which focuses on the world’s second-
largest economy and has assets of about $55 million, gained more
than 7 percent this year through September, said Kenton Leo, the
founding partner of the fund.  The  MSCI China (MXCN) , which mostly tracks Hong Kong-traded shares
of Chinese companies, slumped more than 26 percent during the
period, while Asia-focused hedge funds lost about 7 percent,
according to Singapore-based  Eurekahedge Pte . The government is
wrestling with elevated inflation and the threat of a deeper
economic slowdown because of the debt crisis in  Europe .  “Panic creates opportunities,” Leo said. “The list of
stocks that I have today that are at all-time low valuations is
growing daily as we speak because things are getting sold down
indiscriminately.”  The fund, which expects to have positive returns in rising
and falling markets, will initially focus on preserving capital
and subsequently invest when the market panic subsides over the
next 18 to 24 months, Leo said. The fund, which holds about 60
percent in cash, fell 1.7 percent in September, while the MSCI
China gauge slumped 17 percent, he said.  Tiger Cubs  Robert McCreary, the founder of New York-based Kelusa
Capital Group, is an adviser to Kelusa Capital China. From 1991
to 1995, he focused on Asian investments at Tiger Management LLC.
McCreary was previously a founding partner of Banyan Fund
Management, which he closed in 2004 before setting up Kelusa
Capital. Leo worked at Banyan and Kelusa Capital.  Kelusa Capital Group is one of the so-called Tiger Cubs, a
group of hedge-fund managers either backed by  Julian Robertson 
or who worked at Tiger Management, which he founded in 1980 and
built into one of the world’s largest hedge funds before
returning clients’ money in 2000.  Kelusa Capital China, which started investing in August
2009, is seeking to raise capital from investors wanting low-
volatility returns regardless of how the market performs, said
Leo, who also oversees Kelusa Capital Master Fund’s investments
in Chinese stocks. The correlation of the fund to the market is
negative 1 percent, Leo said.  “We’re very focused on thinking about picking companies
that will underperform and outperform the market, and
constructing a portfolio where company fundamentals drive the
fund performance, rather than big macro events” Leo said.
“Japanese earthquakes or events in Europe don’t cause big
swings in our performance.”  Tough Raising Funds  Hedge funds  have found it tough to raise capital as
investors shifted to experienced managers or established firms
with steady returns and staff dedicated to risk assessment after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 led many
funds to freeze assets. Firms managing more than $500 million
received almost 62 percent of the capital invested in Asia-
focused hedge funds in the second quarter, according to Chicago-
based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “My impressions from my recent interaction with China-
based managers and regional managers is the capital raising
environment is very tough short term,” said Simon Hopkins,
chief executive officer of Singapore-based Milltrust
International Group, which helps hedge funds focusing on
emerging markets set up managed accounts for institutions. “The
China-based managers haven’t raised assets and the  Hong Kong  and
regional managers are also finding the current environment very
challenging.”  China Slowdown  Kelusa Capital China is betting on a decline in stocks
linked to Chinese luxury consumption “that are in for some
pretty big downgrades,” Leo said.  Government curbs on lending and the real-estate industry to
damp inflation are slowing demand in China. A slump in global
investor confidence and heightened risks of recession in the U.S.
and euro area economies are weighing on the outlook for exports.  The fund is looking to buy shares in companies that are at
all-time low valuations such as container shipping firms, ports
and exporters, Leo said.  “These companies are being hurt by a slowdown in China
exports, but borderline bankruptcy is being put into these
valuations,” Leo said. “There will be an impact, but this
entire sector is not going to go bankrupt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  