-- 
La Nina Forecast to Strengthen Into 2012, Climate Center Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-10-06T13:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/la-nina-forecast-to-strengthen-into-2012-climate-center-says.html
La Nina, a cooling of the  Pacific
Ocean  that can affect weather around the world, is expected to
strengthen gradually into 2012, according to the  U.S. Climate
Prediction Center .  Cool spots in the eastern Pacific Ocean are about 0.5
degrees Celsius (0.9 degrees Fahrenheit) below average, the
center said in a report today.  “La Nina is not as strong as it was in September 2010,”
the center said. “Roughly one-half of the models predict La
Nina to strengthen during the Northern Hemisphere fall and
winter.”  On average, La Ninas occur every three to five years and
last from nine to 12 months. They sometimes occur in back-to-
back years, as is happening now. Last year’s La Nina was a
contributor to record flooding in  Australia  and in the U.S., the
persistent  Texas  drought and an above-average  Atlantic hurricane
season , according to Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology and
agencies of the U.S. National Oceanographic and Atmospheric
Administration.  La Nina cuts down on wind shear in the Atlantic, which can
inhibit hurricane formation, according to NOAA.  When La Ninas come in back-to-back years, the second has
been weaker than the first in the three of the five such
occurrences since 1950, the climate center said. This year, the
 National Centers for Environmental Prediction’s  forecast says
the current La Nina may become as strong as last year’s.  La Nina’s impact in the U.S. will probably be weak through
November and increase in mid-December, the climate center said.
That may mean drought conditions in the South will continue.  The phenomenon tends to shift the storm track across the
U.S. farther to the north, which means less rain for Texas and
other southern states.  This past year, in combination with a shift in pressure
over the  North Pole  known as the Arctic Oscillation, more snow
fell across the upper Great Plains. When the snow melted during
the spring, it caused record flooding along the Ohio,
Mississippi and Missouri rivers as far south as  Louisiana .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 