-- 
Philippine Stocks: Aboitiz, Ayala, Megaworld, SM Development

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T05:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/aboitiz-nickel-asia-sm-development-philippine-stocks-preview.html
Shares of the following companies had
unusual moves in Philippine trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in Manila.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index increased 1.8 percent
to 3,890.52, its first gain in four days.  Builders:  Megaworld Corp. (MEG)  , a builder of offices
for  call centers , snapped three days of losses, advancing 3.9
percent to 1.60 pesos after the Philippine Daily Inquirer
reported that office rental rates in Manila rose in the second
quarter.  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI)  , the nation’s largest
developer, climbed 1.9 percent to 14.32 pesos, the highest close
this week.  Filinvest Land Inc. (FLI)   rose 3.8 percent to 1.09
pesos, the sharpest gain since Sept. 28.  The increase in office rentals was driven by demand from
providers of outsourced business services, the Inquirer
reported, citing Rick Santos, chief executive at CB Richard
Ellis  Philippines . Santos couldn’t be reached in his office for
comment.  Aboitiz Power Corp. (AP)   climbed for a third day, rising
1.1 percent to 28.30 pesos, the highest close this week. AP
Renewables Inc., a unit of the company, signed a 10-year
contract to provide electricity to a province in the southern
Philippines, the Philippine Star reported, citing Miguel
Aboitiz, vice president at AP Renewables. Aboitiz couldn’t be
reached at his office for comment.  International Container Terminal Services Inc. (ICT)  ,
the largest Philippine port operator, rose 1.6 percent to 46.65
pesos, ending a three-day slump. ICTSI Warehousing Inc., a unit
of International Container, acquired two million shares of the
company in the open market, a stock exchange filing showed.  SM Development Corp. (SMDC)   climbed 3.3 percent to 7.43
pesos, the highest close since Sept. 23. The stock advanced for
a third day, its longest winning streak in a month. The company
is set to reach its target of selling between 11,000 to 12,000
housing units this year, BusinessWorld reported, citing Vice
President Jose Gabionza. Gabionza couldn’t be reached in his
office for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  