-- 
Accor’s Hennequin Sees Slowing Growth

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-10-06T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/accor-s-hennequin-sees-slowing-growth-cautious-outlook-for-2012.html
Accor SA (AC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Denis Hennequin  forecast slowing growth at  Europe ’s largest
hotel company as consumers and businesses reduce spending on
lodging next year.  “In 2012 we expect a slowdown but still positive growth,”
the CEO said in an interview yesterday in  London . “I’m
cautious, not pessimistic.” The owner of Novotel and Sofitel
 brands  may report a 3.6 percent increase in 2011 sales and 2.5
percent in 2012, according to 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Paris-based Accor gets about 73 percent of revenue in 
Europe. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its 2012 growth forecast
for the euro-area economy to 0.1 percent from an earlier
prediction of 1.3 percent this week and said France and  Germany 
may enter a recession.  Next year won’t be a repeat of 2009, when Accor reported a
loss of 282 million euros ($378 million), Hennequin said, as the
London Olympics and trade fairs in Germany boost demand.
Corporations have cleaned up their balance sheets and Accor will
end this year with almost no debt, he said.  “There’s a disconnect between market fear and the real
robustness of the economy,” the CEO said. “We have seen no
reaction from consumers. People always want to take a break.”  Since joining Accor from McDonald’s Corp. in January,
Hennequin has sold catering and casino businesses to focus on
hotels and is combining three brands under the Ibis umbrella.  Hennequin repeated he wants to reduce exposure in the U.S.,
where Accor owns the Motel 6 chain, and would consider selling
individual properties or groups of hotels.  “It is premature to say we will definitely sell the whole
thing at once,” he said. “In the mid-term we will not keep
capital invested in the U.S. with Motel 6.”  Accor may target “limited acquisitions” and would
consider buying some of Groupe du Louvre’s luxury hotels if they
could be converted to Accor brands, Hennequin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  