-- 
Afghanistan Gets Preliminary Agreement on $129 Million IMF Loan

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-10-06T22:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/afghanistan-gets-preliminary-agreement-on-129-million-imf-loan.html
Afghanistan  secured a preliminary
agreement for a $129 million loan from the  International
Monetary Fund  after taking steps to strengthen its financial
system following the collapse of Kabul Bank.  The three-year loan program is likely to come to the board
of directors for approval in November, the Washington-based IMF
said in an e-mailed statement today. The IMF has said its
support was contingent on the country’s strengthening its
financial system.  “The authorities have made important progress on managing
the Kabul Bank crisis that came to the fore in the fall of
2010,” IMF mission chief Axel Schimmelpfennig said in the
statement. “The authorities’ program outlines further steps to
strengthen and develop Afghanistan’s financial sector.”  A loan would signal approval of Afghanistan’s policies, a
condition for some governments that provide assistance. The IMF,
which reached a similar agreement in July 2010 that never went
to the board, had said Afghan authorities needed to prevent a
repeat of the conditions that led to the collapse of Kabul Bank
before obtaining aid.  The government took over Kabul Bank, the country’s biggest
commercial financial institution, in September 2010. Thousands
of depositors rushed to withdraw their money last year after
learning that the bank’s owners had lost hundreds of millions of
dollars they had lent to themselves.  Recovering Assets  “Kabul Bank has been put into receivership, and efforts
are under way to recover the embezzled assets from the former
shareholders of the bank which will limit the fiscal costs of
the crisis,” Schimmelpfennig said. “The central bank is also
stepping up supervision and ensuring that the banking law and
regulations are fully enforced.”  Measures the Afghan government plans to take in exchange
for the loan include introducing a value-added tax to make up
for the expected decrease in revenue collection when the
military withdraws.  The IMF said it expects real economic growth of between 6
percent and 8 percent during the program period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  