-- 
Agile Leads Gain in Developers in Hong Kong on ‘Emerging’ Investment Value

-- B y   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-10-06T08:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/agile-leads-gain-in-developers-in-hong-kong-on-emerging-investment-value.html
Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383)  led
gains in Hong Kong-listed Chinese property stocks after Deutsche
Bank AG said it sees “emerging” value for long-term investment
in the developers.  Agile surged by a record 20 percent to HK$5.28 at the close
in  Hong Kong  trading.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the
biggest Chinese developer listed in Hong Kong, climbed 17
percent, and Longfor Properties Co. gained 11 percent.  Chinese developers’ shares had plummeted as the country
expands its property control measures, raising down-payment
requirements and mortgage rates this year to ease gains in home
prices. The government said in July it will rein in prices in
smaller cities after limiting home purchases in markets such as
Beijing and Shanghai.  “After the recent sell-offs, we see value emerging for a
longer-term investment,”  Tony Tsang  and Jason Ching, analysts
at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a note to client yesterday. “We
recommend picking up the high-quality developers with a strong
financing capacity.”  Half of the 10 biggest decliners in the past month on the
 MSCI China (MXCN)  Index, made up mostly of Chinese companies traded in
Hong Kong, were property-related companies including Agile.  ‘Increasingly Severe’  Chinese developers face an “increasingly severe” credit
outlook, which may force them to cut prices and turn to costlier
funding as sales weaken, Standard & Poor’s said on Sept. 27. A
30 percent decline in sales may leave many developers facing a
liquidity squeeze, S&P said after conducting stress tests of the
nation’s real estate companies.  Fewer than half of the 70 cities monitored by the
government in August posted month-on-month gains in home prices
for the first time, according to Samsung Securities Co. The
banking regulator is also looking into financing of developers
through trust companies as part of a broader evaluation of loans,
a person familiar with the matter said two weeks ago.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. rose 7.4 percent and  China
Resources Land Ltd. (1109)  was 10 percent higher. The benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  increased 5.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  