-- 
Thailand’s Rice-Buying Plan Will Spur Economy, Yingluck Says

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-06T08:03:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/thailand-s-rice-buying-plan-will-spur-economy-yingluck-says-1-.html
Thailand’s plan to buy rice at above-
market rates will allow farmers “to make a living” and boost
growth in  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy, Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said.  “This is a significant policy of the government to boost
crop prices and increase rural income, which will help spur
domestic spending and stimulate economic growth,” Yingluck said
today in Bangkok.  Yingluck aims to insulate the country of 67 million people
from a global slowdown and the nation’s worst flooding in half a
decade by lifting incomes of poorer Thais who propelled her
party to victory in a July election. The plan to guarantee rice
prices may boost export rates by 20 percent to $735 a metric ton
and erode Thailand’s share of the global market, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of exporters, millers and traders.  “ Thailand  will be the last resource for buyers when there
is no rice left elsewhere,” said Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat, a
local director with Novel Commodities SA, which trades about
$600 million of rice a year. “The government may be lucky to
see the rice price climbing to $800 a ton without having to
spend a lot of budget as floods across the region cut supply.”  Thailand, which supplies about 30 percent of world rice
exports, plans to buy grain at 44 percent above local market
rates, according to calculations based on data from the Thai
Rice Mills Association. The  finance ministry  last week cut its
2011 growth forecast to a range of 3.8 percent to 4.3 percent,
from an earlier estimate for a 4 percent to 5 percent expansion.  Prices ‘Appropriate’  The government’s plan to pay 15,000 baht ($482) per ton for
white rice and 20,000 baht per ton for jasmine rice is
“appropriate because they take into account production costs
and profits that are enough for farmers to make a living,” said
Yingluck, who took power two months ago.  The policy has already helped fuel a 26 percent rally in
global food prices in the past year. The price of 100 percent
grade-B Thai rice, the benchmark for  Asia , has gained 18 percent
to $615 a ton since Thailand’s July 3 election. Rice futures
have climbed 12 percent in Chicago this year, boosted by the
Thai policy and a smaller crop in the U.S.  Thailand’s export price may rise to $735 a ton, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of six
exporters, millers and traders on Oct. 5.  ‘Uncertainty’  “We can expect global prices to rise if Thailand decides
to sell at a price that will cover costs of procurement,”
Samarendu Mohanty, a senior economist at the International Rice
Research Institute, said on Sept. 30. “If the Thai government
sells rice at subsidized prices, it may lower global prices.”  The government hasn’t said when it may sell stockpiled rice.  “That has to be closely watched,” Commerce Minister
Kittiratt Na-Ranong said today. Kittiratt last week said he’s
“confident” that Thailand will be able to sell the grain
through government-to-government contracts.  “The plan may increase government stockpiles and
potentially increase government control of the rice trade,”
Mohanty said. “The more we see the government intervention, the
more uncertainty will be in the market.”  Indonesia ’s state food company agreed to buy 100,000 tons
of Thai rice through a tender, President Director Sutarto
Alimoeso said today. A government-to-government deal to purchase
300,000 tons was scrapped last week because of disagreement over
prices, Kittiratt said on Sept. 26.  Vietnam ’s Exports  Rice exports from Thailand may fall to 8.5 million tons
next year, from an estimated 10.3 million tons in 2011,
according to the United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization.
Vietnam will ship about 7.3 million tons.  “Exports from Vietnam could come even closer to those of
Thailand, or even match them by 2013,”  Concepcion Calpe , a
senior economist at the FAO, said by phone from  Rome .  Shipments from  India , which last month lifted a ban on
exports of non-basmati rice, may make up some of the shortfall,
and Thai rates “will be a ceiling for international rice
prices,” Anthony Lam, vice chairman at Hong Kong-based trader
Golden Resources Development International Ltd., said yesterday.  The government has said it will spend as much as 410
billion baht on the program between Oct. 7 and Feb. 29. It may
buy about 15 million tons of unmilled rice, Kittiratt said.  “The program does create much uncertainty, especially as
many view its implementation as unsustainable in the longer term
because of the huge financial resources that the government
would have to make available to procure very large volumes and
to keep them in storage,” the FAO’s Calpe said.  Lower Output  Thailand has about 3.3 million rice-farming households and
total plantation area of 60 million rai (9.6 million hectares),
according to the farm ministry.  The ministry yesterday cut its forecast for production from
the main harvest by 12 percent to 22.73 million metric tons
after floods damaged crops. About 3.07 million tons of rice may
be damaged, it said.  Yingluck today urged officials involved in the process to
guard against corruption and smuggling.  “The plan has influenced plantings and could increase
annual production to a record if there is no major setback,”
the FAO’s Calpe said. “Smuggling from neighboring countries
will take place, as the price differential will make this very
attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  