-- 
Thai Flood Death Toll Rises as Waters Threaten Honda, Sony

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-10-06T11:58:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/thailand-s-flooding-death-toll-rises-to-244-as-waters-threaten-honda-plant.html
The death toll in  Thailand ’s worst
floods in five decades rose to 244 and threatened to disrupt
operations of automobile and electronics makers that use the
Southeast Asian country as a production base.  Heavy rain since July 25 has caused flooding in 59 of the
country’s 77 provinces, and 28 of them remain submerged, the
Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation said on its
website today. Industrial parks in Ayutthaya province home to
factories from Honda Motor Co. and Sony Corp. are at risk after
floods caused nearby plants to shut down.  “The situation in Ayutthaya is quite worrisome,” Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, who surveyed the damage by
helicopter today, told reporters after landing in Bangkok. “In
some areas water has reached levels we have never seen before.”  The deluge has affected more than six million people in the
region and claimed a further 224 lives in  Cambodia ,  Vietnam  and
the  Philippines , according to the  United Nations . Thailand has
seen the most fatalities as typhoons and above-average rainfall
damage crops, destroy businesses and uproot families across
 Southeast Asia .  “The situation is getting worse and it may lead to big
damages in the industrial sector,” Tanit Sorat, vice president
of the  Federation of Thai Industries , said by phone. “There are
many big plants in Ayutthaya that produce raw materials for
textiles and also produce auto parts. If they are flooded, the
impact will be massive.”  Pressure on Rates  The waters have caused 25 billion baht ($805 million) of
damage in factories based in Ayutthaya, Industry Minister
Wannarat Charnnukul told reporters today. Nationwide losses from
the disaster may reach 50 billion baht ($1.6 billion), the
 University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce  estimates,
complicating government efforts to boost the minimum wage.  Deputy Prime Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong called on the
Bank of Thailand to lower  interest rates  to help businesses cope
with impact from the flooding after meeting with industry
leaders, who requested loans with low interest rates to cope
with the disaster.  “The first thing we should do is the central bank should
cut interest rates,” Kittiratt said. “This is the message I
want to convey to them.”  More than a hundred factories producing auto parts, food
and electronics have temporarily closed because of floodwaters,
according to the Federation of Thai Industries. Plants operated
by Danish shoemaker ECCO Sko A/S and Japanese food and beverage
producer Ajinomoto Co. are among 40 factories in Ayutthaya that
have shut down, according to Narapote Thewtanom, deputy governor
of the Industrial Estate Authority Thailand.  Canon Closes Factory  Canon Inc. halted operations at its inkjet printer plant in
Ayutthaya because of flooding and will keep the factory closed
tomorrow as a precautionary measure, Hirotomo Fujimori, a Tokyo-
based spokesman for the company, said by phone today.  Indorama
Ventures Pcl (IVL) , which says it’s the world’s largest producer of
polyester, shut factories in Lopburi province that make wool
yarns and polymers, the company said on Sept. 27.  Sony Corp.’s factory in Ayutthaya, which produces digital
cameras and lenses, hasn’t suffered major damage from flooding
and is operating as normal, Yasuhiro Okada, a Tokyo-based
spokesman for the electronics maker, said by phone today.  Honda Worried  Honda,  Japan ’s third-largest automaker, faces a
“worrisome” situation at a plant in Ayutthaya, Pitak
Pruittisarikorn, executive vice president of its Thai unit, said
by phone. The company yesterday halted production at the plant,
which can produce 240,000 vehicles a year, on supply shortages,
he said.  Honda’s plant is located in Rojana Industrial Park, which
is mostly a base for companies making automotive and electronics
parts. Nikon Corp., Hitachi Metals Ltd. and Siam Cement Pcl are
among companies with operations in the estate, according to
Rojana’s  website .  The deluge has displaced 2.6 million people in Thailand
since late July and damaged almost 10 percent of rice farms in
the biggest exporter of the grain, data from the Department of
Disaster Prevention and Mitigation and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives show.  Economic losses from the floods and weakening overseas
demand for Thailand’s electronics, textiles and agricultural
goods may complicate Yingluck’s efforts to meet a pledge to
raise the minimum wage. Her two-month-old government has
deployed about 10,000 soldiers to aid flood victims and extended
rice-price guarantees to shield incomes.  ‘Routine Work’  Yingluck “has to be seen as taking charge,” said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, director of Chulalongkorn University’s Institute
for Strategic and International Studies in Bangkok. “So far
that’s not the case. It’s more like routine work. There has to
be more thrust behind her leadership.”  The University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce, a private
institution founded by the chamber, said the impact of flooding,
including an earlier deluge, may total as much as 130 billion
baht and reduce economic growth by as much as 1.3 percentage
points, it said today.  The government estimates the most recent floods may cause
as much as 30 billion baht of damage, Kittiratt said yesterday.
Costs so far amount to about 20 billion baht, central bank
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  