-- 
Airbus German Workers Plan Work Stoppage on Contract Dispute

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-10-06T15:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/airbus-german-workers-plan-work-stoppage-on-contract-dispute.html
Airbus SAS labor unions in  Germany 
have called upon workers in Hamburg and three other production
sites to stage work stoppages tomorrow after failing to agree
with management on productivity increases.  Some 16,000 workers spread between Hamburg, where Airbus
assembles single-aisle planes, and Bremen, Stade, and Buxtehude,
where plane structures are built, have been asked to leave their
work stations and gather for rallies, the IG Metall union said
in a statement today.  Workers and management have been tussling over new
contracts that will run through 2020. Management has already
agreed to offer job guarantees and is seeking 8 percent
productivity increases. Workers say that’s too much and are
offering 2 percent productivity gains instead.  “Both sides agree that we need to make productivity
increases, and management is waiting for them to come back to
the table. It’s important to reach a conclusion,” said Florian
Seidel, a spokesman for Airbus in Hamburg. Seidel said Airbus
doesn’t expect the work actions to last more than an hour or two
and said management is eager to resolve differences quickly.  Management and labor have different methods of calculating
the productivity increases, Seidel said.  The strike is planned to stretch over three shifts at the
four production centers tomorrow, said Heiko Messerschmidt, a
spokesman for the IG Metall labor union for the coastal region,
who spoke by telephone from Hamburg. He predicted “several
thousand” workers will show up at rallies.  “We hope that these actions will put enough pressure on
Airbus to return to the negotiation table,” said Messerschmidt.
“We know that flexibility is a requirement, but not at any
price.”  In Germany workers are required to give notice before
staging any  strike action . Airbus had gone to court in September
to block any such action, a bid that was thrown out.  Airbus assembles single-aisle A320, A319, A321 and A318
planes in Hamburg and also assembles the bulk of the A320s in
Toulouse,  France , where Airbus is based.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  