-- 
Airlines May Lose Fight Over EU CO2 Caps

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-06T08:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/airlines-may-lose-fight-over-eu-co2-caps.html
International airlines should lose a
challenge to the European Union’s planned expansion of its
carbon cap-and-trade system beyond the bloc’s borders, an
adviser to the region’s top court said.  “The inclusion of international aviation in the EU
emissions trading scheme is compatible with international law,”
Advocate General Juliane Kokott of the EU Court of Justice in
Luxembourg said in a non-binding opinion today. The court
follows this advice at least in part most of the time.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
Airlines and the  Air Transport Association  of America challenged
the EU’s first attempt to extend the world’s largest carbon cap-
and-trade program beyond its borders. The EU regulator last
month said it won’t ditch its plans to impose carbon curbs on
flights to and from the region’s airports starting next year.  EU emissions permits for December rose as much as 2 percent
to 10.44 euros ($13.94) on the news.  At a court hearing in July the airlines said the EU plans
to extend the EU carbon market to all flights that depart from
or arrive at an airport in the region are unlawful. The advice
by Juliane Kokott, one of eight advocates general at the EU
court, gives an indication of which way the tribunal may rule.  ‘Very Good Indication’  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  in an interview
during a visit to  New York  last month said while the regulator
doesn’t want to “dictate the world what to do,” aviation can’t
be excluded forever.  “Generally ECJ opinions are very good indication of the
final outcome,” said Isabelle Curien, a Paris-based carbon
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “It’d be very good for the market
if the court supported the commission and its credibility. But
if the opinion cast additional doubts it would weigh on the
market and the moment is not good for that as prices are already
low on other concerns.”  The EU decided in 2008 that aviation should become a part
of its carbon cap-and-trade program.  “We did that because for many, many years we, more than
anyone, fought hard to get an international agreement on
aviation; unfortunately without success,” Hedegaard said.
“We’re already asking contributions from our power sector, from
other industries, so we think that while we’re expanding the
system in  Europe  it’s not logical that some of the big sectors
where emissions are growing should be exempted.”  3 Percent  Emissions from international aviation account for 3 percent
of global greenhouse gas discharges and that share is expected
to rise, according to the EU. Scientists say pollution must be
cut to keep the planet from overheating.  The Emissions Trading System, started in 2005, covers more
than 11,000 utilities and manufacturers and is the cornerstone
of the EU’s climate plan. The EU system is the region’s main
tool to reach its target to reduce carbon dioxide by 20 percent
in 2020 compared with 1990 levels.  The  High Court  in  London  referred the case to the  EU court 
last year to clarify the legality of the emissions curbs.  The case is:  C-366/10 , The Air Transport Association of
America,  American Airlines , Inc., Continental Airlines, Inc.,
 United Airlines , Inc. v. The Secretary of State for Energy and
Climate Change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  