-- 
Taiwan Bonds Fall, Currency Advances as Slowdown Concern Eases

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-10-06T02:22:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/taiwan-bonds-fall-currency-advances-as-slowdown-concern-eases.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds fell and
the currency strengthened the most in more than a week after a
report showed U.S. service-industries growth beat analysts’
estimates and as data tomorrow may signal a pickup in exports.  Overseas shipments from Taiwan probably increased 9.6
percent in September from a year earlier, up from 7.2 percent
the previous month, economists estimated in a Bloomberg survey.
HSBC Holdings Plc lowered its 2012 forecast today for Taiwan’s
economy to expand 1.7 percent from 4.9 percent, saying risks are
growing for a region that’s “still tied to the global trade
cycle” as global growth cools.  “Rising yields are a reflection of the good stocks
performance overnight in the U.S. and in  Asia  today,” said
 James Wang , a fixed-income trader at Yuanta Securities Co. in
Taipei. “The market has more or less priced in expectations for
slower local growth.”  The yield on the 1.25 percent bonds due September 2021, the
most-traded  government securities , climbed one basis point to
1.28 percent as of 10 a.m. local time, prices from Gretai
Securities Market show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Taiwan’s dollar appreciated 0.2 percent, the biggest
advance since Sept. 27, to NT$30.580 against its U.S.
counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The currency dropped
4.9 percent in September, the worst month since October 1997.  The central bank “doesn’t favor Taiwan dollar
depreciation,” Governor Perng Fai-nan said in reply to
questions from lawmakers in Taipei yesterday. The  exchange rate 
is determined by market supply and demand, and the island is
facing less “hot money” inflows, he said.  The overnight money-market rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, was little changed at 0.389 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  