-- 
Alere Agrees With Axis-Shield’s Board on Sweetened Offer

-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-10-06T16:10:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/alere-says-reached-agreement-with-axis-shield-board-on-offer.html
Axis-Shield Plc (ASD) , the U.K. maker of
the Afinion diagnostic tests, accepted a sweetened 235 million-
pound ($364 million) bid from  Alere Inc. (ALR) , ending a three-month
takeover battle.  Alere will pay 470 pence a share, up from the 460 pence
proposed in July, the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company said
in a statement. Alere extended its bid to Oct. 24. Axis-Shield
of Dundee,  Scotland  rejected the initial offer as too low.  Alere, whose Cholestech system competes with Afinion to
detect diabetes and bacterial infections, snagged Axis-Shield
for less than analysts estimated the company was worth by
buying shares in the open market, discouraging other suitors. A
potential bidder backed away after Alere said it owned or had
agreed to buy as much as 29.9 percent of the stock, Axis-Shield
said Sept. 30.  “Axis-Shield accepted more likely because they felt they
had no other options, not because they agree it was a fair
share price,” said Charles Weston, an analyst at Numis
Securities Ltd. in  London , who lowered his 12-month target
price to 470 pence from 535 pence today.  After talking to shareholders, and considering the
“ongoing volatile economic and market backdrop,” the board
decided that Alere’s hostile tender offer would succeed, Axis-
Shield said in a statement today.  New Heart Disease Test  The Scottish company said it also decided to accept the
bid because Alere was likely to obtain more than 75 percent of
the shares, allowing it to delist the stock. That would have
left investors with shares in an unlisted company.  Axis-Shield will likely benefit from Alere’s broader
distribution network for diagnostic devices and funding for new
products, according to Weston. The company has developed a test
for cardiovascular disease and cholesterol for use with Afinion
that it plans to begin selling in  Europe  this year.  Axis-Shield rose 18 pence, or 4 percent, to close at 468
pence in London. The stock has gained 59 percent in the past
year.  Jefferies & Co. advised Alere, while Axis-Shield’s bankers
were JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Peel Hunt LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net 
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  