-- 
Allianz Sees ‘Bubble Pricing’ for Some Prime Commercial Property

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-10-06T14:45:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/allianz-sees-bubble-pricing-for-some-prime-commercial-property.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s largest insurer,
is finding it tougher to meet its target for spending on prime
commercial real estate after competition drove up prices in
German, French and British hotspots.  “We want to buy more assets for our balance sheet, but we
need to be very selective,” Olivier Piani, Allianz Real
Estate’s chief executive officer, said at the Expo Real trade
fair in Munich today. “Some assets are too expensive.”  Real-estate investors are focusing on properties that
generate long-term rental income as economic growth slows and
the euro region debt crisis makes financing more difficult, said
Peter Damesick, CBRE Group Inc.’s chief European economist. The
bulk of investment targeted offices in the major western
European cities and dominant shopping centers, he said.  The weight of money seeking the best assets has driven down
capitalization rates, an industry gauge for investment that
measures rental income as a proportion of property value.  RREEF Real Estate, the property asset management arm of
Deutsche Bank AG  plans to sell its stake in  Perlacher
Eukaufsparadies  mall east of Munich, known as PEP, for around
400 million euros ($530 million). Annual rental income generated
by the center may represent 4.5 percent of the asking price.  “The PEP auction will be very expensive,” Stefan Brendgen, Allianz Real Estate’s head of  Germany  said at the
trade fair. “We are seeing bubble pricing in certain assets.”  With more than 5 billion pounds ($7.7 billion) of central
London properties for sale, some buildings are being offered at
prices that are “detached from the economic reality,” said
Chief Investment Officer Charles Pridgeon.  ‘No Room for Growth’  In  France , capitalization rates for prime offices in Paris
have fallen to 4.5 percent, leaving “no room for growth in
capital values,” said Olivier Wigniolle, Allianz’s head of
France and Benelux.  Allianz is in talks to acquire as much as 500 million euros
of real estate in those countries, he said, adding “I’m not
sure we are going to push the limit to make these
acquisitions.”  Allianz has made about 1.5 billion euros of real estate
investments or development commitments this year. Deals include
the 360 million-euro purchase last month of an 80 percent stake
in  Frankfurt ’s Skyline Plaza mall and a 310 million-euro loan
made to DWS Investment GmbH to buy  Deutsche Bank headquarters in
Frankfurt.   The  spending is “less than we would have wished,” CEO
Piani said. In March, he said he had about 2 billion euros to
spend as he aims to double Allianz’s investment in commercial
buildings to 30 billion euros by 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  