-- 
Alstom Accepted as Likely Contractor for Belgrade’s First Subway

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-10-06T14:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/alstom-accepted-as-likely-contractor-for-belgrade-s-first-subway.html
Belgrade’s city assembly approved an
agreement for  Alstom SA (ALO) ’s transport unit to take part in
developing a subway in the Serbian capital.  The assembly authorized the municipal government to sign a
Memorandum of Understanding with Alstom Transport for 15
kilometers (9.3 miles) of tracks, including seven kilometers
underground, based on a feasibility study by Egis Rail.  Alstom is “ready to provide all the technical support”
during the feasibility period and expects to eventually win the
contract, Miodrag Jelisavcic, Alstom’s representative in Serbia,
said in a phone interview.  The project is part of a “strategic partnership” signed
in April between French President Nicholas Sarkozy and Boris Tadic, the president of the former Yugoslav republic that wants
to win European Union candidacy status as early as this year.
Among financing options for the subway plan,  France  would help
secure the financing and Alstom may choose a subcontractor for
digging tunnels, building platforms and train stops.  Serbian Deputy Premier Bozidar Djelic estimated Alstom
Transport’s part of the contract would be worth 1 billion euros
($1.34 billion) following his trip to France. Today’s document
doesn’t specify the value.  Another co-financing plan have Serbian find funds for the
construction part of the project and Alstom provide trains and
rail equipment. A third option is a public-private partnership,
in which Alstom would become a concessionaire for the future
subway.  France pledged support of 3 million euros for the
feasibility study and the designs.  ‘Sufficient’ Finance Capacity  The study and the design for the first subway line are set
to be completed by the end of 2012, followed by a financing
agreement.  Serbia  then has two years to negotiate a binding
contract with Alstom, without seeking another company for the
job. The first line may open as early as 2017.  The city has “sufficient capacity” to support the subway
development “because our level of debt is not big and we can
service loans that we take,” Mayor Dragan Djilas said today at
an assembly session at city hall.  Serbia’s parliament has yet to ratify the Strategic
Partnership Agreement, which France has done.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  