-- 
Hana Financial Rises Ahead of Court’s Verdict on Lone Star

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-10-06T01:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/hana-financial-rises-ahead-of-court-s-verdict-on-lone-star-1-.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790) ,  South
Korea ’s fourth-largest financial group, rose in  Seoul  on
speculation that its  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  takeover may be
completed soon, following a court verdict scheduled for today.  Seoul-based Hana, whose purchase of Korea Exchange Bank
from Lone Star Funds has been pending since November due to a
legal dispute, jumped as much as 8.1 percent to 36,200 won and
traded at 36,100 won as of 10:17 a.m. The benchmark Kospi index
climbed 3.9 percent and Korea Exchange Bank added 2.8 percent.  The Seoul High Court will deliver a verdict in the stock
manipulation retrial of Korea Exchange Bank and Paul Yoo, Lone
Star’s former local unit head, at 2 p.m. today. The Financial
Services Commission has left the deal in limbo for almost a year
because of the litigation, prompting Hana and  Lone Star  to
extend a deadline for the deal to Nov. 30 from May and trim the
purchase price by 6 percent to 4.4 trillion won ($3.7 billion).  “The end of this court case will remove legal uncertainty
for Hana’s takeover of Korea Exchange Bank,” said Lee Chang
Wook, an analyst at Seoul-based Taurus Investment & Securities
Co. “Regulatory approval will be the only thing pending and
some investors seem to betting that Hana will get the final go-
ahead before the deal’s deadline.”  Before today, Hana shares had declined 25 percent since May
12, when the FSC said it wouldn’t approve its proposed
acquisition of Korea Exchange until Lone Star’s legal dispute
was resolved. The trial began on June 16 after the  Supreme Court 
asked the lower court to reconsider whether stock trading rules
were broken.  FSC Chairman Kim Seok Dong on Sept. 29 said that the
regulator will make its decision on whether to approve Hana’s
acquisition following the court’s ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  