-- 
Apollo’s Realogy to Draw on Credit Line for $215 Million Interest Payment

-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-10-06T19:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/apollo-s-realogy-plans-to-draw-on-bank-credit-line-to-make-bond-payments.html
Realogy Corp, the real-estate company
controlled by  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management LLC, plans
to borrow from its bank line to make $215 million in interest
payments.  The owner of Century 21 and Coldwell Banker will this month
use its $652 million revolving credit facility to fund payments
on its unsecured notes and second-lien loans, Parsippany, New
Jersey-based Realogy said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Apollo acquired Realogy in 2007 for $6.6 billion amid the
worst U.S. housing slump since the 1930s. Its notes slumped more
than 10 percent last month as investors shunned the lowest-
ranked bonds as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis roiled markets. The
company is burdened with about $7.7 billion in debt and said it
lost $30 million in the third quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and the regulatory filing.  The revolver will decline to $363 million in April 2013,
which is not “sufficient to meet Realogy’s liquidity needs”
during that year, Moody’s Investors Service analysts Lenny
Ajzenman and Peter Abdill wrote in an Oct. 3 report. “Realogy
may be required to refinance or recapitalize by late 2012 or
early 2013,” they said.  “We continue to manage through this challenging economy,”
Tony Hull, Realogy’s chief financial officer, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Our  capital structure  is flexible and
positions us to capitalize on a recovery in housing.”  The company had used $50 million of the bank line as of
Sept. 30, Realogy said in the filing. In a revolving credit
facility, money can be borrowed again once it’s repaid.  Moody’s downgraded Realogy’s speculative grade liquidity
ratings to SGL-4 from SGL-3 on Oct. 3 and changed the rating
outlook to stable from positive.  ‘Decreasing Headroom’  The ratings company cited “decreasing headroom” under
financial maintenance tests, expected negative free  cash flow 
over the next year and substantial use of its revolving credit
facility for the downgrade.  Realogy reported third-quarter preliminary earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $185 million
on sales of $1.2 billion. Leverage, or debt to Ebitda, was about
4.1 times to 4.2 times through the senior loans, within the 4.75
times requirement in the credit agreement, the company said.  “What we’re counting on now is what’s going to happen next
year in the housing market,” Evan Mann, senior high yield
analyst at Gimme Credit LLC, said in a telephone interview.
“The company’s not bad, it’s just too levered. They’d be
okay if they can just get their debt down. All along they’ve
been doing this financial engineering, they just need more of
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 