-- 
Apple General Counsel Sewell Becomes Protector of Jobs’s Vision

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/apple-general-counsel-sewell-becomes-protector-of-jobs-s-vision.html
If  Steve Jobs  was the creative force
that made  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s products hip, General Counsel Bruce Sewell is the authority in keeping competitors from copying
those ideas.  Hired from  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in 2009, Sewell, 52, has led Apple’s
fight against mobile devices running Google Inc.’s Android
operating system in lawsuits spanning four continents. His
biggest role has been in coordinating the Cupertino, California-
based company’s legal strategy against Android customers Samsung
Electronics Co., Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and  HTC Corp. (2498)   Before Sewell, Apple rarely filed lawsuits, typically only
targeting small companies making unapproved accessories for Mac
computers or, as with the case against  Nokia Oyj (NOK) , retaliating
for a suit against it. Then came the iPhone.  Jobs unveiled the iPhone in 2007, saying Apple had applied
for more than 200 patents for the device and was ready to
enforce them. Within six months of being hired in 2009, Sewell
put those words into action when the company filed its first
pro-active patent-infringement suit against an Android handset
maker, seeking an order to ban some phones made by Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based HTC from the U.S.  Since then, Apple also has sued to stop sales of Samsung’s
Galaxy phone and tablets, claiming the products “slavishly”
copy the iPhone and iPad.  Intel Antitrust Case  A 1979 graduate of Lancaster University in the U.K. with a
law degree from George  Washington  University in Washington,
D.C., Sewell joined the law firm Brown & Bain in 1986. In 1995,
he started at Intel, becoming general counsel a decade later.  While at Intel, Sewell was in charge of defending against
antitrust cases that accused the  Santa Clara , California-based
company of giving computer makers discounts in exchange for
promises to use Intel chips exclusively.  Sewell’s relationship with Apple goes back almost a decade.
While at Intel’s business unit, he and Intel’s current chief
executive officer, Paul Otellini, led two years of negotiations
that prompted Apple to start using Intel microprocessors in its
computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  