-- 
Apple Looks to Overseas Growth to Stay on Top Without Jobs: Tech

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-10-06T20:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/apple-looks-to-overseas-growth-to-stay-on-top-without-visionary-jobs-tech.html
Steve Jobs  built Apple Inc. into the
world’s most valuable technology company with easy-to-use
products that transformed the computing, wireless and music
industries. The company will look for overseas growth to extend
that legacy and remain an investor favorite.  Apple, which said its visionary founder died yesterday at
56, aims to maintain its expansion in markets such as  China ,
fueling sales of the iPhone and iPad. The company also stands to
gain from updated versions of those best-sellers and the new
iCloud service, which makes it easier for its gadgets to share
information -- and harder for users to switch to rival devices.  For Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook , the challenge will be
developing Apple’s next generation of hot sellers and facing
down competition in the markets Jobs pioneered. Google Inc.’s
Android has emerged as one of Apple’s biggest threats after
gaining momentum in phones and tablets. Cook, who this week led
the debut of the iPhone 4S, will lean on a cadre of fellow
veteran executives who have long worked together under Jobs.  “He created an infrastructure that this management team
can build on for a long time,” said  Tim Bajarin , a technology
analyst at Creative Strategies Inc. “The bigger question is how
fast will they innovate and take advantage of that
infrastructure for things like new devices, applications and
services.”  Jobs had resigned as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  chief executive officer on
Aug. 24. He was diagnosed in 2003 with a neuroendocrine tumor, a
rare form of pancreatic cancer, and had a  liver transplant  in
2009.  Apple Investors  Investors have had mixed reactions since Jobs stepped down
as CEO. The shares rose more than 7 percent in the month after
he resigned, and have since slipped back to little changed. The
stock fell 88 cents to $377.37 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  The shares are recommended by 49 analysts, with no sell
ratings, according to Bloomberg data. On average, analysts
predict the shares will rise another 32 percent to $499.40.  “Steve Jobs has set up the company for the next few years
to have some more blockbuster products,” said  Giri Cherukuri ,
an Apple investor with Oakbrook Investments who has been
following the company since the late 1980s. Updated models of
the iPhone and iPad, as well as potential new products like a
television, will keep the company growing, he said.  ‘Final Great Act’  Apple’s stock price has risen more than 9,000 percent since
Jobs returned to the company in 1997. The stock has more than
doubled in the past two years, while  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  has gained
5.1 percent and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  has risen 14 percent. Hewlett-
Packard Co. is down 48 percent.  While analysts once predicted that Apple shares would
plunge when Jobs left the company, investors have grown more
comfortable with other executives since he first went on medical
leave in 2004. In 2008, Piper Jaffray Cos. analyst  Gene Munster 
estimated that Apple shares would tumble 25 percent if Jobs
departed.  Munster, who now has a target price of $607 for the stock,
said Jobs’s “final great act” was grooming Cook as a successor.  Apple benefited from record purchases of iPads and iPhones
in the quarter that ended in June, helping profit more than
double to $7.31 billion. Sales climbed 82 percent $28.6 billion.  “For now, people are comfortable, but that could change if
there are signs to the contrary,” said  Mike Abramsky , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.  Cook’s Team  In addition to Cook, Apple’s  executive team  includes
Jonathan Ive, senior vice president of industrial design;  Scott Forstall , who is in charge of the iOS software that powers the
iPhone and iPad; and Philip Schiller, who leads product
marketing. Additionally, Bob Mansfield heads Mac hardware
engineering; Eddy Cue runs iTunes, the App Store and iCloud;
Bruce Sewell is chief counsel, putting him at the helm of the
company’s patent disputes; and Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  is tasked with overseeing Apple’s more than $75
billion in cash and long-term holdings.  While Apple has turned its website into a memorial to Jobs
and is flying the flags at its Cupertino, California,
headquarters at half-mast, the company will quickly have to
shift its focus back to the looming release of the iPhone 4S.
The device, unveiled Oct. 4, goes on sale Oct. 14.  Nokia, RIM  The iPhone helped Apple upend the mobile-phone industry,
increasing the popularity of touch-screen devices. That came at
the expense of Nokia Oyj and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , which have
lost market share and shed workers.  As Apple’s sales and profit grew, its market value soared
past rival technology companies. Its valuation now exceeds the
combined worth of Microsoft and Intel, two companies that once
pushed Apple to the fringes of the personal-computer industry.  To stay on top, Apple will have to maintain its expansion
in China, where the company generated about $3.8 billion in the
most recent quarter, up more than sixfold from a year earlier.
The company’s retail outlet in  Shanghai  had 100,000 visitors on
its opening weekend, Cook said at the iPhone 4S event. Apple is
opening its first store in  Hong Kong  this year.  The new version of the iPhone, Apple’s top money-maker,
will face competition from Samsung Electronics Co., Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and HTC Corp., which use Android software
in their smartphones.  New Products  Apple’s ICloud, which lets customers access pictures, music
and other information across a broad range of its devices, will
be released on Oct. 12. The service was first showcased at
Jobs’s last public appearance, Apple’s developer conference in
June.  When Apple needs to introduce entirely new products, Jobs’s
vision may be missed -- if the company introduces a TV, for
example, Piper Jaffray’s Munster said.  Jobs was critical in hiring and pushing the company into
new areas, Abramsky said. He was vital in negotiations with
media companies for securing content such as music and movies
that are sold through iTunes.  “There’s a certain unknown about how Apple will be
different,” Abramsky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  