-- 
Apple Security Officials Talked to City Police Days Before Jobs’s Death

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/apple-security-deparment-met-with-palo-alto-police-days-before-jobs-died.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  security officials met
with police in  Palo Alto ,  California , this week to notify them
that  Steve Jobs  was close to death, a spokeswoman with the
police department said.  Following the meeting, the police devised a plan to put
patrols in the area around the former Apple chief executive
officer’s Palo Alto home once they heard from the company that
he had died, according to Sandra Brown, the spokeswoman.  The Apple representatives told the police department there
was “a possibility that it could happen this week,” Brown said
in a phone interview. “It’s common sense for us to work
together. If you think about who he was and his contribution to
the world, people might come out in masses.”  Jobs, who resigned as Apple’s CEO on Aug. 24, died
Oct. 5, the Cupertino, California-based company said. Jobs, 56,
had been diagnosed in 2003 with a neuroendocrine tumor, a rare
form of pancreatic cancer, and underwent a  liver transplant  in
2009. Apple unveiled the latest version of its iPhone, the
product that accounts for almost half of the company’s sales, on
Oct. 4, the day before his death.  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, declined to comment
about the police meeting.  Jobs lived in a home that was modest, for a person of his
means, on a public street open to pedestrians and traffic. The
extra patrols were necessary for safety reasons, Brown said.  ‘Compounds and Walls’  “There are other people here in town, they have compounds
and walls,” said Brown. “He didn’t want to have security
around.”  Apple was supposed to inform the police of Jobs’s death
before making a public announcement so the department could
prepare, said Brown. Instead, police learned he had died when
the company issued a press release at about 4:30 p.m. local time
on Oct. 5.  As it turned out, Brown said, only about 40 people showed
up around Jobs’s home that day.  “Here’s a guy who’s a billionaire and lives in a regular
neighborhood, not behind a gated estate with all the security
guards,” said Bruce Gee, a former Apple employee who drove up
from his home a couple miles away. “On Halloween, people go
trick or treating there like everyone else.”  Mourners gathered at Apple stores around the world and took
to the Internet and social media to express their grief.  At the  San Francisco  Apple store near Union Square, Steve
Streza, 24, stood holding an iPad displaying Apple’s homepage
image of Jobs and the words “Steve Jobs: 1955-2011.”  “Macs were the reason I got into product development,”
said Streza, a developer at readitlater.com who grew up with Mac
computers. “If it weren’t for Steve Jobs and Macs, my life
would probably be in a completely different place right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 