-- 
Fans Hold IPhone-Lit Vigils for Steve Jobs

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-10-06T18:05:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/apple-fans-from-cupertino-to-singapore-mourn-passing-of-jobs.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  fans worldwide mourned the
death of co-founder  Steve Jobs , paying tribute to the man who
changed the way they listen to music, use their mobile phones
and play on their computers.  At Apple’s headquarters -- located at 1 Infinite Loop,
Cupertino, California -- flags flew at half-staff and bagpipes
sounded to the tune of “Amazing Grace” as people placed
flowers around a white iPad with a picture of Jobs, who died
yesterday at 56, after a battle with cancer. Mourners flocked to
Apple stores from New York to  Hong Kong , while a crowd gathered
in  San Francisco ’s Mission Dolores Park for an iPhone-lit vigil.  “Part of the narrative that made Apple what it is today
goes out with Steve Jobs,” said Christopher Smith, 40, a former
business development manager in San Francisco who joined the
vigil. “I came out to honor the fact that one man with vision,
courage and unwavering dedication can still change the world.
The way that I communicate and the way that I interact with the
world is through things that Steve Jobs has created.”  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill Gates  and  Sony Corp. (6758) 
Chairman  Howard Stringer  were among leaders who expressed
admiration for the man who built the world’s most valuable
technology company. President  Barack Obama  and former U.K. Prime
Minister  Tony Blair  also issued statements of sympathy.  Jobs’s Home  “Michelle and I are saddened to learn of the passing of
Steve Jobs,” Obama said in a statement. “Steve was among the
greatest of American innovators -- brave enough to think
differently, bold enough to believe he could change the world,
and talented enough to do it.”  While Apple plans a celebration for staff, it doesn’t
intend to hold a public ceremony, a person familiar with the
matter said.  Teary-eyed mourners left flowers in front of Jobs’s modest
home at the corner of Waverly Street and Santa Rita Avenue in
 Palo Alto ,  California . Neighborhood children drew hearts with
markers and left them on the ground for others to leave
messages. Policemen stood watch, barricading the street.  “Here’s a guy who’s a billionaire and lives in a regular
neighborhood, not behind a gated estate with all the security
guards,” said Bruce Gee, a former Apple employee who drove up
to the house from his home a couple miles away. “On Halloween,
people go trick or treating there like everyone else.”  At the San Francisco Apple store near Union Square, Steve
Streza, 24, stood holding an iPad displaying Apple’s homepage
image of Jobs and the words “Steve Jobs: 1955-2011.”  ‘Regular Guy’  “Macs were the reason I got into product development,”
said Streza, a developer at readitlater.com who grew up with Mac
computers. “If it weren’t for Steve Jobs and Macs, my life
would probably be in a completely different place right now.”  Steve Somerstein, who says he met Jobs several times since
1986, recalled the time when he bumped into Jobs while apartment
hunting in Palo Alto.  “He was just a regular guy,” said Somerstein, who was at
the Palo Alto store. “I congratulated him on the company and
hoped it was going to do well. I didn’t even own an Apple at
that point. He was about 10 years younger than me and just a
nice kid.”  Ron Kent, a food-truck owner who was at the Palo Alto
store, likened Jobs to Michelangelo, the renaissance-era artist
who painted the frescoes in the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican.  “He’s the visionary of our time,” Kent said.  ‘RIP Steve Jobs’  Some mourned via social media sites. More than 20 “RIP
Steve Jobs” pages sprung up on Facebook within hours of the
announced passing of Jobs. News of Jobs’s death slowed the
mobile websites of  CNN  and the Washington Post, according to
 Keynote Systems Inc. (KEYN) , which tracks website performance.  “Steve Jobs,” the biography written by former Time
magazine editor Walter Isaacson, scheduled for release Nov. 21,
was the  best seller  on Amazon.com Inc.’s website.  In New York, Jared and Alexi Roth, 33 and 31, left two red
apples by the wall outside the Apple store on Broadway in the
Upper West Side.  “We were literally walking by a market on Broadway when
Jared got a text saying Steve Jobs died,” Alexi said. “We saw
the apples and just thought it would be appropriate.”  Across the ocean, Charanis Chiu, walked in front of the
Apple store in Hong Kong to place a sunflower, the logo of the
photo-viewing application on the iPhone.  “A lot of companies such as Microsoft and Nokia are
following in his direction,” said Chiu, a vendor of
photographic equipment. “Apple will continue to grow as long as
they are going in the right direction.”  ‘Insanely Great Honor’  At the store in  Shanghai ’s Lujiazui district, an area of
about three square meters was set aside at the front for people
to pay tribute to Jobs.  Microsoft’s Gates praised the man who for decades was both
a rival and a partner in the personal-computer industry.  “The world rarely sees someone who has had the profound
impact Steve has had, the effects of which will be felt for many
generations to come,” Gates said. “For those of us lucky
enough to get to work with him, it’s been an insanely great
honor. I will miss Steve immensely.”  Stephen Elop, chief executive officer of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , said
the world lost a “true visionary” in Jobs’s passing.  Sachio Kitagawa, 45, was on her way with her son to the
Apple store in the Ginza shopping district of Tokyo when she
heard the news of Jobs’s passing.  “He should receive the Nobel prize,” said Kitagawa, who’s
used Apple products for 20 years. “I have a second child who is
disabled and even he can use the Macintosh. It shows you how
user-friendly Apple products are.”  ‘Thank You’  Outside the Apple store a short walk from  Frankfurt ’s
financial institutions, sunflowers, gerbera daisies and roses
were laid alongside a burning candle.  “He forged designs which appealed to the mass market and
developed technology which you can now find in museums -- not
because of its age, but because it was groundbreaking,” said
Guenther Uttecht, a 60-year-old artist who uses Apple products
to work on abstract photos as he left the shop.  At the entrance of the store on Regents Street in  London 
lay a white rose with a hand-written note saying “Rip Steve
Jobs. With love from Instagramers London and all Instagramers
around the world. You gave us life. Thank you x”. Next to it a
passerby had left an apple with a bite out of it, imitating the
brand’s iconic logo, alongside a bouquet of lillies.  On Rue Halevy, just behind Opera Garnier in central Paris,
flowers were tucked into the doors of the Apple store. One
bouquet had a card from Mario Baluci, the creative artist at
Carre Senart, that said, “Thank you, Steve.”  In  Singapore , Georgina Koh, 30, recalled the man who
inspired her to open her own accessory shop.  “The world should remember Steve Jobs’s famous quote ‘Stay
Hungry, Stay foolish,’” said Koh, a former Apple worker, in
reference to Jobs’s Stanford University commencement speech in
2005. “It’s an honor to have been associated with Apple. It is
a company built by a man relentless about creating beautiful
products that have changed our lives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in  New York  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  