-- 
Apple 22-Year Veteran Cue Steers Company Into Post-PC Era Jobs Envisioned

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/apple-s-cue-steers-company-into-post-pc-era.html
Steve Jobs ’s vision of a post-PC era
of Web-based applications is being left to Eddy Cue, the 22-year
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  veteran responsible for building the iTunes platform
and cultivating the planned iCloud file-sharing service.  Cue, who had been vice president of the Cupertino,
California-based company’s Internet services business, was
promoted by Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  in September to
senior vice president. The promotion expanded Cue’s oversight of
the App Store, which sells downloadable software for iPads and
iPhones, as well as the iAd mobile-ad business that competes
with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s AdMob.  In his earlier roles in building iTunes music, movie and TV
service, Cue handled negotiations with Hollywood studios and
 record companies . A gregarious man known for an easy sense of
humor, Cue often has done most of the negotiations, with Jobs
coming in to close when necessary, according to Tim Bajarin,
founder of Campbell, California-based consulting firm Creative
Strategies Inc.  “He’s a key guy,” Bajarin said. “But if you didn’t know
any better, you wouldn’t think so” upon meeting him, he said.  The promotion reflected his role in building iTunes and the
 App Store , and it puts him on the same level as such Apple
executives as design head Jonathan Ive and iPhone software chief
Scott Forstall.  “Apple is a company and culture unlike any other in the
world and leaders like Eddy get that,” Cook wrote in the memo
announcing the promotion. “Apple is in their blood.”  Digital Life  Cue was a manager in Apple’s customer support unit in 1997
when Jobs returned to the company after an ouster more than a
decade earlier. Jobs put Cue in charge of one of his first
efforts: to build an online store. The success of the store
helped Apple sell directly to customers rather than through a
less efficient network of dealers and third-party retailers.  Cue later helped develop the initial iTunes store as well
as the processes that would make purchasing songs or downloading
apps simple and secure. One of the recent steps in the company’s
evolution is iCloud, which will let users access content across
multiple Apple devices without having to physically transfer
files from hard drive to hard drive.  Jobs proclaimed in June that iCloud would become the hub of
digital life and “demote the PC and the Mac to be just another
device.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 