-- 
Apple Design Chief Jony Ive to Set Product Vision After Jobs

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-10-06T18:40:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/apple-design-chief-ive-to-lead-product-vision-in-post-jobs-era.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost its technology
visionary in  Steve Jobs , who passed away yesterday, leaving head
product designer Jonathan Ive to fill the creative gap.  Ive, who goes by Jony, has been Jobs’s foremost creative
partner within Apple, according to Eric Chan, who  runs   Ecco
Design Inc. , an industrial design firm. Ive oversaw the
development that led to devices such as the iMac, iPod, iPhone
and iPad, honing a close working relationship with Jobs after
the late co-founder returned to Cupertino, California-based
Apple in 1997.  A design prodigy who won a British student award twice
while attending  Northumbria University  in the 1980s, Ive said in
a 2006 speech that his goal “is not self-expression. It’s to
make something that looks like it wasn’t really designed at all
-- because it’s inevitable.”  That’s been the case since his college days, according to
Clive Grinyer, who went to school with him.  Grinyer  recalled
visiting Ive’s apartment, and being shocked to see hundreds of
foam models of a single product. Each one was good enough to
have been the final product, said Grinyer, who later worked with
Ive at a small design firm called Tangerine.  Candy-Colored IMac  In 1992, Ive moved from projects like designing toilets at
Tangerine to Apple. After Jobs returned to the helm of Apple in
1997, he needed the yet-to-be-released  iMac  to be a hit. To make
sure it stood out, Jobs approved Ive’s plan to use a candy-
colored translucent plastic enclosure -- a major expense given
the falling prices for computers at the time.  Ive and his team do their work in a lab deep within Apple’s
 Infinite Loop  campus -- in a room locked off from all but the
highest-ranking executives.  The British native is known to travel to  Asia  for weeks,
studying intricacies of metal-bending equipment, according to
former Apple designer Thomas Meyerhoffer. The result is that
Apple’s products have unique shapes, textures and thinness. The
solid feel of products such as the iPhone is due in part to
Ive’s insistence on minuscule tolerances -- the tiny gaps around
each part and screw in a product.  Ive was  named  Designer of the Year by the  Design Museum
London  in 2003 and Apple products are featured in permanent
collections of museums including the  Museum of Modern Art in New
York  and the  Pompidou  in Paris, according to Apple.  Ive lacks operations, marketing and sales skills, something
he doesn’t regret, according to his 2006 speech.  “Victories from your ability to sell are very short-
lived,” Ive said in the speech. “Victories from things you’ve
really worked hard at can have a lasting impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows  in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  