-- 
Apple Stock Little Changed After Co-Founder Jobs Passes Away

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-06T20:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/apple-drops-in-german-floor-trading-after-steve-jobs-s-death-from-cancer.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares were little changed
in Nasdaq trading after co-founder and former Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Jobs  died.  The stock dipped 88 cents to $377.37 at 4 p.m. New York
time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Apple, which has the biggest
weighting among any stock in the Nasdaq-100 Index at 14 percent,
has gained 17 percent this year.  Jobs, who resigned as CEO on Aug. 24, passed away at 56
yesterday, Cupertino, California-based Apple said. He was
diagnosed in 2003 with a neuroendocrine tumor, a rare form of
pancreatic cancer, and had a  liver transplant  in 2009.  “The drop this morning is a shock reaction,” said Andreas Lipkow, an equity trader at MWB Fairtrade Wertpapierhandelsbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “In his position as a visionary I think he
organized things and I think the new CEO will run things really
well.”  The announcement of Jobs’s passing came one day after CEO
 Tim Cook  took the stage to introduce a new iPhone, marking his
first product unveiling since taking the reins. To maintain
Apple’s growth, he will have to push into more new markets,
continue the company’s Asian expansion and execute a shift to
cloud computing.  Microsoft, Intel  Apple’s stock price has risen more than 9,000 percent since
Jobs returned to the company in 1997. The shares have more than
doubled in the past two years, while Microsoft Corp. has gained
5.1 percent and  Intel Corp . has risen 14 percent. Hewlett-
Packard Co. is down 48 percent.  The success of the iPhone has helped Apple’s stock weather
market turmoil and the resignation of the CEO who made Apple the
world’s most valuable company.  Investors have had mixed reactions since Jobs stepped down
as CEO. The shares rose more than 7 percent in the month after
he resigned, and have since slipped back to little changed. At
the close of trading yesterday, Apple was valued at $351 billion.  “Apple’s business model will continue, but Steve Jobs was
the cleverest product innovator and most precise brand creator
in history,” said Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at
Schroeder Equities GmbH in Munich. “Someone like that will not
be replaced in our lifetimes.”  Shares of Asian and European rivals climbed. Samsung
Electronics Co. climbed 1.5 percent in  Seoul .  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) 
gained 6.3 percent.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  added 1.8 percent on the Helsinki
exchange.  “People see now that Steve Jobs is not coming back and
there is a risk of innovation declining, because he created the
innovative products that created the fantastic brand,” said
Helena Nordman-Knutson, a Stockholm-based technology analyst
with Oehman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  