-- 
Target, Limited Brands September Sales Beat Analysts’ Estimates on Promos

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-10-06T20:13:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/target-limited-brands-september-sales-beat-analysts-estimates-on-promos.html
Target Corp. (TGT)  and Limited Brands Inc.
helped September retail sales beat analysts’ estimates as
promotions drove consumers to increase purchases amid concerns
the economic recovery may stall.  Revenue at Target, the second-largest U.S. discounter,
climbed 5.3 percent, surpassing the average projection for a 3.9
percent gain from analysts surveyed by Retail Metrics Inc.
Limited Brands, owner of the Victoria’s Secret chain, posted an
11 percent increase in same-store sales, beating the 4.9 percent
average estimate.  Retailers offering discounts and promotions helped lure
shoppers and allay concerns that the global economy may slide
into another recession. September’s results may bode well for
the  holiday shopping season  that begins in November, said  Ken Perkins , president of Retail Metrics.  “It’s setting up well for retailers, barring an implosion
in  Europe ,” Perkins said. “Retailers are pulling out all the
stops to drive traffic with deep discounting. Consumers need to
be enticed to shop and that’s what is happening.”  Target rose $2.15, or 4.3 percent, to $51.91 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Limited advanced 31
cents to $40.59.  Sales for the more than 20 chains tracked by Swampscott,
Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 5.8 percent, the 25th
straight gain, and surpassing projections for a 4.9 percent
increase. Retailers have beaten projections every month this
year.  Higher Costs  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  Shoppers also faced higher prices as retailers passed along
increased costs for labor and raw materials, said Ken Stumphauzer, a retail analyst for Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in
New York.  “It’s incongruent with what’s going on in the market,”
Stumphauzer said in a telephone interview today. “It suggests
that the  U.S. economy  is fine.”  Luxury chains  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  and  Saks Inc. (SKS)  surpassed
estimates as high-end shoppers continued spending amid the
volatility in global stock markets.  Department store chains  Macy’s Inc. (M) ,  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  Ross
Stores Inc. (ROST)  also exceeded estimates. Among discounters,  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse-club chain, and TJX
Cos. also posted gains that beat projections.  J.C. Penney, Target  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest U.S. apparel chain, continued to
struggle to improve its business in  North America  as sales at
all three of its brands declined. Overall same-store sales fell
4 percent, missing a projection for a drop of 3.7 percent.  J.C. Penney Co., the third-largest department store chain,
posted a sales decline of 0.6 percent, missing estimates for a
0.9 percent gain. The retailer also lowered its third-quarter
profit forecast to as much as 15 cents a share, down from a
maximum of 25 cents.  Target’s sales exceeded expectations with gains in several
categories, Chief Executive Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  said in a
statement. Same-store sales in October will increase in the low-
to-mid single digits, the company said on a recorded statement.  Limited’s Bath & Body Works brand posted a sales gain of 12
percent, surpassing a projection of 1.3 percent, because of
increases in home fragrance and anti-bacterial products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  