-- 
Reed Elsevier CFO Mark Armour Will Step Down Next Year

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T10:59:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/mark-armour-to-step-down-as-reed-elsevier-s-cfo-company-says.html
Mark Armour, the chief financial
officer for publisher  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL)  for the past 15 years,
will retire from that position and the board at the end of 2012.  The board has begun a search for Armour’s replacement that
will consider internal and external candidates, the London-based
company said in a  statement  today.  As finance chief, Armour helped implement a cost-cutting
program that led  Reed Elsevier  to sell off pieces of its trade
publishing unit, including all of its U.S. publishing operations
except Variety magazine, as it refocused the business on faster-
growing electronic data offerings. Reed Elsevier publishes
magazines and information on the medical and scientific
professions and the legal and business-to-business industries,
and it maintains the LexisNexis database.  “It is right to announce my planned retirement now in
order to give the company sufficient time to appoint my
successor,” Armour said in a statement. “During my time at
Reed Elsevier the company has been transformed from a broad-
based traditional print publisher into a leading provider of
online professional business information.”  Survived Shake-Up  Armour, 57, stayed on at the company after a management
shakeup in 2009 that brought in Chief Executive Officer Erik Engstrom. Engstrom’s predecessor,  Ian Smith , had lasted eight
months in the job before resigning amid an economic slowdown
that crimped revenue from ads and promotions decline.  In the first half of the year, Reed Elsevier reported
declining sales on currency swings and divestitures. Earnings,
adjusted to exclude acquisitions and other charges, rose to 22.3
pence per share from 21.3 pence a year earlier, a figure that
beat analysts’ estimates at the time. Most analysts are advising
investors to purchase the stock, with 19 buy ratings from 27
analysts, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Armour owns almost 250,000 shares of Reed Elsevier,
according to Bloomberg data, valuing his stake in the company at
about 1.23 million pounds ($1.9 million) at yesterday’s closing
price. Armour, a Cambridge graduate, is also a board member of
brewer  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)   Reed Elsevier rose 9.3 pence, or 1.9 percent, to 505.5
pence in London trading at 11:05 a.m. The stock had declined 8.4
percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  