-- 
Arrested Wall Street Protesters Seek Talks With City Over Police Tactics

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-06T21:29:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/arrested-wall-street-protesters-seek-talks-with-city-over-police-tactics.html
A lawyer for anti-Wall Street
protesters arrested in a march across  New York ’s Brooklyn Bridge
said her clients hope to talk with city representatives to
resolve what she called a “pattern and practice of police
misconduct.”  Five protesters sued the city, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly Oct. 4 for allegedly violating
their civil rights in the Oct. 1 arrests. The protesters, who
seek to sue on behalf of about 700 people arrested in the march,
claimed police lured them onto the bridge’s roadway to trap and
arrest them.  In a hearing before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan today, attorney Mara Verheyden-Hilliard said the
protesters may ask for a court order to force the  New York City
Police Department  to change its tactics if they can’t reach
agreement with the city.  The protesters, whose demonstration continued today in
 Lower Manhattan , are seeking a declaration nullifying the
arrests and saying that the police violated the U.S.
Constitution. They want Rakoff to bar the city from using
similar tactics in the future. The group is seeking unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages.  Rakoff said he expects the case to be tried by June. He set
Dec. 7 for arguments on an anticipated request by the city to
have the case dismissed.  Kate O’Brien Ahlers, a spokeswoman for the city’s Law
Department, had no immediate comment on the suit.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent of Bloomberg News.  Police have said protesters were warned not to block the
roadway and that those at the rear were allowed to leave.  The case is Garcia v. Bloomberg, 11-06957, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 