-- 
Arsenal CEO Says Finances Can Survive Champions League Absence

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-06T14:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/arsenal-ceo-says-finances-can-survive-champions-league-absence.html
Arsenal Chief Executive Officer
Ivan Gazidis says the soccer team’s finances can survive not
qualifying for the  Champions League .  The Gunners have appeared in  Europe ’s top club competition
for 14 straight seasons, but are off to their worst start to a
season since 1953 after losing four of their opening seven
Premier League matches.  That run, which includes a 8-2 defeat at Manchester United,
has led to fears among supporters the club won’t finish among
the top four Premier League teams to qualify for the Champions
League. Arsenal got 30 million euros ($40 million) in prize
money after reaching the round of 16 last season.  Arsenal last month announced its fiscal-year profit fell
79 percent to 13 million pounds ($20 million) as the club sold
fewer apartments at its former stadium and paid more to its
players. Revenue declined by a third to 255.7 million pounds,
while its debt was reduced by 28 percent to 97.8 million pounds.  “We would rather qualify for it,” Gazidis told reporters
at the Leaders in Football conference in  London . If the club
doesn’t qualify, “we have got a really stable model that could
not just cope but do well and compete.”  “It would be very foolish to build a business model that
relied on being in the Champions League for perpetuity. I don’t
think any clubs do that, and if they do then they probably
aren’t being run as responsibly as they should be.”  Matchday Sales  Arsenal , which has won  England ’s top league 13 times,
played at Highbury from 1913 to 2006 before moving to the
60,000-seat Emirates Stadium nearby. The new facility, which
helped almost double matchday sales, drew an average of 59,849
fans per home game last season. Each match generates about 3
million pounds per game, meaning last season’s four home
Champions League fixtures would have brought in 12 million
pounds.  Any loss from not appearing in the competition can be
limited by not paying appearance bonuses to players and using
the free dates to play friendly matches.  Manchester United 
earned 1 million pounds from playing an exhibition game in Saudi
Arabia in 2008.  Arsenal is 15th in the 20-team Premier League. The club is
regrouping after selling captain Cesc Fabregas,  Samir Nasri ,
Emmanuel Eboue and Gael Clichy over the summer, while bringing
in Mikel Arteta, Per Mertesacker,  Yossi Benayoun , Andre Santos
and Gervinho.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 