-- 
Hartford Says Asset Sales Position Firm to Withstand Stress

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-10-06T20:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/hartford-ceo-mcgee-says-asset-sales-position-insurer-to-withstand-stress.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurer that repaid a $3.4 billion bailout last year,
said cuts to European holdings and mortgage investments have
positioned the firm to withstand “significant stress” in
markets. The stock jumped in New York trading.  “Hartford’s approach to the investment portfolio is much
more sophisticated and disciplined than it was two years ago,”
Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee  said today at an investor
presentation. “Investment losses even under future market
turmoil or significant stress scenarios will be well within our
capital resources.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 14 percent in the
three months ended Sept. 30, the biggest quarterly drop since
the 23 percent slide in the final period of 2008. McGee, hired
two years ago, has reorganized the 201-year-old company, which
under his predecessor,  Ramani Ayer , took a U.S. capital
injection to rebuild funds lost in the credit crunch.  “We still don’t see a repeat of the 2008 financial
crisis,” McGee said. “But the economy and the country have
real challenges, and we are expecting slow economic growth at
best for the balance of 2011 and at least through the first half
of 2012.”  Hartford jumped 71 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $17.66 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the fifth-
biggest gain in the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)  Hartford,
based in the Connecticut city of the same name, has slumped
about 33 percent this year.  ‘Significant Rebalancing’  Hartford’s general account had a pretax unrealized gain of
$2.1 billion at the end of August, the company said in a slide
 presentation . Hartford, which sells  life insurance , retirement
products and property-casualty coverage, reported about $4.4
billion of net investment income last year.  The insurer made “significant rebalancing decisions” on
European holdings, Chief Investment Officer Gregory McGreevey
said. The company said it cut its commercial mortgage-backed
securities portfolio 48 percent to $7.5 billion from the end of
2008 through Aug. 31 of this year.  “Today we have no direct exposure and essentially no bank
exposure to the higher risk countries in  Europe ,” McGreevey
said. “Our financial exposure is limited to the largest and
most important banks in stronger European countries and our
subordinated bank exposure over all has been reduced
dramatically and is now at around $600 million.”  Market slumps and declines in customer retirement accounts
cost the company about $500 million last quarter, Hartford said.
The sum includes about $110 million tied to the  Japan  annuity
business.  Japan Liabilities  McGee curtailed the sale of equity-based retirement
accounts called variable annuities to protect the company when
markets decline. Hartford halted new sales in Japan in 2009
while retaining liabilities tied to annuities sold before the
financial crisis. When stocks fall, Hartford’s annuity
liabilities may increase.  “I have confidence today that the Japan risk is now within
the appropriate risk parameters,” McGee said.  So-called core earnings were reduced by about $230 million
from the costs tied to retirement products. Catastrophe claims
cut core earnings by another $130 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  