-- 
Harvard Loses Top World University Ranking for First Time

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-10-06T14:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/harvard-loses-top-world-ranking-to-caltech.html
Harvard University  lost its top spot
for the first time in eight years in a global ranking of higher
education institutions, being overtaken by the  California
Institute of Technology .  Another California institution,  Stanford University , tied
with Harvard for second spot in the  annual table  compiled by the
London-based  Times Higher Education , with data supplied by
 Thomson Reuters  Corp. The  University of Oxford  climbed to fourth
from sixth last year, beating the  University of Cambridge  at
sixth.  Princeton University  came fifth.  Harvard, the world’s richest university, has topped the
rankings since they were started in 2004. The U.S. institution
was beaten by Cambridge last month in a separate poll by higher
education information provider QS. A 16 percent increase in
research funding for Caltech helped it leapfrog Harvard in the
Times Higher table, said Phil Baty, editor of the rankings.  “The difference between Harvard and Caltech last year was
minuscule,” Baty said in a telephone interview. “What’s
happened this year is Caltech has seen a significant increase in
its research income. A 16 percent increase, it’s quite
significant in tipping the balance over in its favor. Harvard
had an increase as well, but it was more in line with sector
averages.”  The rankings are based on a survey that gauges universities
across five areas, including industry income, teaching,
citations, research and international outlook. More than 17,500
academics were surveyed and 50 million citations analyzed and
compared with the world average for this year’s rankings.  Funding Levels  “It doesn’t seem as if financial crisis has really damaged
Harvard,” said Baty. “It still wins on the teaching indicator.
Once you factor in research impact and universities’ research
activities, Caltech is slightly better.”  U.S. and U.K. universities dominated the list, with 75
American schools in the top 200. Seven of the top 10 schools
were in the U.S., with the rest in Britain, Imperial College
 London  taking eighth place.  “The real issue that’s starting to show is that the great
public American universities do seem to be suffering, whereas
the private universities in America have managed to maintain or
protect their funding levels a bit more,”  Baty said.  Premier U.S. universities that depend on public funding,
including Californian universities at  Berkeley ,  Los Angeles ,  San
Diego  and  Santa Barbara , had slipped on the list compared with a
year ago, Baty said.  ‘Steadfast Donors’  “Caltech is fortunate to have steadfast donors and
partners whose support gives Caltech the ability to invest in
new ideas long before they would be eligible for public funding
opportunities,” Dr. Jean-Lou Chameau, president of Caltech,
said in an e-mailed statement. “This public-private partnership
model enables our research funds to go further.”  Oxford beat Cambridge, the U.K.’s richest university, after
a change in the survey’s methodology put arts, humanities and
social sciences on an equal footing with science, Baty said.  “At places like Oxford, where there’s a slightly heavier
focus on humanities and social sciences than there is at
Cambridge, that levelling of the playing field has helped,” he
said.  The U.K. had the most number of universities in the top 200
after the U.S., with 32.  U.K. Reforms  While the U.K. did “exceptionally well,” the “biggest
issue is that we’re entering into a very uncertain period of
major reform, which will have unforeseen consequences,” Baty
said. Higher tuition fee, spending cuts and new visa
restrictions on international students restricting university
income will affect U.K. rankings from 2012, he said.  “The U.K. is blessed with some truly brilliant
universities, more brilliant than the government understands,
judging by its hastily concocted higher education reforms, with
all the uncertainty they entail,” said Ann Mroz, the editor of
the Times Higher, in a report accompanying the list.  The Netherlands,  Germany  and  Canada  followed the U.S. and
U.K. as the countries with most universities on the list.  ETH
Zurich, the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology , was the
highest ranked outside of the U.S. and U.K. at 15th position.  The  University of Tokyo , in 30th place, was the top-ranked
Asian school.  Japan  has five schools in the top 200, the most of
any Asian nation, while  Hong Kong  has four and China three.
Three Taiwanese universities dropped out of the list this year,
leaving just one, while  India  had none.  Top 20 World University Rankings 2011-12:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  