-- 
As Austere England Grumbles, Scotland Is All Smiles: A.A. Gill

-- B y   A . A .   G i l l
-- 
2011-10-06T00:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/as-austere-england-grumbles-scotland-is-all-smiles-a-a-gill.html
The TV weather map shows the U.K.
wreathed in autumnal sunshine. Records have been broken. The
trees are turning golden, and there are girls in bikinis in the
park.  There is, though, just one small cloud right up in the
northwest of  Scotland , and that’s the one I’m sitting under.
Outside, the sky hangs like dirty laundry caught on the granite
crags. The rain looks like smoke blowing up the glen. The burns
are in spate, billowing peat-tanned water in great gulping
cascades.  My southern family is in shirtsleeves. I’m in tweed. And
that’s how it should be. The highlands are supposed to be
blasted and sodden. A whole week of sun, and half the population
comes down with skin cancer.  The weather reflects the default demeanor of the Scots. We
are a dour people, naturally prone to harsh pessimism and
morbid, small expectations. Our laughter is hollow, our greatest
pleasures husbanded grievances and the opportunity to say, “I
told you so.” Scots are righteous miserabilists, and as P.G.
Wodehouse pointed out, it really isn’t difficult to tell the
difference between a Scotsman with a grievance and a ray of
sunshine. He might have added that you rarely see the two things
together at the same time.  But hold the front page: What is this? One professor David
Bell has concocted a happiness index that shows, for the first
time in recorded history, that the Scots are happier, or at
least more contented than the English. Not just the English, but
also the Welsh. Scotland is the smiliest part of the  United
Kingdom .  Happiness Lessons  This could mean one of two things. Happiness indexes
aren’t worth the computer screens they come on, or something odd
is happening in Scotland. And that may be of interest, and
perhaps of some use, to other countries struggling with
depressing times.  Well,  unemployment is falling  in Scotland, against the
trend across the rest of the U.K. Most importantly, private-
sector jobs are being created at twice the rate of those
disappearing in the large state sector.  Crime is falling steeply. The wave of riots that flared
across England didn’t include the Scots, who  dispatched police 
officers south to help the neighbors, allowing us the small, dry
pleasure of an “I told you so” moment.  House prices , with the exception of some hotspots, are
lower and more stable than south of the border, and a higher
percentage of people rent in Scotland. The unfashionably
corpulent social services provide free university education for
native Scots. (The English have to pay at  St. Andrews  and its
kin.)  There is free care for the elderly -- as opposed to
England, where people are forced to sell their houses before
getting old-age respite -- and prescriptions are now gratis. All
this, for a nation of barely five million, whose distance from
mainland  Europe  makes trade expensive.  It’s not, however, all haggis and neeps. Scotland still has
some of the worst, and certainly ugliest, public housing in the
U.K. Life expectancy is among the  lowest in Europe , due to the
chronic diseases associated with smoking, alcohol and a diet of
fried things and sugar. Drug addiction is a pandemic.  Wages are lower than in the south, and the symptoms of
bullish capitalism are less evident. There’s less flash, and
fewer of the toys and decorations of leisure-time consumerism,
and this may be the reason for the relative happiness gap. For
once, Marx might have been right: Poverty is relative. It isn’t
what you have, it’s what you have in relation to your neighbor.  Resentment Sent Abroad  Scotland has a paucity of millionaires compared with
 England . The difference between what most employers take out of
the business and what they pay their workers isn’t nearly as
great as in the south. And here, the large conspicuous
landowners tend to be foreigners -- Dutch, German, Scandinavian
and, of course, English -- so resentment about absentee
landlords is all sent abroad.  Edinburgh’s small but vibrant financial sector hasn’t cast
such an avaricious paw over the country as the  City of London 
does, even though the Scottish banks were some of the worst
behaved in the financial crisis.  There is the sense that Scots are all in this together --
and that, combined with a natural lack of deference to wealth,
or perceived position, seems to be paying the happiness
dividend.  Of course, the English see it slightly differently. They
are paying for all this social largesse. State spending from the
U.K. government is $15,800 per capita in Scotland, some  10
percent higher  than in England. The English point out that only
1 in 3 Scots is a net contributor to the tax pot. In turn, the
Scots reply that the pot comes in great part from their oil
revenue, and that their devolved government should be allowed to
raise its own taxes.  This would be the big step on the road to independence and
breaking of the union. What’s new about the idea it is that the
traction for a financially independent Scotland is now coming
from England. It seems that the relative unhappiness is flowing
uphill from the richer to the poorer. It is the blinged-up,
credit-maxed English who are resenting the poorer, cash-
strapped, clannish Scots, and they may push for divorce.  Up here, most would rather have a separation, and maintain
the cushion of comprehensive social services. It falls short of
full independence.  And the moral from all this may be that to attain national
happiness in hard times, what you need, more than money, is
camaraderie, and fair shares of hardship. It also helps if you
have a mutually agreed upon old enemy who is also your best
friend.  (A.A. Gill, the restaurant and TV critic of the Sunday
Times of  London , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
A.A. Gill in London at  aagill1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 