-- 
AT&T Judge Asked by U.S., Company to Appoint Special Master

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-10-06T19:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/at-t-judge-asked-by-u-s-company-to-appoint-special-master.html
AT&T Inc. and the U.S.  Justice
Department  asked a federal judge to appoint a special master to
help manage the government’s lawsuit seeking to block the
company’s purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc.  In a motion filed today in federal court in  Washington ,
AT&T and the government requested that Richard Levie, a retired
judge, be named a special master to oversee the process of the
two sides exchanging information as the case moves toward trial.
Special masters are often appointed in complex lawsuits to help
the judge administer a case.  Levie’s help will be important “in light of the expedited
trial” schedule, according to the request. Last month, U.S.
District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle, who is hearing the case, set
a trial date for Feb. 13.  A former associate judge on the  District of Columbia 
Superior Court, Levie has worked as a mediator since 2000,
according to the  website  of  Irvine , California-based JAMS, a
private dispute resolution service.  Levie has mediated cases involving telecommunications, high
tech and health care matters, according to the website. He’s the
former president of the Academy of Court Appointed Masters.  Split Cost  AT&T and the government would split the cost of paying
Levie, according to the motion.  Michele Apostolos, a spokeswoman for JAMS, said it’s
against company policy for Levie and other mediators to comment
on pending cases. The proposed order, subject to Huvelle’s
approval, calls for Levie to handle disputes between the parties
over such items as whether particular documents have to be
turned over and scheduling when evidence and witnesses have to
be produced.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies would be anticompetitive. The
acquisition would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless carrier,
followed by Verizon Communications and No. 3 Sprint Nextel Corp.  Separate suits to block the purchase have been filed by
Sprint and Ridgeland, Mississippi-based Cellular South Inc., the
ninth-largest by customers.  AT&T on Sept. 30 urged Huvelle to dismiss the Sprint and
Cellular South lawsuits, defending the deal as boosting
competition.  Huvelle is known for moving cases assigned to her quickly.
She completes almost all her civil actions within three years
and has no motions pending before her for more than six months,
according to records filed with the Administrative Office of the
U.S. Courts.  The case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  