-- 
Mauritius’s Inflation Slows in September on Phone Charges

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-10-06T08:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/mauritius-s-annual-inflation-rate-declined-to-6-3-in-september.html
Mauritius’s inflation slowed for a
second month in September as communication cost fell, the
country’s statistics agency said.  The inflation rate declined to 6.3 percent, the lowest
level since December, from 6.5 percent in August, the data
agency said in a  statement  on its website today. Prices dropped
0.1 percent during the month. The average rate for the 12 months
through September increased to 6.2 percent from 5.8 percent in
August, it said.  Mauritius Telecom, the state-owned fixed-line phone
operator, cut its interconnection charges by 20 percent for
calls from a landline to mobiles, according to the country’s
telecommunications regulator.  “Inflation has slowed on a one-off item,” Swadicq Nuthay,
an economist at the Port Louis-based Axys Capital Management
Ltd., said by phone today. “We must not jump to the conclusion
that inflation is on a downward slope.”  A weaker rupee may lead to higher import costs toward the
end of the year, he said.  Mauritius, an Indian Ocean island nation with a population
of 1.3 million people, is a net buyer of fuels and food, with 67
percent of its imports bills in dollars, according to the
central bank. The rupee has depreciated 4.7 percent since the
end of August and was trading at 29.15 per dollar by 12 p.m. in
 Port Louis , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mauritius’s central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate 
was left unchanged at 5.5 percent in September as the inflation
rate fell and on concerns economic growth will slow because of a
debt crisis in  Europe , the country’s main trading partner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  