-- 
Australian Panel Has No Plans to Recall RBA’s Stevens to Testify

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-06T03:58:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/australian-panel-has-no-plans-to-recall-rba-s-stevens-to-testify.html
An Australian parliamentary panel has
no plans to recall  Reserve Bank  Governor  Glenn Stevens  to
testify about a report that central bank officials suppressed
evidence of corruption at the bank’s note-printing units.  Julie Owens, who chairs the  House of Representatives 
Standing Committee on Economics, declined to confirm a Sydney
Morning Herald report today that claimed lawmakers would discuss
next week whether to ask Stevens to return after he and Deputy
Governor Ric Battellino answered questions Aug. 26 about the
matter.  The panel "has no plans to reconvene before its next
scheduled hearing," Owens said in an e-mailed response to
questions. "The Sydney Morning Herald did not contact me to ask
whether the committee would discuss the matter, and if they had,
I would have said that the committee has no comment to make on
what they might or might not discuss in a private meeting."  Battellino was among those aware of the corruption
concerns, the newspaper reported yesterday, citing internal
documents at the RBA and the printing units, Securency
International Pty and Note Printing Australia Ltd. The Herald
today cited a  letter  sent by the RBA to the committee to correct
some comments made by Stevens and Battellino in their Aug. 26
testimony on an internal investigation into the bribery
allegations.  The RBA’s letter, dated Aug. 29, clarified some of the
details that Battellino and Stevens offered in their testimony,
including the timing of the termination of contracts with agents
in Nepal and  Malaysia .  “The letter which the Herald claims to have ‘obtained’ is
a public document that has been on the Australian Parliament
House Committee website since shortly after its receipt,” Owens
said.  Error Made  “The Reserve Bank advised the committee that an error had
been made in the testimony immediately after the hearing (i.e.
while I was still on the way to the airport) and submitted a
letter correcting the record on the next business day,” she
said. The letter was posted on the committee’s website Sept. 14,
Owens said.  The Herald reported yesterday that Reserve Bank officials
in 2007 and 2008 covered up information about secret payments to
middlemen hired by the subsidiaries that sought contracts in
Nepal and Malaysia.  The RBA said it “categorically denies the allegations,
which are based on inaccurate and incomplete facts.”  Greens Party lawmaker  Adam Bandt , whose vote the government
relies on to pass legislation, has urged Treasurer  Wayne Swan  to
establish a probe into the matter and for Stevens to be recalled
before the economics committee. Bandt also sits on the panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  