-- 
Banks to Sell $40 Billion of Assets Amid European Debt Crisis, KPMG Says

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-10-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/banks-to-sell-40b-of-assets-amid-eu-crisis.html
European banks are planning to sell
more than 30 billion euros ($40 billion) of assets as the debt
crisis increases the need to raise capital, according  KPMG  LLP.  European lenders are accelerating asset sales after
disposing of more than 26 billion euros of loans this year,
according to a KPMG study released today. While the amount has
been far from the “flurry of activity that was widely
expected,” regulatory pressures and a deepening of the European
debt crisis is forcing lenders to accept lower prices, the
report said.  “Counter-intuitively, we saw a lower-than-expected level
of bank disposals of loan portfolios in the first few years
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,” said
Andrew Jenke, director in KPMG’s Portfolio Solutions Group.
“But we are now starting to see banks - faced with the triple-
whammy of sovereign debt crises, increased capital requirements
and a funding mismatch - under a lot more pressure to extract
value from their loan books.”  Banks including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Banco
Espirito Santo SA (BES)  and  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian bank that is
facing a second government bailout in three years, are planning
to sell assets because they are under pressure from regulators
to shrink their balance sheets and boost liquidity. Lured by the
prospect of buying portfolios at a discount, U.S. private-equity
firms and hedge funds have raised more than $5 billion for funds
targeting European distressed assets and corporate turnarounds
compared with about $400 million during the 2002 recession,
according to London-based researcher  Preqin Ltd.  Deals have been
slow to materialize because lenders aren’t willing to sell at
the discounts sought by investors.  ‘Gap Is Narrowing’  “The pricing gap is still there,” Jenke said. “Banks are
still expecting more than purchasers are able to pay for the
assets. This gap is narrowing in some instances.”  The U.K. and Irish banks remain the biggest sellers,
according to KPMG. RBS agreed in July to sell part of a 1.4
billion-pound ($2.2 billion) portfolio of commercial loans to
 Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  is selling a 6
billion-pound portfolio of shipping loans, according to the
report. Anglo Irish Bank Corp. said in August it expects to
complete the sale of $9.65 billion of U.S. real-estate loans.  Funds Being Raised  Apollo Global Management LLC, Leon Black’s private-equity
firm, is seeking to raise $2.8 billion for a fund to buy
European loans, two people with knowledge of the matter said in
August. Oaktree Capital Management LP, the Los Angeles-based
private-equity firm led by  Howard Marks , is seeking as much as
$3 billion for a fund that will buy assets in  Europe , people
with knowledge of the plans said previously.  Hedge funds 
including New York-based Anchorage Capital Group LLC and
Marathon Asset Management LP are also targeting Europe.  Asset sales should accelerate in  Spain , KPMG said.  “The hottest topic over the past six months has been
Spain,” the report said. “Local banks are seeking to shed non-
core and non-performing loans and the impact of the caja
restructuring is now starting to yield portfolio disposals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  