-- 
Bank of England MPC Comments After October Rate Decision (Text)

-- B y   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 
2011-10-06T11:03:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/bank-of-england-mpc-comments-after-october-rate-decision-text-.html
The following is the text of the
 Bank of England  Monetary Policy Committee comments following
the October rate decision:  The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee today voted
to maintain the official Bank Rate paid on commercial bank
reserves at 0.5%. The Committee also voted to increase the size
of its asset purchase programme, financed by the issuance of
central bank reserves, by GBP75 billion to a total of GBP275
billion.  The pace of global expansion has slackened, especially in the
United Kingdom’s main export markets. Vulnerabilities
associated with the indebtedness of some euro-area sovereigns
and banks have resulted in severe strains in bank funding
markets and financial markets more generally. These tensions
in the world economy threaten the UK recovery.  In the  United Kingdom , the path of output has been affected
by a number of temporary factors, but the available indicators
suggest that the underlying rate of growth has also moderated.
The squeeze on households’ real incomes and the fiscal
consolidation are likely to continue to weigh on domestic
spending, while the strains in bank funding markets may also
inhibit the availability of credit to consumers and businesses.
While the stimulatory monetary stance and the present level
of sterling should help to support demand, the weaker outlook
for, and the increased downside risks to, output growth mean
that the margin of slack in the economy is likely to be greater
and more persistent than previously expected.  CPI inflation rose to 4.5% in August. The present elevated rate
of inflation primarily reflects the increase in the standard
rate of VAT in January and the impact of higher energy and import
prices. Inflation is likely to rise to above 5% in the next
month or so, boosted by already announced increases in utility
prices. But measures of domestically generated inflation
remain contained and inflation is likely to fall back sharply
next year as the influence of the factors temporarily raising
inflation diminishes and downward pressure from unemployment
and spare capacity persists.  The deterioration in the outlook has made it more likely that
inflation will undershoot the 2% target in the medium term.
In the light of that shift in the balance of risks, and in order
to keep inflation on track to meet the target over the medium
term, the Committee judged that it was necessary to inject
further monetary stimulus into the economy. The Committee
therefore voted to increase the size of its asset purchase
programme, financed by the issuance of central bank reserves,
by GBP75 billion to a total of GBP275 billion. The Committee
also voted to maintain  Bank Rate  at 0.5%. The Committee expects
the announced programme of asset purchases to take four months
to complete. The scale of the programme will be kept under
review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Evansin London at 
 mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  