-- 
Bank of England Expands Bond-Purchase Program for First Time in Two Years

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-10-06T16:10:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/bank-of-england-reactivates-bond-buying-program-to-stimulate-u-k-economy.html
The Bank of England pledged to buy
the most bonds since the depths of the last financial crisis as
officials raced to stop the euro-region debt turmoil from
pushing the economy back into recession.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
 Mervyn King  raised the ceiling for so-called quantitative easing
to 275 billion pounds ($421 billion) from 200 billion pounds.
That’s the biggest expansion since the first round of stimulus
in March 2009. Only 11 of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey predicted an increase in asset purchases.  The pound dropped after the decision, which came a day
after a report showed  Europe ’s second-biggest economy grew less
than previously estimated in the quarter through June and as
 Greece ’s crisis strained money markets. The central bank said in
a statement that slowing global growth and the turmoil in Europe
“threaten the U.K. recovery.”  “I think it’s a dramatic intervention and signals the
urgency of the situation,” said  Brian Hilliard , chief U.K.
economist at Societe Generale SA in London, who predicted a 50
billion-pound expansion. “I expect the size of the program to
be increased further.”  The pound fell as much as 1.2 percent against the dollar
after the decision to $1.5272. It traded at $1.5410 as of 5:04
p.m. in London. Bonds rose initially before reversing their
gain, pushing the yield on the 10-year gilt up 4 basis points to
2.39 percent. U.K. stocks remained higher, with the  FTSE 100
Index (UKX)  up 3.7 percent.  ‘Under Review’  “The news from the rest of the world in the past few
months has been very poor,” King said in an interview with  BBC
Television . ‘The world economy has slowed, America has slowed,
 China  has slowed, and of course particularly the European
economy has slowed. That’s affecting our ability to engineer a
recovery here so we took action today.’’  The MPC’s move marks a victory for  Adam Posen  a year after
he started voting for more bond purchases. The central bank
expects the new round of stimulus will take four months to
complete and it will keep the program “under review.” It will
buy gilts evenly across a range of maturities at three weekly
auctions with an initial size of 1.7 billion pounds.  Also today, the bank held its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent, as forecast by all 53 economists in a
separate survey.  ‘Tensions’  “The pace of global expansion has slackened, especially in
the U.K’s main export markets,” the  Bank of England  said in a
statement accompanying its decision. “Vulnerabilities
associated with the indebtedness of some euro-area sovereigns
and banks have resulted in severe strains in bank funding
markets and financial markets more generally. These tensions in
the world economy threaten the U.K. recovery.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
today the ECB will offer banks additional longer-term liquidity
and also restart covered bond purchases. Earlier today, it kept
its benchmark rate unchanged at 1.5 percent.  The Bank of England last announced an increase in its bond
program in November 2009 and the purchases ended in early 2010.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in a statement
that monetary policy has a “critical role in supporting the
economy” as he authorized the central bank to increase QE.  Today’s expansion shows policy makers are prioritizing the
recovery over the threat from inflation, which was 4.5 percent
in August, more than double the Bank of England’s target. The
central bank said today that the deterioration in the outlook
makes it “more likely” that inflation will undershoot its 2
percent goal in the medium term.  Fed Steps  Minutes of today’s decision, revealing how officials voted,
will be published on Oct. 19 in  London . Ben Broadbent and  David Miles  indicated last month they were moving closer to joining
Posen’s call to resume asset purchases.  The U.S. Federal Reserve responded to the economic slowdown
last month by adopting so-called Operation Twist, replacing $400
billion of Treasuries in its portfolio with longer-term
securities in a move aimed at further reducing borrowing costs
and lowering unemployment.  Two reports this week indicated the U.K. recovery retains
some momentum, with gauges of services and manufacturing
unexpectedly strengthening in September. Still, gross-domestic-
product data showed the economy grew just 0.1 percent in the
second quarter, less than previously estimated, as  consumer
spending  plunged the most in more than two years.  Downside Risks  Britain has struggled to recover from the recession, with
the economy barely growing over the past year. The IMF cut its
2011 and 2012 U.K. growth forecasts last month to 1.1 percent
and 1.6 percent from 1.5 percent and 2.3 percent, respectively.  “The downside risks to the economy have materialized from
the eurozone crisis and data showing the U.K. economy hardly
grew this year,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at ABN Amro
Bank in Amsterdam. “They’re showing they’re ready to act when
necessary, and that their focus has clearly shifted to growth
from inflation.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said on Oct. 4 that
European leaders must resolve the region’s debt crisis without
delay, while U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned
last month that failure to combat the turmoil could lead to
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.”  European Union officials are working on plans to boost bank
capital to contain the euro-region crisis, the IMF said
yesterday. Leaders of the Group of 20 nations will meet in
Cannes,  France , on Nov. 3-4, which international finance chiefs
see as the deadline for resolving the turmoil. The Bank of
England publishes new quarterly economic forecasts Nov. 16.  “This is the Bank of England’s contribution to a Plan B,”
said  Ed Balls , who speaks for the opposition  Labour Party  on
Treasury matters. “While another round of quantitative easing
may help, I fear it will do little to create the jobs and growth
we desperately need if we are to get the deficit down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  