-- 
Barclays’ Absa Merges Banking Units, Names Africa Committee

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-10-06T15:47:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/barclays-absa-merges-banking-units-names-africa-committee-1-.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s South
African bank, combined its retail and business divisions to
boost efficiency and named a joint committee with its British
parent to oversee growth in  Africa .  Bobby Malabie, head of Absa business banking, will lead the
combined unit, Chief Executive Officer  Maria Ramos  said in an e-
mailed statement today, while Gavin Opperman, the previous
retail chief, has resigned. Absa also granted some executives
pan-African responsibilities.  The Africa committee will be composed of managers from both
Absa and Barclays, which owns 56 percent of the Johannesburg-
based lender after buying a controlling stake in 2005. The move
may be a step toward Absa acquiring Barclays’ other African
units, said Patrice Rassou of Sanlam Investment Management. The
joint retail and business arm mirrors the structure used by
smaller rival  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  to cut costs.  “I think the changes will make Absa’s business more
efficient,” said Rassou, who who helps manage about 330 billion
rand ($41 billion) in  Cape Town . Sanlam holds Absa shares.  Barclays and Absa are working to increase profit as African
growth outpaces developed economies. London-based Barclays’
regional office in charge of Africa is moving from Dubai to
Johannesburg, with the relocation expected to be complete by the
end of December, Absa said.  Expanded Responsibilities  Chief Financial Officer David Hodnett and Stephen van Coller, who heads the Absa Capital investment bank, will expand
their responsibilities to include all African operations, Absa
said. Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s largest lender, has
also promoted managers to head pan-continental units rather than
focus on  South Africa  alone.  The Africa committee will include Ramos, van Coller and
Absa deputy CEO Louis von Zeuner, as well as Barclays Africa’s
David Skillen and Philip Freeborn, chief operating and
integration officer for Africa.  Among other appointments announced today, Willie Lategan
was named to head Absa’s so-called bancassurance business for
Africa and will also join the African executive committee.
Nomkhita Nqweni, chief of Absa’s wealth-management unit, will
join the bank’s executive committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  