-- 
Barker Says Pound Is ‘Critical’ to BOE Decision on More Stimulus

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-10-07T10:15:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/barker-says-pound-is-critical-to-boe-decision-on-more-stimulus.html
Former Bank of England policy maker
 Kate Barker  said the pound’s performance in the coming months
will be “quite critical” as the bank decides whether to
further expand its bond-purchase program.  The bank raised its target for bond purchases yesterday by
75 billion pounds ($116 billion) to 275 billion pounds to
support Britain’s recovery amid the euro area’s debt crisis.
Governor  Mervyn King  said the pound’s decline after the
announcement “clearly shows the policy is working.”  “What happens to sterling will depend on what happens in
the euro area, the two things are linked,” Barker said in a
phone interview yesterday. “If the euro area starts getting
over its difficulties, potentially sterling could start to
weaken a little bit, and that would be a different background”
for policy makers when they take their next decision.  Economists including  Michael Saunders  at Citigroup Inc. and
Philip Rush at Nomura International Plc have said risks to
Britain’s growth prospects from the turmoil in  Europe  make it
likely policy makers will expand the bond plan in February.  Barker said a recovery in Europe may weaken the pound while
improving Britain’s export outlook. That could stoke inflation
and growth, reducing the need for bond purchases to be expanded
beyond yesterday’s announcement.  The pound has fallen about 25 percent on a trade-weighted
basis since the start of 2007 and a further decline could fuel
import price pressures. Policy makers have said the slide has
both supported Britain’s recovery by fueling demand for exports,
and squeezed consumers by stoking faster inflation.  The pound rose 0.5 percent against the dollar and traded at
$1.5516 as of 10:03 a.m. in  London . It rose against the euro,
trading at 86.56 pence.  “Though the bank has been pretty happy about seeing
sterling a bit weaker, it’s not clear to me that weaker sterling
would do a lot more for growth at this stage, whereas it might
be difficult for inflation,” Barker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  