-- 
Basilea Shareholder HBM Seeks Board Seats, Share Buyback

-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 
2011-10-06T14:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/basilea-says-hbm-bioventures-proposes-werner-seng-rinderknecht.html
Basilea Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  AG’s biggest
shareholder sought four seats on an expanded board and said the
Swiss drugmaker should buy back shares after a 42 percent plunge
in the stock.  HBM BioVentures AG (HBMN)  asked Basilea to call a special
shareholders meeting by Nov. 30, the Zug, Switzerland-based fund
said in a statement today. Basilea needs help with strategic
decisions as it enters negotiations with potential partners,
said HBM, which owns 15 percent of the Basel-based drugmaker.  There’s “a total discrepancy between the value of the
underlying assets in Basilea and the current share price,” HBM
Chief Executive Officer Andreas Wicki said in a telephone
interview. “You can argue that the current board has been in
place for a long time, and sometimes it’s good to bring new
competencies, fresh spirits in.”  Basilea, which is seeking a partner to help develop and
market its ceftobiprole antibiotic, said Oct. 3 that CEO Anthony Man and Chief Operating Officer Ronald Scott would step down
from the board because the company was committed to “principles
of good corporate governance.”  Basilea’s board will set the date and the agenda of the
next meeting and “publish the invitation in due course,” the
company said in a separate statement today. The meeting probably
will take place around the end of November, the company said.  Proposed Candidates  HBM proposed Thomas Werner, a former GlaxoSmithKline Plc
executive; Seng Chin Mah, formerly of Novartis AG; Thomas M. Rinderknecht, a corporate lawyer; and a fourth candidate yet to
be named for the board.  Basilea rose 2.60 Swiss francs, or 7 percent, to 39.65
francs as of 4:18 p.m. in Zurich trading, giving the company a
market value of 380.1 million francs ($412 million). Before
today, the stock had fallen 42 percent in the past year.  HBM, which  owns shares  in about 25 health-care companies,
said that given Basilea’s “excessively low share price, we
expect the board of directors to seriously consider repurchases
of the company’s shares.”  Basilea, which plans to apply next year for approval of
ceftobiprole as a treatment for pneumonia, had 243.3 million
Swiss francs in cash and  short-term bank deposits  as of June 30,
according to a regulatory filing.  “There is no need to retain that much cash, as the company
is sufficiently financed to bring ceftobiprole to market in
pneumonia as a first indication,” Olav Zilian, an analyst with
Helvea SA in Geneva, said in a telephone interview.  Roche Spinoff  Basilea was spun off from  Roche Holding AG  in 2000, the
same year Henri Meier quit as Roche’s chief financial officer to
form HBM, a fund that went public in February 2008. Meier
remains the honorary chairman.  “It’s in the interests of all shareholders that the
current tech value that is almost inexistent is recognized and
brought to fruition,” HBM CEO Wicki said today.  HBM has owned shares in Basilea since the company’s initial
public offering in 2004, and sold 60 percent of its stake in
2007, when the stock reached a record of 282.25 francs, Wicki
said. HBM has “dramatically expanded” its position in Basilea
in the past six months, he said, and held 15 percent of the
stock as of Sept. 14, overtaking Basel-based Roche as the
company’s biggest shareholder. Basilea is HBM’s largest holding
by value, Wicki said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  