-- 
Baum’s Foreclosure Law Firm Agrees to Pay U.S. $2 Million Over Practices

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-10-06T21:24:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/baum-law-firm-to-pay-2-million-over-foreclosure-practices-in-new-york.html
Steven J. Baum’s foreclosure  law
firm , one of the largest in New York state, will pay the U.S. $2
million and change its practices, including those related to
Merscorp Inc.’s mortgage database, to resolve a probe of its
foreclosure filings.  The agreement, signed today, resolves an investigation into
whether the Baum firm filed misleading pleadings, affidavits and
mortgage assignments in courts, according to a statement by U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan . The settlement doesn’t
constitute a finding of wrongdoing.  “There are no excuses for sloppy practices that could lead
to someone mistakenly losing their home,” Bharara said in the
statement. “Homeowners facing foreclosure cannot afford to have
faulty paperwork or inadequate evidence submitted, and today’s
agreement will help minimize that risk.”  Steven J. Baum PC, located in Amherst, New York, just north
of Buffalo, has attracted lawsuits and fines for its actions
during the housing crisis. It has been accused of overcharging,
filing false documents and representing parties on both sides of
a mortgage transfer.  State attorneys general and federal regulators are
negotiating with banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  to try to reach a settlement over faulty
foreclosure practices in the wake of the financial crisis.  The changes in procedure “go over and above what current
law requires,” Baum said in an e-mailed statement. “We will
continue to adhere to the highest ethical standards.”  Shares Address  Pillar Processing LLC, which processes foreclosure
documents and shares an address with the law firm, is also part
of the settlement. Pillar is owned by Manhattan private-equity
firm Tailwind Capital LLC, according to its  website .  Brooke Gordon, spokeswoman for Tailwind Capital, declined
to comment on the settlement.  Baum acknowledged that the firm “occasionally made
inadvertent errors in its legal filings in state and federal
court, which it attributes to human error in light of the high
volume of mortgage defaults and foreclosures,” according to
Bharara’s statement.  The agreement calls for the firm’s employees to halt their
practice of assigning mortgages as supposed employees of
Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc., an electronic
database of mortgages.  ‘No Connection’  “Until recently, employees of Baum, with the consent of
MERS, had been assigning mortgages on behalf of MERS, even
though they had no connection to MERS whatsoever,” according to
Bharara’s statement.  MERS, a unit of Reston, Virginia-based Merscorp Inc., was
set up by the mortgage industry to allow banks to assign and
reassign home loans without having to record the changes with
county land-records offices.  Janis Smith, a MERS spokeswoman, didn’t have an immediate
comment on the MERS allegation.  The agreement calls for the Baum firm to obtain affidavits
from clients attesting that they have the original promissory
notes or have searched for them, to have experienced attorneys
supervise the preparation of documents and to implement a
training program for its attorneys.  MERS Assignments  “Borrowers and some courts have been questioning the
validity of MERS assignments, pleadings and affidavits from the
Baum firm for several years,” Jennifer Sinton, deputy director
of the foreclosure-prevention project at South Brooklyn Legal
Services, said in an interview. “It’s good to see that Baum is
now required to discontinue these practices. Hopefully, this
will protect courts and homeowners from bogus foreclosure
lawsuits.”  New York  State Supreme Court Justice Arthur M. Schack in
Brooklyn called the Baum firm’s explanations in one case “so
incredible, outrageous, ludicrous and disingenuous that they
should have been authored by the late Rod Serling.”  Schack threw out the case in part because he said the
assignment of the loan by a Baum lawyer on behalf of MERS as
nominee of the lender had been done improperly.  The same day, the Baum firm represented the buyer of the
loan by filing the foreclosure action, the judge said. Schack
said it was a conflict for the firm to represent both sides.  “Steven J. Baum PC appears to be operating in a parallel
mortgage universe, unrelated to the real universe,” the judge
wrote in that May 2010 decision. “Next stop, the Twilight
Zone,” he said, quoting from Serling’s TV series about science
fiction and the supernatural.  Baum said last year that in several cases where Schack
stated the firm represented both sides in a mortgage transfer,
“we have supplied to the court relevant documentation
indicating that no conflict of interest existed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 