-- 
BBC to Eliminate 2,000 Jobs, Reduce London Presence in Cost-Savings Drive

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T12:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/bbc-to-eliminate-2-000-jobs-reduce-london-presence-in-cost-savings-drive.html
The British Broadcasting Corp., the
world’s biggest public broadcaster, plans to cut 2,000 jobs and
move offices and production outside of  London  as part of an
effort to reduce costs after its funding was frozen.  The moves may save the broadcaster about 670 million pounds
($1.04 billion) annually by the 2016-2017 fiscal year, the  BBC 
Trust said in  a report  today following an investigation into
possible cost-cutting measures. The BBC will also scale back on
non-news television and radio programs, and will reduce spending
on content for its Asian Network radio broadcasts in Britain by
more than one-third.  The BBC has undergone cost cuts of more than 1 billion
pounds since 2008. The U.K. government ordered last year that
the TV license fees that citizens pay to finance the channels
remain at the same rate until 2017. The broadcaster is running
out of room to make cuts, Director General  Mark Thompson  said in
the report.  “It’s a plan for a smaller BBC, but a BBC which uses its
resources more effectively and collaboratively,” Thompson said.
“It’s my judgment that this is the last time the BBC will be
able to make this level of savings without a substantial loss of
services or quality or both.”  The BBC will move more of its operations out of London,
exiting its west London headquarters and moving work to the
north of  England , the company said in the report.  Chris Patten, the chairman of the trust that sets BBC
strategy and budgets, said in September that the London-based
broadcaster might have to eliminate some foreign news bureaus.
The company agreed in July to share its right to broadcast the
Formula One auto-racing series with  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc (BSY)  to save money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  