-- 
Blackstone’s GSO Acquires Loan Manager Harbourmaster Capital

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-10-06T13:55:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/blackstone-s-gso-acquires-european-loan-manager-harbourmaster.html
GSO Capital Partners LP, the credit
investment arm of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , acquired Dublin-based
Harbourmaster Capital Management Ltd. to boost its European loan
holdings to 11.5 billion euros ($15.5 billion).  The combined business will be managed by Debra Anderson
of GSO and Alan Kerr and Mark Moffat of Harbourmaster, according
to a statement from Blackstone today. Harbourmaster oversees
about 8 billion euros of assets, including collateralized loan
obligations, secured bank loans and investment grade
infrastructure loans and bonds, according to its website.  The downturn in the CLO market in  Europe  is providing a
window for firms including GSO Capital, NM Rothschild and Ares
Management LLC to expand by taking over smaller funds, which are
struggling to raise capital amid Europe’s deepening debt crisis.  “We are definitely seeing a continuing trend in loan fund
consolidation, and even the largest managers are not immune,”
said Alastair Sewell, associate director in Fitch Rating’s fund
and asset manager rating team in  London .  Rothschild, the family-owned financial advisor, took over
Elgin Capital LLP in August to triple its European leveraged
loans under management to about 2 billion euros. The same month,
Ares, a Los Angeles-based investment firm, agreed to buy Indicus
Advisors in London, increasing its European corporate credit
under management to more than $5 billion.  Highland Capital Management LLP, the Dallas-based debt
manager, has put its European CLO portfolios for sale, according
to two people familiar with the discussions.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return. Issuance of the debt in Europe has
declined to 285 million euros this year compared with a record
35 billion euros in 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  Harbourmaster’s acquisition is expected to close in early
2012 once regulatory approval is secured, the company said.
Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 