-- 
Black Swan Manager Returning 23% Anticipating Bear Market

-- B y   S e t h   L u b o v e   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-10-06T15:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/black-swan-money-manager-returning-23-anticipating-bear-market.html
Mark Spitznagel pushes the throttles
on his new twin-engine Chris-Craft Corsair 28, slicing through
Grand Traverse Bay in northern  Michigan  on a warm day in late
July. As the speedboat reaches more than 50 miles per hour,
Spitznagel’s blond hair flying in the wind, he churns up a big
wake.  Turbulence is where Spitznagel, the founder of hedge fund
Universa Investments LP, thrives. On Aug. 4, while Spitznagel is
still at his lake house, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index begins
to plunge as weak economic data prompt predictions of a double-
dip recession. By noon, Spitznagel, a so-called black swan
investor, has spoken with his Santa Monica, California-based
firm 15 times by phone to capitalize on its positions to make
money while other investors lose it, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its November issue.  At Universa’s office, between conversations with
Spitznagel, two traders frantically buy and sell derivatives,
including options on the  S&P 500 . The index’s 4.8 percent dive
on that day is producing a windfall for Universa, says Brandon Yarckin, a Universa associate who handles  investor relations . He
points to a Japanese print on the wall -- one of Spitznagel’s
favorites -- depicting a giant wave about to crash onto a group
of hapless fishermen.  “Days like today are what we are here for,” he says.  Investors are pouring into doomsday black swan funds,
spurred by the spreading European debt debacle and  Standard &
Poor’s  downgrade of U.S. creditworthiness. The funds entice
investors with the possibility of a huge payoff if a crisis
hits; Universa returned about 115 percent to investors in 2008,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  ‘Stupidly Expensive’  This year, as markets retreated, Spitznagel’s team
collected gains of 20 to 25 percent through August for its 11
sovereign-wealth-fund and institutional clients, whose
investments are run in separate partnerships and managed
accounts.  “I couldn’t be more bearish on the stock market right
now,” Spitznagel, 40, says. “The stock market has gotten
stupidly expensive again. Fortunately, with our position, I
don’t have to time the next sell-off.”  The downside of black swan investing can be steady pain --
year after year of losses if a market catastrophe doesn’t occur.
In both 2009 and 2010, Universa’s clients lost about 4 percent,
according to the person. The hedge-fund industry had a 9.2
percent gain in 2009 and an 8.2 percent return in 2010,
according to the Bloomberg aggregate hedge-fund index.  Investment Fad  Some managers dismiss black swan funds as a costly
investment fad. Philippe Jorion, a managing director in the risk
management group at Pacific Alternative Asset Management Co., a
fund of hedge funds, compares this form of hedging with
homeowners’ insurance: The premiums paid by the homeowner
usually exceed the benefit over time.  On top of the ongoing losses, black swan hedge funds
typically charge a 1.5 percent management fee and take 20
percent of any profit.  “The problem we have is that these hedging strategies tend
to do well only when volatility is high,” says Jorion, who’s
based in  Irvine ,  California . “But over the long run, there can
be stretches over many years where these strategies are
expensive to run and bleed money.”  Nassim  Nicholas Taleb  coined the term black swan as a
metaphor for an unforeseen catastrophe, such as the implosion of
hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management LP in 1998 or the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. The author and  New York 
University professor has helped inspire a cottage industry of
disaster funds.  ‘The Black Swan’  His most well-known book,  “The Black Swan: The Impact of
the Highly Improbable”  (Random House, 2007), has sold more than
3 million copies. His latest book dispenses wisdom via
aphorisms. In  “The Bed of Procrustes: Philosophical and
Practical Aphorisms”  (Random House, 2010), he writes, “In
science, you need to understand the world; in business, you need
others to misunderstand it.”  Taleb, 51, shut down Empirica LLC, his black swan hedge
fund, in 2005 to focus on writing and because he feared he might
have a recurrence of throat cancer. Taleb also frequently
lectures before business groups, academics and policy makers.  “I’m not interested in money; I’m not interested in
finance,” Taleb says. “I’m comfortable enough as it is. I
don’t need it. Finance should be a footnote in my bio, not a
central component. Why should I waste time in finance when my
influence as an intellectual is so high?”  Ballooning Assets  Assets in black swan and tail-risk funds, which hedge
against low-probability events and are named for the tapered
lines at either end of a bell curve, are ballooning. They jumped
to $38 billion in April from $500 million prior to the collapse
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in 2008, according to a
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  report.  Pacific Investment Management Co., whose chief executive
officer, Mohamed El-Erian, says the U.S. may be headed for a
long period of below-average expansion, is the biggest firm yet
to jump into the catastrophe-hedging business. Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco, which manages about $1.3 trillion, has a
tail-risk strategy with almost $30 billion of assets spread
across its funds. Pine River Capital Management LP in
Minnetonka,  Minnesota , runs the $160 million Nisswa Tail Hedge
Master Fund Ltd., and 36 South Capital Advisors LLP of  London ,
which oversees $330 million of assets, also manages black swan
funds. Jerry Haworth, who co-founded the firm, says his black
swan fund returned 234 percent in 2008.  Options Trading  Before starting Universa in 2007, Spitznagel was a partner
and the head trader at Taleb’s Empirica, and together, they
developed their options-trading strategy. Universa, whose
clients include the  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board , buys
out-of-the-money call and put options tied to the S&P 500,
commodities and stocks.  In a typical trade, Universa pays a fee for the right to
lock in a set price on the S&P 500 for a period of time, such as
one year. If the benchmark index declines below this strike
price, Universa’s options increase in value.  “I’m a value investor in my bones,” says Spitznagel,
who’s also the firm’s president and chief investment officer.
“I want to trade on adverse expectations.”  In April 2010, Universa paid about $2 each for S&P 500 put
options expiring that May that would pay off if the index fell
below 1,100. At the time, the index was around 1,200. The firm
sold the puts as they soared to more than $60 each during the
one-day crash on May 6, when the S&P fell as low as 1,066,
erasing $862 billion in U.S. equity values in 20 minutes.  ‘Like an Idiot’  “Most of the time, you look like an idiot,” says
Spitznagel, who’s wearing a Brooks Brothers striped polo shirt
and boat shoes during lunch at a restaurant across the bay from
his summer home. “You’re holding stuff no one else wants.”  Susan Manske, CIO of the $5.6 billion  John D. and Catherine
T. MacArthur Foundation , said at a symposium in  Washington  in
July that she decided to avoid tail-risk funds because of the
costs.  After the 2008 market meltdown, when the S&P 500 fell 38.5
percent, the foundation looked into tail-risk hedges and ended
up buying U.S. Treasuries as part of a larger investment
strategy, Manske said, adding, “Most people would say, ‘Why in
the world are you adding long-duration Treasuries when they are
trading at 4 percent?’”  She’s betting that long-duration U.S. government securities
will provide cheaper portfolio diversification than a strategy
using tail-risk protection.  Empirica Criticism  Janet Tavakoli , a former head of mortgage-backed-securities
marketing at Merrill Lynch & Co. who now runs  Tavakoli
Structured Finance Inc. , criticized the performance of Empirica,
Taleb’s prior firm. In a  2009 commentary  posted on her website,
Tavakoli attacked Taleb for losing money in 2001 -- the year of
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the U.S., one of the biggest
black swan events in history.  The firm’s Empirica Kurtosis fund posted a 7 percent gain
in September yet declined 8.4 percent for 2001. Spitznagel, who
won’t comment on Empirica’s specific returns, says the Kurtosis
fund held a small portion of the firm’s assets and wasn’t
representative of Empirica’s other results.  “In the year that Taleb called the mother of all black
swans, they lost money,” Tavakoli says. “He’s quick to try to
discredit others but not so quick to own up to the weaknesses in
his own actions.”  Taleb is dismissive of Tavakoli.  “I can’t take her seriously,” he says. “I have other
obsessive detractors more worthy of attention.”  ‘White Swan’  Taleb says he no longer trades and instead devotes himself
to writing and serving as an unpaid adviser on risk policies to
governments. He doesn’t consider the equity market roller
coaster that occurred in August, spurred by S&P’s downgrade of
U.S. creditworthiness, to be a black swan.  “What we have here is like a white swan,” says Taleb from
his suburban New York home, where he has a collection of 10,000
books. “Moves of 5 percent in the stock market are too common.
The downgrade of the U.S. is cosmetic. The only black swan that
came from the downgrade is that the  bond market  rallied.”  At Universa, Taleb has the title of distinguished
scientific advisor and helps Spitznagel on research projects.
Spitznagel’s devotion to black swan ideas partly swayed his
choice of location for his firm. He opted for the relative
safety of a one-story building in case an earthquake strikes, a
classic black swan event.  J-Lo’s House  In the office, with its exposed beams and view of an alley
and a loading dock in Santa Monica’s tourist district,
Spitznagel hung a reproduction he commissioned of a somber
painting of a black swan by Belgian symbolist  William Degouve de
Nuncques . On his office window, Spitznagel scribbled more
decoration: complex mathematical formulas.  The firm’s bets -- it paid 70 cents in July for put options
on  Citigroup Inc. (C)  that soared to $10 after the stock dropped --
have helped make Spitznagel rich. He seeded a family office with
$100 million and paid $7.5 million in 2009 for a 7,357-square-
foot (683-square-meter) house in  Los Angeles ’s wealthy Bel Air
neighborhood that was previously owned by divorcing celebrity
couple Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony.  Spitznagel does almost everything with zeal and intensity.
He hones his trading discipline with weekly training sessions in
Chinese Chen-style taijiquan, a form of tai chi that emphasizes
fighting and defense, and he snowboards in the winter. In 2004,
he separated a shoulder after falling off a skateboard to avoid
an oncoming taxi in New York’s Central Park. He has given up
piloting engineless sailplanes over California’s Sierra Nevada
mountains.  Total Immersion  “He’s never had a casual interest in anything,” says
older brother Eric Spitznagel, a freelance journalist and
author. “If he cares about something, he’ll immerse himself in
it totally.”  A native of Michigan, Spitznagel got hooked on trading in
middle school when he visited the Chicago Board of Trade. “The
energy was incredible,” he says. He hung a point and figure
chart of the soybean futures markets on his bedroom wall.  With the help of Everett Klipp, a family friend and trader,
Spitznagel clerked at the CBOT during summers while he was a
student in high school and at  Kalamazoo College  in Michigan.
Spitznagel joined Klipp’s firm after graduating with a political
science degree in 1993 and soon began trading in the bond
futures pit for his own account. Spitznagel says Klipp taught
him the value of taking small losses while waiting for the big
score.  Meeting Taleb  “A small loss is a good loss,” Spitznagel remembers the
now deceased Klipp telling him.  In 1999, Spitznagel entered a master’s program at  New York
University’s Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences , where
he met and began to cement his relationship with Taleb. At the
institute, former Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
quant trader Neil A. Chriss had built a program in applied
financial math.  Chriss hired Taleb, then known for a wonky 1997 tome,
 “Dynamic Hedging: Managing Vanilla and Exotic Options,”  as an
adjunct professor. Chriss put Spitznagel in touch with Taleb
after the student mentioned he had read Dynamic Hedging and said
that the book was his bible as a trader.  The two men talked on the phone, and Taleb, who was
preparing to start Empirica, says he was impressed that an
experienced floor trader was training in quant theory.  “I hired him without seeing him,” Taleb says. “I told
him to take a train to Greenwich.”  ‘Shouting Matches’  The pair opened Empirica together in 1999 in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , staked with $50 million from Donald Sussman’s
Paloma Partners LLC hedge fund. Taleb says Spitznagel brought
his pit-trader aggressiveness to the firm in an effort to get a
good price on transactions.  “Mark would get into shouting matches with brokers,”
Taleb says. “He used to turn red with anger.”  When the Internet bubble burst in 2000, the Empirica
Kurtosis fund posted a 57 percent return that year, according to
company documents summarizing its results. In contrast, the S&P
500 fell 10.1 percent in 2000. The fund went into a tailspin
starting with the 2001 decline, followed by drops of 13 percent
in 2002 and 3.9 percent during the first two months of 2003.
That’s when the partners closed the fund.  In February 2007, after about a year on  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s
proprietary-trading desk, Spitznagel left to open his own firm.
He says the frothy market conditions early that year inspired
his decision to start a black swan fund but that he had no idea
that the credit crisis would soon plunge the world into
recession.  Unconventional Ways  “The market was -- and still is -- very overvalued,” he
says, referring to the price of stocks. “The risk-reward made
particularly good sense. It certainly lit a fire for me.”  Spitznagel manages his investors’ money in unconventional
ways. An investor specifies a notional amount to protect and
then gives Universa the money to buy the options. Universa
requires clients to deposit cash equaling the required exchange
margin to support the position, which is only 1 to 5 percent of
the face value of the options when market volatility is low.  Most futures and commodity-trading advisers, who counsel
clients on futures and options contracts, require at least a 50
percent deposit, says James Bibbings, president of Chicago-based
 Turnkey Trading Partners , a consultant to commodity and currency
traders. A fraction of that 50 percent will be invested in
actual contracts, with the remainder parked in cash or cash-like
securities that can easily be sold if the firm needs to post
additional margin on the customer position.  Minimizing Losses  So while Universa hedged a notional $6 billion for
investors, it managed only $68.3 million, according to a March
Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Yarckin says the
amount fluctuates as the market’s implied volatility rises and
falls, and the firm’s capital in September was about four to
five times higher than in March.  Spitznagel says investors appreciate not having to tie up
so much of their capital with his firm. He says he can operate
with small deposits because he structures his investments to
minimize the size of losses. Spitznagel is now seeking $1
billion for a new fund that will try to capitalize on mispriced
options on benchmarks as well as individual commodities,
currencies, stocks and other financial instruments.  “There is no other vehicle out there that I know of where
you will see this extreme underfunding, because I doubt there is
any other vehicle out there that has the conservative risk
controls we do,” he says.  Cherry Picking  Last year, Spitznagel bought a 200-acre (80-hectare) cherry
orchard and farm near his summer home in Northport Point,
Michigan, that he’s converting into a goat dairy. Driving
through the orchard, he lowers a window in his  Mercedes-Benz G
55 AMG  sport utility vehicle, plucks a fresh cherry off one of
his trees and pops it in his mouth.  “This is my idea of farming,” he says.  With the S&P 500 down about 16 percent in early October
from its 2011 high, Spitznagel finds making money almost as easy
as picking cherries. And  he argues  that there’s a high
probability that the S&P 500 will continue its decline, plunging
an additional 40 percent in the next few years. That would spur
even more investors to flock to black swan funds -- hoping for a
big payday while risking a bust.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Lubove in Los Angeles at 
 slubove@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in New York at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  