-- 
BlackRock’s IShares Targets Main Street

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/blackrock-s-ishares-division-helps-wall-street-behemoth-target-main-street.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
money manager, became a Wall Street behemoth by serving
institutional clients. Now it’s devoting more of its time to
individual investors.  As part of that plan, the New York firm is looking to its
San Francisco-based  iShares  unit to attract more financial
advisers and individual investors in the so-called retail market
-- rather than the pensions, endowments and institutions that
serve as BlackRock’s main customers.  Michael Latham, chairman of iShares, has embarked on a
strategic review of the business, with the goal of better
capitalizing on its exchange-traded funds. With ETFs, investors
can buy baskets of securities or other assets and trade them on
exchanges like stocks. Latham, who was chief executive officer
of the unit until the review was announced last month, is
betting that individual investors and advisers will embrace ETFs
as part of shift to more passive investing, rather than active
stock and bond picking.  “Over the next five to 10 years, retail markets will
understand the value of mixing passive and active together,”
Latham said. “IShares will be a great way for them to get that
exposure.”  BlackRock, which manages almost  three-quarters  of its $3.66
trillion in assets for institutional investors, entered the ETF
business with its December 2009 takeover of  Barclays Global
Investors  and its iShares unit. The deal was designed in part to
help the company reach Main Street investors, BlackRock Chairman
and CEO Laurence Fink said when the purchase was announced.  Passive Approach  Index strategies, which use “passive” investing, make up
about 6 percent to 8 percent of total assets among retail
investors, compared with about 30 percent among institutional
investors, Latham said.  The challenge: BlackRock may have trouble taking on rival
asset managers with similar products and higher recognition
among investors and advisers, said  Scott Burns , head of ETF
research for Morningstar Inc., a Chicago-based firm that’s
tracked the mutual fund industry for 20 years. Many smaller
advisers prefer products from Vanguard Group Inc. and other
firms, he said.  Vanguard and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  have cut prices to get
investors to use their ETFs. Vanguard’s emerging-market ETF
topped BlackRock’s comparable fund earlier this year in size,
becoming the third-largest U.S. ETF at the time, by charging an
annual fee that’s less than half as big.  ‘Commodity Product’  “Honestly, a passive broad-based index ETF is a commodity
product,” Burns said. “They’re trying to distinguish
themselves on service, research information or liquidity, and
keep the focus away from cost.”  BlackRock won’t compete on price, Latham said. Instead, it
will offer better selection and a product that more closely
tracks the prices of the underlying securities, and spend time
showing investors that total expenses, including trading costs,
are more important than annual fees when choosing ETFs.  The company cut annual fees last year on its iShares Comex
Gold Trust ETF to 0.25 percent of assets from 0.4 percent. Even
so, iShares’ prices still may not be competitive.  “The pricing of iShares is a problem,” said Patricia Dunn, who gave the green light for the iShares business plan
when she was CEO of Barclays Global Investors in 1999. “The
broader market is going to look at price first, second and
third.”  Brokerage Promotions  A big part of Latham’s approach will be using brokerage
promotions and education to persuade consumers to try ETFs,
which generally offer cheaper fees, tax efficiency and better
liquidity. A major partner is  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , which
offers more than 100 ETFs selected by Morningstar that customers
can trade without paying commission, according to TD’s  website .
The list includes 46 ETFs managed by iShares and 32 offered by
Vanguard.  “At the end of the day, it’s like any consumer product,”
Latham said. “You can have the best product, which again I’m
confident we do, and you have to couple that with really good
promotion and education so people understand you have the best
product.”  Latham declined to provide details on iShares’ plans for
advertising or marketing campaigns.  ETFs have a number of advantages over mutual funds,
industry analysts said. When mutual funds buy and sell
securities, the trades generate a tax gain or loss for the
fund’s investors, regardless of whether they’ve changed their
holdings of the fund. Those are taxes that ETF investors avoid
since the funds act more like stocks, with investors generating
tax implications mostly when they change their holdings of the
ETF.  Greater Choice  ETFs also offer daily transparency and can be purchased by
any investor with a brokerage account, while some mutual funds
are offered only by specific providers or 401(k) retirement plan
administrators and have holdings that are more opaque. ETFs,
which are traded on an exchange, also provide more liquidity
than an investment in mutual funds and offer greater choices of
industries and asset classes, Burns said.  “If it’s 10 a.m. and I want to sell, with ETFs I can do it
immediately,” Burns said. “If it’s 10 a.m. and I want to get
out of my mutual fund, I have to wait until the end of the day
and maybe the market drops another 700 points.”  IShares’ U.S. ETFs have attracted $10.3 billion in new
money this year through August, compared with $25.4 billion at
Vanguard, $1.8 billion at Schwab and $6.6 billion at  State
Street Corp. (STT) , according to data from Morningstar. ETFs held
about $1.09 trillion in assets in the U.S. through July,
according to the  Investment Company Institute  in  Washington .  Low Usage  “Especially among individual investors, the usage and
ownership is really low,” Beth Flynn, vice president of ETF
platform management at Schwab, said in a Bloomberg Radio
interview. “As more and more people understand the potential
benefits that ETFs can offer them in their portfolio, we’ll see
more clients adopting them.”  IShares also is moving into “active” ETFs, which seek to
combine the skill of a manager selecting investments with the
benefits of ETFs. BlackRock is betting that it can package the
strategies of its top portfolio managers and distribute them
more widely through ETFs, said Jim Wiandt, publisher of industry
tracker IndexUniverse.com.  Last month, BlackRock applied to open 13 actively managed
equity ETFs that wouldn’t disclose their holdings daily,
according to a regulatory filing. The firm already has
permission to sell active ETFs that offer daily transparency.  “We have more experience than anyone else in this
business,” Latham said. “We have more products and more
breadth of product than anyone else in this business. We will
continue to promote the benefits of iShares to the direct retail
market. It’s a huge opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 