-- 
Blumenthal Wins Michelin Star as U.K. Pub Gets Second

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-10-06T13:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/blumenthal-wins-michelin-star-in-london-as-provincial-u-k-pub-gets-second.html
Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal  and
Pollen Street Social won stars today as the two new  London 
restaurants were recognized in the Michelin Guide to U.K. and
Ireland, which for the first time gave a second star to a pub.  The Hand & Flowers, in Marlow, about an hour west of
London, charges 16.50 pounds ($25.26) for a three-course  set
lunch  by chef Tom Kerridge that yesterday was crispy pig’s
head with Provencal garnish; Cornish whiting fritter with
braised Puy lentils; and blackberry fool with mint sauce.  “The Hand & Flowers won its stars for the food,”
Rebecca Burr, editor of the guide, said today in a telephone
interview. “It doesn’t matter if you are in a country pub or
a Mayfair restaurant. Tom’s got a fine touch. He’s one of the
greatest chefs in the country and he’s got his feet on the
ground.”  There was also a second star for Restaurant Sat Bains, in
the English Midlands, where the tasting menu costs 95 pounds.
Bains is one of the country’s most respected chefs among his
peers. He cooked at Fortnum & Mason for the day on Oct. 3 as
part of the  London Restaurant Festival .  Ramsay Disciple  Dinner and Pollen Street Social have reaped awards since
opening this year. Dinner is the British brasserie of
Blumenthal, the owner of the Fat Duck, which holds three
stars. The head chef is Ashley Palmer-Watts. Pollen Street
belongs to Jason Atherton, who created Maze for  Gordon Ramsay 
before splitting with his mentor.  Pied a Terre lost the second star it first won in 1996
following the departure of chef  Shane Osborn . Also in London,
Bingham Restaurant at Bingham Hotel gave up its star, as did
 Tom Aikens , which is closed for refurbishment.  There are no new three-star restaurants in London, which
has two, compared with seven in  New York . Two establishments
near London also hold three stars.  Burr took over as editor following the retirement of
Derek Bulmer. Internationally, the guides will also have a new
director, New York-born Michael Ellis, who has been named to
succeed Jean-Luc Naret, who has resigned.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Various criteria are used: food quality, preparation and
flavors; the chef’s personality as revealed through the
cuisine; value for money; and consistency over time and across
the menu.  Michelin & Cie. is the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free of charge (until 1920) and intended for
chauffeurs. The guide contained practical information,
including street maps and tips on using and repairing tires.  “The Michelin Guide to  Great Britain  and Ireland 2012”
will be available in bookshops from tomorrow, priced at 14.99
pounds (17.99 euros in Ireland).  Here are the awards. (N means new):  TWO STARS:
London:
Le Gavroche
Helene Darroze at the Connaught
Hibiscus
The Ledbury
Marcus Wareing at the Berkeley
The Square  Rest of the U.K. and Ireland:
Andrew Fairlie at Gleneagles, Auchterarder
Midsummer House, Cambridge
Gidleigh Park, Chagford
Le Champignon Sauvage, Cheltenham
Patrick Guilbaud, Dublin
Whatley Manor (The Dining Room), Malmesbury
Hand and Flowers, Marlow N
Restaurant Sat Bains, Nottingham N
Le Manoir aux Quat’Saisons, Oxford
Restaurant Nathan Outlaw, Rock  ONE STAR:
London: Amaya
Apsleys
Arbutus
L’Autre Pied
Benares
Chapter One
Chez Bruce
Club Gascon
Dinner by Heston Blumenthal N
Galvin La Chapelle
Galvin at Windows
Gauthier Soho
Glasshouse
Greenhouse
Hakkasan
Hakkasan Mayfair N
Harwood Arms
Kai
Kitchen W8
La Trompette
Locanda Locatelli
Maze
Murano
Nobu
Berkeley St
Nobu (Park Lane)
North Road N
Petersham Nurseries
Cafe Petrus
Pied a Terre
Pollen Street Social N
Quilon
Rasoi
Rhodes
Twenty Four
Rhodes W1
River Cafe
St John
Semplice
Seven Park Place
Sketch (The Lecture Room & Library)
Tamarind
Texture
Umu
Viajante
Wild Honey
Yauatcha
Zafferano  New one-star restaurants outside London:
 Black Swan , Olstead
Butchers Arms, Eldersfield
Castle Terrace, Edinburgh
The Checkers, Montgomery
Coworth Park, Ascot
Driftwood, Portscatho
Glenapp Castle, Ballantrae
Martin Wishart at Loch Lomond
The Pass, Horsham
Sir Charles Napier, Chinnor
Tassili (at Grand Hotel), Jersey/St Helier  New winners of Bib Gourmand for value in London:
Azou, Hammersmith
Barrafina, Soho
Brawn, Bethnal Green
Da Polpo, Covent Garden
Fox and Grapes, Wimbledon
Jose, Bermondsey
Kateh, Mayfair
Koya, Soho
Opera Tavern, Covent Garden
St John Bread and Wine, Spitalfields
Sushi Say, Willesden Green
Triphal, Southfields
Trishna, Marylebone 