-- 
BMW Struggles to Enlarge Mini Market as Coupe Vies for Worst Sales: Cars

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-10-06T22:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/bmw-struggles-to-enlarge-mini-market-as-coupe-vies-for-worst-sales-cars.html
Boris Knoblich is one of the reasons
why  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  is struggling to create a bigger
market for the Mini.  The 37-year-old media consultant from Berlin doesn’t have
the Munich-based manufacturer’s urban car brand on his shopping
list, rejecting the new two-seater Mini coupe that his dealer
offered as a replacement to his BMW 1-Series compact.  “It’s a bit racy-looking compared with other Minis, but
too small and not variable enough,” said Knoblich, who’s
considering another 1-Series as well as an Audi A3 and Auris
hybrid from Toyota Motor Corp. “I need a multifunctional car.”  Mini, which was salvaged from the wreckage of the failed
takeover of the U.K.’s Rover Group, is central to BMW’s strategy
to meet tighter environmental standards and fend off  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz. The world’s biggest
maker of  luxury vehicles  plans to tighten cooperation between
Mini and the namesake brand by sharing front-wheel drive
technology after the Mini hatchback is overhauled in 2014.  The $22,000 coupe, which went on sale in  Europe  on Oct. 1
and will hit U.S. dealers later this fall, is the first of three
new Mini variants that will go on sale by the end of next year,
expanding the lineup to seven similarly sized vehicles. The new
models, which all share the same basic underpinnings, will
probably do little beyond keeping the brand’s sales from
declining as the iconic Mini hatchback ages, analysts said.  “Mini can’t do the volumes that they want with the body
styles that they have,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst IHS
Automotive in Norwalk,  Connecticut . “They have to push the
envelope up and down” with larger and smaller models.  Worst Seller  Growth in Mini’s deliveries will probably slow to 2.7
percent in 2012 and 1.6 percent in 2013 after jumping 23 percent
this year on demand for the four-door Countryman crossover,
according to IHS Automotive forecasts. The helmet-topped coupe
will be joined by a roadster and the Paceman, a sportier
crossover, by the end of 2012.  The roadster and coupe are set to vie for the status as the
brand’s worst seller, with coupe sales pegged at 6.2 percent of
2013 deliveries of 296,240 cars and the roadster at 5 percent,
according to IHS.  Audi targeted Mini with the A1 subcompact. Daimler is
adding to that pressure as it rolls out five new Mercedes
compact cars starting with the revamped B-Class this fall. The
automaker’s Smart city car will expand beyond a two-seater from
2013, after confronting its own size limits.  Mini isn’t concerned by the potential slow sales for the
derivatives and plans further expansion to the lineup and
markets, said Kay Segler, the brand’s chief.  Ten Minis  “I see great potential for Mini,” said Segler in an e-
mail response to questions. “There’s no limit to our
creativity. We can imagine additional models with typical Mini
characteristics -- up to 10 models are conceivable.”  Mini, based in Oxford, England, plans to enter  India  next
year after expanding to  Indonesia  in 2011, he said. BMW is
targeting record Mini sales this year, with deliveries set to
rise at least 10 percent.  The coupe, which competes with $19,545 Honda CR-Z, will be
Mini’s first two-seater. The loss of the rear bench leads to a
drop in weight of 60 kilograms (132 pounds), helping it
accelerate to 100 kilometers (62 miles) per hour in 9 seconds,
one tenth of a second faster than the corresponding hatchback.  The engines are shared with other Mini models. While it’s
2.9 centimeters (1.1 inches) shorter than the hatchback, the
length and width are nearly identical, reflecting the size
constraints faced by the brand’s models.  High Margins  “The coupe is quirky, but that’s what Mini is,” said
Garel Rhys, president of the auto industry research center at
the U.K.’s Cardiff University. “BMW is showing that they’re
pretty clever and innovative with the derivatives.”  The close association of the coupe with the brand’s other
models should boost profit margins, especially considering its
price is 1,650 euros, or 8.4 percent, more than the similarly
equipped hatchback, said Jonathon Poskitt, an analyst at J.D.
Power and Associates in Oxford,  England .  The coupe relies on “synergies” with other models and
every variant has to “stand on its own,” Mini’s Segler said.  The new two-seater will likely appeal to men under 35
looking for a conspicuous car, said Werner Entenmann, head of
Autohaus Entenmann in Esslingen near Stuttgart. He celebrated
the introduction of the model with a party for 800 guests,
including a champagne reception and cocktails.  ‘No Middle Ground’  “We expect it to be a niche, lifestyle-oriented car,”
said Entenmann, who plans to reserve one or two places for the
coupe in his Mini showroom, which can display up to eight
vehicles. “It either fascinates or leaves people cold. There’s
no middle ground.”  The coupe is part of Mini’s development toward more
independence, said the dealer, who sells Mini and BMW cars. He
is hoping for a larger model from the brand. So is Knoblich.  “Mini works as a city car,” said the 1-Series driver.
“But I need something that’s a city car, can drive long
distances and transport stuff and people. Mini doesn’t offer
that right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  