-- 
BOE Bond Program Boost a ‘ Bearish’ Signal: Analyst Comment

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-06T12:21:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/boe-bond-program-boost-a-bearish-signal-analyst-comment.html
Foreign-exchange strategists comment
on the  Bank of England ’s decision to expand bond purchases to
275 billion pounds ($421 million) from 200 billion pounds, the
first increase in the so-called quantitative easing program
since 2009. Twenty-one of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey forecast no change, and the rest predicted increases
ranging from 50 billion pounds to 100 billion pounds.  The analysts commented by telephone and e-mail today.  Elizabeth Gregory, a market strategist in Geneva at
Swissquote Bank SA, a unit of financial and trading-services
company Swissquote Group:  “It’s an incredibly bearish signal from the Bank of
England. They must have significant concerns about the growth
outlook.”  “What’s really surprising is the magnitude.”  “One of the unfortunate consequences of this injection is
that it’s going to stoke inflation.”  “It’s very likely the pound will fall to $1.50 levels and
I wouldn’t be surprised to see it fall to below $1.50.”  “This action from the U.K. means other central banks will
find it a lot easier to consider more quantitative easing
themselves.”  John Hydeskov, chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in London:  “It’s slightly bigger than we thought -- I went for 50
billion like the majority of forecasters.”  “It’s definitely not good for the pound. We’re seeing a
big weakening at the moment. I would say that this can continue
to 87.50 pence.”  Neil Jones , London-based head of European hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.  The move is a “proactive surprise.”  “I expect the pound to fall and become more competitive,
whilst sending U.K. stocks, property assets and both producer
and consumer confidence higher. We would expect further QE
measures in the pipeline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at o
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  