-- 
BofA, JPMorgan, BNY Mellon, S&P, AIG, SocGen in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-10-06T12:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/bofa-jpmorgan-bny-mellon-s-p-aig-socgen-in-court-news.html
Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha
Coakley  said she may sue major banks after she “lost
confidence” that they will reach an adequate agreement to
resolve disputes over foreclosure practices.  Attorneys general from all 50 states last year announced a
probe of bank foreclosure practices following reports that
faulty documents were used to seize homes. Since then, attorneys
general and federal officials have been negotiating a settlement
with the five largest mortgage servicers in the U.S. -- Bank of
America Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Citigroup Inc.,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and Ally Financial Inc.  “I have lost confidence that the banks will bring to the
table an agreement that properly holds them accountable for
wrongful foreclosures,” Coakley, 58, said in a statement today.
“Because our office for some time has anticipated that result,
we have begun preparing for litigation.”  California Attorney General Kamala Harris said last week
that she was rejecting a proposed settlement with the banks and
would pursue her own mortgage investigation, according to a
letter she wrote to the U.S. Justice Department and Iowa
Attorney General Tom Miller, who is leading talks for the
states.  New York  Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , Delaware
Attorney General  Beau Biden  and Nevada Attorney General
Catherine Cortez Masto are also conducting mortgage-related
investigations as settlement talks with the banks continue.  Miller said yesterday that the settlement being worked on
will hold the banks accountable “in ways that are
unprecedented” and will help struggling homeowners across the
country. Further negotiations took place this week in
Washington.  “While attorneys general are free to criticize an
agreement that does not yet exist, we expect that they’ll soon
see the tangible results of our yearlong efforts to address
improper servicing and foreclosure practices, and provide relief
to homeowners,” Miller said in an e-mailed statement.  Coakley said her office is “aggressively proceeding” with
plans to file lawsuits. They would include claims tied to the
failure to establish the right to start a foreclosure and the
filing of false or misleading documents, she said.  Coakley, who has been investigating a mortgage database
used by banks known as MERS, didn’t disclose when or which banks
would be sued.  New Suits  Merrill Lynch Sued Over Collateralized Debt Obligations  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit was sued in New
York by Loreley Financing over alleged misrepresentations
involving $92 million of collateralized debt obligations.  The suit stems from Loreley’s purchase of classes of notes
issued in connection with two CDOs, according to a complaint
filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “Defendants made material misrepresentations to
plaintiffs, omitted material facts, conspired to defraud
plaintiffs, were responsible for fraudulent conveyances, aided
and abetted others’ fraud and fraudulent conveyances,” Loreley
said in the complaint.  William Halldin , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said the company believes “there is no
merit to the claims” and plans to defend itself in court.  The case is Loreley Financing (Jersey) No. 3 Ltd. v.
Merrill Lynch, 652732/2011, New York State Supreme Court,
(Manhattan).  Conservation Groups Sue U.S. to Block Keystone XL Pipeline  Work on the Keystone XL pipeline, which would transport oil
from western Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, should be halted
because the U.S. didn’t complete an environmental impact review,
advocacy groups said in a lawsuit.  The Center for Biological Diversity, Friends of the Earth
Inc. and Western Nebraska Resources Council sued the U.S. in
Omaha, Nebraska, federal court yesterday, calling the government
review a “sham public process” because the pipeline is moving
forward without final approval. They seek a ruling that the work
violates the National Environmental Policy Act and an order
blocking the pipeline until requisite approvals are obtained.  The $7 billion pipeline, being built by  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ,
runs through north-central Nebraska’s Sand Hills region. The
construction is forcing the clearance of native grasses and
relocation of an endangered species of whooping cranes,
according to the complaint.  “These activities are on-going and are having adverse
environmental impacts and are being carried out before the
environmental reviews for the pipeline are complete,” and
before permits have been issued, the groups claim.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on the filing. TransCanada
spokesman Terry Cunha didn’t return a call and e-mail seeking
comment.  The case is Center for Biological Diversity v. U.S.
Department of State, 11cv345, U.S. District Court, District of
Nebraska (Omaha).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Citigroup Sues to Block Arbitration of Saudi Investors’ Claim  A  Citigroup Inc. (C)  unit sued two Saudi investors seeking to
block Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration of
their $383 million claim that the bank “wiped out” their
family’s wealth.  Abdullah and Ghazi Abbar, a father and son from Jeddah who
put family money into hedge funds, have no customer agreements
or accounts with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., a New York-based
broker dealer that they blame for mismanaging their family’s
life savings, according to a complaint the Citigroup unit filed
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  The Citigroup entities that handled two leveraged option
transactions and a private-equity loan for the Abbars are based
in the U.K., Switzerland and the Cayman Islands and aren’t
subject to arbitration by Finra, a Washington-based brokerage
regulator, according to the complaint.  “We are confident this matter will be appropriately
resolved when it is reviewed by legal authorities in the
jurisdictions that the parties agreed to when they executed
their trades,” Natalie Marin, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, said in an e-mail.  John Rich, an attorney for the Abbars, didn’t return a
voice-mail message left after regular business hours seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  The Abbars, whose money comes from food products importing,
travel and tourism, oil investments and other businesses, were
courted by top bank officers, including Chief Executive Officer
Vikram Pandit and former global wealth management chief Sallie
Krawcheck, to maintain or expand business with the New York-
based company, they said in their Finra claim.  “Due to a pattern of gross misconduct by CGMI and its
employees and affiliates, from late 2005 to present, the
considerable family wealth which the Abbars entrusted to
Citigroup has been virtually wiped out,” the Abbars said in the
claim they filed with Finra on Aug. 17.  The case is Citigroup Global Markets v. Abbar, 11-6993,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee Seeks to Pursue Racketeering Claim Against Kohn  The trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s former firm asked
a U.S. judge not to dismiss civil racketeering claims from a
$58.8 billion lawsuit against Bank Medici AG founder Sonja Kohn
and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank Austria.  David Sheehan, a lawyer for trustee  Irving Picard , asked
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan yesterday to deny
the defendants’ request that he throw out claims brought under
the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO.
The law provides the basis for most of the damages Picard seeks
in the case.  Lawyers for the defendants argued that Picard lacks
standing to sue because he stands in the shoes of the Madoff
firm, which was responsible for the fraud, and that Kohn didn’t
run a separate racketeering enterprise for purposes of the RICO
law.  The defense lawyers also told Rakoff that RICO doesn’t
cover a racketeering enterprise that is located primarily
overseas. Most of the defendants in the suit, including Kohn,
based in Austria, were located outside the U.S., they said.  In a complaint filed in December, Picard, calling Kohn
Madoff’s “criminal soul mate,” sued her, along with UniCredit,
Bank Austria, Bank Medici and dozens of other Austrian and
Italian parties. He claimed Kohn fed more than $9.1 billion of
investor money into the Madoff fraud.  In June, Rakoff agreed to take the case from U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, saying the case required “significant
interpretation of RICO.”  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-cv-01181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  BNY Mellon ‘Sledgehammer’ Lawsuits Raise Pressure to Settle  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the largest custody bank,
faces increased pressure to reach settlements on foreign-
exchange cases following new lawsuits brought by New York and
federal officials.  The New York attorney general and the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Manhattan, each of which filed complaints Oct. 4,
bring deeper resources and more expertise on financial cases,
Barry Barbash, head of the asset-management group at law firm
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, said in an interview from his
Washington office. New York Attorney General Eric T.
Schneiderman can also wield the state’s powerful Martin Act, he
said.  “The Martin Act is a fairly significant sledgehammer of a
statute” that makes it easier for prosecutors to prove fraud
compared with many other states’ laws, said Barbash, a former
director of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
division of investment management.  The New York suit, brought in the state’s Supreme Court,
accuses BNY Mellon of defrauding public pension funds of $2
billion over 10 years. The U.S. Attorney’s Office filed a
separate suit in federal court. Florida and Virginia have also
filed claims against the bank, and Massachusetts regulators are
investigating similar claims.  BNY Mellon will fight the lawsuits, said Kevin Heine, a
spokesman for the bank. The complaints are based on a “flawed
analysis” and a misunderstanding of the global foreign-exchange
market, he said.  State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody provider,
faces similar lawsuits from California and Arkansas. The Boston-
based firm has said it will defend itself against the claims.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  Teva Put Profit Ahead of Propofol Patient Safety, Jury Told  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest
generic-drug maker, was accused by lawyers at a Nevada trial of
putting profit ahead of the safety of colonoscopy patients who
got the company’s  Propofol  anesthetic from reused vials.  Teva, along with drug distributors  Baxter International
Inc. (BAX)  and  McKesson Corp. (MCK) , marketed Propofol in “jumbo-sized
vials” knowing it would entice doctors to reuse the containers
and increase the spread of blood-borne diseases, Robert Eglet, a
lawyer for colonoscopy patients who developed hepatitis after
getting the medicine, told a Las Vegas jury yesterday.  “Responsible drug companies should not put profits above
patient safety,” Eglet said in closing arguments in the Nevada
state court trial of three patients’ lawsuits. “It’s undisputed
that these larger vials provided the temptation and the
opportunity” for reuse, he added.  Teva faces almost 300 lawsuits stemming from a hepatitis C
 outbreak  three years ago in southern Nevada, the Petach Tikva,
Israel-based company said in a regulatory filing last month.
Nevada health officials blamed the reuse of Propofol vials for
infecting patients with the incurable liver disease. The trial
of the first case against Teva and Baxter last year resulted in
a verdict of more than $500 million against the drugmakers.  Teva’s lawyer countered that improperly sanitized medical
equipment, not reused Propofol containers, caused some Nevada
colonoscopy patients to develop hepatitis.  Because of the number of daily procedures being done by
some clinics it was “often impossible to properly clean”
medical equipment, Mark Tully, one of the drugmaker’s lawyers,
told jurors yesterday in his closing argument at the trial,
which started more than a month ago. “There were multiple
failures to follow proper medical procedures,” he added.  Probes by Nevada health officials and the federal  Centers
for Disease Control  and Prevention blamed the reuse of Propofol
vials for infecting patients with the incurable liver disease.  The case is Sacks v. Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada
LLC, 08A572315, District Court for Clark County, Nevada (Las
Vegas).  For more, click here.  S&P Rater Was a ‘Wuss’ for Bending for Bankers, Court Told  Standard & Poor’s, bending to pressure from a bank selling
investment notes, gave its highest rating to some that resembled
a gambler’s tactic of doubling down on losing bets, an
Australian court was told.  The ratings company, under investigation by the U.S. over
the nation’s credit downgrade, was sued by Australian towns over
the sale of notes that plummeted in value during the global
financial crisis in 2008.  “You are the wuss for bending over in front of bankers and
taking it,” Sebastian Venus, who had prepared an internal model
for the notes at S&P, told Derek Ding, an analyst responsible
for rating the note, according to e-mail transcripts in a
written version of the plaintiffs’ opening statement that was
released by the court. “You rate something AAA, when it’s
really A-?”  A dozen Australian townships claim they lost A$15 million
($14.3 million) of A$16 million invested in the Community Income
Constant Proportion Debt Obligation Notes, or Rembrandts, as
they were called. The notes were unwound less than two years
after the towns bought them because credit spreads kept
increasing and the notes’ cash value was exhausted, according to
the court filing.  “The CPDO strategy may be seen as a sophisticated version
of the doubling strategy in which a gambler doubles his/her bet
every time he/she loses, until a win occurs,” Columbia
University Professor Rama Cont said, according to the
submission. “A gambler with limited capital might eventually
run out of capital before winning and lose everything.”  S&P denied it was pressured by the bank to give the notes
the AAA rating, in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News
yesterday.  “The councils are trying to deflect the weakness of their
case by pointing to out-of-context e-mails,” the ratings
company said. “We conducted our own analysis in line with our
rating process.”  The trial is scheduled for 10 weeks in Sydney.  The case is Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD936/2009. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  For more, click here.  Siga Seeks to Re-Argue Ruling in PharmAthene Smallpox Case  Siga Technologies Inc. (SIGA)  asked a Delaware judge to reconsider
his award of 50 percent of the profit from a smallpox drug to
rival  PharmAthene Inc. (PIP)   Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons Jr. ruled
Sept. 22 that Siga must share a possible profit of more than
$400 million. Siga shares fell as much as 38 percent that day,
and declined 3.8 percent yesterday.  Siga, which is seeking permission to re-argue the award,
said in a court filing yesterday that Parsons “misapprehended
both the law and the facts” in awarding a share of ST-246’s
profit to PharmAthene.  Parsons said New York-based Siga breached its obligation to
negotiate in good faith on the antiviral drug designed for use
in case of a biological attack. He rejected PharmAthene’s claim
that Siga breached a binding license agreement and also denied
claims for a lump-sum award.  “There is no legal justification for the court to
speculate concerning the terms on which the parties might have
agreed in the ultimate negotiation,” Andre Bouchard, a lawyer
for New York-based Siga, said in his motion.  Eric Goldman, a spokesman for Annapolis, Maryland-based
PharmAthene, said yesterday that he couldn’t immediately comment
on Siga’s request to re-argue the profit-award ruling.  The case is PharmAthene Inc. v. Siga Technologies Inc.,
CA2627, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  AIG’s United Guaranty to Appeal $45 Million SunTrust Order  A unit of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer
majority owned by the U.S. government, filed a notice of appeal
challenging a judge’s order to pay more than $45 million to
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  to fulfill mortgage insurance contracts.  AIG’s United Guaranty unit is seeking to reverse a court
ruling that it must pay Atlanta-based SunTrust about $34 million
for covered losses, $6 million in interest and $5.4 million in
legal fees and costs, according court records. The notice of
appeal was filed Oct. 4 in federal court in Richmond, Virginia.  SunTrust sued United Guaranty in 2009 for breach of
contract, saying the insurer didn’t meet obligations to cover
losses tied to borrower defaults. Beginning in January 2008,
United Guaranty “systemically” denied claims on loans that
hadn’t been underwritten using an automated system from mortgage
investor Fannie Mae, SunTrust said in its complaint.  United Guaranty also denied claims for losses from loans
where SunTrust didn’t verify all the information on borrower
applications, according to the lawsuit.  Mark Herr, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, said the
insurer expected the appeals court to reverse the lower court’s
exclusion of evidence that, if admitted, “would have changed
the outcome.” Hugh Suhr, a spokesman for SunTrust, declined to
comment on the appeal notice.  The loans at issue in the litigation, known as combo loans,
involve a combination of first- and second-lien mortgages.  The case is SunTrust Mortgage Inc. v. United Guaranty
Residential Insurance Company of North Carolina, 09-00529, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Societe Generale (GLE)  Wins U.K. Lawsuit Over  Saad Group  Unit Loan  Societe Generale SA, France’s second-biggest bank, won a
U.K. lawsuit alleging a unit of Saudi Arabia’s Saad Group failed
to repay a loan of almost $50 million guaranteed by its
billionaire founder Maan al-Sanea.  The judgment in the case against Saad Trading Contracting &
Financial Services was issued yesterday in  London  by Judge Nigel
Teare. Saad was accused in a trial in July of defaulting on the
January 2009 loan four months before the company said it would
seek to restructure its debt during the global credit crunch.  Al-Sanea, deemed the world’s 62nd-richest person by Forbes
Magazine in 2009, faces separate fraud claims by another Saudi
company, Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co., which alleges al-
Sanea used fake documents to take out billions of dollars in
loans in Algosaibi’s name. Al-Sanea denies the allegations.  Units of Saad Group and Algosaibi, both based in the Saudi
oil city of Al-Khobar, defaulted after borrowing about $15.7
billion from more than 80 banks. Al-Sanea married into the
Algosaibi family before founding Saad Group, which has
businesses ranging from construction to health care.  Saad Group was also ordered to repay interest and at least
250,000 pounds ($386,000) in legal costs. A spokesman for the
company wasn’t immediately able to comment.  “We will be seeking leave to appeal,” Saad Group’s
London-based spokesman, Tim Robertson, said in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Zuckerman Spaeder Hires as New York Crime Practice Grows  Zuckerman Spaeder LLP hired Andrew E. Tomback, formerly a
partner at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, as the law firm
expands its New York white-collar criminal defense practice.  Tomback joins recent hires Steven M. Cohen, a former aide
to New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, and defense attorney Paul
Shechtman, in Washington-based Zuckerman Spaeder’s New York
office, the firm said yesterday in a statement on its website.  On Oct. 3, Zuckerman Spaeder said it added Shechtman, a
former director of criminal justice under Governor George
Pataki. All three new hires are former federal prosecutors, the
firm said.  Partner William W. Taylor III successfully defended
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former director of the  International
Monetary Fund , who was accused of sexual assault and attempted
rape by a hotel maid in New York. Manhattan prosecutors dropped
the charges in August.  For more, click here.  Proskauer Rose Sued by Former CFO for Discrimination  Proskauer Rose LLP was sued for employment discrimination
in New York by former Chief Financial Officer Elly Rosenthal,
who accused the law firm of firing her after she took leave for
breast cancer treatment.  Rosenthal, 57, of Colts Neck, New Jersey, who served as CFO
from 1992 to 2008, filed the lawsuit in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan yesterday, seeking $10 million in
compensatory and punitive damages, according to the complaint.  Rosenthal was hired as CFO of the New York-based firm in
1992 and held the position until she was demoted to chief
administrative financial officer in September 2008, she said in
the complaint. She was fired in March 2011.  “After one of its most senior female employees worldwide
was diagnosed with breast cancer and took cancer treatment
leave, Proskauer Rose demoted and then terminated her,”
Rosenthal’s attorney, David Sanford of  Sanford Wittels &
Heisler , said in a statement.  Josh Epstein, a spokesman for Proskauer, didn’t respond to
a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on Rosenthal’s
complaint.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 