-- 
BofA, Morgan Stanley Gain as Geithner Says Banks Stronger

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-07T01:08:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/bofa-morgan-stanley-rise-as-geithner-says-u-s-lenders-stronger-than-2008.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Morgan
Stanley led U.S. banks higher in New York trading after Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the nation’s financial firms
have strengthened and there is “absolutely” no chance of
another collapsing like Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Bank of America climbed 8.8 percent to $6.28 and Morgan
Stanley rose 4.8 percent to $15.18 at the 4 p.m. close of New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24
financial stocks advanced 4.6 percent. The cost to protect debt
of Bank of America,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Morgan Stanley also
dropped.  U.S. banking stocks pared losses as optimism grew that
Europe’s leaders may be able to prevent a sovereign debt crisis,
curbing concerns that the lenders’ balance sheets would weaken.
Geithner, testifying today before the Senate Banking Committee
in  Washington , didn’t mention any banks by name when responding
to a question about Morgan Stanley.  “The direct exposure of the U.S. financial system to the
countries under the most pressure in Europe is very modest,” he
said. “Our firms, and this is true across the largest
institutions in the United States, again are in a much stronger
position if you look at their capital levels, levels of
leverage, how they’re funded.”  Morgan Stanley, based in New York, is down 44 percent this
year in New York trading. Bank of America, based in Charlotte,
North Carolina, has dropped 53 percent, while New York-based
Citigroup lost 45 percent.  Credit-default swaps on the biggest U.S. lender declined
12.6 basis points to 404.6 and those on  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the
world’s largest retail brokerage, dropped 22 basis points to
472.6, according to data provider CMA. Citigroup prices shed 11
basis points to 306.4, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  