-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Declines, Extends Longest Weekly Slump Since June

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-10-07T20:29:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/bovespa-futures-advance-as-metal-prices-bolster-vale-europe-concern-eases.html
The Bovespa stock index posted a
third weekly drop, the longest losing streak since June, on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will slow global growth while fewer
interest-rate cuts in Brazil may limit domestic demand.  State-controlled oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA slumped
after Bank of America Corp. cut its profit estimates. Miner MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA paced a rout for raw-material producers
after commodities erased gains. PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes, Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by revenue, fell as
accelerating inflation spurred traders to push up yields on
interest-rate futures.  The Bovespa fell 2 percent to 51,243.62 at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo , for a weekly loss of 2.1 percent. Sixty-
one stocks slid on the index today while seven rose. The real
gained 0.6 percent to 1.7706 per dollar.  Brazil ’s benchmark
equity gauge accelerated its drop, tracking U.S. stocks, after
Italy and  Spain  were downgraded by  Fitch Ratings .  “Foreigners have been leaving the market because of
worries about the crisis abroad,” said Clodoir Vieira, an
economist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Souza Barros Corretora.
“There are still many uncertainties. The volatility should
continue.”  Italy and Spain had their long-term issuer default ratings
cut by Fitch on concern they will struggle to improve their
finances as Europe’s debt crisis intensifies. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials erased a gain of as much
as 0.9 percent to close little changed.  Foreign Outflows  Brazil is stepping up efforts to fight  insider trading 
after identifying suspicious patterns, chief securities
regulator Maria Helena Santana said in an interview in Sao Paulo
today. Her agency, known as CVM, is developing a new system to
monitor markets and detect trading patterns on the days prior to
earnings releases, she said.  Foreign investors have pulled 360.1 million reais ($203.4
million) from  Latin America ’s largest equity market in the year
through September, data from the Sao Paulo exchange show.  Petrobras tumbled 2.9 percent to 18.30 reais. Net income
estimates for this year and next were reduced at Bank of
America, which cited a “slight” reduction in average
production. Petrobras’s earnings estimates were reduced 5.1
percent for 2011 and 2.7 percent for 2012, according to a report
today by Frank McGann, an analyst in  Buenos Aires , and Conrado
Vegner in Sao Paulo.  MMX, controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , lost 5.8
percent to 6.61 reais.  Inflation  Brazil’s inflation accelerated for the third straight
month, limiting room for the central bank to speed up the pace
of interest-rate cuts.  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA index, rose 0.53
percent in September from the previous month, the national
statistics agency said today, the fastest pace since April. That
was in line with analyst expectations for a 0.54 percent rise,
according to the median estimate of 51 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Prices rose 7.31 percent from a year ago.  PDG declined 4.3 percent to 6.25 reais as the  BM&FBovespa
Real Estate (IMOBBV)  Index lost 1.5 percent.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  in July after plunging 20
percent from its bull-market peak last year. The measure since
extended that drop to 30 percent and trades at 8.8 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That compares to a ratio of 9.2 for MSCI Inc.’s gauge of 21
developing nations’ equities.  Traders moved 5.62 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
today, compared to a daily average this year of 6.28 billion
reais, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  