-- 
Brain Injuries in U.S. Youth Athletes Surge 60% Over Nine Years, CDC Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-10-06T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/brain-injuries-in-u-s-youth-athletes-surge-60-over-nine-years-cdc-says.html
Emergency room visits for head
injuries among U.S. youth athletes surged 60 percent in nine
years, led by bicycling, football and playground accidents.  Traumatic brain injuries rose to 248,418 cases in 2009 from
153,375 in 2001, according to a report by the Atlanta-based
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Accidents from
soccer and basketball also contributed to the increase.  The increase probably stems from a heightened awareness
among coaches and parents that children need to be seen by a
doctor after a head injury, said Linda C. Degutis, director of
the CDC’s injury prevention center, in a statement from the
agency. That’s supported by a relatively stable number of
hospitalizations, suggesting that children with less-serious
injuries are also seeking care, the report said. That’s
important because even mild brain injury can lead to life-long
impairment, the report said.  “While some research shows a child’s developing brain can
be resilient, it is also known to be more vulnerable to the
chemical changes that occur” after a brain injury, said Richard
C. Hunt, head of the CDC’s injury response division.  About 71 percent of all the visits recorded were among
boys, according to the data. Most of those in the emergency
room, about 71 percent, were 10 to 19 years old. Children under
9 years mostly sustained injuries from bicycling or playground
activities. Older boys were mostly injured in football; older
girls, mostly from bicycling and soccer, the data showed.  Head injuries contributed to football accounting for 57
percent of trauma-related sports deaths among youths from 1980
to 2009, according to an analysis  published  in the journal
Pediatrics in June. Twelve percent of the 138 football deaths
caused by neck or head injuries involved youths who returned to
a game after a concussion, the researchers said, who warned that
coaches, trainers, parents and students needed to be more aware
of the dangers of head trauma.  At least 21 states have laws that pull student athletes
from football games after a head injury and set procedures for
allowing a safe return, the CDC said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  