-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Rise as Inflation Index Surpasses Estimates

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-10-06T21:20:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/brazil-rate-futures-rise-as-consumer-prices-surpass-estimates.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts rose after a gauge of inflation increased
more than forecast in September, prompting bets the central bank
won’t speed up the pace of interest-rate cuts.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013 climbed
14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 10.36 percent at 5
p.m. New York time.  The IGP-DI inflation index showed prices rose 0.75 percent
in September, compared with a 0.61 percent increase in August,
according to a report from the Rio de Janeiro-based Getulio
Vargas Foundation. Economists had forecast a 0.65 percent
increase, according to the median estimate of 38 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The real’s 15 percent depreciation last
month helped drive price increases, according to Thais Zara, an
economist at Sao Paulo-based Rosenberg & Associates Inc.  “The bigger-than-expected jump in the IGP-DI in September
already shows the impact of the dollar’s appreciation,” Zara
said in a telephone interview. “We had some pressure on prices
quoted in dollars.”  The real gained the most in almost two weeks, climbing 2.9
percent to 1.7811 per dollar, from 1.8327 yesterday. It has
advanced 5.5 percent this month. The real’s losses in September
were the biggest monthly decline in nine years.  Brazil ’s central bank cut the benchmark interest rate a
half percentage point to 12 percent on Aug. 31 after five
increases this year as global economic growth slows.  Inflation Target  Consumer prices rose 7.33 percent in the year through mid-
September, exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s
target range for a fifth straight month. Central bank President
Alexandre Tombini has pledged to slow inflation to 4.5 percent
by the end of next year.  “Moderate” cuts in  interest rates  will help shield
Brazil’s economy from the European debt crisis and are
consistent with bringing inflation back to target in 2012,
Tombini said at an event in Brasilia today.  An index of commodity prices that the central bank
considers most relevant to Brazilian consumer prices rose 7.8
percent in September from August, according to a report posted
on the bank’s website yesterday. It was the biggest increase
since 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  