-- 
Buy Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand Shares, NTAsset Says

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-10-07T08:41:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/buy-hong-kong-singapore-thailand-shares-ntasset-s-ng-says.html
Stocks in  Hong Kong ,  Singapore  and
Thailand are “attractive” after valuations dropped to the
lowest levels in at least two years, said Kenneth Ng, whose
 NTAsian Discovery Fund (NTASIAN)  has beaten 97 percent of peers this year.  Investors should buy shares of Asian telecom operators,
retailers and consumer companies, whose earnings growth will be
less affected by a global slowdown, said Ng, chief executive
officer of Bangkok-based NTAsset (Thailand) Co. Ltd. Exporters
should be avoided because of declining demand, he said.  Valuations in Hong Kong dropped to the lowest since 2008
this week, and to the lowest since 2009 in Thailand and
Singapore. MSCI Inc.’s  Asia  Pacific ex-Japan index slumped 23
percent this year as  Europe ’s debt crisis and concern the  U.S.
economy  may falter prompted investors to abandon riskier
securities.  “We are buying in Hong Kong, Singapore and Thailand, whose
valuations are very attractive after being hit hard,” Ng, who
oversees about $200 million of assets, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “It’s difficult to predict the bottoms, but we take
a 12-month view and just buy over that period.”  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  traded at 8.7 times estimated
earnings on Oct. 5, the lowest level since October 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Singapore’s  Straits
Times Index (FSSTI)  was at 11.5 times on Oct. 4, the lowest since April
2009, while the Stock Exchange of Thailand Index fell to 9.6
times on the same day, the lowest since May 2009.  Hong Kong’s benchmark stock index climbed 3.1 percent at
the 4 p.m. close, the biggest gainer in Asia. Singapore shares
added 1.6 percent as of 4:40 p.m. local time, while the
benchmark Thai gauge rose 0.9 percent.  Cheaper Valuation  The NTAsian Discovery Fund invests in equities in Asia
outside Japan and is incorporated in Cayman Islands. It gained
16 percent this year through Aug. 31, beating all but three of
295 similar funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
MSCI Asia Pacific ex- Japan  gauge has lost 8.4 percent this year.  “Valuations for Asian equities can get cheaper as investor
sentiment could still deteriorate with the situation in
Europe,” said Ng. “Still, it’s a good opportunity, while there
are only a few buyers in the market now.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Ex-Japan Telecommunication Services
Index has climbed 1.7 percent in 2011, the only gainer among the
gauge’s 10 industry groups. The Consumer Staples Index is in
second place, with an 8.9 percent decline.  Emerging-market equity funds have posted nine straight
weeks of outflows, with investors withdrawing $2.6 billion in
the seven days ended Sept. 28, according to data compiled by
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global.
Industrial companies and raw-material producers led declines
during the past three months on concern falling demand from
advanced countries will erode profits.  -- Editors:  Matthew Oakley , Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  