-- 
Buy Korea Bond Futures, Pay Interest-Rate Swap, Macquarie Says

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-10-06T02:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/buy-korea-bond-futures-pay-interest-rate-swap-macquarie-says.html
Investors should buy futures on  South
Korea ’s three-year government bonds and pay the fixed rate on
similar-maturity interest-rate swaps as global funds’ sales of
won debt subside, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  The yield on the most-active three-year bond future, which
expires in December, was at a six-week high of 3.62 percent at
the end of last month, 0.18 percentage point higher than the
rate on non-deliverable three-year swaps at the time, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the contracts, investors pay a
fixed rate to receive the floating 91-day certificate of deposit
rate. The gap narrowed to 0.11 percentage point as of 10:48 a.m.
in Seoul. Macquarie says it may reach zero.  “Foreign selling in  Korea  has been limited, especially
compared to other emerging markets like  Indonesia ,” Singapore-
based strategist Matt Huang wrote in a report dated yesterday.
“Current levels are attractive to put on a spread-tightening
trade.”  South Korea’s  Financial Supervisory Service  said yesterday
overseas investors cut their stake in local-currency debt by 2.5
billion won ($2.1 million) last month. Global funds reduced
their ownership of Indonesia’s local-currency sovereign bonds by
29 trillion rupiah ($3.3 billion), official figures show.  “Foreign selling in South Korea’s bond futures contracts
suggests the pace of selling will likely subside,” Macquarie
said in the report. The sale of almost 46,000 contracts over the
last month indicates the selloff is reaching an end based on
past two-week patterns, according to the report.  European funds were among the largest sellers of Korean
debt in September, the FSS data showed, with U.K. and France-
based investors reducing their holdings by 1.75 trillion won.
That was mitigated by purchases of 1.35 trillion won by Thai and
U.S. funds.  “Korea has not been immune to selling but rather enjoyed
more balanced flows from foreigners,” Macquarie said in the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  