-- 
Buyers’ Remorse on Film Breaks Leads States to End Tax Deals

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/buyers-remorse-on-film-breaks-leads-states-to-end-tax-deals.html
Randy Murray is in the second month
of filming a six-episode series in Regina, Saskatchewan called
“Edge of War” for television networks owned by  Discovery
Communications Inc. (DISCA)  He says he’d rather spend the $2.5 million
budget for the project back home in  Arizona .  That isn’t realistic, Murray says, because Arizona let a 20
percent tax credit for film production expire on Dec. 31. He and
his crew are now filming more than 1,500 miles away from Arizona
to take advantage of a 40 percent tax credit in Regina.  “It’s great news for us because we still got a TV series
on the air,” said Murray, who owns Phoenix-based  Randy Murray
Productions . “But we don’t get to support our local businesses
and our local industries.”  After a decade-long battle among states competing for a
slice of Hollywood, some states and municipalities struggling
with budget woes are backing away from film-tax incentives.  Lawmakers in  Washington  state allowed a film tax credit to
expire in July. Michigan, where a tax credit of up to 42 percent
was one of the most generous in the U.S., this month will
replace its incentive with an expenditure totaling $25 million a
year for film projects it deems worthwhile.  “It very much is becoming an issue,” said Nancy Fox, the
national director of government affairs and policy at the Screen
Actors Guild in  Los Angeles . “All states are struggling with
budget issues and we’re seeing many of those states that
implemented tax credits reconsider them or slashing them.”  Expanding Incentives  Other states are moving in the opposite direction.  Alabama ,
 Illinois ,  Maryland ,  Mississippi  and Utah have expanded film
incentives while  Kansas  has resumed its program.  In 2000, four states offered incentives for the film sector
totaling $2 million, according to the  Tax Foundation , a
Washington group that advocates lower taxes. The trend peaked in
2010 when 40 states offered incentives reaching almost $1.4
billion. In 2011, the Tax Foundation says 37 states will offer
incentives of about $1.3 billion.  Tax incentives for the industry gained national attention
last month when New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  blocked a
$420,000 credit that would have supported the production of
MTV’s “Jersey Shore.”  Mark Robyn, a Tax Foundation economist, said the issue goes
beyond the so-called Snooki-subsidy.  Can’t ‘Be Hollywood’  “They’re just not good policy,” he said. “Not every
state can be Hollywood. There’s not enough movies.”  The  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a Washington
research group that favors programs to assist low-income
individuals, reported in December that the tax incentives often
don’t benefit the states as planned. The report found that such
programs tend to lose revenue for states, and the projects might
have gone forward without tax breaks. Permanent, high-paying
jobs related to TV and film production also don’t materialize as
promised, the report said.  “The economic activity induced by these subsidies
generates insufficient  tax revenue  to offset their cost,”
according to the report. “Given that 49 out of 50 states have a
balanced budget amendment, states offering film subsidies must
therefore cut public services or increase taxes elsewhere to
make ends meet.”  Michelle Begnoche, spokeswoman for  Michigan ’s  film office ,
said the state must be more selective about which projects to
back now that the state can’t offer tax credits. The office’s
$25 million pot of money for film production is a “significant
difference” from the $115 million in tax incentives Michigan
awarded in 2010, she said.  Different Criteria  Previously, the state would approve a project if the
producers provided a script, a list of Michigan hires for the
project, a budget and proof that financing wasn’t contingent on
winning a tax break, she said.  “Now we’re looking at different criteria,” she said. “Is
the production financially viable and are they using Michigan
infrastructure? How many Michigan people are they going to hire
and is it something we can use to help promote Michigan?”  Michigan didn’t have a problem with this film tax credit,
Begnoche said. Instead, there was a desire to limit industry-
specific tax breaks.  “It wasn’t strictly a film-related issue,” she said.  Vans Stevenson, senior vice president for government
affairs at the  Motion Picture Association  of America in
Washington, said the tax incentives create jobs. States that
abandon the tax breaks risk losing business and jobs to
neighboring states that have retained them, he said.  “If you have a stable credit program that creates
certainty and predictability, the productions are going to
gravitate there,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  