-- 
California’s Underground Hot Rocks Probed for Energy of 100 Nuclear Plants

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-10-06T10:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/california-s-underground-hot-rocks-probed-for-energy-of-100-nuclear-plants.html
For decades, energy companies have
tapped steam from deep in the earth to make electricity. Now, at
least five American power producers are testing a simple idea
that may dramatically expand the industry’s reach: Bring your
own water.  Instead of producing power only in places where steam flows
naturally, these companies are drilling deeper to inject water
into superhot, dry rocks and create the vapor needed to generate
power.  The technology “offers the opportunity of creating
additional reserves,” said Mark Walters, a senior geologist at
 Calpine Corp. (CPN) , the biggest U.S. geothermal power producer. “The
heat is a resource in areas around existing plants, but right
now we really can’t get at” it. The Houston-based company is
expected to begin testing this process today.  There are hundreds of sites worldwide where the technology
may be used to generate electricity. In the U.S., such plants
could supply 100 gigawatts of power by 2050, said Ernest L.
Majer, an energy geophysicist at  Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory . That’s the equivalent of 100 nuclear reactors and
would boost geothermal’s share of the country’s power supply to
10 percent, from less than 1 percent now.  “There’s a lot of hot rock out there,” Majer said. “That
would replace our nuclear  power plants .”  The U.S. Energy Department has earmarked $182 million in
grants for  enhanced geothermal systems , or EGS, since 2009. In
such projects, water is piped into wells that extend down to hot
rocks -- in the Calpine test, the rocks are about 750 degrees
Fahrenheit (400 degrees Celsius).  Tiny Fissures  This causes the stone to crack, creating tiny fissures.
Once the site goes into operation, water flows through these
fissures and is heated into steam that’s piped back to the
surface to produce electricity.  The process is similar to the hydraulic fracturing done by
the oil and gas industry, though different in scale. With
“fracking,” water, sand and chemicals are injected
horizontally at extremely high pressure to create cracks in
underground rocks so petroleum and natural gas can be extracted.  EGS systems have smaller goals. “We are trying to create a
cloud of small fractures,” Walters said. “We’re talking
millimeter fractures.”  Calpine is planning to begin injecting water today two
miles (3.2 kilometers) into the ground near The Geysers, a
region about 100 miles northeast of  San Francisco  that’s home to
the world’s largest cluster of geothermal power plants. The
challenge is to create enough “fractures to heat up a
sufficient volume of water,” said Walters.  The Energy Department provided $6.2 million in grants for
Calpine’s $11 million project, the second EGS test in the U.S.
to reach the injection phase. A year ago,  Ormat Technologies
Inc. (ORA)  began injecting water at Desert Peak in western  Nevada .
Four other projects may be active by late next year, Majer said.  Blowouts and Earthquakes  While a handful of small EGS plants are operating overseas,
some have experienced setbacks ranging from blowouts to minor
earthquakes caused by fracturing rocks deep underground. A
project in  Switzerland  was shut down in 2006 after residents
nearby started feeling tremors and voiced concerns that the
installation may destabilize surrounding areas.  In September 2009, Seattle-based  AltaRock Energy Inc. 
suspended a project at The Geysers due to drilling problems.
 Geodynamics Ltd.  shut down a test in southern  Australia  after an
uncontrolled leak in April of that year.  Not ‘Commercial’ Yet  It’s not yet certain that EGS projects can create enough
steam to make them profitable, said Ann Robertson-Tait, business
development manager of the geothermal resource consulting
company GeothermEx Inc. While the technology has long-term
potential, “there are few places where EGS can be considered
commercial at present,” she said.  Proponents of EGS say it can breathe new life into
geothermal fields that are literally running out of steam.  Calpine generates roughly 725 megawatts of capacity at 15
traditional geothermal plants around The Geysers, using  dry
steam  power systems that run on vapor piped up from natural
underground pockets.  Problem is, about 75 percent of the vapor is lost through
condensation during the process and the steam output there today
is about half its 1987 peak.  By injecting more water onto the hot rocks at The Geysers,
Calpine expects to add at least 5 megawatts of capacity to an
existing plant. The company may expand the use of EGS to other
plants in the area if this test is successful.  Geothermal has advantages over solar and wind: It’s
typically cheaper to operate and generates electricity 24 hours
a day (though there’s no guarantee how much power can be
produced until a well is drilled).  New Development  EGS may give the industry a lift by opening up development
in regions that lack underground steam pockets. AltaRock is
working on an EGS test near the Newberry National Volcanic
Monument in  Oregon , where there’s plenty of heat and little
steam, said William Osborn, AltaRock’s vice president of
development for the project.  “The same technologies will be applicable” at sites all
across the U.S., he said, “where you have high temperatures at
depths everywhere, but you don’t have open cracks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  