-- 
Camisea Gas Operators Seeking to Restructure Bank Loans

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-10-06T19:38:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/camisea-gas-operators-seeking-to-restructure-bank-loans-1-.html
Peru’s  Camisea  natural-gas project,
led by Hunt Oil Co. and Pluspetrol SA, is seeking to restructure
as much as $2 billion in bank loans after Peru asked it to set
aside more gas for domestic usage, a government official said.  The government “won’t change its stance” on demanding the
group reserve 2.5 trillion cubic feet of gas for local
petrochemicals and power plant projects, instead of allowing it
to be exported, when talks resume later this month, said Aurelio Ochoa, president of state oil contracting agency Perupetro.  “Talks to replace the reserves as a financial guarantee
are ongoing with a lot of banks,” Ochoa said today in an
interview at the agency’s offices in  Lima . “It will be
complicated, but that’s their problem.”  Peruvian President Ollanta Humala’s government is following
through on pledges to curb natural gas exports to  Mexico  as
domestic demand surges. The Camisea group used part of their 11
trillion cubic feet of gas reserves to guarantee financing from
lenders including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the  Inter-American
Development Bank  and Corporacion Andina de Fomento, according to
Cesar Gutierrez, an energy consultant and former president of
state oil company Petroperu.  Hunt Oil spokeswoman Jeanne Phillips declined to comment
when contacted by telephone. Repsol spokesman Kristian Rix and
Pluspetrol spokesman Daniel Guerra didn’t respond to e-mails and
telephone calls seeking comment.  Natural gas for November delivery dropped 3 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $3.60 per million British thermal units at 3:14 p.m.
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures have dropped 26
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 