-- 
Canada August Building Permits Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-10-06T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/canada-august-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
August building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  Municipalities issued building permits worth $5.9
billion in August, down 10.4% from July and the second
consecutive monthly decline. The value of permits fell in
both the residential and non-residential sectors, mainly
in Ontario.  Total value of permits  Declines in the value of permits in Ontario, Quebec,
Saskatchewan and Nova Scotia more than offset increases in
the six other provinces.  In the non-residential sector, the value of permits
fell 16.6% to $2.3 billion, a second consecutive monthly
decrease. The largest declines were in Ontario and
Saskatchewan.  In the residential sector, the value of permits
decreased 6.0% to $3.6 billion after three consecutive
monthly increases. The largest declines occurred in
Ontario and  Quebec , particularly in construction
intentions for multiple-family dwelling permits in
Ontario.  Non-residential sector: Construction intentions down in
commercial and institutional components  In the commercial component, municipalities issued
permits worth $1.3 billion in August, 20.6% less than the
previous month. Permit values declined the most for office
buildings, hotels and restaurants as well as recreational
buildings. Commercial construction intentions fell in
every province.  In the institutional component, the value of permits
decreased 17.1% to $629 million, following three monthly
increases. The decline was mainly the result of lower
construction intentions for educational facilities in
Ontario, Saskatchewan and Quebec.  In the industrial component, the value of permits rose
1.8% to $371 million, following a 40.6% decline the
previous month.  Alberta  led the gains with higher
construction intentions in utilities and transportation as
well as in manufacturing. These were offset by declines in
the same building categories in Ontario.  Residential and non-residential sectors  Residential sector: Single and multiple-family
construction intentions decline  The value of building permits for multiple-family
dwellings decreased 8.9% to $1.4 billion in August.
Intentions were down in five provinces, led by Ontario and
Quebec. The largest increase was in British Columbia.  Construction intentions for single-family dwellings
declined 4.1% to $2.2 billion in August, after two monthly
gains. The largest declines occurred in Alberta and
Quebec.  Nationally, municipalities approved 15,903 new
dwellings, down 10.0% from July. The number of multiple-
family dwellings fell 13.9% to 9,098 units, while the
number of single-family dwellings declined 4.4% to 6,805
units.  Permit values down in four provinces  In August, the total value of building permits
decreased in four provinces.  The largest declines were in Ontario and Quebec, as
permits for multiple-family dwellings were down in both
provinces. In addition, construction intentions in the
institutional component were down in Ontario, while
commercial construction intentions declined in Quebec.  The largest gains occurred in Alberta, British Columbia
and  New Brunswick . In Alberta, construction intentions
increased the most in the industrial and institutional
components. Higher construction intentions for multiple-
family dwellings led the increases in British Columbia and
New Brunswick.  Construction intentions down in more than half of the
census metropolitan areas  The total value of permits decreased in 19 of the 34
census metropolitan areas in August.  The largest decline occurred in Toronto, led by
decreases in the institutional component and multiple-
family dwellings. In  Montreal , declines occurred in the
residential sector and the commercial component, while in
 Edmonton , construction intentions decreased for single-
family dwellings and in the commercial component.  The largest increases were in Calgary, Quebec and
Oshawa. In Calgary, the advance was primarily attributable
to multiple-family dwellings and commercial permits. In
Quebec, the gain originated from higher intentions in the
non-residential sector. In Oshawa, the increase was a
result of higher commercial construction intentions.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents
seasonally adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by
removing the effects of seasonal variations.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the
population are very small, and their levels of building
activity have little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in
this release excludes engineering projects (for example,
waterworks, sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census
metropolitan area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is
divided into two areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revisions  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  