-- 
Canadian Dollar Falls on Economic Slowing Before Nations’ Jobs Reports

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-10-06T21:05:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-before-jobs-data-amid-stocks-rally-in-europe.html
Canada ’s dollar fell versus a
majority of its major peers before domestic and U.S. jobs data
that may show the North American economy is faltering.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency it’s nicknamed,
touched the lowest level in more than a year against its U.S.
counterpart this week on concern a slowing American economy will
crimp the nation’s exports of raw materials. The currency
underperformed its commodity-linked peers of  Australia  and  New
Zealand  and  Brazil , which rallied along with stocks.  “Investors are very cautious ahead of dual payroll numbers
and expectations are sliding lower for both reports,” said
Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank
of Montreal, by e-mail. “I don’t think the Canadian dollar
selling is overdone. I think it will slide lower.”  The Canadian currency dropped against 14 of its 16 major
peers, falling the most, or 2.6 percent, against the Brazilian
real. It rose 0.3 percent to C$1.0371 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m.
in Toronto, compared with C$1.0402 yesterday. It touched
C$1.0658 on Oct. 4, the weakest level since August 2010. One
Canadian dollar buys 96.42 U.S. cents.  BMO’s Jespersen predicted the currency would hit a floor at
around C$1.12.  Canadian employers added 15,000 jobs in September after
cutting 5,500 positions in August, according to the median of 25
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would mean employers added
16,500 jobs in the third quarter, compared with 109,000 in the
second quarter and 82,800 in the first three months of the year.
Statistics Canada is due to report the employment data tomorrow
at 7 a.m. in Ottawa.  Jobs  U.S. businesses added 90,000 workers to payrolls in
September, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The  unemployment rate  was 9.1 percent for
a third consecutive month, the survey showed.  The loonie fell today against its commodity-linked peers as
investors sold the loonie to buy the dollars of Australia and
New Zealand amid gains in stocks and oil.  “Canada is the low-beta currency within the commodity
block so as risk appetite emerges, investors tend to go long the
higher-beta currencies and sometimes fund it out of the lower-
beta currencies,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of Americas G-10
currency strategy at Bank of America Corp. in  New York , in a
telephone interview today. Beta refers to a currency’s
sensitivity to changes in another variable.  The currency extended losses after the  European Central
Bank  failed to cut borrowing costs and domestic building permits
unexpectedly fell.  ‘Massive Threat’  “The underlying sentiment is: global economy slowing,
central banks struggling to find further measures to ease and
the global financial system is a massive threat to the global
economy and nobody has done anything to stabilize it,” said Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research in  London  at  Societe
Generale  SA, by phone from London.  European Central Bank officials left their benchmark rate
at 1.5 percent, as predicted by 41 of 52 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the region’s economy is facing “intensified downside risks,”
and said the central bank will resume covered-bond purchases and
reintroduce year-long loans for banks as the sovereign debt
crisis threatens to freeze money markets.  Government bonds  fell, pushing the 10-year yield eight
basis points higher to 2.22 percent. The yield touched a record
low 1.994 percent on Oct. 4.  ‘Wouldn’t Buy  Canadian building permits fell for a second consecutive
month in August. The value of municipal permits fell 10.4
percent to a seasonally adjusted C$5.9 billion ($5.7 billion),
following a revised 0.4 percent decline in July,  Statistics
Canada  said today in Ottawa. The drop was larger than any of the
12 responses to a Bloomberg survey of economists, which had a
median forecast for a 0.3 percent advance.  “I wouldn’t buy the Canadian dollar” at these levels,
Societe Generale’s Juckes said. “You wouldn’t want to own the
Canadian dollar until you had some comfort that the global risk
environment was improving or the global economy wasn’t getting
worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  