-- 
Canada September Home Sales May Have Fallen, Data Show

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-10-06T15:25:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/canada-september-home-sales-may-have-fallen-regional-data-show.html
Canadian home sales may have fallen
in September from August as home buyers in British Columbia and
Alberta slow purchases, regional housing data show.  September sales reported by nine major regional real estate
boards show a 4.3 percent decline from August, while last year,
sales at the same boards rose 1.1 percent on the month. From a
year earlier, September sales in those markets were up 15
percent, down from a 21 percent increase recorded in August.  A surge in household debt prompted Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  to tighten mortgage rules earlier this year. Household
debt as a share of personal disposable income rose to a record
150.8 percent at the end of June from 149.5 percent in the
previous quarter, according to  Statistics Canada  data.  Canadian policy makers may need to consider additional
measures to slow the country’s housing market if households
continue to take on more debt, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a report.  Flaherty said yesterday he would consider further actions
if there was “clear evidence of a bubble in the housing market
in  Canada , which we have not seen.”  British Columbia, Alberta  Homes sales in British Columbia’s three biggest markets --
 Vancouver , Fraser Valley and Victoria -- fell 9.2 percent in
September, data from regional real estate boards show. They had
increased 1 percent in September last year. Sales in Calgary and
 Edmonton  fell 7.6 percent in September. Those two markets had
recorded gains of 2.2 percent in September last year.  Sales  in Toronto, Canada’s biggest market, bucked the
trend, recording a 1.5 percent increase in September.  In a separate report today, Statistics Canada said the
value of municipal building permits fell 10.4 percent in August,
a drop that was larger than any of the 12 responses to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  The Canadian Real Estate Association releases aggregated
national data in the middle of every month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 