-- 
Catalonia Sells Bonds to Citizens as Market Access Squeezed

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-10-06T11:06:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/catalonia-sells-bonds-to-citizens-as-market-access-squeezed-1-.html
Catalonia,  Spain ’s largest and
second-most indebted region, is preparing to sell as much as 4
billion euros ($5.4 billion) of bonds to its citizens as it
remains shut out of public debt markets.  Catalonia will sell 3 billion euros of the one- and two-
year bonds, extendable to 4 billion euros, the region’s economy
department said in an e-mailed statement today. It is the third
issue of debt to retail investors and coincides with the
redemption of the first so-called patriot bond issued last year.  The one-year debt will have a coupon of 4.75 percent,
rising to 5.25 percent for the two-year securities, and the
banks will earn a commission of 2 percent to 2.2 percent. The
issue will be lead by CaixaBank, CatalunyaCaixa and  Banco de
Sabadell SA. (SAB)   The region, which has an economy the size of  Portugal ’s,
hasn’t sold bonds in public debt markets since March, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The region is slashing spending
and trying to sell assets including the Barcelona stock-market
building to rein in its  budget deficit , which was the fourth-
largest in Spain last year.  Spain’s regions, which control health and education, have
racked up record amounts of debt during the crisis amid a slump
in real-estate tax revenue, and together owe 133 billion euros,
more than twice what they did in 2007, according to the Bank of
Spain. The 17 states are falling behind on their bills, and the
pharmaceutical lobby is in negotiations to securitize 5.4
billion euros of their unpaid drug bills, Farmaindustria
Director General Humberto Arnes said on Oct. 4.  Regional governments including Catalonia, which was
downgraded by  Fitch Ratings  on Sept. 14, are also suffering from
a surge in borrowing costs as Spain’s sovereign-debt costs rise.
Spain pays around 5 percent to borrow for 10 years, putting the
extra yield over equivalent German securities at 312 basis
points, compared with an average of 15 basis points in the first
decade of monetary union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  