-- 
Central Banks in Europe Extend Global Drive to Prevent a Renewed Recession

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-10-06T22:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/central-banks-in-europe-extend-global-drive-to-prevent-a-renewed-recession.html
Europe ’s leading central banks
returned to crisis-fighting mode, expanding a push by global
monetary-policy makers to support economies and financial
markets while fiscal authorities struggle to act.  The  European Central Bank , after a meeting yesterday in
Berlin, said it would reintroduce purchases of covered bonds and
yearlong loans for banks to support markets rattled by the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis. In London, the Bank of England
boosted its asset-purchase program by more than a third to 275
billion pounds ($424 billion) in a bid to avert a new recession
in the U.K.  International central bankers are softening their anti-
inflation stances or reviving programs to keep financial systems
liquid as they race to keep slumping growth from turning into a
full-fledged contraction. The  Federal Reserve  has eased policy
two months in a row, while central banks in  Malaysia  and  South
Korea  have refrained from raising rates as they focus on
maintaining growth over damping price increases.  “There has been a recent shift in central banking across
the world, in the West toward easing and in emerging markets
putting tightening on hold with an option to ease if
necessary,” said  Gerard Lyons , London-based chief economist at
Standard Chartered Bank. The fiscal and monetary policy
“cupboard is almost bare in the West, so pressure is on the
central banks to do more of the heavy lifting.”  Australia ’s central bank signaled Oct. 4 it has scope to
lower the highest benchmark interest rate among developed
economies if necessary as inflation pressures ease. Turkey and
 Russia  stepped up sales of foreign-currency reserves this week.  Risk Aversion  “We have a substantial increase in risk aversion, and that
is affecting flows into the emerging markets and their
economies,” said Ted Truman, a former Fed official and
assistant Treasury secretary, who’s now a senior fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in  Washington .
“Many of their currencies are weakening, and there’s a
recognition that the global economy which they live off of is
slowing down.”  Brazil  plans moderate interest-rate reductions after a
surprise cut Aug. 31 to 12 percent, a government official
familiar with monetary policy said this week on condition of
anonymity. Last week, Israel’s central bank lowered its
benchmark rate for the first time in 2 1/2 years, to 3 percent.  The Fed said last month it would replace $400 billion of
short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in
a program dubbed Operation Twist. In August, the central bank
said its benchmark interest rate would probably stay near zero
through at least mid-2013, amending previous language for a
less-specific “extended period.”  Additional Easing  Additional easing may be in the offing.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  economists last week forecast the average interest rate of
developed economies, weighted for gross domestic product, will
fall to 0.62 percent by the end of the year from 0.80 percent.
In emerging markets, it will drop to 5.80 percent from 5.93
percent.  “We’re going to see further measures,” said Tim Drayson,
a global economist at Legal & General Investment Management in
London. “There’s clearly more scope for the Fed for going to
QE3, and the ECB can cut rates,” he said, referring to a third
round of quantitative easing, or large-scale asset purchases.  The euro reversed losses after the ECB’s rate decision to
rise 0.7 percent to $1.3437 at 5 p.m. in  New York . The pound
lost 0.1 percent against the dollar to $1.5445. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of stocks rose 1.8 percent to 1,164.97 at 4
p.m.  Final Meeting  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , overseeing his final
monetary-policy decision before retiring, said at a Berlin press
conference yesterday that the central bank will spend 40 billion
euros ($54 billion) on covered bonds starting next month and
will offer banks two additional unlimited loans of 12 and 13-
month durations. He also said the ECB will continue to lend
banks as much money as they need in its regular refinancing
operations at least until July 2012.  Policy makers left the benchmark interest rate at 1.5
percent, where it’s been since July 7. With inflation
accelerating to 3 percent last month, the ECB is resisting calls
to reverse this year’s two quarter-point rate increases even
amid speculation a recession is impending, Greece edges toward
default and investors express concern about potential European
bank losses. The ECB is the first line of support for markets as
European governments piece together a new plan to solve their
region’s debt strains.  ‘Intensified Downside Risks’  “Ongoing tensions in financial markets and unfavorable
effects on financing conditions are likely to dampen the pace of
economic growth in the euro area in the second half of this
year,” Trichet said. There are “intensified downside risks”
to the economic outlook, he said.  The  Bank of England ’s nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King , raised the ceiling for
so-called quantitative easing from 200 billion pounds. That’s
the biggest expansion since the first round of stimulus in March
2009. Only 11 of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted an increase in asset purchases.  The central bank acted a day after a report showed Europe’s
second-biggest economy grew less than previously estimated in
the quarter through June.  The pledge to buy the most bonds since the depths of the
credit crisis shows King and his colleagues are prioritizing the
recovery over the threat from inflation, which is running more
than double the central bank’s target. The onus to boost
expansion is on Bank of England as the nation’s government
remains committed to delivering the toughest fiscal squeeze
since World War II.  Vietnam ,  Kenya   Not every country is considering easier monetary policy.
Vietnam’s central bank yesterday said it would lift its
refinancing rate by a percentage point to 15 percent. The
Central Bank of Kenya raised its benchmark interest rate this
week by four percentage points to 11 percent.  Other emerging market central banks have room to join
developed economies in providing stimulus if growth falters,
said Lyons at Standard Chartered Bank. The People’s Bank of
China has raised  interest rates  five times and increased the
reserve requirement nine times in the past 12 months, slowing
growth in the world’s second-largest economy behind the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 