-- 
Centro to Call for New Trust Vote Following Court Approval

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/centro-says-created-crf-to-have-pro-forma-equity-about-a-3-4-bln.html
Centro Properties Group (CNP)  received
court approval to call meetings of its creditors and
shareholders to vote on the creation of a new A$3.4 billion
($3.3 billion) property trust.  The  Supreme Court  of New South  Wales  in Sydney has ordered
that the meetings to vote on combining its existing funds can be
called, Centro Properties said in a filing to the Australian
stock exchange today. It plans to hold the meetings around Nov.
22 and expects the new Centro Retail Australia fund to begin
trading on the exchange on Dec. 14, according to the filing.  Centro Properties announced its intention to combine all
its funds, swap its Australian malls for debt and distribute
A$100 million to smaller stakeholders when it agreed to sell its
U.S. malls to Blackstone Group for about $9.4 billion in March.
Following an agreement with most creditors to swap their debt
for the majority of Centro Properties’ Australian assets in
August, today’s court approval moves the company one step closer
to the creation of the new trust.  “Extracting any value out of this situation is a good
outcome,” Chief Executive Officer Robert Tsenin said on a
conference call with the media today. “This is where people
will land and this is why I’ve some confidence we’ll get the
overall proposal across the line.”  The boards of Centro Properties’ funds and independent
expert Grant Samuel & Associates Pty said on Oct. 5 that the
proposed amalgamation is in the best interests of shareholders.  Centro Properties shares rose 3 percent to 34 cents as of
2:33 p.m. in Sydney, while Centro Retail Trust slid 3.5 percent
to 27.5 cents.  New Trust Ownership  Senior lenders, who rank above other creditors in the event
of a default, will own 73.9 percent of the trust in exchange for
the A$2.9 billion of debt coming due on Dec. 15, Centro
Properties said. Shareholders of Centro Retail Trust will get
14.5 percent, and investors in the unlisted Direct Property Fund
will own 11.6 percent, the group said today.  Shareholders in Centro Properties will get 5.03 Australian
cents for each security they own, for a total of almost A$49
million, the company said. Holders of hybrid securities will
receive A$20 million and convertible bond holders A$21 million,
it said. The rest will be set aside to pay other non-senior debt.  ‘Remain Liable’  “If the proposal is not implemented, Centro Properties
will remain liable to repay its senior debt but will have no way
to fund the repayment,” independent expert Grant Samuel &
Associates said.  The group is also seeking to sell as many as 19 properties
worth more than A$600 million owned by its syndicates, Centro
Properties said.  Centro Properties first announced a restructure in 2009
after a debt-fueled U.S. buying spree backfired when the global
financial crisis caused property values to plummet and borrowing
costs to soar, leaving the company unable to refinance its
ballooning debt.  The company has since returned to profitability, with
Centro Properties reporting net income of A$2.7 billion in the
year to June 30 and Centro Retail Trust posting a A$357 million
profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  