-- 
CEOs Seeking Respect Must First Restore Lost Trust: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-10-06T00:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/ceos-seeking-respect-must-first-restore-lost-trust-ezra-klein.html
To most Americans, it looks as if
there’s never been a better time to be rich. The top 1 percent
takes in 24 percent of the national income and holds 40 percent
of the national wealth.  Neither jobs nor housing prices have rebounded in the
aftermath of the financial crisis, but corporate profits have
generally been strong. The  S&P 500 , though volatile, has
weathered the crisis relatively well, today standing roughly
where it was at the beginning of October 2008.  Talk with some of those in the top 1 percent, though, and
they make it sound as if there’s never been a worse time to be
rich. At a medical-innovation conference in  Cleveland  this week,
I heard chief executive officers complain about being treated
like “criminals,” about profit being regarded as intrinsically
suspicious, about the president saying unkind things about  oil
companies , about exemplars of hard work and success being viewed
as greedy rather than productive. Like Rodney Dangerfield, the
rich may be making money, but what they really want is respect.  Even worse, they said, was the fact that their every
suggestion for getting the economy back on track was denounced
as a self-serving grab for more profits. Shouldn’t it be obvious
to everyone that it’s better to give corporate America a tax
holiday for overseas income, because otherwise the money will
never return home? Isn’t it clear that we need more high-skills
visas for foreigners? Have we seen the airports in  Asia ? Doesn’t
the U.S. realize that if  Germany  and  China  and  South Korea  roll
out the red carpet for companies, giving them every tax
advantage and regulatory break to locate there, that the U.S.
must up the ante?  The CEOs have a point. Not on the tax holiday for overseas
income -- that’s a scam. But the U.S. could make it easier to do
business here. We do need more high-skills visas. We do need to
reform our  tax code , reduce our deficit, upgrade our education
system and repair our infrastructure. We even need to compete
with the incentives these companies receive to relocate their
factories and research centers; it’s a fact of the modern
economy, and we can’t pretend otherwise.  No Trust  But the self-pitying, self-righteous tone of these
complaints misses the big picture, and makes the underlying
problem worse: The rest of America doesn’t trust corporate
America right now. The rich have been getting fabulously richer,
corporate America is sitting on trillions in cash reserves, and
where has that gotten the rest of the country? A shabby, jobless
recovery in the early Aughts, followed by a credit bubble,
followed by a crash in which ordinary Americans had to bail out
 Wall Street , followed by the worst economy in generations.  We used to have a deal: A rising tide lifted all boats.
These days, a few gleaming yachts power comfortably past the
wreckage of smaller vessels. As my Washington Post colleague
Peter Whoriskey  reported  this week, executive pay at the
country’s largest companies has more than quadrupled since the
1970s. Median wages have stagnated through much of that time and
declined since the crisis.  That’s why corporate America’s solutions are looked on with
suspicion. Executives say corporate-tax reform and more
immigration would be good for the economy? Well, they said that
about the Bush tax cuts along with financial deregulation, the
rise in housing prices and credit-default swaps, too. But that
era ended with Main Street a shambles and Wall Street richer
than ever. Fool me once, and all that.  Anyone interested in the capital-gains tax and the marginal
rate on income over $250,000 should spend an hour or two paging
through the stories at  WeAreThe99Percent.tumblr.com . The blog,
which posts pictures of people holding signs describing their
situation, is a powerful primer on the very real sense of
betrayal rippling through the country.  It’s about this point in the discussion that someone raises
the “class warfare” flag. After all, isn’t that website
associated with  Occupy Wall Street , the vaguely anti-big-
business protests spreading from  New York  to other cities? Come
to think of it,  Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential
candidate whose campaign estimates he’s worth between $190
million and $250 million -- would that we all had such a margin
of error -- called those protests “class warfare” just this
week.  But that’s why the site deserves to be read. These people
aren’t trying to start a class war. They’re just trying to
figure out how to stop losing in today’s economy. They took out
loans to go to college, they worked two jobs, they saved for a
home, they did everything they were supposed to do to get ahead
and now they’re buried in debt, making minimum wage while the
Wall Street whiz kids who crashed the economy in the first place
saw their firms nursed back to profitability with the aid of
taxpayer bailouts.  Broken Promises  There’s no easy way to make this right. Politicians
sometimes exhort companies to stop sitting on capital, but
corporations can’t spend without customers. They can’t hire
without demand. Taxing millionaires won’t resolve the deficit
(though it wouldn’t hurt). There’s no grand gesture that can
make up for a decade of economic pain and broken promises.  But the problem isn’t that politicians are mean to
corporate America and that no one listens to their great ideas.
It’s that corporate America -- and, yes, the federal government
-- has lost the trust of ordinary Americans. The theories,
policies and rationales of the past decade have failed in the
most profound and painful ways, yet the politicians and CEOs who
made those decisions are doing better than ever. Have any
congressmen ended up homeless? Have any ex-White House staff
members had to fear for their child’s health insurance? Have any
former Wall Street CEOs stood in line for bread?  Of course not. But those things have happened to many, many
Americans, and they’re angry about it. If the folks in power
want leeway to pursue their solutions, they’re going to need
somehow to convince the public that the fortunes of the people
and the powerful are once again intertwined. Respect isn’t
something you get. It’s something you earn.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 