-- 
China Baby-Formula Maker Buying Arsenic Debt Reveals Unsecured Trust Loans

-- B y   S h a i   O s t e r
-- 
2011-10-06T21:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/china-baby-formula-maker-buying-arsenic-debt-shows-trust-risks.html
A Chinese baby-formula maker selling
imported Australian milk to safety-conscious parents invested in
the risky debt of lead, arsenic and cadmium refiners, seeking
higher returns for its cash.  The uncollateralized investment, sold by a middleman known
as a trust, promises to pay Ausnutria Dairy Corp. about double
 China ’s benchmark savings rate. It’s an example of how companies
are undermining government efforts to cool lending that has led
to soaring property prices and inflation of 6.2 percent, near a
three-year high.  Chinese trusts, investment vehicles once championed by  Deng Xiaoping , are part of a shadow-banking system that now accounts
for about 50 percent of all new loans in the country, according 
to Fitch Ratings Ltd. They gained prominence after the central 
bank increased the amount of deposits banks have to keep on hand,
limiting what they can lend. Ausnutria is typical of businesses
investing in trusts, which make loans at rates as high as 25
percent, spreading the risk of a potential credit crisis.  “When companies neglect their core business and start
speculating in hot sectors they know nothing about, it’s a sure
sign the market is out of whack,” said Patrick Chovanec, an
associate professor at Tsinghua University’s School of Economics
and Management in Beijing who has advised private-equity funds.  Metals, Wine  More loosely regulated than banks because they don’t hold
deposits, trusts have attracted 3.7 trillion yuan ($582 billion)
from investors with promises of high returns. At first, they
bought debt from banks seeking to move it off balance sheet.
They now invest in everything from metals refining to real
estate, even bottles of fine wine. They’re also making loans,
circumventing restrictions on lending between individuals and
companies. Western banks including Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , London-based Barclays Plc and Morgan Stanley
in  New York , as well as large Chinese companies such as China
National Petroleum Corp., have bought stakes in trusts.  Firms listed in  Shanghai  and Shenzhen have announced at
least 100 trust loans this year through September totaling
almost 23 billion yuan, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on data supplied by Shanghai-based Wind Information Co.
The average  interest rate  was 12 percent.  Ausnutria, which expects a return of about 6 percent on its
investment after fees and doesn’t hold any collateral against a
default, according to company filings, said in an e-mail that
the deal is “in the interest of the company’s shareholders.”  ‘No Regulations’  Lending by non-bank institutions such as trusts, leasing
companies and pawnshops, which accounted for 4 percent of loans
in China in 2002, according to estimates by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , could
rise to 55 percent of the total next year, Fitch estimated in a
July report. The ratings firm said all new lending in 2011 will
increase to 18 trillion yuan from 16.5 trillion yuan in 2010.  “Trusts are facilitating the movements of assets off the
balance sheets of banks -- there are no regulations on where it
can go,” said Charlene Chu, a Fitch analyst in Beijing who co-
wrote the report. “When there aren’t enough guidelines, who
knows what’s going into this stuff?”  The shadow-banking credit boom could lead to a new pile of
bad debt. Almost half the money managed by trusts is invested in
infrastructure and real estate projects, according to figures
from the  China Trustee Association , an industry group. Local
governments had 10.7 trillion yuan in debt borrowed through
financing vehicles at the end of last year, according to a June
report by China’s National Audit Office. Nearly a third of those
entities are losing money, according to a study by Beijing-based
analysts Zhang Xu at Guosen Securities Co. and Qiao Wei of China
Asset Management Co.  ‘Domino Effect’  Regulators have tried to curb a real estate boom by raising
down payments on home loans and limiting purchases of housing in
some cities including Shanghai, where prices have almost
quadrupled in the past decade. Trust loans to developers
increased 150 percent to 605 billion yuan in June from 235
billion yuan in March 2010, after a clampdown on bank lending,
according to a report by  UBS AG. (UBSN)   The true figure is probably much higher, said  Du Jinsong , a
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  analyst in  Hong Kong , because trusts are
bundling new real estate loans with other financing to get
around orders from regulators. That leaves trusts vulnerable to
defaults by developers under government pressure to ratchet down
property prices, which could have a ripple effect on other parts
of China’s informal lending system.  “If trusts aren’t going to be sustainable, they’ll also
stop lending to other industries,” said Du. “It could be the
beginning of a domino effect for the whole shadow-financing
system in China.”  Debt Ratio Rising  Lending is rising faster than  China’s economy  is expanding.
The proportion of China’s total debt to gross domestic product,
taking into account corporate, local government and household
borrowing, increased to 188 percent in the first half of 2011
from 146 percent in 2008, according to analysts at  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)  That’s an indication borrowers aren’t paying off loans
as quickly as they’re getting them.  “This points to a potentially significant rise in loan
delinquencies,” Chu wrote in the Fitch report.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission, which oversees
trusts, has issued regulations to slow their growth, raising the
capital they’re required to keep on hand relative to assets
under management. Last year trusts were told to report on risks
in their 2011 financial statements. The CBRC didn’t reply to
phone calls or e-mails seeking comment.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for greater oversight of non-bank
loans, including collateral and capital requirements, in order
to prevent risks from spreading, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported Oct. 5.  Ausnutria Deal  The structure of Ausnutria’s deal is common to many trust
arrangements. The company, based in the southern Chinese city of
Changsha, is the country’s 13th-biggest pediatric-formula
retailer by market share, according to London-based researcher
Euromonitor International. Founded in 2003, Ausnutria listed in
Hong Kong six years later.  Sales of imported baby milk have climbed since 2008, after
domestic formula tainted with the chemical melamine killed at
least six children, and could reach 62 billion yuan by the end
of this year, according to Euromonitor projections.  In April, Ausnutria invested 200 million yuan in Yunnan
International Trust Co., according to regulatory filings. The
trust, based in Kunming, the capital of Yunnan province, and
one-quarter owned by the local government’s finance department,
used the money to buy four loans from China Merchants Bank Co.,
the country’s sixth-largest lender by market value.  Two of the loans are to Hunan Nonferrous Metals Corp., a
subsidiary of state-owned China Minmetals Corp. that refines
lead, cadmium and arsenic. The other loans are to Chenzhou
Diamond Tungsten Products Co. and Hunan Bismuth Industry Co.  No Collateral  After paying 1.5 million yuan in fees to Yunnan
International, Ausnutria expects to earn at least 11 million
yuan, the company said in filings. In March, Ausnutria netted 10
million yuan after buying loans of Hunan Provincial Expressway
Construction and Development Co. in a similar deal with Hunan
Trust and Investment Co., the company said.  The returns aren’t guaranteed, and Ausnutria doesn’t hold
any collateral, according to filings. That raises the question
of who’s liable if a borrower defaults and the trust can’t
deliver returns to clients. Hunan Nonferrous borrowed money from
China Merchants and has no financing arrangements with trusts or
Ausnutria, Janice Liu, a spokeswoman for the metals company,
said in an e-mail.  Parallels to 1907  Ausnutria conducted “a thorough study on the terms of the
agreement and assessed the benefits and risks arising from the
transaction prior to the investment,” Karl Cheung, a spokesman
for the company, wrote in an e-mail to Bloomberg. He said the
deal “is in the interest of the company’s shareholders.” He
declined further comment.  Executives at China Merchants didn’t respond to phone
calls, and no one answered the phones at Yunnan International.  The rise of trusts in China has parallels to the role they
played in the U.S. bank panic of 1907, said Ellis Tallman, an
economics professor at Oberlin College in  Ohio  and a former
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta vice president.  “Historically, there is always a tendency for innovation
around financial regulations to get financing to rapidly
appreciating assets,” Tallman said.  Second Life  This is a second life for trusts in China, which trace
their origins to 1979, when the government, led at the time by
Deng, founded China International Trust and Investment Corp. to
attract foreign investment. By the 1990s, there were about 1,000
trusts owned by local governments that speculated in real estate
using foreign money.  After Guangdong International Trust & Investment Corp.
defaulted on a $200 million bond in 1999 -- the first Chinese
company to do so since the Communist revolution of 1949 --
Beijing unwound the businesses, and they mostly lay dormant
until reforms in 2007. About 60 have been relicensed.  One of the reconstituted trusts,  Suzhou Trust Co. , was
built on the rubble of an  investment company  owned by the
government of Suzhou, an eastern Chinese city. In 2008, Lenovo
Group Ltd., maker of ThinkPad laptops, and RBS,  Europe ’s
seventh-largest bank by market value, bought a 30 percent stake
in the restructured trust from the city.  “The investment in Suzhou Trust allows RBS to expand into
China’s non-banking financial-services sector and broadened our
presence in the world’s fastest-growing economy,” Sherry Liu,
chairman and chief executive officer of RBS’s China operations
said in an e-mail.  Spokesmen for Barclays and Morgan Stanley declined to
comment on their trust investments.  Swelling Deposits  In their revived form, trusts can’t take deposits or invest
their own money. Instead, they’re supposed to act like asset
managers for companies and affluent individuals.  The trusts are tapping companies flush with cash following
the government’s stimulus lending program, which helped the
economy expand 25 percent over two years beginning in 2008. Bank
deposits swelled more than twice as fast during the same period,
by 53 percent, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  After China’s regulator imposed lending quotas in 2010,
banks started pitching private wealth-management products such
the ones being offered by trusts to investors, offering better
returns than the government’s 3.5 percent benchmark deposit
rate. In some cases, banks distributed loans repackaged by
trusts directly to private-banking clients, promising rates of
return of as much as 25 percent in  text messages , according to
trust executives.  More Millionaires  “Offers at 12 percent or 13 percent were common last
year,” said Winston Ni, an entrepreneur in Shanghai who bought
a 3 million-yuan stake in a trust that promised a 9 percent
yield backed by a mall in Tianjin, a city 70 miles (113
kilometers) southeast of Beijing.  The number of Chinese having more than 10 million yuan in
investible assets will reach 585,000 this year, almost twice as
many as in 2008 when the stimulus started, according to a study
by consulting firm Bain & Co.  “If you limit what banks can do, there’s still demand for
loans,” said Zhang Liwen, president of Suzhou Trust, sitting in
an office on the second floor of a cement-and-glass building on
a leafy street in Suzhou, 50 miles west of Shanghai. “The
market still needs capital.”  Zhang presides over an empire that grew to 15.7 billion
yuan in assets under management in 2010 from 11 billion yuan in
2009. By mid-2011, the fund added another 7.5 billion yuan, as
affluent Chinese and other institutions invested in his
products, including loans to businesses.  Liquidity Worries  Last year, Zhang invested 48.9 percent of Suzhou Trust’s
funds in infrastructure, mostly bonds issued by financing
vehicles set up by local governments that pay between 7 percent
and 10 percent. The trust has since reduced its infrastructure
investments and raised its holdings of real estate debt to one-
third of the total, Zhang said.  Government restrictions make him worry about liquidity, he
said. His firm has run stress tests looking at the impact of a
50 percent drop in the value of its real estate holdings.  There are signs the real estate market is already cooling.
While new-home prices rose in August in all 70 cities monitored
by the government, sales volume is falling in Beijing and
Shanghai, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest
real estate website, which tracks 20 cities.  Hungry for cash, some developers are borrowing at 12
percent to 25 percent, higher than the benchmark lending rate of
6.56 percent, according to regulatory filings. Trusts thrive
because the government’s low interest rates discourage banks
from lending to the private sector, Tsinghua’s Chovanec said.  Wuhan Towers  Founder BEA Trust Co., a trust set up by Hong Kong-based
Bank of East Asia Ltd. and Founder Group, owner of one of
China’s largest computer makers, has raised 40 billion yuan and
is lending to real estate developer Wuhan Central Business
District City Construction Development Co. at 12 percent. The
company is building luxury apartment towers in Wuhan, the
capital of Hubei province. The units, fitted with Siemens
appliances and Kohler bathroom fixtures, went on sale in August.  “Medium-sized property developers appear to have borrowed
heavily for short-term and bridge loans,” said Il Houng Lee,
the IMF’s senior representative in China. “Property developers’
strains could hit trusts.”  Chilling Effect  Shares in Chinese developers plunged in Hong Kong trading
for two days last month on concern that tightened access to
loans will force them to cut prices.  Greentown China Holdings
Ltd. (3900) , a builder in the eastern province of Zhejiang, has fallen
37 percent since Sept. 21 amid reports by Credit Suisse analysts
that the banking regulator was looking into trusts that had
loaned the developer 5 billion yuan.  Greentown, based in Hangzhou, said it has no trouble
financing its loans and that the company hasn’t been questioned
by the regulator.  “Our reliance on trust loans is not that heavy,” Simon Fung, chief financial officer, said in a phone interview.  Any sign of weakness in China’s real estate market could
have a chilling effect on trusts and their investors, said Jason
Bedford, a manager at KPMG LLP in Beijing.  “Imagine that you have a real estate product and suddenly
the real estate markets start to plummet,” Bedford said. “What
was a liquid product suddenly becomes very illiquid as investors
pull out and can’t be replaced.”  Bank analysts, including  Michael Werner  at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong, are concerned that a mismatch
between trust loans and investments could exacerbate damage if
declines in real estate volumes spread. Loans are often for two
years or more, while investments are usually for one year.  ‘Wealth Destruction’  “It will cause a significant amount of wealth
destruction,” Werner said. “The party goes on until someone
turns on the lights and you can’t roll over these assets. There
will be wealth destruction. The question is how much.”  There is no sense of panic at the headquarters of  Noah
Holdings Ltd. (NOAH)  in the Pudong section of Shanghai, where customers
sip coffee and browse glossy brochures while sitting on leather
and chrome sofas.  The firm, listed on the New York Stock Exchange, was
founded in 2005 by two former private bankers at Xiangcai
Securities, a brokerage in Changsha, where Ausnutria is also
based. It offers wealth-management products including those
issued by trusts to clients who the company says invested an
average of $1.3 million last year. On Noah’s website is a
quotation from Chairman and CEO Wang Jingbo: “The world
revolves around money, and it makes its own rules.”  “Right now is a period of innovation,” Shang Yan Chuang,
head of  investor relations , said in an interview. “We’re
looking for innovation with controlled risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shai Oster in Hong Kong at 
 soster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  