-- 
FIFA Whistleblower Chuck Blazer to Quit CONCACAF Role at End of This Year

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-07T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/chuck-blazer-says-he-ll-retire-as-concacaf-general-secretary-at-year-s-end.html
Chuck Blazer, the soccer official
whose corruption complaints led to a senior FIFA colleague being
banned for life, will step down as general secretary of the
Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean
Association Football at the end of this year.  Blazer, 66, said in a e-mailed statement that he’ll end his
two-decade tenure with CONCACAF, one of soccer’s six regional
confederations, on Dec. 31. He’ll continue as a member of FIFA’s
executive committee and intends to “pursue other career
opportunities” in the sport.  “I’ve been doing this 21 years and that’s a long time,”
Blazer said yesterday in a telephone interview. “I’ll keep my
position on the FIFA executive committee. I’m elected until the
middle of 2013 and I have no intention of walking away from the
sport. I’m not leaving football, just this job.”  Blazer, an American, alerted soccer’s governing body in May
to allegations that CONCACAF president Jack Warner and Asian
confederation chief Mohamed bin Hammam offered Caribbean
delegates $40,000 each in bribes in Bin Hammam’s abortive bid to
become FIFA president.  Bin Hammam, a Qatari, subsequently was given a life ban
from soccer. Trinidad & Tobago’s Warner, Blazer’s former boss at
CONCACAF, quit the sport in June after being suspended pending
an investigation into the bribery claims.  Bin Hammam denies the allegation. At the time of Warner’s
resignation, FIFA closed all ethics committee procedures against
him, saying  “the presumption of innocence is maintained.”  Revenue Rose  Zurich-based FIFA has been dealing with corruption
allegations for most of the past year. At one point, one-third
of its executive committee, a 24-member decision-making panel,
was either under investigation or suspended amid graft claims
linked to the vote for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups and the
presidential election.  Blazer, during whose tenure CONCACAF revenue rose to $40
million from $140,000, said he was proud to have helped expose
corruption within soccer.  “I’m the guy who turned around and said enough of this,”
Blazer told Bloomberg News. “I consider it a unique mark in my
career of turning round and saying there’s a right way and a
wrong way to do things, and I choose the right way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  