-- 
Citic Securities Falls in Hong Kong Debut

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-10-06T03:38:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/citic-securities-falls-in-hong-kong-debut.html
Citic Securities Co.,  China ’s biggest
brokerage by market value, declined in its  Hong Kong  trading
debut as the depressed valuations of rivals lured investors.  Citic Securities fell as much as 11 percent to HK$11.90 and
traded at HK$12.2 as of 11:01 a.m. The company, which is also
listed in  Shanghai , sold 995.3 million shares at HK$13.30 apiece
last week, raising HK$13.2 billion ($1.7 billion) in Hong Kong’s
biggest public stock offering in more than three months.  Companies including Sany Heavy Industry Co. canceled or
postponed $8.9 billion in initial public offerings globally in
the third quarter as equity markets plunged. Since Citic
Securities priced its shares, the Hang Seng China H-Financials
Index, which tracks large Chinese financial stocks listed in the
city, has dropped nearly 16 percent before today amid  Europe ’s
escalating sovereign debt crisis.  “The secondary shares of some blue-chip companies are
trading at very low valuations,” Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based
managing director at China Merchants Securities (Hong Kong) Co.,
said by phone. “Why should investors subscribe for IPO if the
IPO valuation is not cheaper and the risk is actually higher?”  Citic Securities’ price-to-book value is about 1.65 times,
based on the company’s Shanghai traded stock, that compared with
the 3.96 times of the country’s second-largest brokerage GF
Securities Co. and the 1.4 times of Haitong Securities Co.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Shanghai Composite
Index slid 0.3 percent as of 11:01 a.m. local time.  “Investor demand was quite good especially in such market
conditions,” Wang Dongming, chairman of Citic Securities, said
today at the listing ceremony. “It’s good that we could
complete the sale.”  The trading debut comes after Citic Securities closed the
biggest share sale in Hong Kong since Italian fashion retailer
Prada SpA raised $2.5 billion in June. The value of initial
public offerings in the city dropped 65 percent in the three
months through September, from the previous quarter, as stocks
tumbled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  