-- 
Clean-Tech Companies Should Get 10-Year Tax Breaks, Hundt Says

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-10-06T18:34:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/clean-tech-companies-should-get-10-year-tax-breaks-hundt-says.html
Reed Hundt, head of the Coalition for
Green Capital, said alternative-energy companies should be given
a 10-year tax break on profits as a way to create jobs and
stimulate innovation in clean technology.  Hundt, who was chairman of the  U.S. Federal Communications
Commission  from 1993 to 1997, is working with the government as
well as Silicon Valley venture capital and private equity firms
to ensure that money is still available for clean-energy
projects after the collapse of Solyndra LLC last month.  “Step one is that the Silicon Valley venture community has
to stand up for the fundamental idea that success can come from
failure,” Hundt said in an interview at a clean-tech conference
yesterday in Redwood City, California. “And this is a Congress
that hates taxes, so how about eliminating all income tax on the
sale of clean-energy goods or services for the next decade.”  Solyndra, a solar-panel maker in Fremont,  California , fired
1,100 workers and filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 6, two years
after receiving a $535 million loan guarantee from the U.S.
Department of Energy. The company’s downfall doesn’t change the
need for the production of biofuels, solar power and technology
that helps reduce energy consumption, Hundt said.  State Initiatives  In addition to making proposals to Congress, Hundt’s
Washington-based  nonprofit  is working with individual states to
make capital more available. In June, Connecticut adopted a
measure for a so-called green bank, designed to provide low-cost
financing for energy-efficiency projects. The project will be
funded by a surcharge on residential and commercial electric
bills amounting to about $30 million a year.  Legislators in  Oregon ,  Michigan ,  Pennsylvania ,  Ohio  and  New
York  have reached out to Hundt’s coalition to do something
similar, he said.  Venture funding of  clean-tech  companies fell 4.5 percent in
the first half of this year to $2.17 billion from $2.27 billion
a year earlier, according to the National Venture Capital
Association. Still, the $1.23 billion invested in the first
quarter marked the second-highest period ever, after the second
quarter of 2010, the NVCA said.  That won’t slow down just because Solyndra is being
scrutinized, said Jim Fulton, co-chair of the clean energy and
technologies group at law firm Cooley LLP in Palo Alto,
California, which sponsored the conference. Congressional
Republicans are leading an investigation into Solyndra’s loan
guarantee, and the company faces a probe by the FBI.  “Solyndra will not be a defining moment in clean-tech
history,” Fulton said in an interview. “There is an
alternative universe in  Washington , D.C., and politics that is
blowing this out of proportion.”  Hundt, 63, also works with the  Aspen Institute , which
describes itself as a “venue for discussing and acting on
critical issues,” and worked on President Barack Obama’s
transition team from 2008 to 2009. He serves on the board of
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest semiconductor company, and
Serious Energy Inc., formerly Serious Materials, which provides
software for building owners and developers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 Alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  