-- 
Clooney’s Candidate Snared in Sex Scandal; Butch Cassidy: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-10-06T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/clooney-s-candidate-snared-in-sex-scandal-butch-cassidy-film.html
Shakespeare notwithstanding, nobody
gets assassinated in “ The Ides of March ,”  George Clooney ’s
smart thriller about a presidential candidate threatened by a
sex scandal.  There is plenty of gloom and doom, however. Backroom deals,
petty jealousies and broken promises are as plentiful as the
stars in the cast, which includes  Ryan Gosling , Philip Seymour Hoffman,  Paul Giamatti , Evan Rachel Wood and  Marisa Tomei .  “The Ides of March” isn’t always plausible -- a
Machiavellian plot by a rival campaign manager seems
particularly far-fetched -- and some of the characters border on
stereotypes. But Clooney (the director, co-writer and co-star)
has pulled off a considerable feat, transforming Beau Willimon’s
play “Farragut North” into a fast-paced, suspenseful film that
bares the underbelly of U.S. politics.  Clooney plays Mike Morris, a liberal governor running for
the Democratic nomination. Hoffman is his savvy campaign
manager, Gosling his idealistic press secretary and Wood a
pretty young intern. Giamatti runs the campaign of Morris’s main
opponent, while Tomei is a brash  New York  Times reporter who
gets tipped off about a secret meeting that could embarrass both
sides.  Intern’s Affairs  The story takes place in March on the eve of the decisive
Ohio primary, when strange bedfellows complicate the campaign.
Morris’s press secretary has a fling with the intern and learns
that she earlier slept with the governor and is now pregnant.  As the primary approaches, Gosling’s character must choose
between his idealistic impulses and practical considerations.
When he confronts Morris in a dark, empty bar, we get to see the
candidate’s win-at-all-costs side.  Hoffman and Giamatti are standouts as the crafty campaign
managers, and Gosling strikes the right tone as a man with
divided loyalties. Clooney’s part is relatively small, but his
smooth directing style makes “The Ides of March” an enjoyable
diversion from our real, equally sordid presidential politics.  “The Ides of March,” from  Columbia Pictures , opens
tomorrow across the U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Blackthorn’  What if Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid hadn’t died in
that 1908 Bolivian shootout made famous in the Oscar-winning
film starring  Paul Newman  and  Robert Redford ?  That’s the premise of “ Blackthorn ,” a laconic Western
that picks up with Butch (Sam Shepard) living peacefully in a
Bolivian village in the 1920s under the alias James Blackthorn.  A homesick Butch decides to return to the U.S., but
gets sidetracked by a young robber (Eduardo Noriega) who enlists
him to track down $50,000 buried in a mine. They’re chased by a
former Pinkerton detective (Stephen Rea) and a posse hired by
the mine owners to get their money back.  The Sundance Kid is no longer around, yet we don’t learn
his fate until a series of flashbacks let us know what really
happened after that gunfight with Bolivian soldiers.  Filmed on location by Spanish director Mateo Gil,
“Blackthorn” features gorgeous shots of  Bolivia ’s vast salt
desert, pithy dialogue and an Eastwood-esque performance by
Shepard.  “Blackthorn,” from  Magnolia Pictures , opens tomorrow in
New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 