-- 
CO2 Plunge May Create Funding Gap for Carbon Capture, PwC Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-10-06T17:10:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/co2-plunge-may-create-funding-gap-for-carbon-capture-pwc-says.html
A plunge in carbon prices may create
a funding gap for power stations that plan to trap greenhouse
gases from smokestacks for permanent burial underground,
according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  The European Union plans to fund carbon-capture-and-storage
projects as well as lesser-developed renewable-energy projects
using money raised from the sales of 300 million EU emissions
permits. Allowances for December have plunged 42 percent from
their highest level in May, cutting the pool of money available.  Carbon-capture projects, more costly than renewables, may
not receive all the funding they need, Jonathan Grant, London-
based assistant director of sustainability & climate change at
PwC, the  management consultant , said by telephone yesterday.
“The lower prices could create funding gaps in the projects
which applied for the maximum amount,” he said.  The  European Investment Bank  said yesterday it will start
sales of a reserve of permits soon after an EU regulation
providing for a transfer of the allowances becomes binding. The
EU rules, which the EIB said are expected to enter into force in
the first half of November, allow the European Commission to
deliver the post-2012 allowances to the bank.  In the first round of sales, announced in November,
proceeds from 200 million permits are to be split among at least
eight carbon-capture projects and 34 renewable energy
technologies, covering as much as half of the construction and
operation costs that companies and national governments will
also help finance.  ‘Less Funding’  Iberdrola SA’s Scottish Power Ltd., Ayrshire Power Ltd.,
SSE Plc, 2Co Energy Ltd. and Drax Group Plc are seeking funds
for  carbon capture  projects in Britain.  Plans to capture and store emissions from Iberdrola’s 2,400
megawatt coal-fed Longannet power station may be abandoned,
according to a  report  from the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper today.
The project may “collapse within weeks”, the newspaper said,
citing an unidentified senior Conservative member of parliament.
The power station had applied for as much as 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) of U.K. funding and EU money.  “The fact they raise less money will mean there’s less
funding, which might cause problems for projects,” Grant said.
“With less funding overall, you might find they don’t get any
projects in some countries or particular renewables or CCS
categories.”  EU permits for December closed at 10.47 euros a metric ton
on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contracts have
fallen from as high as 18.18 euros in May, the data show, on a
slowing economy that reduces factory output and damps power
demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  