-- 
Coffee Crop in Vietnam Region to Jump 10% as Quality Gains

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-06T11:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/coffee-harvest-in-vietnam-region-to-climb-10-as-quality-rises.html
Coffee production from  Vietnam ’s main
growing province may jump 10 percent this season as bean quality
climbs, producers and the government said, bolstering forecasts
that a record nationwide crop will swell global robusta supplies.  Dak Lak’s harvest, which accounts for about a third of the
nation’s harvest, may rise to 400,000 metric tons, according to
Nguyen Van Sinh, deputy director of the local agricultural
department. October Coffee, Cocoa Co. expects the share of top-
grade beans to gain to 45 percent from 35 percent this harvest,
Mai Ky Van, export and business division head, said on Sept. 30.  Higher output from the largest grower of the bitter-tasting
beans used in espressos and instant drinks may extend a 25
percent slump in prices from a three-year high in March, while
lowering costs for users such as  Nestle SA. (NESN)  The world’s biggest
food company buys about 250,000 tons a year from Vietnam, Rashid Qureshi, local unit managing director, said in August. Bean
quality depends on size, flavor, moisture and handling.  “The size of the beans is a bit bigger than the last
crop,” said Vu Dinh Noi, head of planning and cultivation
technology at Thang Loi Coffee Co., a state-owned grower with
1,800 hectares (4,448 acres). About 52 percent of the crop may
be top-grade beans this harvest from 45 percent last year as
output gains 10 percent to 5,000 tons, Noi said on Sept. 29.  Robusta on NYSE Liffe in  London  has declined on speculation
supplies are set to gain as a slowdown in global economic growth
pares demand. The November-delivery contract traded at $2,005
per ton at 7:05 p.m. in  Singapore  today after rising 1.4 percent.  Food Costs  Lower coffee prices may help to ease global food costs,
which reached an all-time high in February, according to a 55-
item gauge compiled by the Food & Agriculture Organization, the
Rome-based United Nations agency. Vietnam’s harvest will start
later this month.  Output in Vietnam, the second-largest coffee grower after
 Brazil , may rise to a record 1.32 million tons in the year from
Oct. 1 on good weather and increased planting, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 12 traders, growers and exporters last month.
That compares with 1.17 million tons last year, according to a
central government report on Oct. 3. Volcafe, the coffee unit of
trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd., and Macquarie Commodities
Research have also forecast output at an all-time high.  Global Harvest  Global robusta production will increase 5.4 percent to 3.29
million tons (54.9 million 60-kilogram bags) in 2011-2012, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Worldwide supply will
exceed demand by almost 4.1 million bags, according to ABN Amro
Bank NV and VM Group. Macquarie predicts a surplus of 2.5
million bags, the most in four years.  October Coffee expects production from its 414 hectares to
gain as much as 15 percent, said Van. Six hectares of uncovered
space behind October Coffee’s office building in  Buon Ma Thuot ,
the provincial capital, are ready for drying the harvest. “It’s
always better to dry coffee under sunlight, it helps boost the
beans’ quality,” Van said.  Melanie Kohli, a spokesperson for Vevey, Switzerland-based
Nestle, declined to comment on forecasts for the crop’s quantity
and quality when contacted by Bloomberg.  About 85 percent of Dak Lak’s coffee is produced by
smallholders, according to Tran Hieu, vice chairman of the Dak
Lak Provincial People’s Committee. After harvesting, beans are
dried in the open air, or by machine at some of the larger
producers. Some farmers use wood fires if there’s rain.  ‘Half the Equation’  To gauge quality, “I don’t know if bean size is even half
the equation, I think it’s more how it’s treated, and that very
much depends on the weather,” Jens Nielsen, founder of
Singapore-based Oriental Coffee & Commodities Pte, said Oct. 2.  A 1.65 trillion dong ($79.1 million) government program
introduced last year for smallholders may improve the standard
of the coming harvest, according to Sinh, the deputy director at
the local agricultural department. “We are providing about 40
percent of costs for farmers to build proper warehouses, drying
grounds, and equipment for the drying process,” Sinh said.  If rains prevent natural drying, using fires can give a
smoky aroma, impairing bean quality, Nguyen Huy Dao, a trader at
Buon Ma Thuot-based Sept. 2nd Import Export Co., said Sept. 30.  “Improper drying processes have reduced the quality of
Vietnamese coffee in the past,” Dao said. “If drying
conditions are not good it could result in an increase of the
number of black beans.” Black beans are of low quality and
don’t meet international standards. Most are discarded.  A larger supply of higher-grade beans this year may reduce
the premium paid over futures for top-quality coffee, and help
meet roasters’ demand for better beans, according to Enrico
Antony, general manager at Liffe-nominated robusta warehouse
keeper Romani & C. SpA in Trieste,  Italy .  “What it affects a lot is the differential,” Antony said
on Oct. 3, referring to the premium or discount paid on physical
coffee compared with the futures price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  