-- 
Colombia Peso Bond Yields Approach 2-Month High on CPI Increase

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-10-06T18:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/colombia-peso-bond-yields-approach-2-month-high-on-cpi-increase.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds fell, pushing
yields toward a two-month high, after inflation quickened more
than analysts forecast in September.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10 percent peso
bonds due in July 2024 rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 7.68 percent at 2:37 p.m. New York time.
The yield reached 7.8 percent on Oct. 3, the highest level on a
closing basis since July 25.  Colombia’s consumer prices rose 0.31 percent in September
from the previous month, driven by higher housing and food
costs, after declining 0.03 percent in August, the national
statistics agency said in a  report  late yesterday. Annual
inflation quickened to 3.73 percent. Economists expected monthly
inflation of 0.02 percent and for prices to rise 3.43 percent
from a year earlier, according to the median estimates of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Inflation is worrying now that we’re getting close to the
ceiling” of the central bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4
percent for this year, said  Carlos Torres , head analyst at
Asesores en Valores SA brokerage in Bogota. “Banco de la
Republica will need to continue raising  interest rates  to keep
inflation expectations in check.”  Policy makers in September kept borrowing costs unchanged
at 4.5 percent for a second straight month, citing the need to
gauge the impact of the European debt crisis on Colombia’s
economic growth. The central bank will lift the key rate to as
high as 5 percent by year-end, Torres predicts.  Inflation Outlook  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
annual consumer price increase expectations known as the
breakeven rate, rose to 3.22 percentage points today from 2.94
percentage points yesterday.  Still, Felipe Hernandez, an analyst at RBS Securities Inc.
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , forecasts policy makers will leave
rates unchanged “in the foreseeable future.”  Inflation “remains in line with the target and the trend
outlined by the central bank earlier this year,” Hernandez
wrote in a report today. “The result also shows that higher
inflation is mainly explained by supply shocks and that demand
driven pressure on prices remains moderate despite robust
domestic demand.”  The peso rose 0.7 percent to 1,946.80 per  U.S. dollar , from
1,961.10 yesterday. The currency has plunged 8 percent in the
past month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  