-- 
Commercial Paper Market Falls Below $1 Trillion, Fed Says

-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 
2011-10-06T14:48:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/commercial-paper-market-falls-below-1-trillion-fed-says-1-.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through short-term IOUs fell below $1 trillion for the first
time since Feb. 2 as investors cut holdings of bank debt on
mounting concern  Europe ’s fiscal crisis is spreading.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
outstanding dropped by $22.2 billion to $985.4 billion in the
week ended Oct. 5, the 12th consecutive decrease, the  Federal
Reserve  said today on its website. It’s the longest stretch of
declines since the period ended Jan. 19 and the lowest level
since the market touched $988.3 billion Jan. 26, according to
Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  A drop in short-borrowing by banks led the decline, as
investors shunned riskier assets potentially affected by the
European debt crisis. Commercial paper sold by non-U.S.
financial institutions fell $11.5 billion, the fourth weekly
decline, while the amount issued by banks based in the
U.S. decreased $12.6 billion, according to the Fed.  The decline was “mostly due to financial CP, especially
foreign,” said Raymond Stone, who tracks U.S. money markets as
managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in
Princeton,  New Jersey . “U.S. money market funds don’t want this
paper,” he said in an e-mail.  Speculation that Spain and  Italy  may be forced to follow
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  in seeking international bailouts
has roiled global markets, as investors grow concerned that a
recession would erode creditworthiness of short-term debentures
of banks and companies.  Corporations sell commercial paper to fund everyday
activities such as paying rent and salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Parry in New York at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  