-- 
Company Pension Deficit Jumps Most Ever as Stocks, Yields Plunge

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-10-06T12:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/company-pension-deficit-jumps-most-ever-as-stocks-yields-plunge.html
Company pensions in the U.S. fell
behind future payouts to retirees by the most ever in September,
as stocks fell and the slowing economy and Federal Reserve
policy drove down bond yields, according to actuarial and
consulting firm Milliman Inc.  The deficit between the assets of the 100 largest company
pensions and projected liabilities widened by a record $124
billion in September to $439 billion, Seattle-based Milliman
said today in a statement, based on data going back to 2000.
Investment assets fell $31 billion to $1.175 trillion, while
obligations to retirees rose $93 billion to $1.614 trillion.  “We’ve been talking about how  interest rates  are driving
pension funded status for several years now,” John Ehrhardt, a
principal and consulting actuary in  New York  with Milliman,
wrote Oct. 5 in an e-mail. “The perfect storm has been brewing
all summer. In September the storm arrived with a vengeance.”  Company pensions have suffered as bond yields, a benchmark
in determining future liabilities, have been tamped down by the
U.S. central bank’s efforts to ward off another recession as
markets are buffeted by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Companies have assumed a 7.75 percent median long-term rate
of return on their assets, according to investment advisory firm
CT Capital LLC, which tracks 1,423 corporations. This year the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has lost 7.6 percent, U.S. corporate
bonds have gained 4.9 percent as of Oct. 5, while Treasuries
have returned 9 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  No Relief  “Given the Fed’s declaration that rates are going to
remain low as far as the eye can see, a corporate board
certainly can’t hope for anyone to ride to the rescue on that
metric,” said Kenneth Hackel, president of CT Capital in
Alpine,  New Jersey , said Oct. 5 in a telephone interview.
“Unless you think stocks are going to start rising by double
digits per year for the next five years, then companies are
going to have to fess up to these large liabilities.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries touched 1.67 percent, the
lowest ever, on Sept. 23. Interest rates have declined as the
Fed has kept its target rate for overnight loans between banks
at a record low since December 2008. In August, the central bank
promised to keep its target rate for overnight loans between
banks near zero through mid-2013.  Leading indicators show the world’s largest is falling into
another recession, according to the Economic Cycle Research
Institute. “You have wildfire among the leading indicators
across the board,  Lakshman Achuthan , the group’s chief
operations officer in New York, said in a radio interview Sept.
30 on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Asset Rules  The Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires companies to
increase pension-fund assets gradually to put them on firmer
financial footing, reducing the chances the government will have
to rescue them. As bond yields decline, corporate pensions must
set aside more money to cover future obligations to retirees.  AA company debt yields were 3.22 percent, after falling to
2.72 percent on Aug. 4, the lowest since October 2010, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Company pension plans are shifting away from U.S. stocks,
with 38 percent expecting to reduce holdings this year after the
same percentage did so in 2010, according to a survey by
consulting firm Aon Hewitt in Lincolnshire,  Illinois , of 227
U.S. employers with $389 billion in assets. The survey found
that 32 percent of those companies plan to boost allocations to
long-duration debt in 2011, 24 percent intend to increase other
corporate bond holdings and 13 percent expect to boost their
government debt allocation.  “Investors are concerned about the low level of all-in
yields on Treasuries,” Nicholas Finkelman, a  money manager  at
New York-based Ryan Labs Inc., which oversees $3.5 billion, said
Oct. 5. “Pensions are moving into higher corporate bond
exposure on the back of this volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  