-- 
Congress Ready to Vote on Three Free-Trade Accords Within Week

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-06T20:10:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/congress-ready-to-vote-on-three-free-trade-accords-within-week.html
Congress is prepared to vote in less
than a week on free-trade agreements with South Korea,  Colombia 
and Panama that were reached more than four years ago.  The Senate may act on Oct. 12, the eve of a state visit by
South Korean President Lee Myung Bak, Majority Leader Harry Reid
said in a speech on the floor today. The House plans to vote the
same day, according to a Republican leadership aide who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  urged lawmakers to
finish work on the pacts next week and renew aid for workers
hurt by foreign competition, known as Trade Adjustment
Assistance, calling the measures an “essential piece of the
president’s jobs agenda.” President  Barack Obama  sent Congress
legislation for the trade accords on Oct. 3 after House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said he would consider the
worker assistance in tandem with the trade deals.  “We need to get all four elements of this package -- the
three trade deals and TAA -- across the finish line next week,”
Daley told representatives of companies including  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  at a fund-raising dinner for the
National Foreign Trade Council’s educational foundation.  The Senate Finance Committee today scheduled an Oct. 11
hearing on the accords. The House Rules committee today backed
limiting debate on the bills to 90 minutes each and barred
amendments to the worker-aid bill.  Plea Against Bickering  Daley said he expects the worker-aid program, which has
been opposed by some Republicans, to receive a House vote on
Oct. 12 and that “we hope to see continuing bipartisan support
for a good plan and that we do not see the sort of bickering and
partisanship that seems to have taken over this town on so many
issues.”  The  South Korea  deal, the biggest since the  North American
Free Trade Agreement , would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. The accord
with Colombia would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion
a year.  The House Ways and Means Committee voted to advance the
accords yesterday.  Obama spent two years after taking office seeking to
broaden Democratic support for the trade accords. He negotiated
new terms for auto tariffs in the South Korea agreement that won
over the United Auto Workers union, a deal on exchanging tax
information with Panama and labor-rights assurances from
Colombia. Companies from  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  to  General Electric
Co. (GE)  have lobbied for the agreements to increase  market access .  Job Gains, Losses  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce says the trade agreements will
prevent the loss of 380,000 jobs. The pacts will destroy 159,000
jobs by encouraging companies to send work overseas, according
to the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation.  While Daley said the South Korea agreement will support
70,000 U.S. jobs and open markets to boost American
competitiveness, he said businesses should push for Congress to
approve the worker assistance to help people who become
unemployed because of trade deals. Business groups such as the
Chamber have backed the renewal of worker aid.  “Those of us who believe trade is worth fighting for must
fight equally hard for the program of TAA,” Daley said. “I
hope we can continue to work together to break through this
ridiculous gridlock in  Washington .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  