-- 
Consumer Bureau Nomination Goes to Senate

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-10-06T18:25:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/consumer-bureau-nominee-approved-by-senate-banking-committee.html
Richard Cordray ’s selection to lead
the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was approved by
the Senate Banking Committee in a move that sets up a showdown
with Republicans vowing to block any nominee for the post.  Today’s 12-10 vote sends the nomination to the full Senate,
where 44 Republicans have pledged to deny confirmation for
anyone to serve as director until changes are made in the
structure and funding of the new agency created by the Dodd-
Frank Act. That opposition would block confirmation by the 100-
member Senate, which would require at least 60 votes.  “My colleagues and I stand by our pledge that no nominee
to head the CFPB will be confirmed by the  U.S. Senate  --
regardless of party affiliation -- without basic changes to the
Bureau’s structure,” Senator Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican,
said in a statement today.  Cordray, the former Ohio attorney general now serving as
the consumer bureau’s enforcement chief, was nominated by
President  Barack Obama  in July. Republican lawmakers are seeking
changes including replacing the director position with a five-
member board and making the bureau’s budget subject to the
congressional appropriations process.  If the Senate fails to confirm a consumer bureau director,
it will “leave a vast array of non-bank financial institutions,
consumer finance companies, outside the scope of consumer
financial protection, which was exactly the same mistake that
left us vulnerable to the financial crisis that we went
through,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told the
Senate panel in a hearing after the vote on Cordray.  ‘Every Inch’  The consumer bureau, which officially began work on July
21, won’t assume full supervisory powers over non-bank financial
firms until a director is in place.  Republicans “want to roll back the whole notion of having
a consumer watchdog,” Obama said today at a news conference.
“I’m going to be fighting every inch of the way here in
Washington to make sure that we have a consumer watchdog,” he
said.  Obama tied the need for a strong consumer agency to the
recent decision by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to impose a $5 monthly
fee on some customers for debit-card use. The fee came shortly
after rules took effect limiting the “swipe” fees banks can
charge retailers when customers use debit cards.  “People have been using financial regulation as an excuse
to charge consumers more,” Obama said.  The president said that while the bureau’s role is not to
dictate profitability it is “entirely appropriate for the
government to have some oversight role” on behalf of consumers.  “My main goal is to make sure that we’ve got a consumer
watchdog in place who is letting consumers know what fair
practices are, making sure that transactions are transparent,
and making sure that banks have to compete for customers based
on the quality of their service and good prices,” Obama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 