-- 
Consumer Comfort Index in U.S. Caps Worst Quarter Since ’09 on Job Outlook

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-10-06T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/consumer-comfort-index-in-u-s-declines-capping-worst-quarter-since-2009.html
Consumer confidence  last week capped
the worst quarterly performance in more than two years, when the
 U.S. economy  was still in a recession.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 50.2 in
the week ended Oct. 2, from the prior period’s minus 53 that was
the second-lowest level on record. The gauge averaged minus 48.4
from July through September, the third-worst quarterly reading
of all time and the weakest since minus 49.9 in the first three
months of 2009.  Ninety-two percent of those surveyed had a negative opinion
of the economy, underscoring the concerns of Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who this week said the central bank
can take further steps to sustain a recovery that’s “close to
faltering.” An ailing housing market, stagnant payrolls and
stock-price declines have reduced Americans’ ability to spend.  “A weak labor market and sagging incomes continue to place
stress on households,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “Higher headline prices
and stagnant incomes will likely provide further downward
pressure on consumer sentiment.”  Fewer workers than forecast filed claims for unemployment
insurance payments last week, signaling companies may be
starting to slow the pace of firings, another report today
showed. Applications for jobless benefits increased by 6,000 in
the week ended Oct. 1 to 401,000, Labor Department data showed.  Economists projected 410,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The monthly average
dropped to the lowest level since the end of August.  Comfort Breakdown  Among the comfort index’s three components, the measure of
personal finances rose to minus 9.1 last week from minus 11.6
the prior period. The buying climate gauge climbed to minus 57.3
from minus 61, which was the lowest level since the aftermath of
the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy in October 2008.
The index of American’s views on the economy rose to minus 84.3
from minus 86.4.  Confidence remains depressed for groups especially hit hard
by the recession that ended June 2009. Homeowner sentiment was
minus 48.7, less than a point from a record low. The gauge for
those with only a high school diploma was at minus 63, two
points from the lowest level in data going back to 1990.  The Bloomberg consumer comfort index, which began in
December 1985, has been stuck below minus 40 -- the level
associated with recessions or their aftermath -- since the end
of February. It has averaged minus 45.9 this year, compared with
minus 45.7 for 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009.  Recessionary Level  The readings echo the time “when the Great Recession still
was officially on,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research
Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the index for
Bloomberg, said in a statement. “If it’s over, the public
missed the memo.”  Gains in payrolls in September were probably too small to
reduce joblessness, a Labor Department report may show tomorrow.
Employment climbed by 57,000 workers after no change in August,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The  unemployment rate  was 9.1 percent for a third
month, they projected.  Stock market losses are eroding wealth. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index closed below 1,100 on Oct. 3 for the first time
in more than a year, putting the gauge within 1 percent of a
 bear market , a threshold defined by declines of 20 percent or
more from the peak.  The  S&P 500  swung between gains and losses after European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the euro-area
economy faces “intensified downside risks.” The gauge fell 0.1
percent to 1,142.8 at 9:40 a.m. in New York.  Cutting Back  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse-club
chain, said the strain on household budgets is helping drive
more customers to its stores to save on items like groceries.  “We’re concerned as every one of you are out there every
day with the gyrations in the market and the mortgage statistics
and the unemployment statistics,” Chief Financial Officer
Richard Galanti said on a conference call with analysts
yesterday. “If you asked us do we feel good about what’s going
on out there, no, in terms of the economy.”  The Fed last month decided to replace $400 billion of
Treasuries in its portfolio with longer-term securities to
further help reduce borrowing costs and trim unemployment.  Those steps are “particularly important now that the
economy is, the recovery is, close to faltering,” Bernanke said
in testimony to Congress on Oct. 4. “The recovery from the
crisis has been much less robust than we had hoped,” he said.  Survey Details  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  