-- 
Constellation Gains After Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-10-06T20:29:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/constellation-gains-after-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-1-.html
Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ) , the
world’s largest wine company, rose the most in almost two months
after reporting second-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates, helped by sales in North America.  Constellation advanced $1.68, or 9 percent, to $20.40 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest gain since Aug. 9. The shares had declined 7.9 percent
this year.  Chief Executive Officer Robert Sands sold the company’s
Australian and U.K. wine operations this year to focus on the
North American unit. The overseas wine businesses were
unprofitable in the year-ago period, according to  Tim Ramey , an
analyst for D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon .  “The stars are aligning,” Ramey said today in a note.
Constellation has generated “impressive”  cash flow  “and put
this cash to work creating significant value for shareholders.”  Constellation’s free cash flow totaled $478 million in the
six months ended in August, up from $263 million in the same
period last year. The cash will help Constellation pay debt
while buying back shares, Sands said today on a conference call.  Net income rose 78 percent to $162.7 million, or 76 cents a
share, from $91.3 million, or 43 cents, a year ago, the Victor,
New York-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
restructuring charges and other items, profit of 77 cents beat
the 66-cent average of 9 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Full-Year Forecast  The company’s  brands  include Robert Mondavi and Clos Du
Bois wines. Revenue fell 20 percent to $690.2 million, primarily
because of the sale of its Australian and U.K. wine business.
Sales in  North America  rose 5 percent.  With stock repurchases and a tax-rate benefit, profit in
fiscal 2012 will be as much as $2.10 a share. Excluding those
items, Constellation reiterated its previous projection of a
maximum of $2 a share on a conference call today. Analysts
predicted $1.96, the average of 10 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  