-- 
Copper Traders the Most Bullish Since August After Biggest Rout Since ’08

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-10-07T16:12:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/copper-traders-turn-most-bullish-in-six-weeks-on-china-s-demand.html
Copper traders and analysts are the
most bullish since August on speculation prices at a one-year
low will spur  China , the world’s largest buyer, to build
stockpiles. Gold, sugar, corn and soybeans may also climb.  Ten of 15 respondents surveyed by Bloomberg expect copper
to rise next week and 5 predicted a drop, the most bullish
reading in six weeks. It’s the first time in four weeks that the
separate surveys forecast gains for all five commodities.  Copper slumped to a 14-month low on Oct. 3 as commodities
slid on concern that demand may wane as economies slow.  Diego Hernandez , chief executive officer of Codelco, the world’s
largest copper producer, said the next day that China should
take advantage of the slump to restock. In 2008, during the
worst global recession since World War II, China’s copper demand
still jumped 4.9 percent, according to Morgan Stanley.  “The market has overshot, leaving prices more negative
than the risks to growth imply,” said Nic Brown, head of
commodities research at Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd. in
 London . “It’s likely to be choppy for a while, but looking back
this will probably be seen as a good buying opportunity.”  The three-month contract for copper traded at $7,360 a
metric ton today on the London Metal Exchange, cutting its loss
this year to 23 percent, heading for its second-worst year in
almost a quarter century. Prices dropped 54 percent in 2008.
Gold futures were at $1,653.80 an ounce on the Comex in  New
York , for a 16 percent gain this year. Raw sugar in New York
slipped 21 percent this year to 25.35 cents a pound. Corn has
fallen 4.4 percent to $6.0125 a bushel and soybeans declined 17
percent to $11.635 a bushel in  Chicago .  Hogs, Gold  Gold is the best performer this year in the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities, which slipped 3.8 percent
in 2011 and this week touched a 10-month low. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities plunged on Oct. 4 to the lowest
since July 2010 and is down 13 percent this year. Treasuries
returned 8.6 percent since December, a Bank of America Corp.
index shows.  Copper’s plunge this week took its 14-day relative-strength
index to about 20, below a level of 30 that indicates to some
investors who study technical charts that price gains may be
imminent. The metal will average between $7,000 and $9,000 a ton
next year, according to 55 percent of those attending an LME
conference on Oct. 3. As many as 5,000 merchants were in the
city this week for the exchange’s annual event for talks on
metals markets and supply contracts.  Gold Record  The industrial metal is up 4.9 percent this week, while
gold has gained 1.9 percent. Bullion has plunged 14 percent from
a record $1,923.70 set a month ago as some investors sold the
metal to cover losses in other markets. UBS AG this week said
physical demand for bullion was “very strong.”  Sugar is little changed this week and fell to a three-
month low in September on speculation supplies would improve
with the start of the harvest in the Northern Hemisphere.  Corn fell 23 percent in September on concern slower growth
would curb demand for grains and as the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  estimated inventories that were 20 percent higher
than forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Soybeans fell
to the lowest in almost a year on Oct. 4.  The risk to commodities, particularly industrial metals, is
slowing economic growth. The  Bank of England  yesterday expanded
its bond-purchase plan for the first time in almost two years as
government budget cuts and  Europe ’s debt crisis jeopardize
Britain’s economic recovery. German factory orders unexpectedly
fell for a second month in August and Standard Bank Plc
estimates the likelihood of another recession in Europe and the
U.S. at greater than 50 percent.  Analyst Cuts  Copper dropped 28 percent from a record $10,190 in
February. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Barclays Capital  and
 Standard Bank  cut their forecasts since last week.  “We believe that policy risk, especially in Europe,
remains elevated, and the current cyclical slowdown is much more
pronounced,” Walter de Wet, a Standard Bank analyst in London,
said in a report e-mailed yesterday. “We therefore do not
expect much upside yet for most commodities. We would look to
sell base metals into rallies rather than worry, just yet, about
missing a potential dip/entry point for metals such as copper.”  Concern about slowing growth and debt woes may boost demand
for gold as a protection of wealth. Bullion’s in the 11th year
of a  bull market  as governments and central banks cut borrowing
costs and spent trillions of dollars to aid economies. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week signaled willingness
to step up measures to spur U.S. growth. While the Fed has no
immediate plans for another round of large-scale asset
purchases, it doesn’t take “anything off the table,” he said.  Indian Festival  The Diwali religious festival later this month in  India ,
the biggest bullion buyer, and then the traditional wedding
season may increase demand. The slump to near $1,600 is
attracting physical buyers “eager to pre-empt the scramble for
metal at the last minute,”  Edel Tully , London-based analyst at
UBS, said yesterday in a report.  Sugar production in  Brazil , the world’s largest producer,
may be lower than initially estimated as mills are running out
of cane, Newedge Group SA said in a report e-mailed Oct. 5. Cane
output in the nation will fall for the first time in 10 years,
according to industry group Unica, as unfavorable weather lowers
yields. The harvesting season in the Center South usually lasts
until December.  Cheaper Supplies  Soybean prices may rebound on increased demand for cheaper
U.S. supplies as farmers in Brazil and  Argentina , the two
biggest exporters, plant less of the crop this year. The USDA
will update its forecasts of U.S. production and global demand
on Oct. 12 for corn and soybeans. U.S. corn exports in the last
week of September were twice what exporters sold a year earlier
and ethanol production jumped 2.6 percent from a week earlier.  The S&P GSCI Enhanced Commodity Index will rise 20 percent
in 12 months, led by industrial metals, energy and precious
metals,  Jeffrey Currie , an analyst at Goldman in London, wrote
in a report on Oct. 4.  “The events of 2007-08 showed us that emerging market
economies, and by extension the world economy, can be relatively
resilient to a slowdown in developed market economies,” Currie
wrote. “If we can avoid a financial crisis, we can avoid a
global recession and repeat of 2008.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  