-- 
Bank Default Risk Declines in Europe on Recapitalization Wagers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n
-- 
2011-10-06T11:19:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Credit-default swaps insuring
European bank debt fell to the lowest in five weeks on
speculation policy makers will inject more capital into lenders
so they can withstand government bond losses.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps linked to senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers declined 17.5 basis points to 252
at 12 p.m. in  London , while the subordinated gauge was 24 basis
points lower at 488, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. A decline
signals improved perceptions of  credit quality .  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said today the
commission is proposing coordinated action to recapitalize
banks. Euro-region lenders may need more than 140 billion euros
($187 billion) through a program similar to the U.S. Troubled
Asset Relief Program, Morgan Stanley analysts said.  “More bank capital is good, but solving the sovereign debt
crisis would go a long way in improving the outlook for Europe’s
banks,”  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed income at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London, wrote in a note to investors.  Default swaps on sovereign bonds also dropped, with the
Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of contracts tied to 15
governments declining eight basis points to 331.5, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Swaps on German sovereign
debt tumbled 11.5 basis points to 96.5, CMA prices show.  The region’s lenders are increasing their reliance on
European Central Bank funding after U.S. money-market funds
pulled back amid concern that  Greece , the first euro-area nation
to be bailed out last year, will default.  The cost of insuring European corporate bonds fell, with
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with mostly
high-yield credit ratings dropping 31.5 basis points to 814,
according to JPMorgan.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings was down 9.5 basis points at 189.5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shanahan in London at 
 Mshanahan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  