-- 
Crescent Said to Sell Stake in $2 Billion of Texas Buildings to JPMorgan

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-10-06T21:27:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/crescent-said-to-sell-stake-in-texas-buildings-to-jpmorgan-unit.html
Crescent Real Estate Holdings LLC
sold its stake in six Texas office properties valued at about $2
billion to its partner, a unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , a person
with knowledge of the transaction said.  The acquisition, completed Sept. 28, gave J.P. Morgan Asset
Management full ownership of Houston Center and  The Crescent 
office and retail complex in Dallas, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the information is private. The six
properties have 9.1 million square feet (845,000 square meters)
of space, said the person, who declined to give the price for
 Crescent Real Estate ’s 24 percent stake.  Crescent has been selling assets as the commercial real
estate market recovers from the recession. Well-leased office
buildings with steady income have attracted institutional
clients as yields on other investments hover near record lows.
J.P. Morgan Asset bought two Seattle office towers from
developer Schnitzer West LLC for $480 million in August.  Crescent has been owned since November 2009 by a joint
venture between  Barclays Capital , a unit of  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and
Fort Worth-based Goff Capital Inc. Goff is led by John Goff, who
was vice chairman and chief executive officer of Crescent’s
predecessor company, Crescent Real Estate Equities Co., when it
was acquired by Morgan Stanley for $6.5 billion in 2007.  Kristen Chambers, a spokeswoman for J.P. Morgan Asset
Management, declined to comment. Brandon Ashcraft, a Barclays
Capital spokesman, had no immediate comment. Jean Suitt, a
spokeswoman for Crescent, referred questions to John Goff, who
she said wasn’t available for comment.  Real Estate Alert reported last week that the deal was
imminent.  Value Includes Debt  Crescent will continue to operate the properties, according
to the person with knowledge of the deal, who said the estimated
$2 billion value of the buildings includes debt.  Aside from Houston Center and The Crescent, the properties
include Fulbright Tower in downtown Houston, Post Oak Central in
Houston’s West Loop/Galleria section, and Fountain Place and
Trammell Crow Center in  Dallas .  Houston Center has three office buildings, the tallest of
which is 46 stories. The complex is connected via sky-bridges to
a Four Seasons Hotel and the 52-story Fulbright Tower.  Post Oak Central has three 24-story buildings designed by
Philip Johnson. Fountain Place, in downtown Dallas, is a 60-
story, prism-shaped building of green glass designed by I.M. Pei
& Partners. Trammell Crow Center, also downtown, has 50 floors.  Crescent continues to own Greenway Plaza, a 52-acre (21-
hectare), 10-building office, retail, hotel and residential
complex near downtown Houston, as well as office buildings in
Denver,  Fort Worth  and  Las Vegas . It also has a Ritz-Carlton
Hotel in Dallas, and Canyon Ranch spas in Tucson,  Arizona , and
Lenox,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   ketzel@bloomberg.net  