-- 
Crop Death Shrinks Sugar Stockpiles to 37-Year Low: Commodities

-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 
2011-10-07T14:19:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/crop-death-shrinks-sugar-stockpiles-to-37-year-low-commodities.html
U.S. sugar stockpiles are shrinking
to the lowest in 37 years after rain and freezing weather
damaged the beet crop, potentially reversing a price slump and
forcing the government to ease import limits.  Farmers in  Minnesota , the biggest beet grower, will reap 19
percent less than last year and output will drop in four more of
the 10 biggest producing states, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates. Domestic prices may rise 10 percent to 41
cents a pound by year end, said Frank Jenkins, the president of
Jenkins Sugar Group Inc., the largest U.S. raw-sugar broker.  Sugar is the only major agricultural commodity produced in
the U.S. that is subject to import quotas, and the USDA
increased the limit by 45 percent this year as futures surged 21
percent in the three months through August. Retail prices have
gained 9 percent since the start of January, twice the rate of
food inflation. Rising costs are squeezing margins for Kraft
Foods Inc. and Hormel Foods Corp.  “If you’re a candy or pop maker, you’re going to have a
headache,” said Sterling Smith, an analyst at Country Hedging
Inc. in  St. Paul , Minnesota. A smaller beet harvest “is going
to increase the costs of sweeteners in general,” he said.  The price of the No. 16 contract for domestic sugar, which
ICE Futures U.S. introduced in 2008, dropped 8.9 percent in New
York since the end of August to 37.13 cents a pound yesterday,
as the government increased import quotas. The contract, which
touched a record 42.5 cents on Feb. 11, 2010, covers deliveries
to five U.S. ports with sugar refineries. Futures for January
delivery rose 0.3 percent to 37.25 cents as of 9:27 a.m. today.  Import Quotas  The quotas mean No. 16 futures trade at a premium to ICE’s
more actively traded No. 11 contract, which covers deliveries to
ports in 29 countries. The No. 11 contract fell 17 percent since
Aug. 31 to 24.74 cents a pound.  Stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s fourth-largest
consumer, will drop more than 35 percent in the year through
August 2012 to almost 1.13 million short tons (1.02 million
metric tons), the lowest since 1975, the USDA estimates.
Inventories will equal 9.8 percent of consumption this year, the
least in 38 years. India, China and  Brazil  are the world’s
biggest consuming nations.  Consumers are still paying more. Retail sugar averaged 70.1
cents a pound in U.S. cities in August, 16 percent more than a
year earlier and the highest since at least 1980, Bureau of
Labor Statistics data show. Food-price inflation is running at 3
percent to 4 percent this year, the USDA estimates.  Rising Costs  “Supplies have been very tight for our members,” said
Susan Smith, a senior vice president of public affairs at the
 National Confectioners Association , whose members include Kraft
and Hershey Co. “The price that our companies are paying is
higher than it would be on the world market.”  The premium for the No. 16 domestic-sugar contract over
raw-sugar for international markets has almost doubled to 12.5
cents a pound since mid-July.  Kraft, based in Northfield,  Illinois , raised prices this
year. Costs will probably increase in the “low teens” compared
with 2010, Chief Financial Officer Dave Brearton said on a
conference call in August. Sugar “is a big one because of what
we make,” said John Simley, a spokesman for the company, which
makes Oreo cookies and Cadbury chocolate.  Operating profit at Austin, Minnesota-based Hormel’s
specialty food unit, which makes ingredients for food
manufacturers, fell 8 percent in the quarter ended July 31, as
“steep” cost increases for sugar and dairy helped erase the
benefit of rising sales, Chief Executive Officer Jeff Ettinger
said on a Sept. 7 conference call.  Smaller Crops  Beets supplied about 42 percent of the sugar consumed by
Americans last year, with imports and domestic cane accounting
for the rest, government data show.  The USDA has cut its crop forecast twice in as many months
and will probably do so again in its next report on Oct. 12,
said  Jimmy Tintle , an analyst at Transworld Futures in Tampa,
 Florida .  As many as 10,000 acres of beets were lost to disease or
floods in May and June, equal to 2.3 percent of Minnesota’s
harvested area last year, according to Mohamed Khan, a sugar-
beet specialist from  North Dakota  State University and the
 University of Minnesota . More wet weather that followed delayed
planting and made the crop more vulnerable to disease, he said.  Temperatures in mid-September in areas from eastern North
Dakota into Minnesota averaged 28 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 2
Celsius) to 33 degrees, according to World Weather Inc., based
in  Overland Park ,  Kansas . The cold snap came three weeks earlier
than normal, damaging crops, the forecaster said.  More Acres Planted  The U.S. harvest started last month. Losses may not be as
large as the USDA expects because expanded plantings will
compensate for damage, said Luther Markwart, the executive vice
president of the  American Sugarbeet Growers Association  in
 Washington .  A smaller U.S. crop may not mean higher prices, which will
depend more on economic growth in the U.S. and  Europe , said
Claudio Oliveira, the head of trading at Castlestone Management
LLC in  New York , which manages about $500 million of assets. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials plunged 12
percent in the third quarter, the most since 2008, led by
cotton, lead, copper and crude oil.  The  U.S. economy  will expand 1.4 percent next year,
compared with 1.7 percent in 2011, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
in a report Oct. 3. The bank had previously expected growth of 2
percent in 2012.  Six Months  The USDA can only change sugar quotas in the second half of
the marketing year that began Oct. 1. The country will need
750,000 to 900,000 short tons more imports in those six months,
said Jenkins of Wilton, Connecticut-based Jenkins Sugar.  The government agency raised limits on refined sugar by
150,000 short tons on Sept. 30 and on specialty sugar by 10,000
on Aug. 1, adding to 109,251 short tons of existing quotas in
that category. The USDA increased raw-sugar quotas twice,
allowing an extra 445,000 short tons to the 1.23 million short
tons already allocated.  “When you have to write a letter to the government
pleading for more sugar, don’t you think that’s a problem?”
said Mitchell Goetze, the owner of Baltimore-based Goetze’s
Candy Co., founded more than a century ago. “The increase is
appreciated, but not enough and too late to fix the damage
already done to domestic manufacturers that use sugar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  