-- 
Crude Oil Caps Biggest Two-Day Gain in Seven Months on ECB Stimulus Plans

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-10-06T20:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/crude-oil-falls-as-trichet-says-europe-faces-downside-risks-.html
Crude oil rose, capping the biggest
two-day rally since February, after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  announced a bond-purchase program
to stimulate economic growth.  Futures advanced 3.7 percent as Trichet said at a press
conference in Berlin that the ECB will resume covered-bond
purchases and one-year loans for banks as the sovereign debt
crisis threatens to spread. Oil dropped earlier as Trichet said
that the euro-area economy faces “intensified downside risks.”  “The market was whipsawed on the Trichet statements,”
said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in
Chicago. “We initially moved lower but then rebounded because
the ECB will be adding more liquidity. Stimulus is bullish for
both demand and the price.”  Crude oil for November delivery rose $2.91 to settle at
$82.59 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
have climbed 9.1 percent since Oct. 4, the biggest two-day gain
since Feb. 22-23. Prices are down 10 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement increased $3, or 2.9
percent, to end the session at $105.73 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Crude began rising from a one-year low yesterday when the
U.S. Energy Department reported U.S. stockpiles fell 4.68
million barrels to 336.3 million last week. Days of supply fell
to 22.2, equaling the lowest level since 2008. Gasoline
inventories declined 1.14 million barrels to 213.7 million.  Berlin Meeting  The ECB will spend 40 billion euros ($53.8 billion) on
covered bonds from next month and offer banks two additional
unlimited loans of 12- and 13-month durations, Trichet said.  “They are concerned about slowing growth and inflation, so
they decided against cutting  interest rates  and went ahead with
quantitative easing,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Trichet spoke as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  held talks
in Berlin with International Monetary Fund chief  Christine Lagarde , World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  and  Angel Gurria 
of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
among others. Trichet is due to join the discussions later.  European Union officials are working on plans to increase
bank capital, Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European department
head, said yesterday in Brussels. Merkel said she’s ready to
discuss recapitalizing banks at this month’s EU summit.  “There’s increasing optimism that the Europeans will find
a way out of the debt crisis,” said  Peter Beutel , president of
trading advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan ,
 Connecticut .  Fed Signals  The Bank of England unexpectedly expanded its bond-purchase
program to 275 billion pounds ($421 billion) from 200 billion
pounds after keeping its key rate at a record low of 0.5
percent. Eleven of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted an increase in asset purchases.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled Oct. 4
that he’ll push forward with further expansion of monetary
stimulus if needed. He said the Fed’s remaining tools to boost
growth include giving more information about its pledge to keep
interest rates low at least through mid-2013, reducing the rate
paid on banks’ reserve deposits and buying more securities.  “If you see the Europeans solve some of their problems and
if the U.S. skirts a recession, which we expect to be the case,
you are setting up a tougher environment in the market,” said
 David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in  New York . “Volatility should increase.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.8 percent to
1,164.97 at 4:03 p.m. in New York and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  increased 1.7 percent to 11,123.33. The dollar dropped
0.6 percent to $1.3427 per euro. A weaker dollar bolsters the
appeal of commodities as an alternative investment.  U.S. Employment  Prices also climbed after claims for U.S. unemployment
benefits rose less than forecast. Applications for jobless
benefits increased by 6,000 to 401,000 last week, Labor
Department figures showed. Economists projected 410,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
monthly average dropped to the lowest level since August.  Employers added 59,000 workers to payrolls in September and
the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent, according to the
median forecast of economists before the Labor Department’s
monthly jobs report tomorrow.  “Tomorrow’s monthly jobs number is going to have a serious
impact on the market,” Beutel said.  U.S. consumer confidence last week capped the worst
quarterly performance in more than two years, when the country
was in a recession. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to
minus 50.2, from the prior period’s minus 53 that was the
second-lowest level on record. The gauge averaged minus 48.4
last quarter, the weakest since the first three months of 2009.  “Since economic growth concerns remain and the data is
mixed there will continue to be a great deal of volatility in
the market,” said Jason Schenker, the president of Prestige
Economics, an energy advisory company in Austin, Texas.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 700,572
contracts as of 3:15 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 648,839
contracts yesterday. Open interest was 1.43 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  