-- 
Crude Oil Falls in New York on Renewed Growth Concern After Two-Day Rally

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-10-07T01:44:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/crude-oil-declines-in-new-york-after-biggest-two-day-rally-in-seven-months.html
Oil fell in  New York  on speculation
the biggest two-day rally in seven months was exaggerated amid
U.S. unemployment and signs of slowing global demand for crude.  Futures slipped as much as 0.6 percent, paring the first
weekly increase in three. OPEC will keep shipment levels
unchanged through most of this month as the economic slump
constrains demand, tanker-tracker Oil Movements said. The
jobless rate in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude user, held
at 9.1 percent for a third month in September, a Labor
Department report may show today. A technical indicator signaled
oil-price rises aren’t justified by buying momentum.  “Payroll data tonight is going to be really important,”
 Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of Commodity Broking
Services Pty in Sydney, said by telephone today. “That’ll
dictate the move.”  Crude for November delivery dropped as much as 47 cents to
$82.15 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $82.26 at 12:42 a.m. Sydney time. The
contract yesterday climbed $2.91 to $82.59, for a two-day gain
of 9.1 percent, the biggest since Feb. 22-23. Prices are up 3.9
percent this week and down 10 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement was at $105.29 a barrel,
down 44 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $23.03 to
New York crude, compared with a record of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  OPEC Exports  New York crude’s moving average convergence-divergence, an
indicator of trading momentum, remained below zero on the weekly
chart even as prices increased, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Investors typically look for positive momentum to
sustain buying of contracts.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
export about 22.72 million barrels a day in the four weeks to
Oct. 22, little changed from the 22.74 million a day shipped in
the month to Sept. 24, Halifax, England-based Oil Movements said
yesterday in a report. Shipments typically rise at this time of
year as refiners prepare to boost production of winter fuels.
The figures exclude Ecuador and  Angola .  U.S. employment increased by 55,000 workers last month,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
today’s report. The jobless rate has been at 9 percent or higher
since April.  Oil surged yesterday after the European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  announced a bond-purchase program
to tame the region’s debt crisis, while the  Bank of England 
unexpectedly expanded its bond-purchase program in the first
loosening of U.K. monetary policy since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  in  Hong Kong  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  