-- 
TCU’s Invitation to Join Big 12 May Spark Wave of Switches by Universities

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-10-06T17:14:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/tcu-s-invitation-to-join-big-12-may-spark-wave-of-switches-by-universities.html
Texas Christian University  has
received an invitation to become the 10th member of the Big 12
Conference, potentially setting off a new wave of colleges
switching leagues.  The  Horned Frogs  had earlier committed to join the  Big East 
Conference beginning in July of 2012. The school will have to
pay a $5 million exit fee, but because it wasn’t an official
member, it won’t have to wait 27 months to change conferences.  CBSSports.com reported that if the University of Missouri
stays in the Big 12, the conference will probably stay at 10
teams. That may not happen, based on today’s statement.  “Acting upon a unanimous recommendation of its expansion
subcommittee, the Big 12 Conference Board of Directors this
morning authorized negotiations with Texas Christian
University,” the Big 12 said in the statement. “On the advice
of legal counsel the  University of Missouri  did not participate
in the vote.”  Phone calls and e-mails to TCU spokesmen Mark Cohen and
Andy Anderson; Big East spokesman John Paquette; and Missouri
spokesman Chad Moller, weren’t immediately returned.  If the Tigers leave, the conference might look to add three
more schools to bring the conference back to 12 teams.  CBSSports.com reported that leading candidates would
include the University of Louisville, West Virginia University
and the University of Cincinnati from the Big East and Brigham
Young University, an independent.  The Big East earlier lost the  University of Pittsburgh  and
 Syracuse University  to the Atlantic Coast Conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  