-- 
Del Monte, Barclays Pay $89.4 Million to Settle Suits Over Private Buyout

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-10-06T20:50:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/del-monte-barclays-pay-89-4-million-to-settle-lawsuits-over-buyout.html
Del Monte Foods Co. and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
agreed to pay $89.4 million to settle investor lawsuits over the
buyout of the pet-food maker by a group of private-equity firms
led by KKR & Co.  Investors in Del Monte, maker of Meow Mix cat food and Milk
Bone dog biscuits, will get at least 30 cents more a share to
resolve claims they weren’t paid enough in the $19-a-share
buyout,  Stuart Grant , a lawyer for the investors, said today in
an interview. A Delaware judge must approve the accord before it
becomes final.  “Del Monte has entered into the proposed settlement to
eliminate the uncertainties, burden, and expense of further
litigation,” the San Francisco-based company said today in a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing. The companies
denied any wrongdoing under the accord.  The settlement also resolves investors’ claims that London-
based Barclays, which served as Del Monte’s financial adviser
while providing some financing for the buyers, had conflicting
interests in the $5.3 billion deal. The private-equity group led
by New York-based KKR included Vestar  Capital Partners  and
Centerview Partners LLP.  Barclays was paid $23.5 million to advise Del Monte and as
much as $24 million for providing loans to the buyers, according
to investors’ suits filed in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington.  ‘Best Price’  “We are pleased that the parties have agreed to settle the
litigation to avoid the expense, distraction and uncertainty of
litigation,” Kerrie-Ann Cohen, a Barclays spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We believe that the sale process
leading up to the merger achieved the best price reasonably
available for Del Monte stockholders.”  Kristi Huller, a KKR spokeswoman, and Chrissy Stengel, a
Del Monte spokeswoman, both declined to comment on the accord.  Barclays rose 12.4 pence, or 8 percent, to 167.85 pence in
London trading today. KKR climbed 20 cents, or 1.9 percent, to
$10.59 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  In February,  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster
ordered Del Monte to delay a shareholder vote on the deal so
investors could consider whether to back it in light of
disclosures about Barclays’s dual roles.  ‘Big Whipping’  “Barclays took a pretty big PR whipping over this case, so
I guess they may have wanted to settle to get this off the radar
screen,” Larry Hamermesh, a professor at Widener University’s
law school in Wilmington who specializes in corporate law, said
in a telephone interview.  Laster’s ruling has dissuaded Barclays and other investment
banks from offering so-called sell-side financing for public
buyouts, he said.  “They don’t want any other judges examining whether there
are potential conflicts in these deals,” Hamermesh said.  Since the  Del Monte  opinion, no firm has offered sell-side
financing for a U.S. public company buyout valued at more than
$1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the
previous 2 1/2 years, it was offered about 40 percent of the
time for deals of that size.  At least nine major investment banks, including Barclays,
have reviewed their lending practices, people familiar with the
matter said last month. They declined to be identified because
the discussions are internal.  ‘Added Premium’  Randall Baron, one of the lawyers who represented an
Illinois-based pension fund that challenged the Del Monte
buyout, said the settlement “delivers to Del Monte’s
shareholders the added premium they rightly deserved.”  “We are gratified that our litigation sparked a pullback
among the major banks from advising parties on both sides of a
transaction,” Baron, a partner in the San Diego-based law firm
Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd, said in a statement.  Del Monte will pay $65.7 million of the settlement while
Barclays’s portion will be $23.7 million, according to the
statement. Del Monte’s portion of the settlement includes more
than $20 million in fees it owed to Barclays for work done on
the buyout, according to the pension fund’s lawyers.  Investors’ legal fees will be covered as part of the
settlement, Grant said. Laster will decide how much the
attorneys will receive from the $89.4 million fund.  The accord “is a great result for stockholders, not only
those holding shares in Del Monte, but all public equity holders
of companies facing M&A transactions,” said Grant, a partner in
Wilmington-based law firm Grant & Eisenhofer.  Investor Suit  Some Del Monte shareholders sued in December seeking to
stop the KKR-led buyout, claiming the deal was structured to
discourage other offers. Shareholders also alleged Barclays
executives deceived Del Monte officials about the bank’s dual
role in the deal.  Lawyers for Barclays countered in court filings that there
was no evidence the bank’s status as one of nine lenders
involved in the acquisition compromised its officials’
objectivity in evaluating the deal’s fairness.  Del Monte investors approved the KKR-led buyout in March.
Of shareholders who took part, 99 percent voted in favor, Del
Monte said.  The buyout gave the KKR group access to Del Monte’s pet-
food business, which has more than doubled sales in the past
four years. Del Monte also sells packaged fruits and vegetables
and Contadina canned-tomato products.  The case is In re  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM)  Shareholder
Litigation, CA6027, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 