-- 
Denmark Will Fight Haircut on Covered Debt That Basel Seeks

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-10-06T14:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/denmark-will-fight-haircut-on-covered-debt-that-basel-seeks-1-.html
Denmark  isn’t satisfied with European
concessions that seek to protect its mortgage bonds from
international liquidity rules and will fight to ensure the
securities get the same status as sovereign notes.  A proposal put forward in July by the European Commission
that allows a more lenient treatment of Denmark’s mortgage-
backed covered bonds than the Basel Committee for Banking
Supervision had envisaged doesn’t go far enough, the country’s
three main bankers groups said.  “We want the same treatment as government bonds for
covered bonds,” Morten Frederiksen, a director at the
Copenhagen-based Danish Bankers Association, said in an
interview. “The liquidity of Danish covered bonds is so high --
and even higher than some  government bonds .”  Denmark has been the most outspoken critic of Basel’s
December proposal to treat mortgage bonds as inherently less
liquid than government debt. The Nordic country, where the $450
billion in outstanding mortgage debt is more than three times
the size of the government bond market, has since persuaded the
European Union to rethink Basel’s rules before they’re
implemented locally.  While the EU may base liquidity assessments on tests
instead of being guided by an asset’s class, the concessions
don’t go far enough, according to Denmark’s bankers’ groups. The
bonds may still face a haircut, and lenders won’t be allowed to
hold securities they issue themselves as liquid assets.  Extra Costs  Failure to treat mortgage bonds as liquid assets on a par
with government debt will force losses on Denmark’s mortgage
market and may send tremors through the whole economy, said Ane Arnth Jensen, director at the Association of Danish Mortgage
Banks.  “It’s clear this will burden the Danish mortgage bond
market with extra costs,” Jensen said in an interview.  Denmark has struggled against opposition from the U.K.,
which advocates a stricter application of the Basel regulations,
according to the country’s bankers groups. The Nordic country
has aligned itself with  Germany , France, Sweden and  Poland  to
build support.  “Denmark alone against the U.K. would be very
problematic,” Karsten Beltoft, head of the Danish Mortgage
Bankers’ Federation, said in an interview. “But we’re in the
same boat as Germany, and that’s making me more comfortable.
They’ll also fight for covered bonds to be highly liquid.”  Basel Haircut  Basel’s original proposal had sought to limit banks
holdings of non-government bonds to 40 percent, and required
lenders to book the securities at 85 percent of their market
value. The liquidity rules are due to come into force by 2015.
The European Commission’s July proposal is now with the European
Parliament.  “The most important thing for us now is to ensure that
Danish mortgage bonds qualify for the tier one treatment and
that the progress made is not reversed,” said Jesper Berg,
senior vice president and head of ratings and regulatory affairs
at Copenhagen-based Nykredit A/S,  Europe ’s biggest issuer of
mortgage-backed covered bonds. “Clearly, minimizing haircuts
and being allowed to use own bonds would be nice. However, I see
the other issues as being the priority.”  Political Process  It may take about a year before it’s clear whether the
liquidity concessions to covered bonds proposed in July will be
passed.  “The political process is the most important and we don’t
yet know how the European Parliament will treat this,” said
Jens Valdemar Krenchel, head of the Association of Danish
Mortgage Banks’ office in Brussels. “We are hopeful that it can
be concluded in 2012.”  There isn’t enough Danish government debt for banks in the
country to make up the shortfall if they’re forced to limit
their holdings of mortgage bonds, according to Jensen.  The value of outstanding mortgage bonds in August was  2.55
trillion kroner  ($456 billion), almost four times the 733
billion kroner in government debt, the central bank estimates.  Danish covered bonds carry higher credit ratings than more
than half the sovereigns inside the euro area. Trading in the
short-term bonds rose during the 2008 financial crisis, both in
the total value of bonds traded and in the median size of
individual trades, according to a central bank study published
last year.  Credit Ratings  “We have been able to issue covered bonds all the way
through the crisis,” Frederiksen said. “We’re a bit better off
than some other countries in Europe, where they’re totally
dependent on the banks being able to issue senior debt.”  Analysis of bid-ask spreads, credit ratings and market size
indicate the securities “comply with the highest standards of
liquidity and quality,” the Brussels-based European Covered
Bond Council said in a Sept. 1  report .  The Danish banking sector is struggling as the
international funding market shuts out all but the largest
lenders. The central bank last month to offer a record 400
billion kroner liquidity lifeline to help lenders unable to tap
markets for funds.  Twin banking and housing crises have left Denmark
Scandinavia’s worst performing economy. Foreclosures rose 7.5
percent in September from August, the statistics agency said
today.  Foreclosures are at the highest level since July 2010, said
Jes Asmussen, chief economist in Copenhagen at Svenska
Handelsbanken AB. Particularly hard hit were owner-occupied
homes, where foreclosures climbed 55 percent, he said.  “With the latest signs suggesting unemployment is
beginning again to inch up, as well as a housing market that’s
showing clear signs of crisis, it’s far from certain we’ll see
foreclosure numbers begin to point down,” Asmussen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  