-- 
Deutsche Telekom in Talks With Asia, U.S. Manufacturers Over Smart Homes

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-10-06T09:37:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/deutsche-telekom-in-talks-with-asia-u-s-manufacturers-over-smart-homes.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  is in talks with
Asian and U.S. makers of electronic devices and appliances about
a co-operation to boost services that manage data exchange
between household devices such as TVs and washing machines.  Europe ’s largest phone company, which aims to make 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in sales by 2015 from such machine-
to-machine services, is in talks with “big name” companies,
including makers of entertainment electronics in  Japan  and  South
Korea , Gabriele Riedmann de Trinidad, the head of Deutsche
Telekom’s energy unit, said in an interview in Kiel,  Germany .
Getting these high-caliber partners would be a “giant step”
for the platform, she said, without naming them.  So-called smart home services, where machines use networks
to exchange data and users can access and operate electrical
appliances from anywhere, are part of Deutsche Telekom’s
strategy to counter declining sales from traditional voice calls
with new offerings. Riedmann de Trinidad says deals with well-
known manufacturers are necessary to drive awareness among
consumers and competitors.  “We have a long list of companies that are interested in
working with us,” she said. “It’s an evolution, and that makes
it important that large, big-name manufacturers get onto our
platform to drive things forward.”  Under the name  T-City , Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom is
already running pilot projects that include  smart metering  to
help utility companies measure and control energy consumption
and delivery; and health projects such as instant communication
of insulin readings to physicians.  Competition  Operators are in talks with manufacturers “to let them
know what is possible for them to do, if they would incorporate
that technology into their devices,” Jamie Moss, an analyst at
Informa Telecoms and Media, said via phone. “It’s a good
opportunity for long-term revenue for the operators. The amount
you make per connection is not going to decline over time.”  Other technology companies are pushing into the home
appliance and energy-control market as well.  Cap Gemini SA (CAP) , Europe’s largest computer-services company,
and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest chipmaker, in February said
they would offer a home energy-management system to consumers
and utilities as the companies enter the market for power-saving
upgrades to electric grids.  Momentum  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s most popular search
engine, in June said it would retire its PowerMeter service,
which gave consumers simple access to their energy use, as the
company’s “efforts have not scaled as quickly as we would
like.” At the same time, Google said “momentum is building
toward making energy information more readily accessible, and
it’s exciting to see others drive innovation and pursue
opportunities.”  German utilities EON AG, the country’s biggest utility, and
 EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  as well as appliance maker
Miele & Cie KG and electronic device maker eQ-3 Holding AG have
so far joined Deutsche Telekom’s Smart Connect standard.
Deutsche Telekom would also welcome other telecommunications
companies and cable companies to join, Riedmann de Trinidad
said.  Private customers in Germany will be able to buy the
Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd.-made Smart Connect Box, which
functions as the central control device, from mid-2012.  Deutsche Telekom has an advantage over other phone
companies or companies because it combines telecommunications
networks with its information-technology expertise and direct
access to consumers, Riedmann de Trinidad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  