-- 
Deutsche Boerse, NYSE May Need to Give Ground to EU on Deal

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-10-06T16:55:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/deutsche-boerse-nyse-may-need-to-make-concessions-to-appease-eu.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext
may need to offer concessions to quell formal European Union
concerns over their plan to create the world’s largest exchange,
lawyers said.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext yesterday received a
statement of objections listing the European Commission’s
“provisional position” on the combination, the companies said.
The statement lays out possible competition problems.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner, said last
month that he’s “concerned” the deal maymonopolize the
 derivatives market . Regulators have also cited fears of reduced
innovation in derivatives products and technology and less
competition for post-trade clearing services.  The EU’s “concerns are sufficiently real that the parties
are going to want to offer something,” said Dennis Oswell, a
lawyer at Oswell & Vahida in Brussels. It’s “pretty darn rare”
for a deal to win EU approval without conditions after the EU
has opened an in-depth “phase 2” investigation.  Eurex,  Europe ’s largest derivatives exchange, which is
controlled by  Deutsche Boerse , lists derivatives contracts based
on the benchmark Euro Stoxx 50 Index of the euro area’s biggest
companies.  “NYSE and Deutsche Boerse won’t want to lose the Euro
Stoxx or their flagship derivatives contracts but there are
others, on the side, that aren’t highly revenue generating, that
can be offered as a sacrifice to the gods,” said Hirander
Misra, who helped found Chi-X Europe, the biggest alternative
trading system, and now runs a U.K.-based consulting firm that
advises on market structure.  Vertical Silo  Robert Rendine, a spokesman for NYSE in New York declined
to comment as did  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for Deutsche
Boerse. Almunia also declined to comment on the details of the
EU’s complaint today.  Deutsche Boerse shares rose 0.04 percent to 38.66 euros
today in Frankfurt and NYSE stock dropped 0.6 percent to $24.11
at 12:44 p.m. in  New York .  Deutsche Boerse’s “vertical silo,” which routes all trade
clearing through its own services, was targeted by Almunia in
March. He said he preferred a “more open business model” for
markets.  Clearinghouses -- such as Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex Clearing
unit and London’s LCH.Clearnet Ltd. -- operate as central
counterparties for every buy and sell order executed by their
members, who post collateral, reducing the risk that a trader
defaults on a deal.  Third Parties  Almunia’s comments suggest that the EU may seek remedies
such as “product licenses to third parties, allowing third
parties to use the Deutsche Boerse clearinghouse and fees
concessions,” said Suzanne Rab, a lawyer at King & Spalding in
London.  The EU can require companies to change their behavior or to
sell off units to eliminate possible competition concerns. It
currently has a deadline of Dec. 13 to rule on the deal, which
it can extend if required.  “The commission is going to have to receive some sort of
satisfaction that clients are not going to be forced into the
vertical silo,” said Oswell. Regulators often don’t favor such
behavioral remedies “because it requires a lot of monitoring on
their part.”  Deutsche Boerse and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  have resisted any
suggestion that they would sell derivatives exchanges Eurex or
Liffe, saying in a February statement that they “complement
each other ideally on interest rate products, with Eurex
specializing in the long end of the interest rate curve and NYSE
Liffe the short end.”  The companies may also try to counter the commission’s
arguments against deal, said Emanuela Lecchi, a London-based
lawyer at Watson, Farley & Williams LLP.  The exchanges may “consider whether the evidence really
supports the concerns expressed” and whether they are able to
rebut the EU’s reasoning, said Lecchi.  To contact the reporters on this story: Aoife White in Brussels
at   awhite62@bloomberg.net . Nandini Sukumar in
 London  at   nsukumar@bloomberg.net  