-- 
Dexia Board Meets as France, Belgium Tussle Over Troubled Assets

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-10-09T12:18:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/dexia-inches-toward-breakup-as-states-seek-to-salvage-the-parts.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s board meets today to study
options to dismantle the French-Belgian bank that has brought
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis to the heart of the region’s
financial system.  While  France  and  Belgium  have rushed to protect their local
units, hurdles to an agreement remain as they wrestle over
responsibility for assets hit by the crisis that has caused the
bank’s short-term funding to evaporate. Dexia’s troubled assets
are being folded into a “bad bank” and could amount to as much
as 190 billion euros ($254 billion).  Rescuing Dexia -- the first victim of the debt crisis at
the core of Europe -- has become critical to preventing
contagion in the region’s banking industry. Dexia’s balance
sheet, with total assets of about 518 billion euros at the end
of June, is about the size of the entire banking system in
 Greece  and larger than the combined assets of financial
institutions bailed out in Ireland in the last 2 1/2 years.  “The governments have to reach a deal this weekend or
we’ll see trouble on the  interbank market ,” said Michael Rohr,
a banking analyst with Silvia Quandt Research GmbH in  Frankfurt .
“Investors are looking at which banks have large public finance
operations like Dexia.”  Paris- and Brussels-based Dexia has retail branch networks
in two European Union founding nations -- Belgium and Luxembourg
-- and is a former world leader in municipal lending.  Sticking Points  The 18-member board, equally split between France and
Belgium, may review a plan under which Dexia would set up a bad
bank for its troubled assets, hive off its French municipal loan
book into a venture with state-owned La Banque Postale and
Caisse des Depots et Consignations, and seek buyers for units
such as its Belgian bank, Denizbank AS of  Turkey  and its asset-
management division.  The board meeting, scheduled to start at 3 p.m. in
Brussels, will be the third in less than a month, after those on
Sept. 27 and Oct. 3. Among sticking points for Belgium and
France may be which assets to put in the bad bank and what share
of the lender’s borrowings each government should guarantee.  “The situation is more complex than one where you have one
bank, one country, one regulator,” said Cor Kluis, an Utrecht,
Netherlands-based analyst at Rabobank International with a
“reduce” recommendation on Dexia. “The process will probably
take longer than expected and I don’t know if they’ll be able to
reach a solution this weekend.”  Splitting Burden  France and Belgium may have agreed on splitting the burden
of Dexia’s bad bank, which will hold 120 billion euros of risky
U.S., Italian, Spanish, and Belgium loans, Le Journal du
Dimanche said, without citing anyone. Belgium and France may
guarantee 60 percent and 40 percent, respectively, of the
refinancing of these loans, the newspaper said. The proceeds of
the sale of Dexia’s profitable assets such as its Belgian retail
bank will go to the bad bank to mitigate its losses, according
to the newspaper.  Separately, CDC will take 74 billion euros of other loans
to local governments, of which 10 billion euros are considered
“risky,” and France will assume part of the potential losses in
the future, the newspaper said.  Dexia dropped 17 percent in Brussels on Oct. 6 before being
suspended, and will resume trading tomorrow. The stock fell 42
percent last week on concern that the breakup will leave
shareholders with little of value. It has plunged more than 90
percent since a 2008 bailout.  “Once you go on this road, it won’t end well for
shareholders,” said Kluis. “Governments aren’t there to save
shareholders.”  Stress Tests  Standard & Poor’s  on Oct. 6 downgraded the credit ratings
on three units, Dexia Credit Local, Dexia Bank and Dexia Banque
Internationale a Luxembourg, citing the group’s limited access
to wholesale funding markets. The ratings are on credit watch
with “developing implications,” S&P said.  France and Belgium are coming to Dexia’s rescue three
months after it got a clean bill of health in European Union
stress tests, and three years after they injected capital to
save the company during the 2008 credit crunch.  In 2008, after injecting 6 billion euros, the governments
provided Dexia guarantees of as much as 150 billion euros.
Belgium covered 60.5 percent of the guarantees, France 36.5
percent and  Luxembourg  3 percent.  Now, negotiations are again focused on who bears what part
of the guarantees for the bank.  “It’s complicated for the states to reach an accord,”
said Benoit Petrarque, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
Amsterdam. “There are budgetary constraints and no one wants to
invest capital.”  Ratings at Risk  Belgium’s Aa1 local- and foreign-currency ratings were
placed under review for a downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service
because of rising funding risks for euro-area nations with high
levels of debt and additional bank support measures that are
likely to be needed.  The review will focus on the vulnerabilities of Belgian
public debt in the current euro-area sovereign crisis and
potential costs and contingent liabilities that the government
may incur in supporting Dexia, Moody’s said in a statement on
Oct. 7. Moody’s will also assess how the risks for the growth
outlook of the economy and the government’s fiscal and economic
plans may impact the country’s debt trajectory.  A large chunk of the troubled assets are on the balance
sheet of Dexia Credit Local, a French unit. Dexia Credit Local
carries most of the bank’s 95 billion-euro bond portfolio, which
includes 21 billion euros of Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish
and Irish sovereign debt. Dexia’s municipal lending units in
Italy and  Spain , which it agreed to dispose of to win European
Commission approval for its 2008 bailout, are also on the French
unit’s balance sheet.  Local Units  “The fair distribution of the burden is a very sensitive
and crucial element in the negotiations,” Belgian Prime
Minister  Yves Leterme  said on RTL radio on Oct. 6. “To save
Dexia, we need a fair division of responsibility.”  Belgium plans to nationalize Dexia Bank Belgium NV, Leterme
told labor unions on Oct. 7, according to ACV-CSC, a workers’
union. Leterme has said he’ll do whatever it takes to safeguard
the bank.  Dexia said on Oct. 6 that an investor is interested in its
profitable retail and private banking unit in Luxembourg.
Belgian daily L’Echo reported that a Qatari sovereign wealth
fund was in discussions to buy the unit, Dexia Banque
Internationale a Luxembourg, for 900 million euros, without
saying where it got the information.  ‘Restore Calm’  That announcement set off concern that Dexia’s most
valuable assets will be sold at fire-sale prices to
international buyers in response to a temporary funding squeeze.  Groep Arco, Dexia’s second-biggest Belgian shareholder,
said on Oct. 6 that it “opposes a forced sale of good units of
the group at very low prices to foreign entities.”  In France, state-owned CDC and La Banque Postale may join
with Dexia to create a new company to take over the French
municipal lending arm, according to a statement on Oct. 6 from a
postal union, whose representatives attended a board meeting
where the plan was presented. Paris-based  La Poste , the parent
of Banque Postale, declined to comment, as did CDC and Dexia.  “Dexia is not an isolated problem,” said Rabo’s Kluis.
“The question for all investors in  Europe  is how politicians
are going to handle this, and what they want to see is a
coordinated and professional solution. That would be a good
opportunity to restore calm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at   fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  