-- 
Downgrade Doubles Bond Risk Gap as New Zealand Loses AAA: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-07T05:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/downgrade-doubles-default-gap-to-new-zealand-australia-credit.html
Australia’s credit market advantage
to  New Zealand  increased to the highest level in more than two
years after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the smaller nation of its
AAA local currency rating.  Credit-default swaps insuring Australian bonds for five
years traded at 100.5 basis points on Oct. 5, 23 basis points
less than the price to guard against a default by New Zealand,
according to CMA. The gap was the widest since July 2009 and
compares with an average of 11 basis points over the past year.  S&P and Fitch Ratings cut New Zealand’s top credit rating
on local currency debt for the first time last week because
government and household debt is expanding. Australia, which
pledged to return to a  budget surplus  by 2013, still holds the
highest bond rankings. That’s reflected in the  debt market ,
where New Zealand 10-year bond yields have risen 13 basis points
to 4.44 percent since Sept. 29, when Fitch announced the cuts,
while rates on similar-maturity Australian notes gained 1 basis
point to 4.27 percent.  “The sovereign fundamentals of New Zealand are marginally
worse than Australia,” said Susan Buckley, head of global
fixed-interest at Brisbane-based QIC, which manages about A$25
billion ($24 billion) in bonds and cash. “You’ll demand a bit
more  risk premium  attached to New Zealand bonds versus
Australian yields. Australia has a lower  budget deficit  and will
return to surplus sooner.”  Hong Kong,  Singapore   S&P reduced New Zealand’s long-term local currency rating
one level to AA+ with a stable outlook on Sept. 30 while the
foreign-currency debt was cut to AA from AA+. Moody’s Investors
Service reaffirmed New Zealand at Aaa for local and foreign-
currency debt in May.  Australia’s AAA long-term sovereign ratings were affirmed
with a stable outlook by S&P on Sept. 23, making it one of three
Asia-Pacific nations with  Hong Kong  and Singapore to hold the
company’s top credit grade, Bloomberg data show. Its local
currency bonds have AAA grades from S&P, Fitch and Moody’s.
Fitch rates the nation’s foreign currency debt at AA+, while
Moody’s ranks it the highest grade.  S&P cited concern New Zealand’s “external position will
deteriorate further at a time when the country’s fiscal settings
have been weakened by earthquake-related spending pressures and
fiscal stimulus to support growth,” according to a statement.  A magnitude-7 earthquake in Christchurch and surrounding
districts in September last year wrecked homes and roads, before
a temblor measuring 6.3 struck close to the city on Feb. 22,
killing 181 people, slowing spending and setting back business
investment.  Slowing Growth  New Zealand’s economy almost stalled in the second quarter
with gross domestic product rising 0.1 percent from the previous
three months.  Australia ’s economy grew 1.2 percent in the three
months to June 30, the fastest pace in four years.  Traders have pared bets on an increase in New Zealand’s
benchmark rate, which is at a record low 2.5 percent, to 19
basis points over 12 months from 51 on Sept. 1, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps. Australia’s 4.75
percent key rate is the highest in the developed world, with
investors wagering that a global slowdown may force the central
bank to reduce that by 1.44 percentage points over a year, a
separate gauge shows.  Quake costs are a challenge to the New Zealand government’s
target of returning to a budget surplus by 2014 to 2015, Finance
Minister  Bill English  said in September. The deficit was about
NZ$18 billion ($14.2 billion) in the year ended June 30, the
government said Aug. 30. It said in August the government’s
share of earthquake costs had increased to NZ$12.9 billion.  ‘Swallowing the Extras’  “I don’t think we’re at the end of that process,” English
said. “It’s a problem. We’ve got to keep making progress and
keep swallowing the extras.”  Australia’s budget deficit was narrower than forecast in
the year through June as a reduction in spending more than
offset lower-than-estimated  tax revenue , Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
said Sept. 30. The shortfall was A$47.7 billion in fiscal 2010
to 2011, compared with the A$49.4 billion forecast in the May
budget, Swan said.  “The government remains determined to return the budget to
surplus in 2012 to 2013, despite softer-than-expected revenues
and increased global instability that will inevitably make the
task more difficult,” he said.  The Aussie dollar traded at 97.88 U.S. cents at 2:55 p.m.
after reaching $1.1081 on July 27, the highest since it was
freely traded in 1983. New Zealand’s currency fetched 77.31
cents after climbing to its post-float high of 88.43 on Aug. 1.  Bond Returns  Australian corporate debt returned 8.4 percent year-to-date,
compared with gains of 2.8 percent on global company notes, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The extra yield investors
demand over  government securities  to hold Australian corporate
debt surged 64 basis points last quarter to 241 basis points, as
global premiums jumped 101 to 264, the indexes show. The spread
on the Australian index rose to 249 on Oct. 6, the highest since
August 2009.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index slipped 1 basis point to
217 as of 11:35 a.m. in Sydney, according to Credit Agricole SA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default, and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  Australian sovereign bonds returned 10.9 percent in the
past 12 months, the most among 26 markets tracked by
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. New Zealand’s debt was the second-best
performer, advancing 10 percent.  The Australian Office of Financial Management said today it
plans to issue a new bond with a maturity of about 15 years via
syndication. The funding arm for the government named Citigroup
Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG as joint lead managers for the
issue.  ‘Liquid Market’  Australia is “a better credit and a more liquid market,”
said Warren Potter, a bond portfolio manager at AMP Capital
Investors in Wellington, New Zealand, who help manage NZ$2.6
billion in fixed income assets. Most investors “realize that
the credit story in New Zealand, while not as good as Australia
and not as good as it was previously, still stands out amongst
other credits globally,” he said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Australia has $190 billion in sovereign debt outstanding
and its currency is the world’s fifth most-traded, accounting
for 7.6 percent of daily trades in  currency markets , according
the Bank of International Settlements’ triennial survey. The  New
Zealand dollar  is the world’s 10th most-traded currency with
$59.9 billion in average daily transactions. New Zealand’s
government has the equivalent of $46 billion of bonds on issue,
according to Bloomberg data.  Offshore Investors  Non-resident investors held 62.5 percent of New Zealand
government bonds in August, up from 60.1 percent in July,
according to data from the  Reserve Bank . Offshore investors held
75 percent of Australian bonds as of June 30, up from 73 percent
at the end of the previous quarter, according to data from the
central bank and statistics bureau.  New Zealand sold NZ$200 million in bonds maturing between
2015 and 2023 yesterday. The auction drew bids worth 2.4 to 4.1
times the amount on offer.  “The auction result was solid,” Commonwealth Bank of
Australia analysts wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “We
suspect that eventually, New Zealand’s relatively sound fiscal
position (on a global comparison) and diversification away from
 Europe  and the U.S. will underpin solid demand for kiwi bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 