-- 
DuPont Calls at Two-Year High as Traders See Rebound: Options

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-10-06T20:27:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/dupont-calls-at-two-year-high-as-traders-see-rebound-options.html
DuPont Co. options traders are more
bullish than any time in two years, betting the stock will
rebound from a five-month decline as investors favor companies
with the highest dividends.  The ratio of outstanding puts to sell versus calls to buy
has dropped to 0.8, the lowest since April 2009. Ownership of
contracts to buy the shares through Oct. 21 for $44, or 6.8
percent above the stock price, surged almost 27-fold in the past
month, the most among options on Wilmington, Delaware-based
DuPont, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares have fallen
27 percent to $41.21 since peaking this year on April 29.  Concern policy makers may be running out of tools to keep
the global slowdown from worsening has boosted demand for
companies with the highest payouts. DuPont shares yield 3.98
percent, fifth-most in the S&P 500 Materials Index. It has a
quarterly dividend of 41 cents a share, last raised in the final
three months of 2007. Since the market peaked April 29, the S&P
500 Dividend Aristocrats Index has lost 9.7 percent, compared
with the S&P 500’s loss of 15 percent including payouts.  “People like large-cap, dividend-paying stocks like DuPont
particularly in this environment where there’s a lot of
uncertainty,” Jake Dollarhide, who helps manage $70 million
including DuPont shares at Longbow Asset Management in Tulsa,
 Oklahoma , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The fears
about Europe aren’t helping, but short of Greek default I’d look
for things to get back to normal in next two or three months.”  Calls Rise  DuPont had 199,697 outstanding calls and 160,246 puts as of
Oct. 4, according to Bloomberg data. The ratio of calls to puts
dropped 31 percent since Aug. 19, the biggest slide among all 30
Dow Jones Industrial Average companies. Call open interest on
Sept. 15, before options expired last month, was 204,788, the
most since August 1999.  Michael Hanretta , a DuPont spokesman, declined to comment.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, jumped a record 160 percent during the third
quarter as concern grew the global economy was slowing and the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  was worsening. The volatility
gauge fell 4.1 percent to 36.27 today. In Europe, the VStoxx
Index, which measures the cost of protecting against Euro Stoxx
50 Index losses, dropped 6.5 percent to 42.63.  All 10 DuPont contracts with the biggest increase in
ownership in the past two weeks were calls. Open interest for
October $44 calls rose to 9,303 contracts from 487 contracts,
the largest gain. January $50 calls had the biggest open
interest among all DuPont options.  ‘Stands Out’  “It stands out as an area of interest for traders,”  Henry Schwartz , president of Trade Alert LLC, a New York-based
provider of options-market data and analytics, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Traders appear to consider
ownership of these upside calls to be a good risk/reward.”  DuPont has bought four companies in the past year,
Bloomberg data show, including Copenhagen-based Danisco A/S, the
biggest producer of food additives. It’s expanding by opening
new facilities and adding jobs.  Ellen Kullman , the chief
executive officer, said in an Oct. 4 interview with  Carol Massar 
on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” that “agriculture
around the world is still doing really well,” and “automotive
is growing.”  DuPont, the world’s largest maker of titanium dioxide, is
investing in agriculture, electronics and safety and protection
units to boost per-share earnings about 12 percent a year
through 2015. The company paid 41 billion kroner ($7.3 billion)
in June for Danisco. This year, DuPont is opening at least two
plants in the U.S., Kullman said in the interview.  Cars, Food Prices  Industrywide light-vehicle sales ran at a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of 13.1 million in September, the highest
since April, according to Autodata Corp. Global food prices will
probably stay at high levels this year because of a lack of
stockpiles, the  United Nations  said last month.  DuPont could extend declines if the global economy
continues to deteriorate. The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its forecast for worldwide growth next year to 4 percent from
4.5 percent on Sept. 20, predicting “severe” repercussions if
Europe fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S. policy makers
deadlock over a fiscal plan.  The company raised its full-year earnings forecast to
between $3.90 and $4.05 a share on July 28, up from $3.65 to
$3.85, excluding its acquisition of Danisco. That compared with
the average analyst estimate of $3.98. DuPont has exceeded
estimates in each of the 10 quarters since Kullman became CEO.  Contrasts With Rivals  Greater bullishness about DuPont contrasts with the
company’s rivals. The put-to-call ratio for St. Louis-based
 Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest seed company, rose 22 percent
to 0.79 between Aug. 19 and Oct. 4, Bloomberg data show. The
ratio for Midland, Michigan-based  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest
U.S. chemical maker, gained 25 percent since Sept. 15 to 1.04.  “With record profits and zero cost for capital, with low
 interest rates  and cheaper energy costs, there are a number of
bullish factors lining up,” Alan Knuckman, chief market
strategist at OneStopOption.com, a Chicago-based provider of
options market analysis, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The companies that are going to benefit from that
are large conglomerates like this one as a default, because
investment money has to move somewhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  