-- 
Dutch Lower House Approves Expansion of European Rescue Fund

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-10-06T18:56:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/dutch-lower-house-approves-expansion-of-european-rescue-fund-1-.html
The lower house of the Dutch
parliament approved the expansion of  Europe ’s temporary rescue
fund, leaving only Slovakia and Malta among the 17 euro-area
members that are yet to have lawmakers vote on the mechanism.  Lawmakers in The Hague voted 96 to 44 to back measures that
broaden the scope of the European Financial Stability Facility.
Parliament brought the vote forward from next week to prevent
the fifth-largest economy in the euro region from being the last
to decide. Malta’s parliament will vote on the proposal on Oct.
10 and Slovakian lawmakers will decide a day later.  Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s ruling bloc of Liberals and
 Christian Democrats  relied on the opposition  Labor Party  for a
majority. Geert Wilders’s  Freedom Party , which agreed to support
the minority Cabinet as part of last year’s governing coalition
accord, opposes further financial aid to European Union states.  Europe’s debt crisis intensified as Moody’s Investors
Service lowered Italy’s debt grade by three steps on Oct. 4,
warning that euro-area nations rated below the top Aaa level may
see their rankings cut.  The enhanced powers of the 440 billion-euro ($591 billion)
EFSF were approved at a July 21 meeting of European leaders in
Brussels. The measures would allow the fund to buy the debt of
stressed euro-area nations, aid troubled banks in the region and
offer credit lines to governments. The EFSF’s current role is to
sell bonds to finance rescue loans.  Dutch parties supporting the expansion of the rescue fund
have a majority in the 75-seat upper house of parliament, which
is  scheduled  to vote on the expansion of the fund on Oct. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net . 