-- 
Dwarfs Are Better Off Tossed Than Jobless, Florida Republican Workman Says

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/dwarfs-are-better-off-tossed-than-jobless-florida-republican-workman-says.html
Jobless dwarfs should have the option
of being flung around a barroom for cash rather than standing in
the unemployment line, according to one  Florida  state lawmaker.  Representative Ritch Workman, a Melbourne Republican, has
introduced a  bill  to undo a ban on “dwarf-tossing” as part of
what he says is his mission to repeal overreaching and outdated
laws from Florida’s books. Though the dwarf-tossing measure is
not a “jobs bill,” he said, it may put a few people to work in
a state where unemployment is 1.6 percentage points above the
national average.  Dwarf-tossing, a competition in which bar patrons see how
far they can throw little people in protective gear, was banned
in Florida in 1989 after opponents complained that it was
dangerous and dehumanizing.  While Workman, a mortgage broker, agrees that the practice
is “offensive” and “stupid,” he also thinks the ban keeps
willing projectiles from gainful employment.  “If this is a job they want and people would pay to see it
or participate in it, why in the world would we prohibit it?”
Workman said in a telephone interview from Tallahassee. “In my
world view, we have the freedom and liberty to do these kinds of
things.”  Amy Graham, a spokeswoman for Republican Governor  Rick Scott , said in an e-mail that his office hadn’t reviewed the
legislation “so it wouldn’t be appropriate for us to comment.”  House Speaker Dean Cannon generally “supports efforts to
remove laws from the books that may no longer be necessary or
relevant, however the committee will have to decide if that is
the case with this law,” Katie Betta, a spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  Support the Short  Dwarfism is a medical or genetic condition that results in
an adult height of no more than about 4 feet 10 inches,
according to the Little People of America, a national nonprofit
organization based in Tustin,  California , that supports people
of short stature. Workman’s bill would repeal provisions that
prohibit holders of liquor licenses “from allowing the
exploitation of persons with dwarfism.”  Carolyn Fiddler, a spokeswoman for the Democratic
Legislative Campaign Committee, said that the bill highlights
Republicans’ lack of understanding of what drives employment
growth.  “It’s a really telling symptom of the larger theme that
they push, which is that government is the greatest obstacle to
 job creation ,” she said in a telephone interview from
 Washington . “This shows how absurd that notion is.”  Question of Humanity  Almost 840,000 fewer Floridians are working than when
employment in the state peaked in 2007. The  unemployment rate  in
August was 10.7 percent, while the national rate was 9.1
percent.  Legislators concerned about out-of-work dwarfs should focus
on employment discrimination, said Leah Smith, a spokeswoman for
the Little People of America.  “There are many, many risks involved” with dwarf tossing,
she said in an interview from Lubbock,  Texas , adding that dwarfs
are susceptible to spine problems. And, she said, “There’s a
basic issue of humanity. What other population group would you
toss?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 