-- 
Gasoline Gains on ECB’s Debt Crisis Comments, Weaker Dollar

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-10-06T19:38:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/heating-oil-falls-on-job-claims-report-europe-debt-crisis.html
Gasoline gained as the  European
Central Bank  outlined a strategy to shield regional banks from a
potential Greek default and the dollar weakened.  Futures, in the largest two-day rally since May 10, rose as
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the ECB
will resume covered-bond purchases and reintroduce year-long
loans as the sovereign debt crisis threatens to lock money
markets. The U.S. currency erased an earlier gain against the
euro, increasing the investment appeal of commodities, and
equities reversed losses.  “They threw some things on the table for consideration in
 Europe  and you’re looking at some positive runs in the
equities,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount
Options Inc. in  New York .  Gasoline for November delivery rose 11.68 cents, or 4.6
percent, to settle at $2.686 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have gained 7.9 percent in two days.  Futures extended gains as Sunoco Inc. shut units at its
Marcus Hook refinery near Philadelphia, said two people with
knowledge of the maintenance. The maintenance is occurring as
gasoline imports last week slipped to the lowest level since at
least 2004 and ConocoPhillips idled its Trainer, Pennsylvania,
plant while it seeks a buyer.  Gasoline imports to the U.S. East Coast fell last week to
the lowest level since at least 2004, when the Energy Department
began reporting regional data. November futures increased to a
7.75-cent premium over December contracts.  ECB Move  The European Central Bank’s move to keep euro-area banks
afloat is buying governments more time to recapitalize them as
Greece edges closer to default. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said policy makers “shouldn’t hesitate” if it turns out
financial institutions are undercapitalized.  “Some of the fears we saw earlier in the week seem to have
abated,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.2 percent at 2:45
p.m. The dollar lost 0.7 percent against the euro after earlier
rising as much as 0.8 percent.  “Maybe the downtrend is over but we have to wait for
tomorrow’s jobs data,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior
partner at the Energy Management Institute in New York.  Employers added 59,000 workers to payrolls in September and
the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent, according to the
median forecast of economists before tomorrow’s jobs report. The
Labor department reported today that applications for jobless
benefits increased by 6,000 in the week ended Oct. 1 to 401,000.  Heating oil for November delivery rose 8.45 cents, or 3
percent, to settle at $2.8611 a gallon, the highest settlement
since Sept. 27.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.7
cent to $3.392 yesterday, according to AAA data. That’s the
cheapest since March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  