-- 
Trichet Keeps Banks Afloat as Governments Confront Risk of Greek Default

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-07T08:41:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/ecb-buys-governments-time-on-banks-as-greece-moves-closer-to-debt-default.html
The  European Central Bank ’s move to
keep euro-area banks afloat is buying governments more time to
recapitalize them as Greece edges closer to default.  The ECB said yesterday it will reintroduce yearlong loans,
giving banks access to unlimited cash through January 2013, and
resume purchases of covered bonds to encourage lending. At the
same time, the European Commission is pushing for a coordinated
capital injection into banks and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said policy makers “shouldn’t hesitate” if it turns out
financial institutions are undercapitalized.  “Politicians, including Angela Merkel, have finally
realized the urgency in protecting banks as a Greek default can
no longer be ruled out and no-one wants a Lehman in  Europe ,”
said Christoph Kind, head of  asset allocation  at Frankfurt
Trust, which manages $24 billion. “From its side, the ECB is
making sure that banks won’t face funding issues throughout that
period.”  Financial shares advanced yesterday after Merkel fed
speculation that policy makers are working on plans to boost
bank capital to stem the spread of the sovereign debt crisis.
Europe’s rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility,
could be relied upon as a last resort to bolster banks if
needed, she said, adding that  Germany  is ready to discuss
possible bank aid at this month’s European Union summit.  Euro, Stocks  The euro headed for a weekly advance after two weeks of
losses, trading at $1.3448 at 10:36 a.m. in Frankfurt. Stocks
gained for a third day in Europe after the overnight advance in
 Asia , with the Stoxx 600 up 0.7 percent to 231.8 at 9:00 a.m. in
London.  European leaders are under pressure from global
counterparts to find a solution to the debt crisis as it
threatens to tip the world economy back into recession. EU
leaders hold a summit on Oct. 18 followed by a meeting of the
Group of 20 on Nov. 3-4. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said
today he will discuss banks with Merkel when he visits Berlin on
Oct. 9.  Germany’s Deutsche Bank AG on Oct. 4 scrapped its profit
forecast and announced 500 job cuts and further writedowns on
Greek bond holdings, while Belgium’s Dexia SA is facing its
second bailout in three years.  The ECB’s measures buy banks “a lot of time as Europe is
basically moving toward recapitalizing the sector,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London . “Where the ECB can and does contribute very
aggressively is to breaking the nexus between the sovereigns and
the banks.”  ECB Purchases  The ECB will spend 40 billion euros ($53 billion) on
covered bonds from next month and offer banks two additional
unlimited loans of 12 and 13-month durations, President Trichet
said at a press conference in Berlin yesterday after leaving the
benchmark  interest rate  at 1.5 percent. The ECB will continue to
lend banks as much money as they need in its regular refinancing
operations at least until July 2012.  The ECB used the same measures during the global financial
crisis to avert a credit crunch.  The 2.5 trillion-euro market for covered bonds -- assets
backed by mortgages or public-sector loans -- underpins much of
Europe’s real estate lending, which almost ground to a halt in
the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in
September 2008.  Fear Factor  Banks’ overnight deposits with the ECB jumped to the most
in more than a year this week as concern about other
institutions’ sovereign debt holdings discouraged them from
lending to each other.  “For the banking sector the focus is more on liquidity
rather than capital,” UniCredit SpA Chief Executive Officer
Federico Ghizzoni said in an interview published yesterday.  Policy makers are “determined to do everything necessary
to ensure that Europe’s banks are able to play their essential
role in lending,” commission President  Jose Barroso  told
reporters in Brussels yesterday. “Close coordination at
European level is essential.”  Chairing his final rate-setting meeting before handing the
reins to Italy’s  Mario Draghi  at the end of the month, Trichet
resisted calls to reverse two rate increases earlier this year
even as the debt crisis threatens to tip Europe back into
recession.  Klaus Baader, co-chief economist at Societe Generale SA in
London, said the ECB’s decision to focus on greasing the banking
sector rather than cutting rates “is a completely appropriate
reaction to the current conditions” as “the problem in the
euro area is not an excessively high level of short term
interest rates.”  Risk to Growth  Still, the crisis has “started to infect the real
economy,” said  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt .  The ECB in September cut its growth forecasts to 1.6
percent from 1.9 percent for 2011 and to 1.3 percent from 1.7
percent for 2012. Euro-area service and manufacturing industries
last month contracted for the first time in more than two years.  Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
blamed the slowdown in Europe for his bank’s troubles. About 42
percent of revenue from the bank’s sales and trading operations
came from Europe last year, Ackermann said on Oct 4.  The bank will write down its Greek sovereign debt holdings
by about 250 million euros for the third quarter after a 155-
million-euro value reduction at the end of the second quarter.  Banks Gain  France ’s  Natixis (KN)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA were among the biggest
gainers on the 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index yesterday. Natixis climbed as much as 13 percent,
while Paribas was up as much as 7.8 percent.  Trichet yesterday said European banks and supervisors
including the European Banking Authority should do everything
they can to address the need for recapitalization and banks
shouldn’t be reluctant to accept state help when needed.  “There finally seems to be a plan in Europe and what the
ECB did yesterday certainly complemented that,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European economist at Deutsche Bank in London.
“The ECB has always been ready to step up to the plate if
governments show a willingness to shoulder responsibility. It
wasn’t always the case in the past, but it looks like it’s
coming together now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  