-- 
Technology Executives Comment on Steve Jobs’s Death (Voices)

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-06T12:53:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/technology-executives-comment-on-apple-s-jobs-death-voices.html
Executives and politicians comment on
the death of  Steve Jobs , the co-founder and former chief
executive officer of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) :  Bill Gates, chairman and founder of Microsoft Corp.  “I’m truly saddened to learn of Steve Jobs’s death.
Melinda and I extend our sincere condolences to his family and
friends, and to everyone Steve has touched through his work.  “Steve and I first met nearly 30 years ago, and have been
colleagues, competitors and friends over the course of more than
half our lives.  “The world rarely sees someone who has had the profound
impact Steve has had, the effects of which will be felt for many
generations to come.  “For those of us lucky enough to get to work with him,
it’s been an insanely great honor. I will miss Steve
immensely.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama .  “Steve was among the greatest of American innovators --
brave enough to think differently, bold enough to believe he
could change the world, and talented enough to do it.  “By building one of the planet’s most successful companies
from his garage, he exemplified the spirit of American
ingenuity. By making computers personal and putting the Internet
in our pockets, he made the information revolution not only
accessible, but intuitive and fun. And by turning his talents to
storytelling, he has brought joy to millions of children and
grownups alike. Steve was fond of saying that he lived every day
like it was his last. Because he did, he transformed our lives,
redefined entire industries, and achieved one of the rarest
feats in human history: he changed the way each of us sees the
world.  “The world has lost a visionary. And there may be no
greater tribute to Steve’s success than the fact that much of
the world learned of his passing on a device he invented.
Michelle and I send our thoughts and prayers to Steve’s wife
Laurene, his family, and all those who loved him.”  Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple.  “It felt a lot like you just heard that John Lennon got
shot, or JFK, or Martin Luther King.  “He was one of those cool guys. He knew technology. He
understood it. We talked about the philosophies of the day --the
counterculture was strong, the hippy movement, words in songs --
and went to concerts together. It was a strong friendship.  “I think most people are going to miss the great products.
That’s why we are stunned so much. It’s going to be hard to
sleep tonight.”  Mark Zuckerberg, founder and chief executive officer of
Facebook Inc.  “Steve, thank you for being a mentor and a friend. Thanks
for showing that what you build can change the world. I will
miss you.”  Jim Snabe and  Bill McDermott , co-CEOs of SAP AG.  “Our world has lost a visionary, a creator, and a good
person. Steve Jobs always challenged assumptions, went for the
impossible and pursued perfection. He set the standard for
innovation: breakthrough ideas realized at nearly unlimited
scale. His light will shine on and influence generations to
come.”  Hans Vestberg, CEO of Ericsson AB.  “Our industry has lost a great visionary and inspirer.
With his innovative thinking Jobs was part of creating the
massive growth in smartphone usage we are seeing today.”  Martin Sorrell, CEO of WPP Plc.  “Steve Jobs was a unique and brilliantly successful
entrepreneur and manager -- a very rare combination and an
inspiration to all of us. The most outstanding entrepreneur and
manager of his generation.  He was remarkable also in being able to bounce back from
adversity -- the true test of a business genius. He was also an
instinctive marketeer with an intuitive understanding of what
the customer wants, of design, of product and of marketing.  By virtue of being unique, he is by definition
irreplaceable.”  Neelie Kroes, the European Union’s commissioner for digital
affairs.  “A visionary who changed the way we live and work.”  John Chambers, CEO of  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   “The world lost a true visionary and great man today.
Steve Jobs did more than simply shape our concepts of technology
and invention, he helped define our understanding of how great
innovation and design can bring people closer together.  “I, and everyone at Cisco, are deeply saddened by Steve’s
loss. Our deepest sympathies go out to his colleagues and
family. We’ll miss you, Steve, but your legacy will continue
forever.”  Meg Whitman, CEO of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   “Steve Jobs was an iconic entrepreneur and businessman
whose impact on technology was felt beyond Silicon Valley. He
will be remembered for the innovation he brought to market and
the inspiration he brought to the world.”  Robert Iger, CEO of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   “Steve Jobs was a great friend as well as a trusted
adviser. His legacy will extend far beyond the products he
created or the businesses he built.  “It will be the millions of people he inspired, the lives
he changed, and the culture he defined. Steve was such an
‘original,’ with a thoroughly creative, imaginative mind that
defined an era. Despite all he accomplished, it feels like he
was just getting started.  “With his passing the world has lost a rare original,
Disney has lost a member of our family, and I have lost a great
friend. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife Laurene and
his children during this difficult time.”  Larry Page, CEO of  Google Inc. (GOOG)   “I am very, very sad to hear the news about Steve. He was
a great man with incredible achievements and amazing brilliance.  “He always seemed to be able to say in very few words what
you actually should have been thinking before you thought it.  “His focus on the user experience above all else has
always been an inspiration to me. He was very kind to reach out
to me as I became CEO of Google and spend time offering his
advice and knowledge even though he was not at all well.  “My thoughts and Google’s are with his family and the
whole Apple family.”  Sergey Brin, co-founder of Google.  “From the earliest days of Google, whenever Larry and I
sought inspiration for vision and leadership, we needed to look
no farther than Cupertino.  “Steve, your passion for excellence is felt by anyone who
has ever touched an Apple product (including the Macbook I am
writing this on right now). And I have witnessed it in person
the few times we have met.  “On behalf of all of us at Google and more broadly in
technology, you will be missed very much. My condolences to
family, friends, and colleagues at Apple.”  Marc Benioff, CEO of  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)   “Steve Jobs was the greatest leader our industry has ever
known. We are all blessed by his life. My thoughts and prayers
are with his family.  “I am really sad. It’s such a terrible loss for the whole
world. I will never forget him. He did so much for me.”  Guy Kawasaki, who served as an “evangelist” for Apple’s
Macintosh computer when it was introduced in 1984 and is a
founder of Garage Technology Ventures in Palo Alto,  California .  “No CEO ever has done more for his customers, shareholders
and employees than Steve Jobs.”  Michael Dell, CEO of  Dell Inc. (DELL)   “Today the world lost a visionary leader, the technology
industry lost an iconic legend and I lost a friend and fellow
founder.  “The legacy of Steve Jobs will be remembered for
generations to come. My thoughts and prayers go out to his
family and to the Apple team.”  Scott McGregor, CEO of  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)   “Steve’s passion for innovation and creativity will carry
on for decades to come.  “His legacy is enormous, touching millions of people
around the world. Our entire industry and economy is better for
his presence and incredible contributions.  “On behalf of Broadcom, we send our deepest condolences to
Steve’s family and to Apple employees.”  Jay Elliot, author of “The Steve Jobs Way” who worked at
Apple with Jobs for six years.  “It’s very sad. I can’t believe it. I’ve been preparing
for it as we’ve all known it’s coming. But he was a unique
person who we’ll never see or meet again.  “He changed my life. He lived in a direct way, the way he
wanted. Some people criticize him but I worked for him for many
years and he was a very moral individual.”  Choi Gee Sung, CEO of Samsung Electronics Co.  “Samsung Electronics is saddened to hear of Chairman Steve
Jobs’s passing and would like to extend our deepest condolences.  “Chairman Steve Jobs introduced numerous revolutionary
changes to the information technology industry and was a great
entrepreneur.  “His innovative spirit and remarkable accomplishments will
forever be remembered by people around the world.  “We would like to again express our sincerest condolences
to Mr. Jobs’s family and his colleagues.”  Maria Shriver, former first lady of California.  “I’m going to turn off my Apple computer, iPhone and iPad
tonight at 8 p.m. and honor Steve with a moment of digital
silence. Will you join me?”  Jim Allchin, former chief architect of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows operating system.  “In my view Steve’s contributions to society grew over
time and, although he was always innovative, his best work came
during the last 10 years. Steve’s ability to understand user-
centric computing was the best I have ever seen. He was a truly
remarkable man.”  California Governor Jerry Brown.  “Steve Jobs was a great California innovator who
demonstrated what a totally independent and creative mind can
accomplish.  “Few people have made such a powerful and elegant imprint
on our lives. Anne and I wish to express our deepest sympathy to
Steve’s wife, Laurene, and their entire family.”  Jeff Bewkes ,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  CEO.  “The entire Time Warner family mourns the loss of Steve
Jobs. The world is a better place because of Steve, and the
stories our company tells have been made richer by the products
he created.  “He was a dynamic and fearless competitor, collaborator,
and friend. In a society that has seen incredible technological
innovation during our lifetimes, Steve may be the one true icon
whose legacy will be remembered for a thousand years.”  Rupert Murdoch, chairman and founder of  News Corp .  “Today, we lost one of the most influential thinkers,
creators and entrepreneurs of all time.  “Steve Jobs was simply the greatest CEO of his generation.
While I am deeply saddened by his passing, I’m reminded of the
stunning impact he had in revolutionizing the way people consume
media and entertainment.  “My heart goes out to his family and to everyone who had
the opportunity to work beside him in bringing his many visions
to life.”  Mike Bloomberg, mayor of New York City and founder of
Bloomberg LP, owner of Bloomberg News.  “Tonight, America lost a genius who will be remembered
with Edison and Einstein, and whose ideas will shape the world
for generations to come.  “Again and again over the last four decades, Steve Jobs
saw the future and brought it to life long before most people
could even see the horizon. And Steve’s passionate belief in the
power of technology to transform the way we live brought us more
than smartphones and iPads: It brought knowledge and power that
is reshaping the face of civilization.  “In New York City’s government, everyone from street
construction inspectors to NYPD detectives have harnessed
Apple’s products to do their jobs more efficiently and
intuitively.  “Tonight our city -- a city that has always had such
respect and admiration for creative genius -- joins with people
around the planet in remembering a great man and keeping Laurene
and the rest of the Jobs family in our thoughts and prayers.”  Yang Yuanqing, CEO of  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)   “Today the world lost one of its greatest innovators and
visionaries with the passing of Steve Jobs. His achievements are
unmatched in our time.  “Steve led this industry like a beacon for the past
decade. As a competitor, he helped ensure all of us pushed even
harder, and I am confident his legacy will continue to energize
the industry for many years to come.  “We admired his spirit, his creativity and his passion. He
not only changed the technology industry, he changed the world
and made it better.  “While we will all feel this enormous loss, I am confident
that this industry will take to heart the lessons Steve taught
us about innovation.”  Howard Stringer, chairman of  Sony Corp. (6758)   “The digital age has lost its leading light, but Steve’s
innovations and creativity will inspire dreamers and thinkers
for generations.”  Morris Chang, chairman of Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co.  “We have lost a true visionary. Steve Jobs changed the
face of computing and defined the shape of mobile computing
devices. He had created an unparalleled example of what
innovation can do. It saddens me to think of how much more he
had to offer the world. He will be missed deeply.”  George Lucas, chairman of Lucasfilm Ltd.  “The magic of Steve was that while others simply accepted
the status quo, he saw the true potential in everything he
touched and never compromised on that vision.  “He leaves behind an incredible family and a legacy that
will continue to speak to people for years to come.”  John Lasseter, chief creative officer and president of Walt
Disney and Pixar Animation Studios.  “Steve Jobs was an extraordinary visionary, our very dear
friend and the guiding light of the Pixar family.  “He saw the potential of what Pixar could be before the
rest of us, and beyond what anyone ever imagined. Steve took a
chance on us and believed in our crazy dream of making computer
animated films; the one thing he always said was to simply ‘make
it great.’  “He is why Pixar turned out the way we did and his
strength, integrity and love of life has made us all better
people. He will forever be a part of Pixar’s DNA. Our hearts go
out to his wife Laurene and their children during this
incredibly difficult time.”  Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie, co-CEOs of Research In
Motion Ltd.  “Steve Jobs was a great visionary and a respected
competitor. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and
to all of the employees of Apple.”  Paul Otellini, president and CEO of  Intel Corp .  “True genius is measured by the ability to touch every
person on the planet. Steve did that, not just once, but many,
many times over his amazing life. We at Intel were privileged to
have known him and worked with him as he brought his creations
to life. Our hearts go out to his family and to his many friends
and co-creators throughout the world.”  Stephen Elop, CEO of  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   “The world lost a true visionary today. Steve’s passion
for simplicity and elegance leaves us all a legacy that will
endure for generations. Today, my thoughts, and those of
everyone at Nokia, are with the friends and family that he
leaves behind.”  John Sculley, a former Apple CEO.  “Steve Jobs was intensely passionate at making an
important difference in the lives of his fellow humans while he
was on this planet. He never was into money or measured his life
through owning stuff.  “The world knows Steve Jobs as the brilliant genius who
transformed technology into magic. A part of Steve still lives
within all of us through his beautifully designed products and
his no-compromises media experiences.  Steve Jobs captured our imagination with his creativity.
His legacy is far more than being the greatest CEO ever. A world
leader is dead, but the lessons his leadership taught us live
on.”  Paul Jacobs, CEO of Qualcomm Inc.  “We have all lost someone special today.  “I had a number of opportunities to meet and talk with
Steve Jobs over the years. He was always a bold visionary and a
risk taker, and a tough businessman as well.  “The products and technologies he and his team at Apple
worked on will continue to influence the wireless industry and
people’s everyday lives for many years to come. I offer my
condolences to his family, friends and the employees of Apple.”  Terry Gou, chairman of Foxconn Technology Group.  “The world has lost a true hero and I have lost a friend
whose dedication to his company, his customers, and our industry
is reflected in the fact that he continued to work while dealing
with such a devastating illness.  “True business leaders grow their companies by committing
their innovation, creativity, and passion and, while Steve
exemplified all of these qualities, he also committed his heart
to building a company and products that enriched people’s lives.  “Steve’s spirit will live on forever with those who, like
me, had the honor to know and work with him. However, everyone
has been touched by his genius and, because of this, he has left
the world a better place. He will be missed, but never
forgotten.”  Masayoshi Son, CEO of Softbank Corp.  “I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Steve
Jobs. Steve was truly a genius of our time, a man with a rare
ability to fuse art and technology.  “Centuries from now, he will be remembered alongside
Leonardo da Vinci. His achievements will continue to shine
forever.”  Randall Stephenson, CEO of AT&T Inc.  “We are saddened by the passing of Steve Jobs. Steve was
an iconic inventor, visionary, and entrepreneur, and we had the
privilege to know him as partner and friend. All of us at AT&T
offer our thoughts and prayers to Steve’s wife, family, and his
Apple family.”  Lowell McAdam, CEO of Verizon Communications Inc.  “Steve Jobs devoted his ceaseless energy and creative
genius to technology innovation that changed the world time and
time again. Our industry and all of our customers benefited
tremendously from his pursuit of excellence. We will miss him.
Our heartfelt condolences go to his family and his employees.”  Rene Obermann, CEO of Deutsche Telekom AG.  “Steve Jobs was the greatest innovator, best marketing man
and most determined entrepreneur I have known in my entire life.
His approach and way of working will characterize Apple for a
long time to come.”  Jeffrey Immelt, CEO of General Electric Co.  “He did something that I think is very hard: be both a
dreamer and a doer.”  Tony Blair, the former U.K. prime minister.  “Steve was an extraordinary and creative human being, an
inspiration and an innovator who believed that by the power of
ideas the world could be transformed. As much as anyone in any
walk of life in the early 21st century he changed people’s lives
simply by imagination and determination. His memory will serve
as a symbol of what the human mind can achieve.”  Ratan Tata, Tata Group Chairman.  “Steve Jobs has been one of the greatest icons of the
modern era. His untimely death is a huge loss to us all.  “His creativity, innovativeness and unbelievable attention
to detail in every single area, gave the world the early
personal computer, the iPod, the iPhone and the iPad which have
perhaps brought about the greatest change in the way people
wirelessly listen to music, view visual images, exchange data
and communicate.  “He has changed the way of life of many. Apple’s products,
under his leadership, have had a profound impact on mankind,
unequaled by any other company in the information and technology
space.  “The world has lost a great business leader and a great
visionary. He will be deeply mourned and greatly missed.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  