-- 
Hedge Funds Post Worst Performance in More Than a Year on Falling Stocks

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-10-06T17:17:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/hedge-funds-post-worst-performance-in-more-than-a-year-on-falling-stocks.html
Hedge funds  slumped 3.2 percent in
September, their worst performance in more than a year, as
global stocks tumbled amid a worsening European debt crisis and
the threat of a U.S. recession.  The Bloomberg aggregate hedge-fund index decreased to
119.53 from 123.53 in August, contributing to a decline of 0.9
percent this year. Long-short equity funds, multistrategy funds
and macro funds, which bet on global economic trends, fell.  “It was one of the worst months we’ve seen since 2008,”
said Don Steinbrugge, managing partner of Agecroft Partners LLC,
a Richmond, Virginia-based firm that advises hedge funds and
investors. “From a hedge-fund manager’s standpoint, there’s a
lot of stress to navigate these markets. Any strategy that was
exposed to the fixed-income and equity markets generated
negative returns.”  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of global stocks tumbled 8.6 percent
in September, including dividends, as  Greece  edged closer to
defaulting on its sovereign debt and the cost of insuring
western European countries’ loans rose to records. The  Federal
Reserve  said Sept. 21 that there are “significant downside
risks” in the  U.S. economy , prompting the central bank to
announce a $400 billion debt-trading plan to spur growth as the
recovery from the worst contraction since the Great Depression
falters.  Bloomberg’s aggregate index fell the most since May 2010,
when funds dropped 4.3 percent.  Multistrategy, Macro  Multistrategy hedge funds declined 3.1 percent in September
and 1.3 percent in 2011. Macro funds decreased 2.4 percent in
September and 3.3 percent in the year’s first nine months. Long-
short equity funds, whose managers can bet on rising and falling
stocks, lost 4.4 percent last month and 2.6 percent this year.  “Volatility on the market caused by fears over  Europe  and
recessionary fears here in the U.S. is definitely causing
concerns for people,” said Emma Sugarman, head of the U.S.
capital-introductions group at BNP Paribas SA in  New York , which
helps hedge funds meet clients. “Investors will be considering
year-end redemptions very carefully.”  The main Bloomberg hedge-fund index is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,828 funds, 1,411 of which have
reported returns for September. The index is down 8.3 percent
from its July 2007 peak.  Hedge funds, investment pools that can wager on or against
any asset, hold about $2 trillion, according to Hedge Fund
Research Inc. in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  