-- 
Medicare Thief Lobbied Congress to Keep Cash Flowing, U.S. Says

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/medicare-thief-lobbied-congress-to-preserve-government-funding-u-s-says.html
A coalition of community mental-
health clinics followed a playbook used by interest groups
seeking U.S. government money: They created a trade association,
doled out campaign contributions, and hired a former senator and
Medicare administrator to lobby in  Washington .  The difference in this case is that some members of the
association dedicated to fighting Medicare reimbursement cuts
were stealing government money at the same time they were trying
to keep it flowing, according to prosecutors.  Lawrence Duran, a former board member of the trade group
and an owner of Miami-based American Therapeutic Corp., a chain
of seven clinics, was sentenced to 50 years in prison last month
for orchestrating a $205 million Medicare fraud.  Other unnamed association members “have been indicted or
are under investigation,” according to a Sept. 9 Justice
Department court filing in the Duran case. Prosecutors announced
a Medicare fraud indictment against Biscayne Milieu Health
Center Inc. in Miami, also an association member, and its owner
two days earlier.  What unfolded in the case shows how Duran, and possibly
others involved in fraud, took on the trappings of legitimate
political players to gain access to lawmakers and influence
national policy.  A Founder  Duran was a founder of the trade association, the National
Association for Behavioral Health, a board member and one of the
leading financial contributors, said Patrick Koeth, a  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  agent, at Duran’s sentencing hearing.
The group was founded in 2006, according to association
documents.  Duran “had a very integral part of the lobbying role,”
Koeth testified. “His involvement was to keep pushing those
lobbying efforts.”  The trade association isn’t involved in fraud and continues
to operate, said Paul Broussard, a board member and an owner of
Southwest Ambulatory Behavioral Services Inc. in Crowley,
Louisiana. Charges against Duran were a “total shock,” he
said.  The association’s president, Robert Miller, the chief
executive of MMO Behavioral Health Systems in  Baton Rouge ,
Louisiana, e-mailed a statement from the group saying Medicare
fraud shouldn’t be tolerated. “Our members applaud the
 Department of Justice  for uncovering such activity in order to
protect the vulnerable individuals who need services the most,”
the statement said.  Prosecutors haven’t accused the association, its lobbyists
or lawmakers of any wrongdoing.  Leading Lobbyists  The association spent at least $620,000 since 2007 to hire
leading health-care lobbyists including former Senator John Breaux, a  Louisiana  Democrat, and Thomas Scully, who headed the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services under President  George W. Bush , according to Senate records. Scully said he didn’t
suspect any wrongdoing and Breaux didn’t return phone calls.  Scully, who was registered as a lobbyist for the group in
2008 and 2009, said he “was skeptical about representing them
to begin with and was more so by the day” after an initial
meeting. “I wasn’t really sure what they wanted and I wasn’t
sure they knew what they wanted,” said Scully, who added that
he “never spent one minute working” for the association.  Five other employees of his firm, Alston & Bird LLP,
registered as lobbyists and the firm reported $200,000 in total
billings. Lindsay McGarity, an outside spokeswoman, said no
members of the firm were available to comment.  Fundraisers  Melissa Green, a spokeswoman for Breaux’s firm, Patton
Boggs LLP in Washington, said nobody was available to comment.
Timothy Perrin and Harry Sporidis, lobbyists with Polsinelli
Shughart PC in Washington, who have worked for the association,
didn’t respond to e-mail and phone messages.  Association members organized fundraisers for Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, and former Representative
 Kendrick Meek , a Florida Democrat, before the criminal
investigations into some of its members became public. Both
lawmakers co-sponsored legislation advancing the group’s top
priorities.  Landrieu knew nothing about wrongdoing by Duran, said Jane
Campbell, her chief of staff. Meek, who gave up his House seat
last year to run unsuccessfully for the Senate, didn’t return e-
mails to the website Politic365, where he is chairman of the
editorial board; no phone number is listed for his Florida
consulting firm.  Out-Patient Services  Community mental health clinics offer such out-patient
mental health services as group therapy and drug abuse
counseling, which are supposed to save money by keeping Medicare
patients out of hospitals.  To obtain paitents, Duran’s clinics bribed managers at
assisted-living facilities and halfway homes and then forged
records to make it look as if services were provided, according
to prosecutors. Patients were given cigarettes and lunch and
were paid $35 to sit in its offices all day, authorities said.  Duran was an active member of the trade association, which
at its peak in 2010 had two employees and $378,908 in annual
revenue, mostly from membership dues, according to its annual
Internal Revenue Service filing. The group’s Louisiana-based
executive director, Donna Newchurch, and Washington legislative
director, Meredith Dyer, are no longer affiliated with the
association and didn’t respond to e-mail or phone messages.  Mailing Address  The group, which at one point listed a mailing address five
blocks from the White House, had roots in Louisiana, where a
similar organization had done state-level advocacy and many of
the association’s original 10 to 15 members operated there, said
Broussard. The national group attracted clinic owners from
 Florida ,  Mississippi  and  Texas , and eventually grew to include
more than 30 members, who paid dues based on their clinics’
revenue, Broussard said.  In exchange, the association promised members access to a
lobbyist, meetings with lawmakers during quarterly “fly-ins”
and educational forums, according to its website.  A 2010 letter from the association warned about a proposed
reduction in Medicare reimbursements and a new requirement that
clinics provide at least 40 percent of their services to non-
Medicare beneficiaries. It described an association meeting with
Medicare officials.  The association boasted on its website that its
“aggressive advocacy efforts significantly reduced the severity
of the proposed payment cut” after the Medicare agency
announced the final rule a few months later. Ellen Griffith, a
spokeswoman for the Medicare agency, declined to comment.  Letter From Association  The association claimed credit in a 2008 letter to the
Medicare agency for working with Louisiana’s two senators,
Republican  David Vitter  and Landrieu, “to develop and
introduce” legislation to keep payments from decreasing that
year. The measure didn’t advance in Congress.  The association also backed 2009 legislation by Vitter that
would have allowed clinics to bill patients’ nutritional
planning, meals and transportation costs to Medicare. That
measure also failed. Luke Bolar, a Vitter spokesman, didn’t
respond to requests for information about the association’s role
in the legislation.  Prosecutors submitted to the court a YouTube video in which
Duran and two others said they were about to meet with
Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida Republican who was
a sponsor of similar legislation in the House.  ‘Huge Advocate’  “She’s a huge advocate for mental  health services , so
that’s the reason why we’re here to see her,” Duran said in the
video. Alex Cruz, a spokesman for Ros-Lehtinen, didn’t respond
to requests for comment.  Association members organized a 2009 fundraiser for Meek,
who also co-sponsored the House bill, during his unsuccessful
Senate campaign. The association asked attendees to donate at
least $300 per person, according to court records.  Between 2007 and 2011, association board members and others
who disclosed an affiliation with their clinics donated to 16
candidates, according to Federal Election Commission data
compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan
group that tracks political contributions. Those donations
included $7,800 to Landrieu and $7,300 to Meek, as well as
$1,500 to Vitter and $10,700 to former Senator  Blanche Lincoln ,
an Arkansas Democrat who lost her 2010 re-election bid.  Campaign Contributions  Duran gave $1,500 to Lincoln in February 2010, eight months
before he was arrested on charges that his clinics defrauded
Medicare for eight years. Marianella Valera, who co-owned the
clinics with Duran and also pleaded guilty in the fraud scheme,
gave Lincoln $1,500 in February 2010 and $2,400 to Meek in
October 2009. Lincoln didn’t respond to a phone message or e-
mail.  Duran resigned from the group in 2009, the association
statement said. Prosecutors submitted to the court copies of e-
mails Duran exchanged with association members and staff in 2010
related to group business.  The federal judge in Duran’s case, James Lawrence King,
rejected the government’s argument that Duran’s role in the
trade group should be a factor in his sentence. Duran’s lawyer,
Lawrence Metsch of the Metsch Law Firm, PA in Aventura, Florida,
noted the judge’s position and declined to comment further.  In the indictment involving the other association member,
Biscayne Milieu, the person identified in government court
papers as its chief executive officer and owner, Antonio Macli,
pleaded not guilty in federal court in Miami. Rene Sotorrio, the
Coconut Gove, Florida lawyer representing Macli, declined to
comment.  The association has shrunk. It now has about a dozen
members and no full-time staff, Broussard said. Uncertainty
caused by the Medicare agency’s proposed rules rather than any
allegations of wrongdoing by members explain why the group is
“in limbo,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  