-- 
Lehman Brothers Unit Sues Goldman Sachs Unit for Failed Deal

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-10-06T21:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/lehman-unit-sues-goldman-sachs-unit-over-failed-business-deal.html
A unit of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ) , the bankrupt investment bank, sued a unit of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  over a failed $1.25 billion real estate deal.  Rosslyn LB Syndication Partner LLC, a Lehman unit not in
bankruptcy, accused USREO/Rosslyn Investors LLC, a Goldman Sachs
unit, of terminating a transaction related to an office building
portfolio in Arlington, Virginia, according to a filing today in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  The Goldman unit’s “obligations (which it failed to
perform) are absolute,” according to the filing. Rosslyn LB is
seeking more than $100 million in damages.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Lehman Brothers filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history on Sept. 15, 2008. The U.S. brokerage went into
liquidation four days later.  The judge overseeing Lehman’s bankruptcy approved the
proposed sale of its 78.5 percent interest in the 3 million-
square-foot commercial real estate project on Aug. 17, court
papers show. Two days before the scheduled closing date
USREO/Rosslyn terminated the agreement based on “pretextual
reasons,” Lehman lawyers said in court papers.  Goldman’s “unilateral” termination of the agreement
wrongfully prevented the Lehman unit from exercising its right
to extend the closing date, court papers show.  Fees and Relief  Lehman lawyers characterized Goldman’s action as
“unjustified repudiation,” and also asked a judge to award
legal fees and “further relief” deemed appropriate, according
to the complaint.  Rosslyn LB is a non-debtor unit of New York-based  Lehman
Brothers  Holdings and its Lehman Commercial Paper unit,
according to the filing. USREO/Rosslyn Investors LLC is a unit
of U.S. Real Estate Opportunities LP, a joint venture in which
Goldman Sachs is the general partner.  Shares of Lehman were unchanged at 3 cents in over-the-
counter trading in  New York  today. Goldman Sachs rose $3.64 or
3.8 percent to $97.93 in NYSE trading.  The case is Rosslyn LB Syndication Partner LLC v.
USREO/Rosslyn Investors, LLC, 11-02764, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  