-- 
Emdeon Said to Set Rate on $1.2 Billion Term Loan for LBO

-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 
2011-10-06T17:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/emdeon-said-to-set-rate-on-1-2-billion-loan-for-blackstone-lbo.html
Emdeon Inc. (EM) , the provider of billing
systems and software for health-care companies, set the initial
interest rate on a $1.2 billion  term loan  B it’s seeking to
finance the company’s buyout by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , according
to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The seven-year debt will pay 5.5 percentage points to 5.75
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private. Libor, a rate banks charge to lend to each other,
will have a 1.25 percent floor.  The Nashville, Tennessee-based company is proposing to sell
the loan at 96 cents to 97 cents on the dollar, the person said,
reducing proceeds for the company and boosting the yield to
investors.  The loan, which originally had no financial-maintenance
requirements, will now have a first-lien net leverage covenant.  Lenders are offered a one-year soft call protection of 101
cents, the person said, meaning Emdeon would have to pay one
cent more than face value to refinance the debt during its first
year.  Emdeon is also seeking a $125 million revolving line of
credit maturing in five years.  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and SunTrust Banks Inc. are arranging
the deal and lenders must submit commitments by Oct. 14 in  New
York . The deal is expected to close and fund the week of Oct.
31, the person said.  Peter Rose , a Blackstone spokesman, declined to comment.  A term loan B is mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations, bank-loan mutual funds and
 hedge funds . In a revolving credit, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chapin Wright at 
 cwright4@bloomberg.net  