-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise Most in Week; Russia, Brazil Shares Gain

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-06T21:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/emerging-stocks-rise-most-in-week-south-korea-thai-shares-lead-advance.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark index to its biggest gain in a week, after U.S.
unemployment claims rose less than forecast and as optimism grew
 Europe  will step up measures to contain its debt crisis.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 3.3 percent to
864.08 as of 4:30 p.m. in  New York , its biggest advance since
Sept. 27. Brazil’s Bovespa Index jumped the most in a month
while Chile’s benchmark surged the most in two months. The  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  in  South Korea  rose 2.6 percent. The Hang Seng  China 
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong  rose
5.8 percent and the Micex Index added 4.2 percent in Moscow.  Reports of jobless claims at a level that shows the pace of
dismissals may be slowing and rising fuel demand eased concern
the U.S. economic recovery is in jeopardy. The  European Central
Bank  said today it will resume covered-bond purchases and
reintroduce yearlong loans for banks as the sovereign debt
crisis threatens to lock money markets.  “The market is reacting positively to all this news and
sentiment is slightly better now,” Choo Swee Kee, who manages
about $220 million as chief investment officer of TA Investment
Management Bhd., said in a phone interview from  Kuala Lumpur .
“The European authorities are trying whatever measures to save
their economy with as little cost as possible.”  A two-day gain helped cut the losses in the MSCI emerging
market gauge this month to 1.9 percent, compared with a 1.8
percent increase in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index. Stocks in the
emerging-market gauge are traded at 9.8 times trailing earnings,
versus 12 for equities in developed nations.  Brazil, Eastern European Stocks  In Brazil, oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA advanced 3.5
percent and miner Vale SA, the benchmark index’s heaviest-
weighted stocks, added 1.6 percent, as improving outlook for
Europe’s banking industry and the U.S. employment data buoyed
commodity prices.  OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s second-biggest oil producer, rose 2.6
percent and  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , Poland’s only copper producer,
rallied 6.6 percent as the WIG20 Index increased 1.3 percent in
Warsaw. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
gained 3.2 percent in Johannesburg, helping drive up the
FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index by 1.4 percent.  Lan Airlines SA,  Latin America ’s largest airline by market
value jumped 4.4 percent in Chilean trading after  Spain ’s
antitrust regulator approved without conditions its planned
acquisition of  Brazil ’s TAM SA, which climbed 2.1 percent in  Sao
Paulo .  Emerging-Market Currencies  The Brazilian real strengthened 2.9 percent versus the
dollar, the best performance among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Chilean peso followed with a 2.1
percent gain. The Turkish lira appreciated 1.2 percent against
the dollar after the central bank sold $1.1 billion in two days
of record-breaking auctions, depleting reserves in an attempt to
stem the currency’s slide.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
the ECB will resume covered-bond purchases and reintroduce year-
long loans for banks as the sovereign debt crisis threatens to
lock money markets.  The ECB will spend 40 billion euros ($54 billion) on
covered bonds starting next month and will offer banks two
additional unlimited loans of 12 and 13-month durations, Trichet
said at a press conference in Berlin today after policy makers
left the benchmark  interest rate  at 1.5 percent.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps fell 16 basis points
to 337.  Samsung, LG  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest maker
of mobile phones, rose 1.5 percent and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the
third-biggest, jumped 6.3 percent in  Seoul , on speculation they
will gain market share from Apple Inc., whose former Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  died.  Hong Kong-listed Chinese property stocks surged after
Deutsche Bank AG said it sees “emerging” value in developers.
 Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383)  climbed 20 percent in Hong Kong
trading. The stock has sunk 60 percent over the past six months.
 China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest Chinese
developer listed in Hong Kong, climbed 17 percent.  Markets in mainland China and  India  were shut today.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 19 basis points, or 0.19
percentage point, to 458, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  