-- 
Enbridge’s Oil Sands Project Is Years Early, Says IHS CERA

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-10-06T19:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/enbridge-s-oil-sands-project-is-years-too-early-says-ihs-cera.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ,  Canada ’s largest
pipeline operator, wouldn’t need to build the Northern Gateway
project to export  Alberta ’s oil-sands crude for almost a decade
if  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL is approved this year,
according to IHS CERA, an energy research company.  The 732-mile (1,177-kilometer) Northern Gateway pipeline
would pump 525,000 barrels a day from near  Edmonton , Alberta, to
the port of Kitimat, British Columbia, where crude would be
loaded on tankers bound for Asia. The line, scheduled to start
in 2017, would reduce Canadian dependence on U.S. markets and
compete with the Keystone XL, designed to pipe 700,000 barrels a
day to refineries in  Texas  along the  Gulf of Mexico  by 2013.  Jackie Forrest, a director of global oil at IHS CERA, said
there won’t be enough oil sands production to support Northern
Gateway’s launch even if, as she expects, Keystone XL approval
helps the output double in 10 years to 3 million barrels a day.  “This Keystone XL pipeline is pretty big and there’s a
fairly big refining infrastructure at the end of it, and just
from a pure production-equals-pipeline perspective, you don’t
need the pipeline to the West Coast until post-2020,” Forrest
said yesterday in a telephone interview from Calgary.  Enbridge reported in August that it had secured enough
shipments to justify the C$5.5 billion line. Paul Stanway, a
spokesman for the company, said Keystone XL “has no impact” on
plans for the line to B.C.  “We’re confident that all the product that we move through
the pipeline will be purchased,” Stanway said in a telephone
interview. “There is demand for it.”  Sinopec Support  Ten companies have contributed $10 million each to help
Enbridge pay for steps in the regulatory approval process, with
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , Asia’s largest refiner, also
known as Sinopec, the only company to state its participation
publicly, Stanway said. He declined to provide more information
on project partners, customers and projected volumes.  Alberta’s bitumen-like oil sands give Canada the third-
largest crude reserves in the world after  Saudi Arabia  and
 Venezuela , with 169 billion barrels of recoverable oil,
according to Steve Rodrigues, a spokesman at the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers.  Not all Asian refiners are able to process the Canadian
export, even if it’s mixed with 193,000 barrels a day of natural
gas condensate that will be imported to Kitimat and pumped to
Edmonton beside the westbound crude in a line that is part of
the same project.  Asian Demand  “The appetite in the Asia-Pacific for the heavy crudes,
given the relative absence of high-conversion refining, is
really pretty limited,” Mark Gilman, an oil and gas analyst at
The Benchmark Co., said in a telephone interview from  New York .  The long-term growth market for crude in  Asia  as it
modernizes is an opportunity for Canada to diversify its
markets, get better prices and reduce bottlenecks at Cushing,
 Oklahoma , where most Canadian crude ends up now, said Robert
Mark, an oil sector equities analyst at MacDougall, MacDougall &
MacTier Inc. in Toronto.  “At the rate at which the oil sand production is growing
and the stagnant nature of U.S. demand, oil sands producers will
need a larger pool of markets in the future to maximize value,”
Mark said in an e-mail.  Canadian crude prices suffer by being priced alongside West
Texas Intermediate crude delivered at Cushing. Brent’s premium
to WTI surged to a record $26.87 a barrel on Sept. 6. Brent was
63 cents more expensive than WTI in 2010.  Regulatory Steps  The regulatory process for Northern Gateway is just getting
under way compared with the Keystone XL project. The U.S. State
Department, which has the final approval on the TransCanada line
because it crosses an international border, has said it will
make a decision by year’s end.  Enbridge’s proposal faces a three-member Joint Review Panel
of the  National Energy Board  and the Canadian Environmental
Assessment Agency. They are preparing for hearings and
environmental assessments that could take several years before
issuing a final decision. The deadline is today for requests to
make oral submissions starting in January.  Northern Gateway faces opposition from environmentalists
and Indian groups because it passes through the Great Bear
Rainforest and raises the risk of supertanker oil spills in the
Douglas Channel. However, the Canada-only route may make the
project less prominent than Keystone XL, which has drawn
protests from celebrities such as Daryl Hannah and Margot
Kidder, who played Lois Lane in several Superman movies.  “Northern Gateway would be an all-Canadian fight and thus
perhaps could be less sensational and muscular, think Canadian
Football League vs. U.S. NFL, but nonetheless might get very
contentious,” Judith Dwarkin, chief energy economist for ITG
Investment Research, wrote in an e-mail from Calgary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  