-- 
Energy Dept. Loan Director Leaving After Solyndra

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-06T21:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/energy-department-loan-head-silver-to-step-down-in-wake-of-solyndra-case.html
Jonathan Silver, executive director
of the U.S. program that awarded Solyndra LLC a $535 million
federal loan guarantee, is leaving, the Energy Department said.  While Silver joined the Energy Department after the solar
panel maker received its loan, Representative  Cliff Stearns , a
Florida Republican and chairman of the House panel investigating
the award, has said he should be fired for his handling of the
loan since arriving.  Silver, 54, led the loan office as Solyndra’s financial
condition worsened, culminating in the department’s agreement in
January to let taxpayer support take a back seat to funds from
fresh investors in a last-ditch effort to rescue the company.  “Jonathan assembled and managed a truly outstanding team
that has transformed the program into the world leader in
financing innovative clean-energy projects,” Energy Secretary
Steven Chu said today in a statement.  Chu said Silver told him in July of his intention to leave
after the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30, when the loan
program would have “no significant funds.”  The energy secretary, who has been criticized for the
Solyndra loan, said he had “absolute confidence” in Silver and
wanted him to stay.  Silver is leaving to become a distinguished visiting fellow
at The Third Way, a Washington-based think tank that says it
promotes moderate policies.  Second Application  Solyndra filed for  bankruptcy protection  Sept. 6 and
had its Fremont, California, offices raided by the FBI two days
later.  The company applied for a $469 million U.S. loan guarantee
a week after winning the first loan in September
2009, according to a filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission three months later. The second guarantee would have
helped finance an expansion of a factory the company hadn’t yet
built.  Chu said today that the second application “was not ever
in serious contention.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  