-- 
EPA Eases Off Cross-State Air Pollution Rules for Power Utilities

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-10-06T21:20:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/epa-eases-off-cross-state-air-pollution-rule-for-texas-1-.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
proposed amending cross-state emissions rules for power
companies today, easing off on pollution caps for  Texas  and nine
other states.  Texas, which sued to block the measure set to take effect
next year, would be allowed to have power plants emit 29 percent
more sulfur dioxide than initially proposed, according to Rob
Barnett, an energy analyst for Bloomberg Government.  The proposed changes would also affect power plants in  New
York  and  New Jersey  by giving those states greater leeway to
trade pollution allowances among power producers. The
modifications to a rule issued in July are based on changes in
data received from states and utilities, according to the EPA.  “While individual state adjustments vary, overall, the
budget increases are slight -- about one percent -- when
compared to the millions of tons of pollution reductions
secured,” the agency said in a statement on its website.  The Cross-State Air Pollution Rule imposes caps on sulfur
dioxide and nitrogen oxide that drift across borders. It applies
to Texas and 26 eastern states.  The Texas cap was adjusted because seven plants in the
state weren’t using pollution-control equipment as the EPA had
assumed, meaning they were polluting more than had been assumed
in the initial analysis, according to the  proposal  today.  ‘More Manageable System’  The change “makes it a much more manageable system,”
David Knox, a spokesman for  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , said in a telephone
interview. “It means the costs of achieving these reductions
will be less.”  NRG Energy, the largest U.S. independent power producer,
said in August that the company planned to spend about $720
million to comply with expected environmental rules.  Michigan ,  Nebraska , New York and  Wisconsin  received the
biggest increase in their budget for nitrogen oxide, according
to Marc De Croisset, a utilities analyst for FBR Capital Markets
& Co. in New York.  Sulfur dioxide can lead to acid rain and soot emissions
harmful to humans and ecosystems, and nitrogen oxide is a
component of ground-level ozone, a main ingredient of smog.  Coal accounts for 98 percent of sulfur dioxide and 92
percent of nitrogen oxides released into the air by power
plants, according to the EPA. Texas consumes more electricity
and uses more coal than any other state, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  Statewide Budgets  The standard replaces Bush-era regulations rejected in 2008
by a federal court that said trading provisions wouldn’t protect
communities against pollution from nearby states.  The regulation sets statewide emissions budgets, which are
then divided among power generators, providing opportunities for
those companies to trade credits. The changes announced today
will allow greater scope for trading, the EPA said.  Texas wasn’t part of the initial proposal and was added in
July, prompting complaints from lawmakers such as U.S.
Republican Senator  John Cornyn .  “The only fair way to move forward at this point is
through a total reconsideration of the rule,” Cornyn said in a
statement today.  The largest Texas grid operator, the Electric Reliability
Council of Texas, said Sept. 1 that the regulation may lead to
power blackouts. The company is studying the impact of today’s
changes, spokeswoman Dottie Roark said in an e-mail.  Texas sued the EPA Sept. 20 in the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the  District of Columbia  seeking a delay in the rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  