-- 
Merkel Diverges From Sarkozy on Greek Default Threat to Banks: Euro Credit

-- B y   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-10-07T09:51:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/merkel-sarkozy-divided-on-default-threat-to-banks-euro-credit.html
Angela Merkel  and  Nicolas Sarkozy  are
running out of road.  Whether to allow Greece to default and how to manage the
fallout, questions they have tried to avoid for more than a
year, may finally require answers as European officials turn to
fortifying banks and consider ways of easing Greece’s debt load.
It costs $6 million plus $100,000 a year to insure $10 million
of Greek securities for five years, with credit-insurance prices
pointing to a 91 percent chance of default.  As the German chancellor and French president prepare to
meet in two days for their eighth bilateral summit in 20 months,
Merkel has cited the need to prepare for the default that
investors see as a sure thing. Sarkozy, whose banks have
the most to lose, is unwilling to gamble on letting  Greece  go.  “The whole German debate about a default of Greece is a
German debate, not a European debate,” said Stefan Collignon, a
former German Finance Ministry official and political economist
at the Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies in Pisa,  Italy .
“The commitment everywhere else, including in France, is very
much to avoid that by all possible means.”  The heads of Europe’s two biggest economies, along with
their finance chiefs, meet in Berlin on Oct. 9 with the euro
near a nine-month low against the dollar. French 10-year bonds
yield 78 basis points more than their German equivalents, near
the euro-era record set Aug. 8. Investors are demanding a
premium of 21.4 percentage points to hold Greek 10-year bonds
over benchmark German bunds of similar maturity.  The leaders will discuss banks’ finances in their Berlin
talks, Sarkozy told reporters in Yerevan,  Armenia , declining to
comment further on the crisis.  Credit Ratings  The leaders’ contrasting approaches on Greece may reflect
the relative vulnerability of their top credit ratings and
economies.  France ’s AAA rating and its banks are on the front
line of potential damage, while German exposure to Greek debt is
smaller.  Credit-default swaps on  Germany  have almost doubled this
year to reach a high of 121 basis points Oct. 4. French CDS
exceeded 200 basis points last month. Higher prices indicate
greater risk.  “Sarkozy is obviously the weaker partner,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels, said in a phone
interview. Even so, “Merkel needs Sarkozy’s support on the debt
restructuring issue, not necessarily that it’s going to happen
now, but that it’s going to happen sometime.”  Already the biggest contributor to bailouts for Greece,
Ireland and Portugal, Merkel may not offer much in return when
she hosts Sarkozy at the Chancellery.  Last Resort  She’s been stressing the limits of joint action, saying
Oct. 5 that Europe’s rescue fund will only be used as a last
resort to save banks and that investors may have to take deeper
losses in a Greek rescue. Germany is also resisting discussion
of leveraging the 440 billion-euro ($586 billion) fund to boost
its firepower.  European leaders are struggling to persuade investors they
can stem the sovereign-debt woes as the crisis gnaws at the euro
area’s core, prompting speculation of another government rescue
of  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the municipal lender bailed out by France and
Belgium in 2008.  Underscoring the risks, Moody’s Investors Service lowered
Italy’s credit rating by three steps on Oct. 4 and warned that
euro-area nations rated below the top Aaa level may have their
rankings cut.  Disagreements  Since the crisis broke out in Greece in late 2009, Merkel
and Sarkozy have differed on key points -- including the role of
the  International Monetary Fund  in rescues, sanctions for
countries that break deficit rules and how to make banks take
losses to help rescue Greece -- before finding a way forward.  Germany and France are at odds over whether the European
Financial Stability Facility rescue fund should have limits on
government bond purchases, Germany’s Handelsblatt newspaper
reported today, citing an unidentified European Union diplomat.  “Franco-German cooperation hasn’t worked well in terms of
solving the crisis,” Paul De Grauwe, an economics professor at
the  Catholic University  of Leuven in Belgium, said in a phone
interview. “The two have pursued different objectives.”  As German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  urges euro-
area counterparts to develop individual plans to protect their
nations’ banks, Merkel is laying out the scenario of Greece
defaulting without leaving the currency union she has vowed to
preserve.  ‘Barrier’ Needed  “We have to be able to put up a barrier,” she said on
Sept. 26. “I don’t rule out at all that at some point we will
have the question of whether one can do an insolvency of states
just like with banks.”  She raised the specter of running out of time, patience and
money on Oct. 5, prodding other EU governments to figure out
whether banks need capital boosts. “Time is short,” she said.  In contrast, Sarkozy has referred to  Europe  as a “family”
that must stick together to support its weakest members. After
hosting Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  at his Elysee
Palace on Sept. 30, Sarkozy rejected daring the markets with an
insolvency.  “The failure of Greece would be the failure of all of
Europe,” Sarkozy told reporters. “Remember in 2008, when the
U.S. let  Lehman Brothers  fail, the global financial system paid
the price. For both economic reasons and moral reasons, we can’t
let Greece fail.”  Greek Holdings  Sarkozy, whose popularity is near a record low as he
decides whether to seek a second term next year, has reasons for
concern. At the end of March, French financial firms had $672
billion in public and private debt in Greece, Portugal, Ireland,
Italy and  Spain , according to Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements. That’s the biggest exposure to the
euro-area’s troubled countries and almost a third more than
German lenders.  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said last month
that French banks don’t need recapitalization as  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, BNP Paribas SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , the
country’s largest lenders, have announced plans to reinforce
their capital by cutting assets.  Merkel, who faced down two junior parties in her government
that flirted with anti-bailout stances, won a victory last week
when her coalition’s lawmakers passed an expansion of the EFSF
that allows it to buy sovereign bonds in the secondary market
and recapitalize banks.  Euro Stability  Merkel signaled that Germany’s largesse is now exhausted,
saying Oct. 5 that the rescue fund’s new powers must only be
used if the “stability of the euro as a whole” is at risk.  Merkel and Sarkozy issued coordinated statements on Sept.
14 after a three-way phone call with Papandreou, saying they are
“convinced” Greece will stay in the euro area.  In focusing on Greece, Europe’s leaders are “asking the
wrong question,” Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said
yesterday in a speech in Ireland’s upper house of parliament.
Europe should recapitalize banks to build a “financial firewall
against contagion,” tackle Greek debt and then sort matters of
governance, he said.  “The question is what should Europe do about the euro
zone, and if you answer that question then Greece falls into
context,” Noonan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  