-- 
Hermes Fund Sees Biggest Raw-Material Rebound in Gold, Grains: Commodities

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   T o n y   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-10-06T17:42:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/hermes-fund-sees-biggest-raw-material-rebound-in-gold-grains-commodities.html
Corn, wheat and gold will beat other
raw materials this quarter as crop yields drop and  Europe ’s debt
crisis stokes demand for bullion, said David Hemming, who helps
oversee a fund that returned 20 times the average this year.  Corn may rally 19 percent to $7.25 a bushel, wheat may
climb 21 percent to $7.50 a bushel and gold may gain 12 percent
to $1,850 an ounce by December, said the London-based  fund
manager  for Hermes Investment Management Ltd. He advises on
allocations in the $130 million DB Platinum V Hermes Absolute
Return Commodity Fund, a mutual fund which made 12 percent in
the first eight months. That compares with a mean return of 0.6
percent across commodity hedge funds tracked by HedgeFund.net.   Commodities entered a  bear market  last month after tumbling
more than 20 percent from this year’s peak in April, on concern
that slowing growth will curb demand. While consumption of
everything from copper to oil and silver fell in 2008 during the
worst slump since World War II, demand for gold and corn grew.  “The biggest potential is the grains,” said Hemming, 30.
Gold is “a good hedge against any run in the European sovereign
debt and banks, and any macro-driven routs in the U.S.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 4.6
percent this year with sugar, wheat, natural gas and oil among
the decliners. Gold was the best performer.  Equities, Bonds  The MSCI All-Country World Index of global equities lost 14
percent this year, while Treasuries maturing in 10 years or more
returned 28 percent, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
European policy makers are working to halt a debt crisis and
avoid a default among euro members that may be led by  Greece .  Investors withdrew $1.08 billion from commodity funds in
the week to Sept. 28, the most in more than a month, according
to data from EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research company. Money managers cut combined net-long
positions, or bets on higher prices, across 18 U.S. commodity
futures and options by 26 percent in the week to Sept. 27 to the
lowest since July 2010, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show.  Corn fell 23 percent to $5.925 on the Chicago Board of
Trade last month, the biggest drop in at least five decades.
Futures tumbled on speculation that prices which reached a
three-year high in June would crimp exports, spur livestock
farmers to switch to other feeds and curb demand from refiners
who use the grain to make ethanol. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  forecast Sept. 12 that global stockpiles will shrink
for a third year, driving inventories to a five-year low.  Yield Forecast  “While the recent selloff has tempered our price
expectations, it has also done nothing to ration demand,” said
Hemming, who helps manage about $1.7 billion in five commodity
funds for Hermes. The next USDA estimates, scheduled to be
released on Oct. 12, will probably show more cuts in yield and
acreage forecasts, he said.  The return of La Nina, a period of cooling equatorial
waters in the  Pacific Ocean , may mean dry weather in parts of
the U.S. and  South America  and lower yields, Hemming said.
Argentine farmers began planting corn in September and sowing
starts this month in  Brazil . Weather patterns are within “weak
La Nina-like territory,”  Australia ’s Bureau of Meteorology said
in a report Sept. 27.  Most Bullish  Corn is trading at a 3.5 percent discount to wheat, which
can also be used as a livestock feed, compared with a premium of
more than 5 percent in June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s still above the average discount of 27 percent over the
past five years. Wheat declined 31 percent since reaching a 2
1/2-year high of $9.1675 a bushel in February. Speculators are
their most bearish on the grain since June 2010, holding a net-
short position of 36,215 contracts, CFTC data show.  Wheat futures may climb if money managers close out short
positions, said Hemming. Wheat fell 23 percent last month, the
biggest drop since 1974. Combined inventories of corn, wheat and
barley will decline for a second consecutive year by the end of
this season, reaching the lowest since 2008, according to U.S.
Department of Agriculture data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hermes’s absolute return fund makes bets on the direction
of prices and also changes in the relative value of different
commodities or settlement dates, said Hemming, who worked at
State Street Global Advisors Inc. before joining Hermes in 2006.  Absolute Return  Hemming also helps manage the $85 million DB Platinum V
Hermes Enhanced Beta Commodity Fund, which returned 8.2 percent
in the first eight months. The fund, together with the absolute
return fund, is part of a venture with Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest bank. Hemming additionally helps
manage $1.5 billion through Hermes Commodities Index Strategy,
Hermes Commodities Index Plus Strategy and Hermes Commodities
Alpha Strategy.  The Absolute Return Commodity Fund and the Enhanced Beta
Commodity Fund comply with UCITS III, or Undertakings for
Collective Investment in Transferable Securities, which means
retail investors in Europe can place money with them.  Gold dropped 14 percent since reaching a record $1,921.15
on Sept. 6 as investors sold the metal to cover losses in other
markets. Holdings in exchange-traded products backed by bullion
fell 3.7 percent since reaching an all-time high of 2,299.8
metric tons in August, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hemming’s forecast for prices echoes bets in options on
futures traded on the Comex exchange in  New York , where the most
widely held contract gives the holder the right to buy gold at
$2,000 by November. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which is advising
clients to buy December futures, predicts $1,860 in 12 months,
according to an Oct. 4 report.  Silver, Platinum  The metal’s 16 percent advance this year compares with a
3.1 percent gain for silver, the precious metal most used in
industry. Platinum, used in autocatalysts and jewelry, fell 15
percent and is on track for its worst year since 2008.  The  International Monetary Fund  said last month that
European lenders face as much as 300 billion euros ($400
billion) of credit risks because of the debt crisis. Banks were
the second-worst performing group in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
this year, behind basic-resources companies, losing 34 percent.  “We look to be long gold because of our concerns
surrounding Europe, because the problems don’t look to have been
solved in a meaningful way,” Hemming said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  