-- 
ESPN Drops Hank Williams Jr.’s Song From Monday Football on Hitler Remark

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-10-06T16:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/espn-drops-williams-jr-over-hitler-remark.html
ESPN said it has permanently removed
Hank Williams Jr.’s opening song to its “Monday Night
Football” telecasts, three days after the country singer
compared President Barack Obama to Hitler.  “We appreciate his contributions over the past years,”
the  Walt Disney Co (DIS) .-owned network said in a statement. “The
success of ‘Monday Night Football’ has always been about the
games, and that will continue.”  ESPN had yanked the song, which contains the lyrics “Are
you ready for some football?” from this past Monday’s game
between the  Indianapolis Colts  and  Tampa Bay Buccaneers .  Williams in a statement on his w ebsite  said it was his
decision to pull the song for the remainder of the season.  “After reading hundreds of e-mails, I have MY decision. By
pulling my opening Oct 3rd, You (ESPN) stepped on the Toes of
The First Amendment,” the statement said. “Freedom of Speech,
so therefore Me, My Song, and All My Rowdy Friends are OUT OF
HERE. It’s been a great run.”  The controversy began Oct. 3 when the entertainer appeared
on the Fox News Channel. While criticizing Obama and House
Speaker  John Boehner  for playing a round of golf together during
the summer, Williams said it would be like “Hitler playing golf
with Netanyahu,” referring to  Benjamin Netanyahu , the prime
minister of  Israel .  Williams later issued a statement, saying the comparison
was “extreme.”  “I was simply trying to explain how stupid it seemed to
me, how ludicrous that pairing was. I have always respected the
office of the president.”  ESPN said former Lions running back Barry Sanders will
narrate the opening to its Oct. 10 game between the Bears and
Lions. It’s the first Monday night game in Detroit in a decade,
the network said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  