-- 
EU Leaders Under Investor Pressure to Devise Bank Rescue Plan Before G-20

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-10-07T10:37:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/eu-leaders-under-investor-pressure-to-devise-bank-rescue-plan-before-g-20.html
European Union leaders are under
pressure from investors to devise a comprehensive plan to rescue
the region’s banks before a Group of 20 summit in November.  “A blanket recapitalization of banks, in some cases, over-
capitalizing those banks, would be the only thing that’s going
to restore confidence at this juncture,”  Simon Maughan , head of
sales and distribution at MF Global Ltd. in London, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  Plans to inject capital into Europe’s banks are “well
under way,” European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said
yesterday. The  European Central Bank  also reintroduced yearlong
loans, giving banks unlimited access to cash through January
2013. Lenders in the region may need as much as 200 billion
euros ($269 billion) of additional capital, according to the
International Monetary Fund’s European head Antonio Borges.  Speculation that EU leaders may agree on a comprehensive
recapitalization plan has helped to boost the Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index 9 percent in the past two
days. Bank stocks dropped 30 percent this year as investors
became concerned that financial firms will have to write down
their holdings of Greek, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese
government bonds.  Investors are also pushing up the cost of borrowing for
those governments on concern that they will have to bail out
their lenders. The challenge is for EU leaders to break that
cycle before rising funding costs trigger a default by  Greece  or
force banks to curtail lending and cause a recession.  ‘Meltdown’  “If they can’t address this in a credible way, I believe
within perhaps two to three weeks we will have a meltdown in
sovereign debt which will produce a meltdown across the European
banking system,” Robert Shapiro, chairman of the economic
consulting firm Sonecon LLC in  Washington  and an adviser to the
IMF, told the British Broadcasting Corp.’s Newsnight yesterday.
“It will spread everywhere because the global financial system
is so interconnected,” he said. “This would be a crisis that
would be more serious than the crisis in 2008.”  Even a recapitalization of European banks may fail to
reassure investors because they will still question the ability
of governments to meet their borrowing costs. Injecting capital
into  Europe ’s banks won’t provide the “silver bullet” that is
needed to solve the crisis, said Huw van Steenis, a banking
analyst at Morgan Stanley in London. It needs to be done in
conjunction with measures to shore up sovereign debt, he said.  “The banking crisis isn’t going to be resolved until the
sovereign crisis is resolved,” said  David Watts , a strategist
at CreditSights Inc. in London. “Capital isn’t the way to go
because the needs are too big and will weaken the sovereign.”  Relying on ECB  Banks would need to raise about 148 billion euros in the
event of a 60 percent writedown on their holdings of Greek debt,
40 percent for Portugal and Ireland and 20 percent for Italy and
Spain,  Kian Abouhossein , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, wrote
in a note to clients Sept. 26.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s
biggest lender, would need 9.7 billion euros more capital,
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  5.1 billion euros and France’s  Societe Generale (GLE) 
SA 6 billion euros, Abouhossein said.  European lenders are struggling to fund themselves and are
reliant on emergency cash from the ECB. U.S. money-market funds
cut their holdings of commercial paper sold by foreign financial
firms, mostly European, by 31 percent in the third quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lenders increased
overnight deposits at the ECB yesterday to the highest in more
than a year. Banks parked 221 billion euros at the ECB, the most
since July 2010.  ‘Scaring the World’  “The priority is to work hard and fast to prevent banks’
funding drying up, as this will only exacerbate funding
difficulties for companies and consumers at a time when they are
already under pressure due to the wilting recovery,” said Yael
Selfin, head of macro consulting at PricewaterhouseCoopers in
 London . “The alternative could easily see the euro-zone economy
going back into recession.”  Smarting from global criticism including U.S. President
Barack Obama’s comment that Europe’s fiscal pain is “scaring
the world,” EU leaders are looking at the November G-20 summit
in Cannes as a deadline to show they are in control of events.  “They won’t want to go to Cannes without putting a plan in
place to solve the euro zone’s problems,” Maughan said in an
interview. EU leaders want to use the meeting to push through
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s latest round of
 capital requirements , he said. “That will be totally derailed
if all that happens is that  China , the U.S. and a whole number
of other countries just lecture them on why they haven’t sorted
their own problems out.”  Berlin Meeting  EU leaders must still decide who provides additional
capital to the banks and what form it will take. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on Oct. 5 that Europe’s rescue
fund should be relied upon only as a last resort.  “If a country cannot do it using its own resources and the
stability of the euro as a whole is put at risk because the
country has difficulties, then there’s the possibility of using
the EFSF,” or the European Financial Stability Facility, she
said. Using the EFSF rescue fund is “always tied to a certain
conditionality.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said he will discuss bank
refinancing with Merkel when he visits Berlin on Oct. 9.
Sarkozy, who was speaking today in Yerevan,  Armenia , declined to
comment further on banks.  Magnifying ESFS  German lawmakers last week approved an expansion of the
rescue fund, setting the stage for the overhauled 440 billion-
euro facility to be in place by mid-October. If approved by all
17 euro-zone countries, the fund will be able to provide money
to governments, which could then inject it into their banks.  Policy makers are debating how to magnify the firepower of
the EFSF to as much as 1 trillion euros. While one route would
be for the facility to operate like a bank and borrow from the
ECB, using bonds it purchases as collateral,  Jean-Claude Trichet , president of the central bank, said yesterday that
leverage wasn’t “appropriate.”  “The EFSF is simply not large enough to provide support to
both troubled banks and troubled sovereigns,” said Sony Kapoor,
managing director of London-based policy group Re-Define Europe.
“Even after its upgrade, the EFSF won’t be able to support weak
banks in troubled countries that are exactly the kind of
institutions that most need its support.”  New Stress Tests  Southern European states are most likely to need money from
the EFSF to recapitalize their banks, said Nick Firoozye, a
senior rates strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in London.  “France and Germany can recapitalize their own banks, but
it’s likely that Spain and  Italy  would need EFSF support to do
so,” Firoozye said. “France and Germany are able to raise
money in the bond markets at a cheaper rate than they can do
through the EFSF. Europe needs to do the bank recapitalizations
in a coordinated fashion to make sure they are effective.”  EU regulators’ stress tests on the region’s lenders in July
failed to reassure investors that European banks will be
adequately capitalized in the event of sovereign defaults. Eight
banks failed the European Banking Authority’s tests, with a
combined shortfall of 2.5 billion euros.  A new round of tests that require banks to maintain a
minimum core Tier 1 capital ratio of 7 percent to 8 percent
after writedowns on Greek, Italian, Irish, Spanish and
Portuguese government debt would provide the trigger for further
injections, Firoozye.  Preference Shares  Still to be decided are the instruments individual
governments will use to inject capital into their banks.  Under one option being discussed, banks will issue
preference shares to governments that would convert into core
Tier 1 equity if a lender fails to reach a set capital target
within a given timeframe, Morgan Stanley’s van Steenis wrote in
a note. That would avoid immediate dilution of shareholders and
allow lenders to raise capital when there is less stress in the
markets, he said. Banks would be likely to face limits on
compensation and dividends paid to investors until they repaid
the government.  Also under consideration are mandatory convertible bonds,
which would automatically convert into common equity on a set
date; or contingent convertible bonds, which would convert into
common equity if a bank’s capital levels drop below a predefined
trigger, according to JPMorgan’s Abouhossein.  Edouard Carmignac, whose Paris-based Carmignac Gestion fund
oversees about 40 billion euros, has called on the ECB to buy
unlimited amounts of distressed countries’ sovereign debt. That
would “relieve European banks of the more than problematic need
for massive, immediate recapitalizations required by the
depreciation of their sovereign debt holdings,” Carmignac wrote
in a full-page advertisement in the Financial Times on Oct. 5.  European leaders need to address concerns about Italy’s
solvency or risk treating only the symptoms of the crisis,  Jon Peace , a banking analyst at Nomura, wrote in a report today.  “The intensity of policy debate has taken a step up, but
it is a complex process and there is still a lot to be
decided,” said Morgan Stanley’s van Steenis. “Odds are the
recapitalization program is in November.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  