-- 
EU Sees Coordinated Bank Aid Push as Merkel Urges Conditions

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-06T14:38:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/eu-urges-coordinated-bank-aid-as-merkel-says-help-should-be-a-last-resort.html
The European Commission is pushing
for a coordinated capital injection for banks to shield them
from the fallout of a potential Greek default as Germany urges
each country to prepare its own blueprint.  “We are determined to do everything necessary to ensure
that Europe’s banks are able to play their essential role in
lending,” the commission’s president,  Jose Barroso , told
reporters in Brussels today. “Close coordination at European
level is essential.”  Financial shares continued their advance after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  fed speculation that euro policy makers
are working on plans to boost bank capital. In Brussels
yesterday, Merkel made her most explicit comments yet on banks’
role in fighting the crisis, saying that the European rescue
fund should only be relied upon as a last resort.  “If a country cannot do it using its own resources and the
stability of the euro as a whole is put at risk because the
country has difficulties, then there’s the possibility of using
the EFSF,” the European Financial Stability Facility, she said.
Using the EFSF rescue fund is “always tied to a certain
conditionality.”  Merkel held talks in Berlin today with International
Monetary Fund chief  Christine Lagarde , World Bank president
 Robert Zoellick  and  Angel Gurria  of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, among others. European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  is due to join the
talks after chairing his last rate-setting meeting. The finance
ministers of  Brazil ,  Mexico  and France will also take part.  Trichet’s Call  Trichet said today he was making a “strong call” to
European banks and supervisors including the European Banking
Authority to “do all what is necessary” to address the need
for recapitalization. He said banks shouldn’t be reluctant to
accept state help when needed.  “Where necessary, they should take full advantage of
government support measures, which should be made totally
operational,” Trichet said at a press conference in Berlin
after the ECB decided to resume covered-bond purchases and
reintroduce year-long loans for banks as the sovereign debt
crisis threatens to lock money markets.  France ’s Le Figaro newspaper reported today that the French
government is working on a contingency plan to take stakes in
the country’s lenders. A government official rejected the report
as false, without further explanation.  Possible Recapitalization  Henri Guaino, an adviser to French President Nicolas Sarkozy adviser, said the government isn’t planning to take
stakes in banks, saying “it isn’t envisaged at the moment.”
Speaking in an interview in Yerevan, Armenia, he said “maybe a
recapitalization will be necessary” for banks.  Signals that European politicians may step up efforts to
aid banks and push investors to accept bigger losses as part of
a Greek bailout reflect international pressure to end the debt
crisis and domestic opposition to expanding rescues. Moody’s
Investors Service followed its three-level downgrade of  Italy  on
Oct. 4 by warning that euro-area nations rated below the top Aaa
level may see their rankings cut.  “Time is running out” to establish if recapitalization is
necessary, Merkel said yesterday. She said she backs
recapitalizing European banks “if there is a joint assessment
that the banks aren’t adequately capitalized” and finance
officials develop “uniform criteria.”  Germany  is ready to
discuss possible bank aid at this month’s EU summit, she said.  Greek ‘Adjustment’  Merkel also said that “if needed, there will be an
adjustment” in investors’ share of a 159 billion-euro ($212
billion) second aid package for  Greece , pending a report by
international auditors on Greece’s finances due before a meeting
of European finance ministers next month.  France’s  Natixis (KN)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA were among the biggest
gainers on the 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index, which added 2.4 percent after yesterday’s 4.8
percent advance. Natixis climbed as much as 13 percent, while
Paribas was up as much as 7.8 percent.  European banks may need more than 140 billion euros of
capital through a program similar to the U.S. Troubled Asset
Relief Program, Morgan Stanley analysts say.  “Policy makers increasingly want to build a large solvency
buffer,” the analysts led by Huw van Steenis said in a note.
“We think banks in core  Europe  need to be recession proofed and
banks in the periphery depression proofed.”  At his press conference today, Trichet said the ECB hasn’t
“devised an amount of money which would be necessary” for
European banks. He said it wouldn’t be that much “of an
importance” to have such a projection.  “What counts is that each particular commercial bank, each
particular financial institution, is up, running and with the
appropriate credibility vis-à-vis its own environment,” he
said. “That calls for decisions that are not alike here and
there” and any overall figure “does not represent really what
is appropriate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Yerevan,  Armenia  at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  