-- 
Euro-Indebted Emerging Market Currencies No Longer Insulated From Slowdown

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-10-07T18:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/euro-indebted-emerging-market-currencies-no-longer-insulated-from-slowdown.html
The worst declines since at least
2008 for emerging-market currencies may have further to go as
the debt and banking crisis in  Europe  buffets economies once
resistant to the global slowdown.  European lending of $3.4 trillion to developing nations is
almost triple that from U.S. and Japanese institutions combined,
according to Bank for International Settlements  data  through
March 2011. This leaves emerging countries more vulnerable to
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis than they were to the global
credit meltdown in 2008, according to Royal Bank of Canada.  The  International Monetary Fund  reduced growth projections
for emerging markets last month, as the deepening European
crisis stifles liquidity and threatens to drive the global
economy into recession. Option traders are increasingly bearish
on currencies including the Brazilian real and South African
rand, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The problems are centered in western Europe and the U.S.
so those asset prices moved first and it’s now trickling down to
emerging markets,”  Nick Chamie , the global head of emerging
market research at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets
unit in Toronto, said by telephone Sept. 27. “Until conditions
stabilize in a long-lasting way in Europe and the U.S. in terms
of the economic outlook, emerging market assets will continue to
come under selling pressure.”  Pulling Out  Investors pulled $3.2 billion out of emerging-market debt
funds in the week ended Sept. 28, the biggest outflow since
2005, according a report by ING Groep NV on Sept. 29, citing
data compiled by EPFR Global Data. The withdrawal accounted for
2.3 percent of total assets.  Brazil’s real, Hungary’s forint, Poland’s zloty and other
developing-country currencies declined more than 12 percent on
average last month against the dollar. An index of six Latin
American exchange rates fell 11 percent, wiping out all the
gains in the past two years, and major Asian currencies slid 4.2
percent, the most since the region’s financial crisis in 1997,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The selloff has more to go,”  Bhanu Baweja , global head
of emerging-market currency and credit strategy at UBS AG in
London, said in a telephone interview Sept. 27. “Decoupling
doesn’t happen when the developed world is in bad shape.”  Instead of raising  interest rates , central banks in Brazil
and Turkey have cut borrowing costs to bolster economic growth
as exports slow, reducing the allure of their currencies. Policy
makers from  Chile  to  Mexico  have signaled that they are ready to
follow should the global economy weaken further.  ‘Severe’ Repercussions  Developed countries accounted for 52 percent of gross
domestic product, with the 17-nation euro region and the U.S.
making up 34 percent, IMF data show.  Citing “severe” repercussions if Europe fails to contain
its debt crisis or U.S. policy makers deadlock over a fiscal
plan, the agency said in a Sept. 20  report  that growth in
emerging countries will total 6.4 percent this year and 6.1
percent in 2012. Those projections are down from 6.6 percent and
6.4 percent it forecast earlier.  Emerging markets “will not be completely immune to the
slowing in developed market activity,” JPMorgan economists
wrote in an Oct. 5 report. The New York-based firm cut its
annualized global growth estimate for the next three quarters by
almost 1 percentage point to 1.7 percent.  Credit Suisse Group AG reduced growth forecasts for
developing economies to 6 percent this year and 5.6 percent next
year from an expected 6.2 percent expansion in 2011 and 6.1
percent in 2012. London-based analyst Kasper Bartholdy cited
“calamity risk in Europe” as a risk to the outlook, in a note
to clients today.  Cutting Back  The $3.4 trillion in lending to emerging markets from banks
in Europe, including  Germany  and the U.K., compares with $299
billion from  Japan  and $727 billion from the U.S., according to
BIS data as compiled by Royal Bank of  Canada .  European banks’ lending to Hungary amounted to more than 70
percent of that country’s GDP, according to estimates by
 Barclays Capital  based on BIS data. Lending to Poland reached 40
percent of GDP, and that to Brazil and Mexico was equal to about
20 percent of their economies.  Lenders are already cutting back. London-based HSBC
Holdings Plc was the No. 6 arranger of syndicated loans in the
Asia-Pacific region outside Japan last quarter, down from No. 4
a year earlier, Bloomberg data show. Montrouge, France-based
Credit Agricole SA dropped to 21 from 17, while Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, which sold assets in  Asia  after receiving
the biggest bailout in banking history from the British
government during the financial crisis, fell to 25 from 19.  Relative Strength  The IMF’s forecast that emerging-market economies will
expand 6.4 percent this year is still four times greater than
the 1.6 percent rate for developed nations.  They are also on sounder fiscal footing. Emerging-market
sovereign debt will probably amount to 35 percent of GDP this
year on average, about one-third the level for developed
markets, the IMF said in June.  Trading patterns show the currencies may be poised to
rally. The 14-day relative strength index for  Russia ’s ruble
versus the dollar remained below the 30 level for 19 days,
through Oct. 5, the most since 2009. A reading lower than 30
signals an asset’s price may have fallen too quickly and may
rebound. The South Korean won measure was under 30 for 13 days,
the longest run since 2008.  After trying to keep their currencies from appreciating too
quickly and hurting exporters, central banks in countries such
as Turkey, Russia, and  Brazil  are acting to stem declines.  Ruble Gains  Turkey’s central bank sold a record $750 million for lira
in an auction Oct. 5, propping up the nation’s currency from an
all time low. Russia’s sold about $8 billion to shore up the
domestic currency last month. That’s the most since it stopped
the ruble’s fall in January 2009, central bank chairman Sergey Ignatiev said.  The ruble strengthened for a third day today, gaining 0.1
percent to 32.3443 per dollar at 2:31 p.m. in  New York . The
Russian currency has been rebounding from its weakest in more
than two years of 32.9, reached on Oct. 4. Turkey’s lira was
little changed at 1.8483 per dollar after surging 2.4 percent in
the previous three sessions.  After 28 months trying to limit gains in the real, Brazil’s
central bank used derivatives on Sept. 22 to support the
currency after it fell to a two-year low. Just a year earlier,
Brazil Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  accused the U.S., Japan
and Europe of sparking a global “currency war” and said the
U.S. was “melting” down the dollar by flooding the economy
with greenbacks.  Market Reversal  “The intervention is an attempt to control the speed but
they cannot draw a line in the sand,” Stephen Jen, the managing
partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP in  London  and a former
currency strategist at Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone
interview Oct. 5. “The emerging market currencies have more
downside risk.”  Traders paid 11 percentage points more for the right to
sell the real in three months than to buy, the most since
January 2009, according to so-called risk reversal rates
compiled by Bloomberg. The premium to insure against further
drop in the rand rose to 8.2 percentage points, the most since
March 2009.  The recent selloff is a reversal from much of the past two
years, as investors sought emerging-market assets to avoid
record-low interest rates in the developed world. Rising demand
pushed the average yield on emerging market sovereign dollar-
denominated debt down 51 basis points, or 0.51 percentage point,
this year to 2011’s low of 6.12 percent on Aug. 3, according to
JPMorgan index data.  Equity Funds  Twelve emerging market currencies rallied more than five
percent against the U.S. currency during that time.  “Over the last two years emerging markets have benefited
across the board, even those that are undeserving, as a rising
tide floats all boats,”  Michael Woolfolk , a senior currency
strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., said in
a telephone interview Sept. 30.  The yield on the JPMorgan index rose to 6.5 percent
yesterday as investors began to trim their bullish bets.  Emerging-nation equity funds have posted nine straight
weeks of outflows, losing $21 billion, according to research
firm EPFR Global. The Standard & Poor’s Asia 50 Index tumbled
10.9 percent and Brazil’s Bovespa Index sank 7.4 percent in
September. The Mexican IPC index fell 6.2 percent last month,
contributing almost half of the 14.4 percent year-to-date
losses.  ‘Loosening Policy’  The dollar rose against all emerging-market counterparts
except for the  Hong Kong dollar  in September, its best month
since May. The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
uses to track the greenback against the currencies of six major
U.S. trading partners, rose 6.3 percent, beating the MSCI All-
Country World Index of stocks, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Index of bonds and S&P’s GSCI Total Return
Index of 24 commodities.  “The loosening policy by central banks will continue
further down the road,” Kathryn Rooney Vera, an analyst at
Bulltick Capital Markets in Miami and a former emerging-market
economist at Bear Stearns Cos., said in a telephone interview
Sept. 30. “There’s no substitute to the  U.S. dollar  at this
point as a safe haven and the reserve currency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  