-- 
European Stocks Climb for Second Day; BNP Paribas, Natixis Rally

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-10-06T16:04:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/european-stock-index-futures-climb-bhp-billiton-atos-next-may-be-active.html
European stocks rose for a second day
amid speculation policy makers will reach agreement to contain
the sovereign-debt crisis and as the Bank of England expanded
its bond-purchase program.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Natixis surged after
Le Figaro said the French government is working on a contingency
plan to take stakes in the country’s lenders.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s biggest mining company, rallied 5.9 percent as metal
prices increased.  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  surged 7 percent after a report
the brewer is in talks to be bought by  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV. (ABI)   The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 2.7 percent to 230.27 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The benchmark gauge has gained
5.9 percent over the past two days as investors speculated that
euro-area policy makers are working on plans to boost bank
capital.  “The market optimism may be explained by new initiatives
that have emerged as part of efforts to quell both the sovereign
debt and the banking crises,” said Stephane Ekolo, chief
European strategist at Market Securities in London. “The bond-
purchase announcement was a good move by the  Bank of England  as
the economy still faces downside risks stemming from the
sovereign-debt crisis.”  National benchmark indexes rose in every western-European
markets except Denmark. France’s CAC 40 Index advanced 3.4
percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 3.7 percent.
Germany’s DAX Index added 3.2 percent.  Bank Recapitalization Plans  Stocks extended gains as European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said in a video question-and-answer session that the
commission is proposing coordinated action to recapitalize
banks.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that the euro area
will only use its rescue fund as a last resort to save banks and
that investors may have to take deeper losses as part of a Greek
rescue. Merkel’s comments, her most explicit on banks’ role in
fighting the debt crisis since the spillover from  Greece  began
to threaten France and Italy, followed talks with Barroso in
Brussels.  European banks need the region’s regulators to help with
financing to prevent the debt crisis from worsening, said
UniCredit SpA Chief Executive Officer Federico Ghizzoni in an
interview.  Asset Purchases  The Bank of England expanded its bond-purchase plan as
government budget cuts and  Europe ’s debt crisis jeopardize
Britain’s economic recovery. The nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee raised the ceiling for so-called quantitative easing
to 275 billion pounds ($423 billion) from 200 billion pounds.
Only 11 of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey had forecast
an increase in asset purchases.  European stocks briefly pared gains after European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said the euro-area economy
faces “intensified downside risks.” The ECB kept its benchmark
rate unchanged at 1.5 percent, as predicted by 41 of 52
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., a report showed that claims for  unemployment
benefits  rose less than forecast last week to a level that shows
companies may be starting to slow the pace of dismissals.  Applications for jobless benefits increased by 6,000 in the
week ended Oct. 1 to 401,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. Economists had predicted 410,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Credit Agricole ,  Natixis (KN)   Credit Agricole climbed 5.3 percent to 5.44 euros, while
BNP surged 8.6 percent to 32.03 euros. Shares of Natixis surged
9 percent to 2.51 euros.  France’s state-holding agency is working on a plan,
involving two or three unnamed banks, Le Figaro said, citing a
person familiar with the matter that it didn’t identify. A
French government official, who declined to be named because
he’s not authorized to speak to the press, rejected the report,
calling it false.  A gauge of commodity companies jumped 5.5 percent for the
best performance among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.
BHP rallied 5.9 percent to 1,882 pence. Rio Tinto Group, the
world’s second-largest mining company, increased 7.6 percent to
3,126.5 pence. Copper, lead, nickel and tin rose in  London .  SABMiller, AB InBev  SABMiller, the maker of Peroni and Grolsch beer, soared 7
percent to 2,247.5 pence for its biggest gain since November
2008. Brazilian news website IG reported that AB InBev, the
world’s largest brewer, has held talks to acquire the company
for about $80 billion.  Nigel Fairbrass , a spokesman for London-based SABMiller,
and Marianne Amssoms, a spokeswoman for Leuven, Belgium-based AB
InBev, declined to comment on the report.  Atos SA rallied 8.1 percent to 34.64 euros. Chief Executive
Officer Thierry Breton confirmed the French computer-services
company’s targets for 2011 and 2013 in an interview with French
newspaper  Les Echos . The company will be debt free by June 30,
2012, Breton said.  UBS AG (UBSN)  gained 4.5 percent to 10.97 Swiss francs after
Switzerland’s biggest bank said Francois Gouws and Yassine Bouhara resigned as co-heads of global equities following last
month’s $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading.  Eurofins Scientific (ERF)  SA surged 9.4 percent to 59.20 euros.
The company predicted adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of as much as 145 million euros
($194 million) in 2011.  Hays Plc (HAS) , the London-based recruiting company, rallied 7.4
percent to 72.55 pence. The company said net fees rose 21
percent in the quarter ended September 30.  Dexia Shares Tumble  Dexia SA (DEXB)  sank 17 percent to 84.5 euro cents for the largest
plunge on the Stoxx 600 before trading in the lender’s shares
was suspended at the request of the regulator.  Luxembourg’s Finance Minister, Luc Frieden, said an
international investor is ready to take over Dexia Banque
Internationale a Luxembourg SA.  Qatari Investment Authority, the country’s sovereign-wealth
fund, may be part of a group of international investors looking
to buy the Luxembourg banking unit of Dexia, Les Echos reported,
without saying where it got the information.  Belgium will nationalize Dexia Bank Belgium NV pending a
sale, De Tijd reported on its website, citing unnamed sources.
Dexia needs to sell its Belgian banking unit to free capital for
its so-called bad bank, according to De Tijd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  