-- 
Merkel Meets Lagarde as Banks Gain on Aid Speculation

-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-10-06T09:05:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/europe-s-rescue-fund-is-only-last-resort-merkel.html
(Corrects misspelling of Lagarde in second paragraph. See
EXT4 for more on the European debt crisis.)  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
hosting the heads of the International Monetary Fund and  World
Bank  today, while European bank stocks gained for a second day 
as officials discussed a coordinated capital injection.  Merkel is due to hold talks from 3 p.m. in Berlin with IMF
chief  Christine Lagarde , World Bank president  Robert Zoellick 
and  Angel Gurria  of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development among others. European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  is due to meet Merkel after chairing his
last rate-setting meeting.  The European Commission is “proposing to have a
coordinated action to recapitalize banks,” commission President
 Jose Barroso  said today in a video question-and-answer session.  Financial shares continued their advance after Merkel fed
speculation that euro-area policy makers are working on plans to
boost bank capital amid the sovereign-debt crisis. During a
visit to Brussels, the chancellor made her most explicit
comments on banks’ role in fighting the crisis since the
spillover from  Greece  began to threaten  France  and  Italy .  Today, France’s Le Figaro reported that French government
is working on a contingency plan to take stakes in the country’s
lenders. A government official rejected the report as false,
without further explanation.  Merkel said that  Europe ’s rescue fund will only be used as
a last resort to save banks and that investors may have to take
deeper losses as part of a Greek rescue.  “Time is running out” to establish if recapitalization is
necessary, Merkel told reporters yesterday. Troubled banks need
to first seek capital on their own and national governments will
help if that’s not possible, she said.  ‘Certain Conditionality’  “If a country cannot do it using its own resources and the
stability of the euro as a whole is put at risk because the
country has difficulties, then there’s the possibility of using
the EFSF,” the European Financial Stability Facility, she said.
Using the rescue fund is “always tied to a certain
conditionality.”  Signals that European politicians may step up efforts to
aid banks and push investors to accept bigger losses as part of
a Greek bailout reflect international pressure to end the debt
crisis and domestic opposition to expanding rescues. Moody’s
Investors Service followed its three-level downgrade of Italy on
Oct. 4 by warning that euro-area nations rated below the top Aaa
level may see their rankings cut.  ‘An Adjustment’  Merkel said that “if needed, there will be an adjustment”
in investors’ share of a 159 billion-euro ($212 billion) second
aid package for Greece, pending a report by international
auditors on Greece’s finances due before a meeting of European
finance ministers next month.  She said that she supports recapitalizing European banks
“if there is a joint assessment that the banks aren’t
adequately capitalized” and finance officials develop “uniform
criteria.”  Germany  is ready to discuss possible bank aid at
this month’s EU summit, she said.  France’s  Natixis (KN)  and BNP Parisbas SA were among the biggest
gainers on the 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index, which added 2.5 percent after yesterday’s 4.8
percent advance. Natixis climbed as much as 10.2 percent, while
Paribas was up as much as 7.2 percent.  European banks may need more than 140 billion euros of
capital through a program similar to the U.S. Troubled Asset
Relief Program, Morgan Stanley analysts say.  ‘Solvency Buffer’  “Policy makers increasingly want to build a large solvency
buffer,” the analysts led by Huw van Steenis said in a note.
“We think banks in core Europe need to be recession proofed and
banks in the periphery depression proofed.”  EU officials are working on plans to boost bank capital to
contain the debt crisis, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “There is no secret at all that European authorities and
the European Commission are all working together on a plan to
bring more official capital, more public-sector capital, into
the banking sector,” Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European
department head, said yesterday in Brussels. “We would
recommend that it move to a European approach,” he said. “More
should be done on a cross-border basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  