-- 
Euro Heads for First Gain on Dollar in Three Weeks on Euro Debt Optimism

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-10-07T10:51:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/euro-heads-for-first-gain-versus-dollar-in-3-weeks-on-europe-debt-optimism.html
The euro headed for a weekly gain
versus the dollar, snapping two weeks of losses, on speculation
financial support for European banks will help stem the region’s
debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency was poised for its first weekly
advance in a month versus the Swiss franc after the  European
Central Bank  said yesterday it will reintroduce yearlong loans
and resume purchases of covered bonds to encourage lending. The
pound rose on optimism the  Bank of England ’s decision to
reactivate its bond-purchase program will help revive the U.K.’s
faltering economy. The Dollar Index pared a decline before the
U.S. Labor Department releases its monthly jobs data.  “The idea that European policy makers may finally sense
the urgency of the situation lifted the euro,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London . “The market’s giving them the
benefit of the doubt. The euro goes up against the dollar
because the policy initiatives are good” for risk sentiment.  The euro traded at $1.3429 at 6:50 a.m. in  New York  from
$1.3437 yesterday, having strengthened 0.3 percent this week.
The shared currency was little changed at 102.95 yen from 103.09
yen. It bought 1.2364 francs from 1.2370, poised for a 1.7
percent advance this week, the most since the period ended Sept.
9. The dollar traded at 76.68 yen from 76.72.  Merkel, Sarkozy  While the ECB took steps to bolster the region’s lenders,
the European Commission is pushing for a coordinated capital
injection into banks. German chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
policy makers “shouldn’t hesitate” if it turns out financial
institutions are undercapitalized. Merkel will meet with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in Berlin on Oct. 9 for their eighth
one-on-one summit in 20 months.  The ECB’s action “is shoring up European growth prospects,
and it’s shoring up European banks,” said  Adam Carr , a senior
economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the
world’s largest interdealer broker. “That is very positive
euro, and I would expect to continue to see the euro being bid
as a result.”  The pound strengthened the most in a week against the
dollar after Bank of England policy makers yesterday increased
the central bank’s quantitative-easing program by 75 billion
pounds ($116 billion) to 275 billion pounds. The currency rose
even after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 12 British
financial institutions.  Sterling gained 0.4 percent to $1.5513, and appreciated 0.5
percent to 86.59 pence per euro.  Aussie, Kiwi  The Australian dollar advanced for a fourth day against the
greenback as gains in Asian stocks boosted demand for higher-
yielding assets.  “The market has taken great confidence from the moves by
the ECB and BOE and also the realization that politicians are
getting a handle on the underlying issue, being bank capital,”
said Darryl Conroy, an analyst at Suncorp Bank in Brisbane. “A
number of the commodity currencies have tracked a very similar
and positive path on less fear emanating out of  Europe .”  Australia’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to 97.78 U.S. cents,
and the so-called kiwi was little changed at 77.20 cents, headed
for a 1.4 percent gain this week. The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index of
shares climbed 2 percent.  U.S. Payrolls  Losses in the dollar and yen were tempered before U.S.
reports today forecast to show a gain in unemployment in
September was not enough to bring down the jobless rate.  Employment climbed by 55,000 workers after no change in
August, according to the median forecast of 91 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The jobless rate was 9.1 percent for
a third month, according to the forecasts.  Unemployment has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009,
the longest stretch of such elevated joblessness since monthly
records began in 1948.  “The risks of a negative outcome for payrolls is certainly
higher than the market is currently expecting,” said  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac Banking
Corp.,  Australia ’s second-largest lender. “Demand across Europe
and Asia and the U.S. is slowing as well. That’s something that
should benefit the  U.S. dollar .”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 78.592 after weakening
0.3 percent to 78.415.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  