-- 
Teva Put Its Profit Ahead of Propofol Patient Safety, Jury Told

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L i z   B e n s t o n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/teva-put-profits-over-safety-of-propofol-patients-lawyer-argues.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s biggest generic-drug maker, was accused by lawyers
at a Nevada trial of putting profit ahead of the safety of
colonoscopy patients who got the company’s  Propofol  anesthetic
from reused vials.  Teva, along with drug distributors  Baxter International
Inc. (BAX)  and McKesson Corp., marketed Propofol in “jumbo-sized
vials” knowing it would entice doctors to reuse the containers
and increase the spread of blood-borne diseases,  Robert Eglet , a
lawyer for colonoscopy patients who developed hepatitis after
getting the medicine, told a Las Vegas jury yesterday.  “Responsible drug companies should not put profits above
patient safety,” Eglet said in closing arguments in the Nevada
state court trial of three patients’ lawsuits. “It’s undisputed
that these larger vials provided the temptation and the
opportunity” for reuse, he added.  Teva faces almost 300 lawsuits stemming from a hepatitis C
 outbreak  three years ago in southern  Nevada , the Petach Tikva,
Israel-based company said in a regulatory filing last month.
Nevada health officials blamed the reuse of Propofol vials for
infecting patients with the incurable liver disease. The trial
of the first case against Teva and Baxter last year resulted in
a verdict of more than $500 million against the drugmakers.  Teva’s lawyer countered that improperly sanitized medical
equipment, not reused Propofol containers, caused some Nevada
colonoscopy patients to develop hepatitis.  Because of the number of daily procedures being done by
some clinics it was “often impossible to properly clean”
medical equipment, Mark Tully, one of the drugmaker’s lawyers,
told jurors yesterday in his closing argument at the trial,
which started more than a month ago. “There were multiple
failures to follow proper medical procedures,” he added.  Criminal Indictment  Probes by Nevada health officials and the federal  Centers
for Disease Control  and Prevention blamed the reuse of Propofol
vials for infecting patients with the incurable liver disease.  Propofol is an intravenous agent used for sedation or
anesthesia, according to Teva’s website.  Last year, a state grand jury indicted  Dr. Dipak Desai , who
ran the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada at the time of the
outbreak, on criminal charges. Many of the hepatitis-related
cases were linked to that colonoscopy clinic. Desai also faces
federal charges over the outbreak.  McKesson, Baxter  Teva manufactures Propofol and San Francisco-based  McKesson
Corp. (MCK)  is its current U.S. distributor. Baxter, based in
Deerfield,  Illinois , sold the drug for Teva until 2009,
according to court filings. Teva has agreed to cover all damage
claims arising from the cases on behalf of the distributors,
according to court filings.  In the first Propofol case against Teva, a Las Vegas jury
awarded  Henry Chanin , a private-school principal, and his wife
$5.1 million in compensatory damages and $500 million in
punitive damages against Teva and Baxter. Chanin argued he
developed Hepatitis C after getting tainted Propofol during a
colonoscopy.  Jurors ordered Teva to pay $356 million of the punitive
damages award while assessing $144 million of the award to
Baxter. Teva officials have asked the  Nevada Supreme Court  to
throw out Chanin’s verdict  Three other  Las Vegas  residents,  Anne Arnold ,  Richard Sacks 
and Anthony Devito, contend Teva’s 50-milliliter Propofol
containers aren’t designed as single-use vials and the drugmaker
didn’t properly warn doctors about the dangers of “double
dipping” into the anesthetic.  Reusing Vials  The company ceased making smaller Propofol vials because
the larger containers were more profitable, lawyers for the
three colonoscopy patients contend in court filings. Doctors and
staff attempt to save money by reusing the vials and can pass
along contaminated amounts of the drug, they argue.  Eglet and  Will Kemp , another Las Vegas lawyer representing
the colonoscopy patients, indicated during jury selection in
Arnold’s, Sacks’s and Devito’s case that they may seek more than
$600 million in compensatory and punitive damages in the case.  Teva currently faces another trial in the same courthouse
over a suit from separate colonoscopy patient who developed
Hepatitis C after receiving Propofol from a tainted vial.  In yesterday’s arguments, Eglet said Teva’s 50-milliliter
Propofol containers amounted to “dangerous vials of mass
infection” that had “no legitimate purpose” at clinics
offering colonoscopies.  “If there’s more than one way to package a product, a
responsible  drug company  should choose the safest one,” Eglet
told jurors in his case yesterday. “That is the law.”  Tully countered that federal regulators approved the sale
of Propofol in larger containers and said Teva wasn’t
responsible for the misuse of the vials by medical personnel.  “Any size vial is safe if it’s used properly,” Philip
Hymanson, a lawyer for Baxter and McKesson, said in his closing
argument. “We’re never really going to know what happened in
those clinics.”  The case is Sacks v. Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada
LLC, 08A572315, District Court for  Clark County , Nevada (Las
Vegas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ; Liz Benston in Las Vegas at
 lbenston@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  