-- 
Evraz, Raspadskaya Management End Talks on Stake Sale

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-10-06T08:04:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/evraz-raspadskaya-management-end-talks-on-stake-sale-1-.html
Evraz Group SA (EVR) ,  Russia ’s largest
steelmaker by output, said it ended talks on the potential sale
of its 40 percent stake in coal producer OAO Raspadskaya “due
to high market volatility.”  Raspadskaya, which before today had slumped 66 percent in
Moscow trading since January, had its biggest intraday gain in
almost a year. The company’s management has no plan to sell its
40 percent stake.  “Raspadskaya is a good quality asset and one of the best
coking coal producers in Russia,” Evraz’s Chief Executive
Officer  Alexander Frolov  said in a statement.  Evraz said in March it was considering its options over the
stake. Evraz and Raspadskaya’s management were seeking to sell
their combined 80 percent stake in the Kemerovo, Siberia-based
company and had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley to
find a buyer, people familiar with the plan said at the time.  The prospect of the stake being sold in the next 12 to 18
months is “low,” Frolov said, though this possibility can’t be
ruled out in the “long-term.”  Evraz fully supports the managing shareholders of the coal
producer in their “implementation of the  Raspadskaya (RASP)  mine
restoration programme,” the CEO said, referring to an accident
at a Siberian mine last year that halted output for half a year.  The management of the Russian coal producer isn’t planning
to sell its 40 percent stake in the company, company spokesman
Alexander Andreev said in an e-mailed statement.  Raspadskaya said last week that first-half profit fell 57
percent from a year earlier as output hadn’t recovered since
since a series of explosions and fires at the Siberian mine last
year that killed 90 people.  Raspadskaya’s CEO Gennady Kozovoy said today in a separate
statement that he will remain in his post.  The shares jumped as much as 13 percent today and traded at
80.93 rubles as of 11:30 a.m. in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net  