-- 
Ex-Celtics Star Bill Russell Sues NCAA, Electronic Arts Over Image Use

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-10-07T00:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/ex-celtics-star-bill-russell-sues-ncaa-for-antitrust-in-licensing-dispute.html
William “Bill” Russell, former star
center for the  National Basketball Association ’s  Boston Celtics ,
accused the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  of using
his likeness from his college playing days without paying him or
seeking his consent.  The complaint is the latest to claim the NCAA violates
federal antitrust laws by keeping former student basketball and
football athletes from receiving compensation for the commercial
use of their images and likenesses. The association has denied
wrongdoing in those cases.  Electronic Arts Inc., the second-largest U.S. video-game
maker, is also named as a defendant in the lawsuit, filed
yesterday in federal court in Oakland, California. Russell
accuses it of using his image in a “Tournament of Legends”
feature on an NCAA basketball video game.  Russell, who led the University of  San Francisco  to NCAA
championships in 1955 and 1956, said in the complaint that the
association sells $150 videos of the team’s championship games.
At least 54 clips featuring him are available through the
website of the NCAA’s for-profit business partner and photos of
him through an NCAA online store, according to the complaint.  Russell, 77, is seeking a court order blocking further sale
of the videos and video games, plus disgorgement of profits from
them and unspecified damages.  Post-College Endorsements  The NCAA owns and licenses the copyright on the NCAA games
cited in the complaint, said Donald Remy, the association’s
general counsel. The NCAA doesn’t restrict athletes from
profiting from their college accomplishments through post-
college commercial endorsements and other ventures, he said in
an e-mail today.  “Mr. Russell, like the thousands of other student-athletes
who played the game, can capitalize on his likeness, reputation,
athletic and academic successes as a student-athlete after
college,” the e-mail said.  Russell’s complaint and similar lawsuits “would cause the
NCAA to lock up its archive of championship contests, and they
would be held hostage unless every student-athlete, coach, band
member, cheerleader and fan in a photo or camera shot received
compensation,” Remy said. “That is not how the law works nor
should it be.”  Jeff Brown , an Electronic Arts spokesman, didn’t respond to
a voice mail seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Ed O’Bannon  Russell’s claims will probably be consolidated with a
pending lawsuit brought by former  University of California ,  Los
Angeles , basketball star Ed O’Bannon on behalf of other former
NCAA players against the association and  Redwood City ,
California-based Electronic Arts, according to the complaint.  “ Bill Russell , one of the greatest NCAA, NBA and Olympic
basketball players in history, joins the lawsuit brought by Ed
O’Bannon alleging that the NCAA has violated federal antitrust
law by unlawfully foreclosing former Division I men’s basketball
and football players from receiving any compensation related to
the commercial use of their images and likenesses,” Jon King,
an attorney for the former players, said yesterday in an e-mail.  O’Bannon alleges that the NCAA and Electronic Arts worked
together to violate former student-athletes’ rights to control
and profit from the use of their images.  The NCAA and Electronic Arts have denied wrongdoing in that
case. The company has said in court filings that the
constitutional right to free speech under the First Amendment
means it doesn’t need permission to use the players’ likenesses
because the videos have enough creative elements that, as a
whole, they are more than a depiction of any one athlete.  Virtual Players  The games allow users to create their own plays and
players’ likenesses are only some of thousands of virtual
players in a game that contains other audio, visual and
engineering elements, Electronic Arts said in court documents.  Russell won 11 NBA titles with the Celtics. He was a five-
time NBA Most Valuable Player and is second on the career list
for rebounds with 21,620, trailing only Wilt Chamberlain, his
rival throughout the 1960s.  The case is Russell v. NCAA, 11-04938, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  