-- 
NHL’s Rick Martin Had Repetitive Brain Trauma Disease When He Died at 59

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/ex-nhl-wing-rick-martin-had-repetitive-brain-trauma-disease-when-he-died.html
Former  Buffalo Sabres  left wing Rick Martin, who died of a heart attack at age 59 in March, is the
first National Hockey League non-enforcer diagnosed with the
brain disease found in dozens of professional athletes.  Martin, who played on the Sabres’ “French Connection”
line in the 1970s, was diagnosed with Chronic Traumatic
Encephalopathy, or CTE, the  Boston University Center for the
Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy , said yesterday in a news
release.  He is the third former NHL player diagnosed with the
neurodegenerative disease, which is linked to repeated brain
trauma. Martin is the first who didn’t routinely engage in the
fighting that’s common among NHL enforcers, who are responsible
for protecting their own team’s stars and intimidating other
teams’ players.  Former NHL players Bob Probert and Reggie Fleming
previously were diagnosed with CTE. Probert was 45 when he died
last year from  heart disease  following a 16-year NHL
career that included 3,300 penalty minutes. Fleming, who died in
2009 at 73 with dementia, displayed 30 years of worsening
behavioral and cognitive difficulties, the center said.  “Rick Martin’s case shows us that even hockey players who
don’t engage in fighting are at risk for CTE, likely because of
the repetitive brain trauma players receive throughout their
career,” Chris Nowinski, a co-director of the center, said in a
statement. “We hope the decision makers at all levels of hockey
consider this finding as they continue to make adjustments to
hockey to make the game safer.”  Nowinski is co-founder and president of the Sports Legacy
Institute, which advocates for sports rules to reduce the risk
of concussions. A football player at Harvard, he went on to
World Wrestling Entertainment before a concussion forced him to
retire in 2004.  Repeated Brain Trauma  CTE is a degenerative brain disorder caused by repeated
brain trauma, including concussions and multiple blows to the
head such as those in hockey and other contact sports.  The NHL has focused this preseason on penalizing players
for hits to the head.  Martin’s brain was donated to the center after he died
following a one-car accident in a suburb of Buffalo,  New York .
CTE can only be diagnosed by examining brain tissue post-mortem,
and the center, which was founded in 2008, has accepted 96
specimens, including some from hockey players, football players,
professional wrestlers and boxers.  Martin was selected by the Sabres with the fifth overall
pick in the 1971 draft and set a then-NHL rookie record with 44
goals in his first season. He played on a line with center
Gilbert Perreault and right wing Rene Robert that became known
as the French Connection.  Over 11 NHL seasons, nine in Buffalo and two with the  Los
Angeles Kings , Martin scored 384 goals in 685 games. His only
known concussion came in a 1977 game, after which he wore a
helmet for his four remaining seasons. Helmets are now mandatory
in the NHL.  ‘Number of Variables’  With stage 4 CTE being the most severe, Martin had stage 2,
which was unlikely to significantly affect his cognitive ability
or behavior, the center said in its release.  “By that age most cases in our brain bank have advanced to
stage 3 or 4,” said Robert Cantu, a center co-director and a
clinical professor of neurosurgery. “There are a number of
variables that we don’t yet understand that could account for
this finding, such as lower lifetime exposure to brain trauma,
later onset of the disease, genetic risk factors, among
others.”  Among the specimens the center possesses is the brain of
former New York Rangers enforcer Derek Boogaard, who died in May
at age 28 of an accidental overdose of  prescription drugs .
Results from that case are pending.  With analysis of more than 70 former athletes completed,
the center says it has found that more than 50 have shown signs
of the disease, including 14 of 15 players from the  National
Football League .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  