-- 
Ex-World Cup Referee Collina Doesn’t Favor Goal-Line Technology

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-06T12:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/ex-world-cup-referee-collina-doesn-t-favor-goal-line-technology.html
Former  World Cup  referee Pierluigi Collina, who sits on European soccer body UEFA’s referee
committee, says the sport doesn’t need goal-line technology to
assist on-field rulings.  The Italian, who oversaw the 2002 World Cup final, said an
experiment using additional referees behind goals in the
Champions League and Europa League competitions over the past
two seasons has proved successfully. He said the additional
officials haven’t missed a single goal.  Soccer’s rule-makers, the  International Football
Association Board , will make a decision in March on whether to
use technology after asking a number of companies to participate
in tests over the past year. The body was forced into revisiting
the issue after England was denied what would have been an
equalizing goal in its second-round World Cup 2010 defeat to
 Germany .  “I think a goal line could easily be controlled by two
assistant referees and the goal could be achieved,” Collina
told an audience at the Leaders in Football conference in
 London . “Now we are running the experiments and I have to say
the feedback we’ve got so far has been very positive.”  Collina’s comments echo the position of UEFA President
 Michel Platini , who says he’s opposed to technology because he
thinks it would remove the “human” element from the sport.  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter , speaking to reporters in Wales
after a meeting of the IFAB last year, said technology could be
brought in ahead of the 2014 World Cup if the tests, which
include some that use micro-chipped balls and others that rely
on additional cameras, prove successful.  “If it works definitely, the board will say yes to the
technology,” Blatter said. “If the board says yes,” then
there should be no problem to have it in 2014, he said.  Frank de Bleeckere, a Belgium referee who works FIFA
tournaments and the  Champions League , said technology has been
tested since 2005 but hasn’t proved accurate. He described a
match at the 2007 Under-17 World Cup in Peru where a digital
display on his watch showed five goals had been scored rather
than the two that actually went in.  “Every time the ball went over the bar it was a goal,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at Stamford Bridge via the London newsroom at +44-  tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 