-- 
Express Scripts Shares Surge After Forecast Cut Wass Less Than Expected

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-10-06T20:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/express-scripts-cuts-forecast-on-lower-pharmacy-demand.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) , the drug
benefits manager seeking to buy rival  Medco Health Solutions
Inc. (MHS) , rose the most in two years in  New York  trading after the
company cut its profit forecast less than investors expected.  Express Scripts  increased $4.08, or 11 percent, to $40.02
at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading in the
biggest jump since April 2009. The St. Louis-based company said
in a statement that it expects adjusted earnings of $2.95 to
$3.05 a share for 2011, less than its prior forecast of $3.15 to
$3.25.  The company, which manages pharmacy benefits for employers
and unions, blamed the cut on “stagnant economic conditions”
as well as costs associated with its $29.1 billion bid for
 Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco. Shareholders had driven
the stock down 37 percent since July 22, the day after the deal
was announced, Bloomberg data show.  “There will be an acceleration in spending on projects to
create additional capacity to successfully complete integration
activities for the proposed merger with MHS,”  David Larsen , an
analyst at Leerink Swann in  Boston , said in a note today. “We
view this as an incremental positive, and an indication that
Express Scripts continues to believe there is a good chance”
the purchase will be approved by regulators.  Medco gained $3.31, or 7.3 percent, to $48.96 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Earnings Cut  Investors had expected Express Scripts to reduce the
forecast, Dave Shove, an analyst at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in New
York, said. In a Bloomberg survey, 23 analysts had estimated an
average profit of $3.13 a share this year, below the company’s
expectations.  “It’s possible that the actual lowering of guidance is not
as bad as what people thought it might be,” Shove said in a
telephone call.  The company put out a proxy filing that showed “low- to
mid-teens” growth in earnings before interest, taxes and
appreciation over the next three years, said Helene Wolk, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. The
projection was “reassuring,” she said.  Express Scripts also said it won’t repurchase more shares
until after it completes the Medco purchase. The acquisition
requires clearance from the  Federal Trade Commission .  State Scrutiny  The deal is being scrutinized by states concerned that the
combined companies would have too much market power.  The state inquiries are “ordinary course for a merger of
this nature,”  Brian Henry , an Express Scripts spokesman, said
today in an e-mail. He declined to specify which states have
contacted the company.  “As is generally the case, they are working in conjunction
with the FTC and we have spoken to some of them directly,”
Henry said. “We will continue to work with the FTC and those
states that have requested information.”  Susan Kinsman, a spokeswoman for the Connecticut attorney
general’s office, said the state is “coordinating its antitrust
investigation of the proposed merger with other state attorneys
general and the FTC.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net 
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  