-- 
F&C Says CEO Grisay Retires, Bramson Made Executive Chairman

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-10-06T08:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/f-c-says-ceo-grisay-retires-bramson-made-executive-chairman.html
F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM) , which
oversees the U.K.’s oldest investment fund, said Chief Executive
Officer Alain Grisay will step down in May.  Chairman  Edward Bramson  becomes executive chairman and will
gradually be assuming Grisay’s responsibilities, F&C said in a
statement today.  “Alain has been with F&C for over 10 years,” Bramson said
in the statement. “During this time Alain has led F&C to an
independent stock market listing, achieved the successful
acquisition of Thames River and steered the company through the
most tumultuous period of market upheaval for 60 years.”  Bramson, 60, founder of activist shareholder Sherborne
Investors LLC, gained investor support to oust Chairman Nick
MacAndrew in February after criticizing the company’s levels of
debt and recent acquisitions. At a meeting that month, Bramson
said he planned to work with the company’s current management to
formulate a new strategy.  MacAndrew and F&C’s management, including Grisay, 57, had
urged investors to reject Sherborne’s proposals, saying they
would destabilize the business. Bramson said he’d like Grisay to
stay in his post, the Times of  London  reported on Feb. 4, a day
after he became chairman.  “The announcement is not a big surprise in our view given
the historical difference between the incumbent CEO and
Sherborne,” wrote David McCann, an analyst at Numis Securities
Ltd. in London who has a “hold” rating on the stock. “We
continue to regard the stock as uninvestable” until a strategic
review, scheduled for October, is announced, McCann wrote.  The company in March posted a full-year net loss of 16.6
million pounds ($25.6 million) compared with a profit of 15.9
million pounds a year earlier as operating expenses and
financing costs rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  