-- 
Fairmont Sonoma Owners Said to Seek Sale of Luxury Wine-Country Spa Resort

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-10-06T21:36:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/fairmont-sonoma-owners-said-to-hire-broker-to-sell-luxury-resort.html
The owners of the  Fairmont Sonoma
Mission Inn & Spa  in Northern California’s wine district hired
Hodges Ward Elliott to sell the luxury resort for about $100
million, according to two people with knowledge of the listing.  Fairmont Hotels & Resorts Inc., based in Toronto, holds
almost 20 percent of the 226-room property, according to the
people, who asked not to be named because the sale is private.
The majority is owned by Crescent Real Estate Holdings LLC, a
joint venture of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  unit  Barclays Capital  and  Fort
Worth , Texas-based Goff Capital Inc., the people said.  Crescent purchased the resort in the mid-1990s and later
brought in Fairmont to operate it. A $55 million loan backed by
the property was sent to a special servicer in November 2010
because it was at risk of imminent default,  Realpoint LLC , a
unit of Morningstar Inc., said at the time. The loan matured
Feb. 1, according to the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based rating
company.  The owners and Midland Loan Services Inc., the special
servicer, agreed to a standstill in May, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The owners later declined a loan
modification in hopes of being able to sell or refinance the
property, according to Realpoint. Midland agreed to allow the
owners to resolve the debt by the end of January 2012, Realpoint
said.  Michelle Heston, a spokeswoman for Fairmont Hotels,
declined to comment. Jean Suitt, a spokeswoman for Crescent,
said the only person who could comment is Goff Capital founder
John Goff and that he wasn’t available. Calls to Hodges Ward
Elliott, an Atlanta-based broker specializing in hotel
properties, weren’t immediately returned.  Hot Springs, Golf  The resort has two outdoor pools, a 43,000-square-foot
(4,000-square-meter) spa, five restaurants and a wine room,
according to the property website. It also features natural
mineral hot springs and an 18-hole golf course.  The loan for the resort, which was built in 1926 and
renovated six years ago, was sponsored at issuance by Crescent
Real Estate Equities Co. and Fairmont Hotels. It was originated
by  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
according to Realpoint.  Crescent Real Estate Equities was acquired by Morgan
Stanley in 2007 and relinquished to a joint venture including
lender Barclays Capital in November 2009, when the company’s
name was changed to Crescent Real Estate Holdings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
2373 or  hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  