-- 
False Default Signal Seen With Swaps Cost Most Since January: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   A n d r e a   R i q u i e r
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/false-default-signal-seen-with-swaps-cost-most-since-january-muni-credit.html
The cost of protecting municipal debt
against default is at the highest level since January even as
past warning signals from derivative contracts proved unfounded.  Protection on $10 million of securities for 10 years cost
as much as $245,000 this week, according to London-based data
provider CMA. That’s the most since Jan. 7, three weeks after
banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  predicted “hundreds of
billions of dollars” of defaults in the coming year. Instead,
failures plunged to $1.1 billion, a quarter of 2010’s rate,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Prices of privately traded credit-default swap contracts
have risen 78 percent since May 31 even after states closed a
projected $32 billion in budget deficits,  according  to the
Washington-based  National Conference of State Legislatures .
States and localities have also recorded seven straight quarters
of year-over-year revenue growth, the  U.S. Census Bureau  said,
while enjoying the longest stretch of rising income and falling
interest rates since  Bill Clinton ’s presidency.  While states and cities are balancing budgets and slashing
borrowing costs, investors are buying hedges against defaults on
concern about a slowing global economy, said Peter Demirali, who
manages $350 million of municipal debt at Cumberland Advisors in
Mendham Township,  New Jersey .  “Revenues are increasing,” Demirali said in a telephone
interview. “They’re laying off workers and restructuring health
and pension benefits. So the risk isn’t really any higher, it’s
just that risk around the globe has moved higher.”  Economies Slow  U.S. gross domestic product growth may slow to 1.6 percent
this year from 3 percent in 2010, while  Europe ’s expansion rate
may cool to 1.7 percent from 1.8 percent, according to
economists’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  A credit-default insurance contract based on the Markit
MCDX credit-default swaps index reached a record of 340 basis
points in December 2008, following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings. While CDS prices were rising, yields on
municipal bonds had already begun plummeting to the lowest
levels in at least six years, according to Bloomberg Fair Value
data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Prices of the privately traded contracts next peaked on
June 30, 2010, two weeks after 10-year muni yields began a 29
percent drop lasting through early September. The 2011 high for
the CDS index was in January after Whitney’s appearance on CBS’s
“60 Minutes” on Dec. 19. By mid-February, municipal debt had
started an eight-month rally that pushed interest rates to the
lowest levels since 1967, when  Lyndon B. Johnson  was president.  Default Drop  About 64 percent of municipal bankers, advisers and
government officials expect the number of defaults to drop or
remain the same this year compared with 2010, according to an
 RBC Capital Markets  survey conducted at a Bond Buyer conference
in Carlsbad, California last month.  Credit-default swap costs may not be a precise gauge of
risk, said  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for California Treasurer
Bill Lockyer. The biggest borrower in the $2.9 trillion
municipal market saw the price of protecting its debt for 10
years jump to 286 basis points yesterday from 247 basis points
on Sept. 29, according to data from CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc.  “Anyone who tried to divine the reasons for movement in
municipal CDS prices is on a fool’s errand,” Dresslar said in
an e-mail. “There is no rhyme or reason. That’s probably
because the entire market has no basis in reality.”  Ratio Increase  The rise in credit default swaps has accompanied an
increase in the ratio of 10-year municipal yields to similarly
maturing U.S. government-bond rates. The yields on tax-exempt
debt have been at or above 100 percent of Treasuries for five
straight weeks, the longest stretch since May 2009, according to
Bloomberg data.  Still, investors in September added $1.9 billion to tax-
exempt funds, the biggest monthly inflow since September 2010
when buyers added $2.6 billion, according to Lipper US Fund
Flows. States and cities are set to issue $75 billion in the
last three months of 2010, up from an earlier projection of $60
million, as issuers take advantage of plunging  interest rates ,
Chris Mauro, a municipal-debt investment strategist for RBC
Capital Markets in New York wrote in a report last month.  Yields on 10-year top-rated municipals were 2.36 percent
yesterday, after falling to 2.13 percent on Sept. 27, the lowest
level since March 1991, when Bloomberg data for the securities
begins.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt:  The STATE OF  WASHINGTON  plans to borrow $1.29 billion in
general-obligation bonds as soon as Oct. 10 with $516.7 million
of the transaction in new money to help fund the Floating Bridge
and Eastside Project. The remainder is to refinance debt. The
state is rated AA+ by  Standard & Poor’s , second-highest grade.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. will lead a syndicate of banks on the deal.
(Added Oct. 5)  NEW YORK  CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY, which
finances capital projects for the most populous U.S. city, will
sell $750 million of subordinate revenue debt as soon as Oct. 12
to convert variable-rate bonds into fixed-rate securities and
refund debt. The authority’s subordinate debt is
rated AAA, S&P’s highest grade. Bank of America Merrill Lynch is
senior manager of the sale. (Added Oct. 6)  The STATE OF MICHIGAN is to borrow $138.7 million of
general-obligation bonds as soon as Oct. 12. The transaction
will help finance school loan programs and refund environmental
program debt. The bonds are rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its third-lowest ranking. Robert W. Baird & Co. will
lead the sale. (Added Oct. 5)  CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION, which finances school
construction for the third-largest public-education system in
the U.S., will sell as soon as next week $398 million of
general-obligation bonds secured with dedicated revenue.
Proceeds will renovate school buildings and finance expansion.
The deal is rated Aa3, Moody’s fourth-highest grade. Jefferies &
Co. will lead a syndicate of banks on the sale. (Added Oct. 6)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Riquier in New York at 
 ariquier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  