-- 
Farmland Seen Returning Up to 12% by U.S. Pensions Manager

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-10-06T14:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/farmland-seen-returning-up-to-12-by-469-billion-fund-manager.html
Farmland investments may return an
average of 8 percent to 12 percent annually as global food
demand increases, said the largest U.S. pension manager for
teachers and academic researchers with $469 billion of assets.  The company has $2.5 billion invested in farmland and owns
about 600,000 hectares (1.48 million acres) mostly in the U.S.,
 Brazil  and Australia, said Jose Minaya, 40, a managing director
and head of natural resources and infrastructure investments at
New York-based TIAA-CREF.  “From a historical point of view, farmland has generated
returns of 8 percent to 12 percent a year and we expect that to
continue over the long term,” Minaya said.  Farms are attracting investors such as billionaire George Soros as rising incomes in  China  and  India  and a growing world
population increase demand for food and fuel. Food production
will have to climb 70 percent by 2050 as the population rises to
9.2 billion from 6.9 billion in 2010, according to the  United
Nations . Global food costs reached a record in February after
weather ruined crops from  Canada  to Australia and  Russia .  The Standard & Poor’s Spot Index of 24 commodities has
dropped 21 percent from its April high on concern the European
debt crisis would slow growth and curb demand. The gauge had
more than doubled since the start of 2009. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of global equities lost 22 percent from its May high.  ‘Pretty Steady’  Farmland is an asset class that’s “pretty steady” and
delivers stable income returns with capital appreciation that
tracks slightly above inflation, said Minaya, who previously
worked for AIG Global Investment Group and Merrill Lynch & Co.  The company is seeking to expand in grain-exporting
countries and hold investments for as long as 30 years, he said
in an interview Sept. 30. “We can easily be twice the size that
we are today” if the right opportunities arise, he said.  The pension manager buys land and leases it back to farmers,
he said. The investments are in “mature and established”
regions, in “the bigger farms” and in countries that export
grain, he said. Returns in the past few years have been at the
high end of the 8 percent to 12 percent range, he said Sept. 30.  “On aggregate, it does look like a pretty good bet,” said
 Michael Creed , an agribusiness economist at National  Australia 
Bank Ltd. “We’re entering a period of rapid growth in emerging-
market demand for higher protein,” which is increasing use of
grains to feed poultry and livestock, he said from Melbourne.  Farmland Values  TIAA-CREF is one of eight institutional investors
representing $1.3 trillion in assets that have endorsed a set of
Farmland Principles ranging from environmental sustainability to
transparency and respect for land rights, it  said  on Sept. 6.  Farmland values in one of the most-productive regions in
the U.S. Midwest soared 17 percent in the second quarter as
higher grain prices made real estate more attractive, the
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago said on Aug. 17. The increase
from a year ago in the area including  Illinois ,  Indiana , Iowa
and Wisconsin was the biggest since the 1970s, it said.  A fund controlled by  George Soros  owns 23 percent of South
American farmland venture Adecoagro SA, Bloomberg data show. The
company is involved in the production of grains, oilseeds, dairy,
sugar, ethanol, coffee, cotton and cattle meat, and has
operations in Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay, its website said.  Shrinking land and water supply in countries including
China and India, will limit their capacity to boost food
production, creating import demand, Minaya said. That’s going to
be met by the major exporting regions in North and South America,
Australia, and parts of Central and Eastern Europe, he said.  As well as the U.S., Australia and Brazil, the company has
a smaller level of investments in Poland and  Romania , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  