-- 
FCC to Revamp Phone Subsidy to Spur Expanded Internet Access

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-10-06T21:35:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/fcc-to-revamp-phone-subsidy-to-spur-expanded-internet-access.html
U.S. regulators proposed overhauling
an $8 billion phone subsidy program for landline service to help
fund a nationwide expansion of high-speed Internet.  The changes to the program, known as the Universal Service
Fund, will help increase access to broadband and spur  job
creation , Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said during  a speech  today in Washington. The agency
also plans to revise the fees that smaller regional carriers
receive to connect calls, he said.  “Broadband has gone from being a luxury to a necessity for
full participation in our economy and society,” Genachowski
said. “If we want the  United States  to be the world’s leading
market” for innovation, “we need to embrace the essential goal
of universal broadband, and reform outdated programs.”  Under Genachowski, the FCC has sought to increase the share
of people who use high-speed Internet at home to 90 percent from
the current 65 percent, according to the agency’s national
broadband plan. Between 14 million and 24 million Americans lack
access to broadband, “and immediate prospects for deployment to
them are bleak,” the FCC said in a  report  last year.  “The costs of this broadband gap are measured in jobs not
created, existing job openings not filled, and our nation’s
competitiveness not advanced,” Genachowski said today. The
proposals will be brought before the agency’s four commissioners
at an Oct. 27 FCC meeting.  Source of Money  The FCC is seeking to transform the USF into a “Connect
America Fund” designed to ensure affordable high-speed  Internet
service  in regions that lack access and to promote mobile
broadband nationwide.  The Universal Service Fund supports phone service to
schools, libraries, the poor and high-cost areas. The fund is
financed by charges on long-distance calls paid by telephone
subscribers, and it subsidizes companies including  Windstream
Corp. (WIN)  and  Frontier Communications Corp. (FTR)   In 2010, the program paid $4.3 billion to carriers doing
business in high-cost areas, according to the website of the
 Universal Service Administrative Company , a Washington-based
independent nonprofit group that administers the fund. More than
1,700 carriers receive support from the program for high-cost
areas.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who
chairs the Senate Commerce committee, called for an Oct. 12
hearing to discuss the proposed reforms. Details of the plan
announced today have not been released publicly by the FCC.  High-Cost Subsidy  Genachowski has singled out the subsidy program for high-
cost regions as one possible source of money for broadband
expansion. The agency voted in February to develop the USF
overhaul, and since then has held workshops across the country.  The FCC also plans to revamp the fees paid to rural
carriers for connecting calls, Genachowski said. The changes
would be phased in over several years, he said.  Changes to so-called intercarrier connection fees “will
result in significant consumer benefits,” Genachowski said.
“Consumers can expect reduced costs, better value for their
money, or both.”  A coalition of telephone companies led by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  in July asked the FCC to reduce
those fees, which can amount to as much as $8 billion annually.  Bob Quinn, AT&T’s senior vice president-federal regulatory,
said the company was committed to working with the FCC on the
changes to the Universal Service Fund and intercarrier
compensation.  Loitering Rules  “Absent reform, these rules will simply loiter on to
foster more litigation and arbitrage, and ultimately stifle
innovation and the benefits of broadband for consumers,” Quinn
said in an e-mail.  The FCC’s push to overhaul the USF program may leave “mom
and-pop” telephone providers behind, David Mitchell, director
of the bureau of economic research at  Missouri State University ,
said in an interview.  Small phone companies would likely stop offering service
and be unable to afford the investment needed to become
broadband providers. Their absence in the market may mean that
“the winners would be larger corporations,” as AT&T and
Verizon take over those markets, he said.  Rural telecommunications providers said they want to ensure
that the FCC’s plan strengthens their networks.  Common-Sense Reforms  “We will continue to press for common-sense reforms that
recognize the unique challenges faced by small carriers and the
consumers they serve in rural areas across the country,”
Shirley Bloomfield, chief executive officer of the  National
Telecommunications Cooperative Association , which represents
more than 570 small phone providers nationwide, said in a
statement.  “The entities that all along face the greatest risk are
the small rural” carriers, said Jeffrey Silva, senior policy
director for telecommunications, media and technology at Medley
Global Advisors in  Washington . “Even though they face the risk,
their inclusion is essential for at least politically, getting
reforms through.”  The plan outlined by Genachowski today left a number of
questions unanswered, Art Brodsky, a spokesman for Washington-
based advocacy group  Public Knowledge , said in an e-mail.  “There is still a big question mark whether the FCC has
the authority to deal with broadband as the Chairman wants to
do,” Brodsky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  