-- 
FedEx Chief Fred Smith Sees Slow-Growth Economy, Not Another Recession

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-10-06T15:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/fedex-chief-fred-smith-sees-slow-growth-economy-not-another-recession.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  doesn’t see a recession
or contraction, rather a slow-growth economy, Chief Executive
Officer  Fred Smith  said.  Although holiday season shipments probably won’t increase
as much as in 2010, they will still rise, Smith told an audience
of chief executives at a  General Electric Co (GE) .-Ohio State
University event for middle-market companies in Columbus, Ohio.  FedEx, based in Memphis, Tennessee, delivers goods ranging
from financial documents to pharmaceuticals, making it an
economic bellwether. A  tax reform  is critical to restart the
economy in the U.S., where regulation is hampering private
investment, a driver of growth, Smith said.  “Our  tax policy , our trade policy, our energy policy, and
our regulatory policy are almost optimally designed to impede
growth,” said Smith, who was interviewed by GE CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  as part of the event. Smith called some of the
regulations “well-intentioned regulations that are job killers,
that impede investment and until we address those things it’s
going to be very difficult to get back to a reasonable growth
rate.”  Smith said he favors a so-called territorial tax system, in
which businesses are taxed only on domestically generated
income. Smith would also tie an investment tax credit to any
repatriation of overseas funds to help boost growth.  “American business, including GE and FedEx, have enormous
resources offshore, most of which were earned by making products
for local markets,” Smith said.  If money does return to the U.S. is taxed too high,
investment will remain weak, he said.  “It’s business investment that’s the horse that pulls the
wagon,” Smith, 67, said. “So it’s no mystery why we’re not
producing jobs. We simply have inadequate investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  