-- 
Ferguson Urges United Fans to Behave at Anfield, Guardian Says: Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-10-06T09:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/ferguson-urges-united-fans-to-behave-at-anfield-guardian-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Fan Behavior  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  has written to the
club’s fans telling them to watch their behavior at next week’s
match at Liverpool or risk having their ticket allocations being
slashed, the  Guardian  said.  United had its usual 3,000 tickets at Anfield cut to 1,960
because of problems involving supporters at recent matches, the
Guardian said. Twelve Premier League clubs refused to give
United its full allocation last season and the team is concerned
it’s becoming a trend, the newspaper said.  Ferguson’s letter was sent to all fans receiving tickets
for the Oct. 15 match and urges them to “respect the stewards
and follow ground regulations.”  Burning Effigy  An effigy of Carlos Tevez was burned near  Manchester City ’s
stadium three days ago as the backlash against the striker
continues, the  Daily Mail  said.  Tevez was suspended by City after manager  Roberto Mancini 
said he refused to enter last week’s Champions League match at
Bayern Munich. His adviser Kia Joorabchian said yesterday the
striker never refused the request and that comments he made
after the match were mistranslated.  The effigy was hung under a canal bridge near City’s
stadium and it’s not known if the club’s fans were responsible,
the Mail said.  Englishman Wanted  Jamie Carragher said the successor to England manager Fabio Capello must be English, the  Daily Express said .  Capello will leave his post after next summer’s European
Championship. Though Carragher said he had no problem personally
with the Italian, who took the defender to last year’s  World
Cup , he was adamant about his replacement.  “The next manager of England should be English,” the
Express quoted Carragher as saying. “Just because it didn’t
work out for Steve McClaren, it didn’t mean we had to go for a
foreign manager.”  Becks in Brazil  David Beckham  would consider offers to play in Brazil and
the  Middle East  when his Los Angeles Galaxy contract expires,
the  Daily Telegraph  said.  Beckham’s five-year deal ends after the Major League Soccer
season and he’s been linked with moves to England,  Europe  and
the United Arab Emirates.  The prospect of ending his career in Brazil has emerged,
with the country set to host the 2014 World Cup, and the 36-
year-old is open to the possibility of becoming the first high-
profile Englishman to play there, the Telegraph said.  No MLS for Rio  Rio Ferdinand plans to ignore any overtures from Major
League Soccer and concentrate on winning his place back for
 Manchester United  and England, the  Daily Mirror  said.  The Chicago Fire has been linked with the defender, who
feels he still has a role to play with United.  “I understand why someone like Rio would be attractive to
them,” Ferdinand’s agent Jamie Morealee was quoted as saying by
the Mirror. “But I must stress these stories are nothing to do
with Rio. We have never discussed anything beyond life at
Manchester United because that is all he cares about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 