-- 
Fisher Says He Sympathizes With Protests Against Fed, Wall Street Bailouts

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-10-06T20:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/fisher-says-he-sympathizes-with-protests-across-u-s-over-fed-wall-street.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas 
President Richard Fisher said protests against  Wall Street  and
the central bank stem from frustration with unemployment, and he
sympathizes with the discontent.  The U.S. faces stalled job growth, and “too many” of its
workers are unemployed, Fisher said in a speech today in  Fort
Worth , Texas. The policy maker dissented at each of the past two
Federal Open Market Committee meetings in August and September,
opposing plans to hold rates low until at least mid-2013 and to
swap short-term securities in the Fed’s portfolio with longer-
term debt.  “I’m somewhat sympathetic” to the demonstrations, Fisher
said. “We have too many people out of work. We have very uneven
distribution of income.”  Demonstrators from  New York City  to  San Francisco  took to
the streets to protest what they call a growing wealth disparity
between large U.S. corporations and average citizens in the wake
of the financial crisis. Picketers marched in San Francisco
yesterday as part of the Occupy Wall Street movement that began
three weeks ago in lower  Manhattan  and has spread to cities from
Dallas to San Francisco.  The jobless rate in August was 9.1 percent. Employers that
month added zero jobs to payrolls, down from 85,000 in July,
according to the Labor Department.  “We have a very frustrated people and I can understand
their frustration,” Fisher said. He reiterated his view that
the Fed “can’t do everything” to cure what ails the economy
and there’s “a danger if we go too far.”  ‘Exceptional’  Texas   Fisher, 62, spoke on the topic of “Texas: What Makes Us
Exceptional; What Makes Us Vulnerable?” at the Texas Economic
Development Council’s 2011 Annual Conference and 50th
Anniversary Celebration.  The U.S. has become a “national economic desert devoid of
 job creation ,” with Texas providing an “oasis,” Fisher said.  A key to the state’s success “lies in its ability to
change and adapt” to a rapidly globalized economy, and job
growth should continue at “a moderate pace,” Fisher said.
Texas had an 8.5 percent jobless rate in August.  While the state benefits from high commodity prices, it
“continues to be handicapped by low levels of construction
activity and moderate gains in consumer spending and demand,”
he said.  Fisher’s Dissent  Fisher dissented at the FOMC’s Sept. 20-21 meeting against
the group’s decision to push down longer-term  interest rates ,
saying he did not prefer to undertake further easing, according
to an FOMC statement. He also challenged the committee’s Aug. 9
pledge to keep the benchmark U.S. interest rate low through at
least mid-2013, preferring instead to maintain a previous
commitment to do so for “an extended period.”  President  Barack Obama , appearing at a White House news
conference today, said the anti-Wall Street protesters are
“giving voice” to wider frustration with the U.S. financial
system.  “The American people understand that not everybody’s been
following the rules, that Wall Street is an example of that,”
he said, while stopping short of endorsing the demonstrations.
The protests are a result of “broad-based” dissatisfaction
growing out of the financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  