-- 
Friendly Ice Cream Wins Court Approval of $50.6 Million Bankruptcy Loan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-10-06T14:49:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/friendly-ice-cream-wins-court-approval-of-50-6-million-bankruptcy-loan.html
Friendly Ice Cream Corp., the 76-
year-old restaurant chain known for its ice cream and
hamburgers, won bankruptcy court approval of a $50.6 million
loan to help fund operations while the company pursues a sale.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross, at a hearing today in
Wilmington, Delaware, gave Friendly permission to borrow the
money on an interim basis from an affiliate of the company’s
owner, private-equity firm Sun Capital Partners Inc.  “It’s a very clean, fair and reasonable financing
facility,” Gross said. Friendly will seek approval to borrow an
additional $20.7 million at a hearing set for Oct. 24.  Friendly, which opened in 1935 with one shop in
Springfield,  Massachusetts , sought bankruptcy protection
yesterday citing the struggling economy and rising commodity
costs. The company plans to sell itself at an auction, with a
Sun Capital affiliate as the lead bidder, court filings show.  Friendly has requested court permission to hold a Dec. 1
auction, followed by a Dec. 5 hearing to approve the sale. Under
the proposed bid procedures, which also will be considered at
the Oct. 24 hearing, all bids must be submitted by Nov. 24.
Potential buyers would have to offer at least $122.6 million in
cash to qualify for the auction.  The Wilbraham, Massachusetts-based company, commonly known
as “Friendly’s,” closed 63 sites as part of the bankruptcy
filing. Another 424 locations will stay open, Friendly said.  Debt is about $297 million and assets are valued at more
than $100 million, according to court documents.  The case is In re Friendly Ice Cream Corp., 11-13167,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 