-- 
Luxembourg to Take Stake in BIL as Dexia Negotiates Sale

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-06T11:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/frieden-says-investor-ready-to-take-over-dexia-bil-in-luxembourg.html
Dexia SA (DEXB)  is in exclusive talks to
sell its Luxembourg unit to a group of international investors
as the Franco-Belgian lender is broken up.  The Luxembourg government will take a minority stake in
Dexia Banque Internationale a Luxembourg SA, Finance Minister
Luc Frieden told reporters today in Luxembourg. Talks are in an
advanced stage and should be concluded by the end of the month,
he said. Dexia would then review any potential offer, the
Brussels- and Paris-based lender said in a separate statement.  “Given the systemic character of BIL in Luxembourg, the
Luxembourg state will enter as minority shareholder into the
capital of this bank,” Frieden said. “We believe very strongly
in the future of BIL. This is a project oriented to the future
that will give the bank new perspectives.”  The disposal is part of Dexia’s planned breakup, with the
profitable assets such as Dexia Bank Belgium NV, DenizBank AS,
Dexia BIL and the asset-management division being sold to free
capital for a so-called bad bank holding Dexia’s troubled
assets, leaving little value for shareholders. Belgium plans to
nationalize the Belgian bank pending a sale,  De Tijd  reported
today.  Dexia fell as much as 16 percent in Brussels trading after
Frieden announced the talks to sell BIL, erasing earlier gains.
The shares declined 11 cents to 91 cents by 1:11 p.m. local
time, for a market value of 1.78 billion euros ($2.38 billion).  Sixth-Biggest Bank  With assets of 32.3 billion euros and shareholder equity of
1.77 billion euros at the end of last year, BIL ranks as
Luxembourg’s sixth-biggest bank, according to an annual report
about the Luxembourg banking industry drawn up by KMPG Europe
LLP’s subsidiary in the country. Net income at the unit fell 25
percent to 129 million euros last year.  Tracking its origins to 1856, which makes it Luxembourg’s
oldest bank, BIL offers retail, commercial and private banking
services. The bank held about 12.6 billion euros of customer
deposits last year, an 11 percent decline from a year earlier
and dropping to fifth position, according to the KMPG report.  Frieden said he couldn’t reveal the identity of the
potential buyer and said the minority stake of the Luxembourg
state is still subject to negotiations, adding that he doesn’t
expect a transaction to result in a reduction in jobs.  With a workforce of 1,854, BIL is the second-biggest
employer in the country’s banking industry, after BNP Paribas
SA’s unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  