-- 
GE Study Finds Recession’s Job Creators Still See Sales Gain

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-10-06T13:32:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/ge-study-sees-midsized-firms-adding-sales-even-as-economy-slows.html
Midsized U.S. companies that added
2.2 million jobs during the recession and its aftermath say a
slowing U.S. economy won’t stall sales growth now, according to
a study by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Ohio State University .  “Middle-market businesses have a solid track record for
performance through the recession,” GE and the university’s
 Fisher College of Business  said in a report on the study.
“Looking forward into 2012, 80 percent of middle-market
companies expect to grow over the next 12 months.”  Findings from the study, which included 2,028 executives
from companies with annual sales of $10 million to $1 billion,
were presented today at  Ohio  State’s Columbus campus during a
 summit  attended by customers of the GE Capital finance unit.  While mid-size firms’ payrolls fared better than those of
large companies, which cut millions of jobs amid the worst slump
since the Depression, the study also found challenges. About 55
percent of participants reported insufficient access to capital
markets, 84 percent lacked confidence in the national economy
and only 17 percent reported confidence in their local
economies.  Still, “this is a lot different than 2008,” GE Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  told reporters before the
summit. “There’s liquidity, there are pockets of growth and I
think people have confidence that they might be able to find the
right pockets of growth.”  “By their own self-assessment, the data strongly indicates
that there is plenty of room to improve overall business
performance,” the study found. Executives’ concerns include
developing top leaders, attracting new customers and developing
new products, according to the report.  About 71 percent reported challenges dealing with
regulations including tax law, and 45 percent are seeing
challenges from global rivals, the survey said.  International ‘Heat’  “While many middle-market companies have embraced global
markets and are aggressively distributing their products and
services in new geographies, many are also facing the heat from
international competitors,” the study’s authors wrote.  The U.S. has about 200,000 mid-size companies, accounting
for about 3 percent of all the nation’s businesses, the study
said, citing  U.S. Census data . The firms offer 16 percent more
jobs per dollar in assets than large companies and about 80
percent more jobs per dollar in revenue, the study indicated.  Of the jobs they added from 2007 to 2010, about 500,000
were in the Midwest, a region where large companies eliminated
4.9 million workers. The  unemployment rate  in Ohio, the nation’s
seventh most-populous state, was 9.1 percent in August, matching
the U.S. rate. The state has lost 407,000 jobs, or 7.37 percent,
during the past decade, federal  data  show.  20 Versus 2,0000  Nationwide, large companies cut a net 3.7 million jobs from
2007 to 2010, including firms that expanded employment, the GE
survey showed. On average, middle-market companies added 20 jobs
each, while their large counterparts cut 2,000, the survey said.  GE Capital’s own review of about 1,200 middle-market
customers and their fiscal health shows less-leveraged balance
sheets and fewer paying down debt. That indicates companies may
have arrived at a comfortable level of borrowing, Dan Henson,
who oversees the Americas, said in an interview last week.  “These companies are armored,”  GE Capital  CEO Mike Neal
said today. “The environment may end up being bad, who knows,
but at least in the United States companies are much better
prepared for the most part, to deal with that.”  The finance unit of Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE is
among the largest lenders to middle-market companies. The parent
company’s chief executive officer, Immelt, heads President
Barack Obama’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ; 