-- 
Geithner Says European Debt Crisis Poses Significant Risk

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-10-06T19:26:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/geithner-says-european-debt-crisis-poses-significant-risk-3-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the debt crisis in  Europe  poses a “significant
risk to global recovery” and it is critical that governments
and financial institutions have a “powerful financial
backstop.”  “Our direct financial exposure to those governments and
their financial institutions is quite small, but Europe is so
large and so closely integrated with the U.S. and world
economies that a severe crisis in Europe could cause significant
damage by undermining confidence and weakening demand,”
Geithner said in testimony before the Senate Banking Committee.  He assured lawmakers today that there is “absolutely” no
chance of another U.S. financial institution collapsing like
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Geithner testified before the Senate Banking Committee and
the House Financial Services Committee on the Financial
Stability Oversight Council’s previously released annual report.  “If the annual report is an accurate representation of the
Council’s progress, I remain as skeptical of its chances of
success as I was when my friends on the other side of the aisle
proposed its creation,” said Senate Banking Committee ranking
Republican member  Richard Shelby  of Alabama.  More Guidance  The FSOC meets on Oct. 11, when Geithner said it will
provide more guidance to the market on the designation of
systemically significant non-bank institutions.  Geithner also said the Federal Housing Finance Agency will
provide more clarity in the next few weeks on a plan to
encourage mortgage refinancing. He said the housing market
remains “terrible” and will take years to fix.  The foreclosure process is “essentially broken” and the
housing servicing framework “is not doing a good enough job of
helping people stay in their home or transition to other forms
of housing,” Geithner said. The government needs “to help
people refinance, even people under water” on their homes and
help change empty properties into rental housing, he said. He
said Treasury doesn’t have the “power to compel” the largest
parts of the mortgage market to act more on principal reduction.  The  Federal Housing Administration  “is prohibited by law
and Fannie and Freddie -- we can’t compel them to do it -- have
been unwilling to move in that direction to support targeted
principal reduction where it makes sense, but we’ve been
supportive of it,” Geithner said.  Penalize  China   He said Congress needs to address whether a bill that would
penalize China for the value of its currency violates
international agreements.  “If this bill were to advance, then Congress would, or
should, address the concerns that have been raised about the
consistency of some provisions with our international
commitments,” Geithner told the House Financial Services
Committee in a second round of testimony today.  The Senate today advanced legislation letting U.S.
companies seek duties to compensate for a Chinese yuan that
lawmakers say is undervalued. The senators approved by 62-38 a
motion limiting debate on the bill backed by Democrats such as
Senators  Sherrod Brown  of  Ohio  and Charles Schumer of  New York 
and Republicans including Lindsey Graham of  South Carolina  and
 Jeff Sessions  of Alabama.  The legislation, opposed by business groups such as the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, may stall in the House. Republican
Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio said today that the bill could
start a trade war.  Jobs Plan  President Barack Obama’s $447 billion jobs plan would put
“more resources into neighborhoods most affected by the
foreclosure crisis,” Geithner said. “That’s expensive, but we
can afford it, and it’s a good use of scarce resources.”  Geithner said the biggest risk to the  U.S. economy  is
“institutions not taking enough risk.  “You need to make sure that people are willing to take
risks,” Geithner said. “You don’t want to lose that
capacity.”  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus ,
a Republican from  Alabama , said based on that quote he’s not
sure Geithner has “a clear picture of reality.”  “If in fact you are correct and banks are not taking
enough risks, I would submit to you the problem doesn’t lie with
the loan officers in the community and regional banks; it lies
in the regulatory approach of the very members of the FSOC,”
Bachus said.  The banking committee also approved the Obama
administration’s nomination of Cyrus Amir-Mokri as Treasury
assistant secretary for financial institutions. Amir-Mokri’s
nomination still must be approved by the full Senate. He would
replace  Michael Barr , who left the Treasury in December 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  