-- 
Geithner Says Obama Doesn’t Believe in Limits on Profitability

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-10-06T18:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/geithner-says-obama-doesn-t-believe-in-limits-on-profitability.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , responding to criticism of President Barack Obama’s
remarks about bank fees, said the administration doesn’t think
government should determine corporate profitability.  “The president believes, as I believe, that it’s not the
role of government to determine how profitable firms are,”
Geithner told the House Financial Services Committee today.
Geithner was answering a question by Alabama Republican Spencer Bachus, the panel’s chairman, about comments Obama made in an
Oct. 3 interview with ABC News.  “If you say to the banks, ‘You don’t have some inherent
right just to, you know, get a certain amount of profit if your
customers are being mistreated, that you have to treat them
fairly and transparently,’” Obama told ABC. “And my hope is,
is that you’re going to see a bunch of the banks who say to
themselves, you know what, this is actually not good business
practice.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, is joining
rivals including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  in rolling out new charges for debit-card
users as Dodd-Frank Act rules imposed by the Federal Reserve
take effect this month. The limits may reduce annual revenue at
the biggest U.S. banks by $8 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
Government show.  Richard Hunt, the president of the Consumer Bankers
Association, said Oct. 4 that he was “very disappointed” by
Obama’s remarks.  “Recent announcements from banks across the country
regarding new fees for debit purchases and eliminating free
checking are all widely predicted consequences from the
government price controls,” Hunt said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  