-- 
Geithner Says European Debt Crisis Poses Significant Risk

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-10-06T15:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/geithner-says-european-debt-crisis-poses-significant-risk.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today the crisis in  Europe  poses a “significant
risk to global recovery” and it is critical that governments
and financial institutions have a “powerful financial
backstop.”  “Our direct financial exposure to those governments and
their financial institutions is quite small, but Europe is so
large and so closely integrated with the U.S. and world
economies that a severe crisis in Europe could cause significant
damage by undermining confidence and weakening demand,”
Geithner said in testimony before the Senate Banking Committee.  Geithner is testifying today before the Senate Banking
Committee and the House Financial Services Committee on the
Financial Stability Oversight Council’s previously released
annual report.  “If the Annual Report is an accurate representation of the
Council’s progress, I remain as skeptical of its chances of
success as I was when my friends on the other side of the aisle
proposed its creation,” said Senate Banking Committee ranking
Republican member  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama .  The FSOC meets on Oct. 11, when Geithner said it will
provide more guidance to the market on the designation of
systemically significant non-bank institutions.  Geithner also said the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  will
provide more clarity in the next few weeks on a plan to
encourage mortgage refinancing. He said the housing market
remains “terrible” and will take years to fix.  Foreclosure Process ‘Broken’  The foreclosure process is “essentially broken” and the
housing servicing framework “is not doing a good enough job of
helping people stay in their home or transition to other forms
of housing,” Geithner said. The government needs “to help
people refinance, even people under water” on their homes and
help change empty properties into rental housing, he said.  President  Barack Obama ’s $447 billion jobs plan would put
“more resources into neighborhoods most affected by the
foreclosure crisis,” he said. “That’s expensive, but we can
afford it, and it’s a good use of scarce resources.”  The banking committee also approved the Obama
administration’s nomination of Cyrus Amir-Mokri as Treasury
assistant secretary for financial institutions. Amir-Mokri’s
nomination still must be approved by the full Senate. He would
replace  Michael Barr , who left the Treasury in December 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  