-- 
German Factory Orders Unexpectedly Fall

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-06T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/german-factory-orders-unexpectedly-fall.html
German factory orders unexpectedly
fell for a second month in August as domestic demand waned.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
declined 1.4 percent from July, when they dropped 2.6 percent,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said in a statement today.
Economists forecast no change from the previous month, according
to the median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the
year, orders rose 3.9 percent when adjusted for work days.  Concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing global
growth could drag the economy back into recession may prompt
companies to put off investment. European confidence in the
economic outlook dropped to the lowest in almost two years last
month. At the same time, German business sentiment fell less
than forecast, suggesting Europe’s largest economy may be spared
a slump.  “There is the danger that the market nervousness about the
debt situation will affect companies more strongly,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover,  Germany . “That
doesn’t necessarily mean a recession. We shouldn’t talk one into
existence.”  While domestic factory orders fell 3.2 percent in August,
the ministry said holidays affected demand and there was a
below-average number of big-ticket sales. Orders from abroad
rose 0.1 percent, with sales to other euro-area nations gaining
2.7 percent. Orders for investment goods declined 1.3 percent
and orders for  consumer goods  dropped 5.6 percent. The drop in
overall orders in July was revised from 2.8 percent.  ‘One-Off Effects’  “Manufacturing demand has been influenced by one-off
effects in recent months,” the ministry said. Demand in the
three months through August compared with the previous three-
month period showed a gain of 1.5 percent, it said. “Still,
overall the orders dynamic has noticeably lost momentum.”  Railroad equipment maker  Vossloh AG (VOS)  said on Sept. 29 that
it reduced its sales forecast for 2011 for a second time due to
lower orders from southern Europe and “weak” Chinese demand.  At the same time,  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s largest maker of
heavy-duty vehicles, said demand for Mercedes-Benz trucks hasn’t
shown signs of being damped by slowing economic growth.  “In spite of the debt crisis, we have good reason to be
optimistic,” Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said in a
speech on Sept. 30. Mercedes-Benz truck plants will be working
at full capacity through the end of this year and have “a good
level” of orders for the first quarter, he said.  Heightened Danger  Euro-area services and manufacturing output shrank for the
first time in more than two years in September. The euro-area
economy may fail to gather strength in the current quarter,
expanding 0.2 percent from the previous three months before
cooling to 0.1 percent growth in the final quarter, the European
Commission in Brussels forecast last month.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on Sept. 26 there
is a “heightened danger” that financial market turmoil caused
by uncertainty over the debt crisis will begin to affect the
real economy.  European governments this week hinted that bondholders may
be saddled with bigger losses on Greek debt, intensifying market
jitters that a second aid package designed to quell the fiscal
crisis might unravel. France and  Belgium  are considering a
second bailout of  Dexia SA (DEXB)  after the crisis reduced its ability
to obtain funding.  While the Bundesbank’s current forecast is for the German
economy to expand about 3 percent this year, it said last month
that the outlook “has clouded more than previously expected.”  “Growth in the second half of the year will be
significantly weaker than in the first,” said  Ralph Solveen ,
head of economic research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “We
still think that Germany will be able to dodge a recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  