-- 
German Two-Year Notes Decline as Traders Pare ECB Interest-Rate Cut Bets

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T15:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/german-bunds-fall-before-ecb-rate-decision-spanish-note-auction.html
German two-year notes slumped,
pushing yields up to a three-week high, as traders pared back
bets for an  interest-rate  cut from the  European Central Bank 
after it kept its benchmark rate on hold at 1.50 percent.  Ten-year bunds also declined as ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  outlined policy tools to stem the debt crisis, including
one-year loans for banks. Italian and Spanish government bonds
rose as European banking stocks advanced for a second day amid
optimism regional policy makers will take additional steps to
shore up the region’s lenders. The Governing Council discussed
the possibility of cutting interest rates, Trichet told
reporters in Berlin.  “There is some disappointment that no rate cut
materialized and the short end of the curve is suffering,” said
 David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
London. “Also by emphasizing the difference between the non-
standard measures and the interest rate, Trichet is not really
leaving the door open for a rate cut as soon as next month.”  Two-year German note yields were 12 basis points higher at
0.62 percent at 4:23 p.m. in  London  after rising as much as 15
basis points to 0.65 percent, the biggest gain since Aug. 8. The
0.75 percent security due in September 2013 fell 0.235, or 2.35
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 100.25. Ten-year bund
yields were 10 basis points higher at 1.94 percent.  Euribor Futures  Spanish 10-year yields fell nine basis points to 5.00
percent, while equivalent-maturity Italian yields dropped seven
basis points, to 5.46 percent.  “There has been a discussion on the pros and cons of
decreasing rates,” Trichet said. “We have decided by consensus
to maintain rates.”  Euribor futures fell, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December up by 11 basis points to 1.350
percent, signaling that investors reduced wagers on lower
interest rates.  The median estimate of 52 economists in a Bloomberg survey
was for the central bank to keep rates unchanged. Five predicted
the central bank would cut borrowing costs to 1.25 percent, and
six said it would lower the rate to 1 percent to boost growth.  ECB policy makers, who have raised borrowing costs twice
this year, resisted calls for a rate cut. Instead, Trichet said
the central bank will offer banks one 12-month loan, starting in
October, and a 13-month loan in December. Both will be operated
as fixed rate, full allotment operations. It will also start
buying 40 billion euros of covered bonds in November.  Full Allotment  The  Bank of England  earlier increased the size of its bond-
purchase program by 75 billion pounds ($115 billion) to 275
billion pounds and kept its key interest rate at a record low
0.5 percent.  “The 12-month full allotment and the covered-bond
purchases were largely already priced in” to the market, said
 John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in London.
“There’s still risk momentum in the market on the likelihood of
a European bank recapitalization program.”  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
increased 3.3 percent as European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said officials are proposing coordinated action to
recapitalize banks.  Bank Recapitalization  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday she supports
recapitalizing European lenders “if there is a joint assessment
that the banks aren’t adequately capitalized” and finance
officials develop “uniform criteria.”  The yield on 10-year Belgian bonds was seven basis points
higher 4.07 percent. Trading in shares of Belgian-based Dexia SA
was suspended as of 3:55 p.m. in Brussels after the lender’s
stock slumped 17 percent and De Tijd reported on its website
that the government will nationalize Dexia Bank Belgium pending
a sale.  Spanish three-year note yields fell 11 basis points to 3.63
percent after the Treasury sold bonds due in April 2014 at an
average yield of 3.589 percent, compared with 4.813 percent the
previous time  Spain  sold 2014 debt, on Aug. 4.  “This is encouraging for Spain in particular and for other
peripherals in general,”  Luca Jellinek , head of European
interest-rate strategy at Credit Agricole SA in London, said in
an e-mailed note.  Bunds have handed investors 8 percent this year, while U.S.
Treasuries have returned 9.3 percent, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Spain’s bonds have returned 5.3 percent
while Italy’s have lost 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  