-- 
Ghana’s Pension Fund to Sell First Atlantic Stake to Investors

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-10-06T10:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/ghana-s-pension-fund-to-sell-first-atlantic-stake-to-investors.html
Ghana ’s state pension fund will sell
its 62 percent stake in First Atlantic Merchant Bank Ltd., a
closely held lender based in Accra, to Kedari Nominees Ltd. of
 Nigeria  for 42 million cedis ($26 million).  Kedari Nominees, which is backed by a group of investment
bankers in Nigeria, has paid 40 percent of the amount and is
expected to pay the rest by the end of the month, Jerome Eshun,
general manager for investment and development at Ghana’s Social
Security and National Insurance Trust, said in an interview at
his office Oct. 4. He declined to identify any of the Nigerian
investors involved, citing the confidential nature of the deal.  The sale is “in line with our policy of rationalizing our
investments in the banking industry,” Eshun said. “The
proceeds will be put into other equally viable ventures.”  The central bank has been informed about the transaction
and it will give its approval when the company pays the money in
full, Eshun said.  E-mailed questions sent to the central bank’s banking-
supervision department yesterday were not answered. Akofa
Avorkliyah, director for the governor’s secretariat, did not
answer calls made to her mobile phone yesterday and today.  The sale of the shares by the fund known by its acronym,
SSNIT, is not related to a directive from the  Bank of Ghana  to
boost capital for lenders said Eustace Annan, First Atlantic’s
executive director for legal affairs, in an interview Oct. 4.
The bank currently has a stated capital of 25 million cedis,
said Annan. The central bank told lenders to increase that to 60
million cedis by December 2012.  “We are making contacts to recapitalize through private
placement,” he said. “I want to believe SSNIT is doing this
based on its own strategies to reap the best out of its
investments.”  SSNIT supports ongoing talks between  Ecobank Ghana Ltd. (EBG) , a
subsidiary of Lome-based  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) , to buy the
fund’s 61 percent stake in Ghanaian-owned  The Trust Bank Ltd. ,
said Eshun. SSNIT is also third-largest shareholder in Ecobank
Ghana with 0.9 percent, according to the bank’s annual report
for 2010.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 