-- 
Goldman Protesters Are Almost Outnumbered by Security Guards in New Jersey

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-10-06T20:20:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/goldman-protesters-almost-outnumbered-by-guards-in-new-jersey.html
Protesters assembling today outside a
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  building in  New Jersey  were met by
almost as many security guards and police officers as “Occupy
Wall Street” demonstrators sought to single out the bank.  About 50 people gathered at a Goldman Sachs building
surrounded by metal barricades in  Jersey City , where 30 to 40
officers and guards were waiting. The investment bank’s
employees watched from windows as the crowd chanted “We are the
99 percent” before breaking into discussion groups.  “Goldman Sachs has too many people in government, and too
much influence,” said Pat Meany, 53, who arrived on his bicycle
and wore clothes painted with fluorescent colors and peace
symbols. “It seems like they’re looking out for America’s rich.
It’s not for the good of all Americans.”  In Trenton, about three dozen protesters were initially
outnumbered by members of the media for a simultaneous gathering
at the World War II memorial across from the Statehouse. The
crowd grew to about 75 people within an hour as participants
took turns to speak about corporate greed, the influence of
money on politics, war and the environment.  “There is no reason why this country should be the way it
is,” said Heath Weaver, 46, of Toms River, a self-employed
videographer who came to the Trenton event with a sleeping bag.
“Instead of people coming together we’ve been fighting against
each other and nothing’s getting solved.”  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the demonstration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 