-- 
Grassley Asks Falcone for Records of FCC, White House Contacts

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-10-06T16:47:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/grassley-asks-falcone-for-records-of-fcc-white-house-contacts.html
The Senate Judiciary Committee’s top
Republican asked  Philip Falcone  and his LightSquared wireless
venture for records of contacts with the White House and U.S.
regulators to put “questions of improper influence” to rest.  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  made the request in
letters to Falcone and LightSquared Chief Executive Officer
 Sanjiv Ahuja  yesterday, requesting information about contacts
with the Federal Communications Commission, White House, and
Commerce Department. Seven  House Republicans  last month asked
the White House for details of contacts with Falcone, citing
concerns about possible political pressure on U.S. agencies over
the billionaire’s wireless venture.  LightSquared, backed by $3 billion from Falcone’s Harbinger
 Capital Partners  hedge fund, wants to offer wholesale service
through a network of base stations using airwaves previously
reserved mainly for satellites. Makers and users of global-
positioning system devices say LightSquared’s signals will
disrupt navigation by planes, boats, tractors and automobiles.  “If Harbinger has nothing to hide and would like to put
questions of improper influence at the FCC,  Department of
Commerce , and White House to rest, the public release of these
communications would allow Congress and the American people to
fully examine the facts and decide for themselves,” Grassley
wrote in the letter to Falcone.  “LightSquared has received the letter and it is reviewing
it,” Chris Stern, a company spokesman, said in an interview.
Scott Tagliarino, a spokesman for New York-based Harbinger
Capital Partners, said in an interview the firm is reviewing the
letter and declined to comment further.  Grassley and Representative Thomas Petri, a Wisconsin
Republican, said in a letter to FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski 
last month that U.S. regulators should “resist political
pressures” to approve LightSquared. The Reston, Virginia-based
company needs FCC clearance to begin service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  