-- 
Hiding Gold in All the Unusual Places

-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-06T17:19:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/hiding-gold-in-all-the-unusual-places.html
If you’re looking for a safe place to put your
investments, Chad Venzke has a suggestion: Dig a hole in the
ground four feet deep, pack gold and silver in a piece of
plastic PVC pipe, seal it, and bury it.  The 30-year-old central Wisconsin resident trusts no one
but himself to store and protect his gold and silver—not
banks, not investment funds, and certainly not the government.
It’s precisely because of this suspicion of institutions that
he invests in those metals to begin with. In case of
emergency, "you always want to have your precious metals
within arms reach," he says.  Venzke is hardly the only investor who wants his precious
metals nearby at all times. A pound of gold worth about
$24,000 can easily fit in a pocket; how to protect it is a
decision that carries expensive consequences. Do-it-yourself
investors who don't trust banks must find creative storage
options, whether burying gold in the yard, submerging it in a
koi pond, stashing it behind air-conditioning ducts, or
placing it under carpets. All these options are debated in
online gold and silver investor forums. They're also debated
and demonstrated in youtube videos, including one by Venzke
that has been viewed more than 7,000 times.  MOUNTING HOARDS  While there’s no way of knowing how many investors take
Venzke’s advice, there are growing piles of precious metals
in, under, or near American homes. From mid-2010 to
mid-2011, U.S. investors bought up more than 100 tonnes of
physical gold coins and bars, up from 15.2 tonnes in
2007, according to the World Gold Council. (A tonne, or metric
ton, is 1,000 kilograms.) Worldwide bar and coin demand rose
37 percent during the mid-2010 to mid-2011 period, according
to the Council, even as demand from exchange-traded funds
backed by physical gold, and similar products, fell 84
percent.  The notion of keeping one’s gold in a safety deposit
box—inside the banks many gold aficionados find so
untrustworthy—is anathema to many gold bugs. Venzke, who
predicts "runaway inflation" and a crisis leading to a "new
form of currency within this decade," worries that the boxes
won't be accessible if banks shut down in a crisis. "How are
you supposed to get your stuff out of there?" he asks.  For those storing gold and silver in or around their
home, the most immediate danger isn’t a crisis or a dip in
metal prices. It’s theft. The FBI, which tallies the theft of
precious metals and jewelry in one category, says $1.6 billion
was stolen in 2010, up 51 percent from 2005. Just 4.2 percent
of the lost loot was recovered last year.  Metal detectors are a big worry. Basic detectors can find
metal on the surface or in the first 12 inches to 14 inches
below ground, depending on soil conditions, says Louis Mahnken
Jr., a sales representative for Kellyco Metal Detectors in
Winter Springs, Fla. That’s why Venzke advises burying it at
least four feet deep. There are  online debates about the best
way to frustrate such thieves, including using scrap metal as
decoys or hiding metal by  covering it underground with
asbestos or mirrors.  DOORSTOPS, BOAT ANCHORS  Metal owners also use the "hiding in plain sight" maneuver.
According to dealers, some customers buy 100-oz. silver
bars, paint them black, and use them as doorstops. That's
foolish, says Steven Ellsworth, a coin dealer in
Clifton, Va., who teaches security classes for the American
Numismatic Assn.  Ellsworth is a believer in keeping precious metals in bank
safety deposit boxes, as well as having high security at home.
"My wife sometimes thinks we're over-secured and calls our
residence 'the compound,'" says Ellsworth, a retired Army
colonel. His security measures include
fences, alarms, cameras, and dogs.  Safes can certainly deter thieves. Yet an inexpensive fire
safe may be exactly the wrong place to put your valuables.
Richard Krasilovsky, president of Empire Safe, calls such
safes "handy carrying cases for burglars." A fire safe is
designed to protect papers from fire, not from intruders, says
Ryan Smith, a senior product manager at SentrySafe. "It
wouldn’t be wise to put any more than $20,000 of valuables in
our products," he says.  Krasilovsky, whose company makes high-end safes, says safes
must be very strong and very heavy—a recent sale was of a
$10,000 safe that weighed 4,000 pounds. A proper safe starts
at $2,000 and could cost as much as $40,000, he says. If the
safe isn't certified to resist burglars with tools for 30
minutes, a so-called "TL-30" rating, "you're buying an
expensive boat anchor," says Ellsworth.  Of course, whether gold is buried, put in a safe, or hidden
under your bed, there’s nothing to stop a determined person
with a gun from making you show them where you put it. That’s
why it’s important no one ever know you have gold in the first
place. Krasilovsky’s company will deliver safes in the middle
of the night, installing them where no one, including a
contractor, is likely to stumble across them.  "People have to be extraordinarily secretive," Krasilovsky
says. This secrecy keeps away not only thieves but also prying
relatives and the tax man. "One of the benefits of owning
precious metals is nobody knows you own it," Venzke says.
"It’s the most private investment you can make."  Unless, of course, you feel compelled to post youtube
videos sharing insights about where to stash your gold.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ben Steverman at
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Suzanne
Woolley at  swoolley2@bloomberg.net  