-- 
Indonesia Bonds Withstand Worst Capital Flight: Chart of the Day

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-06T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/indonesia-bonds-withstand-worst-capital-flight-chart-of-the-day.html
Indonesian bonds,  Asia ’s best
performer in 2011, are withstanding a record sell-off by
foreigners as central bank support for the market spurs demand
from domestic investors.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the 10-year sovereign yield has
fallen 54 basis points from a three-month high on Sept. 22, even
as overseas funds cut holdings by an unprecedented 29 trillion
rupiah ($3.2 billion) last month. Local buyers, including Bank
 Indonesia , bought an estimated 22 trillion rupiah of the notes,
according to the  finance ministry .  “Even if the crisis in  Europe  and financial-market
conditions worsen, it’s unlikely that selling pressure will
overwhelm Indonesia’s bond market,” Jens Lauschke, fixed-income
strategist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said in an interview in
 Singapore  yesterday. “As domestic entities did not boost
positions the past two years, they have substantial capacity to
absorb the bonds sold by foreign entities.”  Indonesian bonds have returned 13.2 percent so far this
year, the best performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt
markets tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc. While international
investors accelerated sales last month as Europe’s debt crisis
and a U.S. slowdown damped appetite for riskier assets, domestic
demand led by the central bank is rising.  Bank Indonesia will continue to purchase government debt to
stabilize the rupiah, Hendar, the central bank’s director of
monetary policy, said in a mobile-phone text message on Oct. 3.
Foreign reserves eased $10 billion last month from a record
$124.6 billion in August, the bank reported yesterday.  The previous biggest sell-off of Indonesian bonds, when the
global financial crisis prompted foreigners to withdraw 12.7
trillion rupiah in October 2008, boosted the 10-year yield by
more than seven percentage points to 21 percent, the highest
since at least 2003.  Ten-year yields fell to an all-time low of 6.45 percent on
Sept. 9, a day after  Bank Indonesia  kept its benchmark rate
unchanged at 6.75 percent for a seventh month, citing easing
inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  