-- 
Lira Rises Most in Five Weeks as Bank Challenges Currency Bears With Sales

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-06T13:15:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/lira-surges-as-bank-challenges-currency-bears-with-record-dollar-sales.html
The lira climbed, posting the biggest
two-day increase in five weeks, after the central bank sold $350
million for liras in a challenge to investors who are betting on
a weaker currency.  The lira rose as much as 1.8 percent against the dollar in
Istanbul after the central bank offered to sell as much as $1.35
billion for a second day. It traded 0.8 percent higher at 1.8527
at 4:13 p.m. after about a quarter of the offer was sold. The
bank got $2.04 billion of bids, the most since the daily
auctions began on Aug. 5.  “The central bank is probably pursuing a cautious sale
strategy and does not want to use all its ammunition at a level
near 1.80,” Levent Guven, a director at the treasury department
of the Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Policy makers have intensified their support for the lira
after it sank more than 16 percent against the dollar this year,
making it the second-worst performer among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after  South Africa ’s rand. The
lira sank as the current-account deficit grew to $74.6 billion,
a record 10 percent of economic output, in July and the central
bank cut  interest rates  three times since December to help guard
the economy from a global slowdown.  “The central bank’s recent moves show that it means
business, which is actually what local households and corporates
wanted to see,” Simon Quijano-Evans, a London-based economist
at ING Groep NV, said via e-mail.  The currency has lost one-third of its value against the
dollar since the start of the global economic crisis in
September 2008, the biggest loser among emerging markets.  Punch Ball  The Ankara-based bank also offered $1.35 billion in an
auction yesterday, selling a record $750 million, after the lira
slumped to an historical low of 1.9096 per dollar on Oct. 4. The
currency has rallied 4 percent from that low.  “I expect that the lira will remain a punch ball between
markets and the central bank in the short run,” said Daniel Lenz, chief emerging-markets strategist at DZ Bank AG in
 Frankfurt . “Now the central bank is in the lead with tailwind
from better sentiment but I would not be surprised if markets
test the bank’s willingness again.  ‘Precarious’  Today’s dollar sale increased the total amount of foreign-
currency reserves spent by the central bank in the auctions to
$4.3 billion since Aug. 5. The bank had $87.5 billion in
reserves, excluding gold, as of last week, dwarfed by  Russia ’s
$526 billion in foreign currency and gold. It had $92 billion in
reserves on Aug. 5.  The policy of increasing dollar sales to this level is “a
rather precarious stance to maintain,” Ozhan Antero Atilla, an
emerging-market strategist at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen,
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The central bank raised the amount offered at the dollar
auctions after cutting  reserve requirements  for banks’ foreign-
currency liabilities yesterday, releasing an additional $1.3
billion in liquidity to the market. It also increased the limit
of foreign currency reserves banks can keep with the central
bank to 20 percent of lira liabilities from 10 percent, a move
it said would bolster its own reserves by $3.6 billion.  Bond yields fell after governor Erdem Basci said in an
e-mailed statement that he expects  core inflation  to peak at 8
percent in the fourth quarter.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds slid 11 basis points to
8.43 percent, a RBS Local Bond Index showed, in their second day
of declines.  “The risks are still skewed towards weaker lira and higher
yields, although on the former the worst so far seems to have
passed, and on the latter the global events still take priority
over domestic factors,” Danske Bank’s Atilla said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkish dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries narrowed 14 basis points to
357, compared with a seven basis point rise for emerging-market
debt, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  