-- 
Iran Says Antonov-158 Built With Ukraine May Fly in 2013

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-10-06T11:39:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/iran-says-first-antonov-158-built-with-ukraine-to-fly-in-2013.html
A model of the Antonov-158 airliner
jointly built by  Iran  and Ukraine’s  Antonov Co.  may be in use in
Iran as early as 2013, said Iran’s state-owned Aircraft
Manufacturing Industrial Co.  The Persian Gulf country will buy two Ukrainian-made
Antonov-158s, after a test flight of the aircraft earlier this
month, Mohammad-Ali Sirati, managing director of the Iranian
aircraft company, was cited as saying by the official  Islamic
Republic News Agency . The countries then will start to jointly
build the aircraft next year, Sirati, whose company will be in
charge of the project, said in Tehran yesterday. Some 30 percent
of each plane will be made in Iran, state-run media reported.  Iran has been trying to modernize its foreign-built fleet
of jetliners amid international sanctions that block purchases
from suppliers such as Chicago-based Boeing Co. and Toulouse,
France-based Airbus SAS. Iran’s airlines say the restrictions on
purchases of aircraft and parts force them to buy used planes
and get spare parts on the secondary market, hampering their
competitiveness. Iran, three times bigger than  France , needs
planes to meet the needs of a population of almost 75 million.  Iran requires about 80 Antonov-158s, with their partial
manufacturing domestically costing the country “millions of
dollars,” Abbas Falah, managing director of Pars Aviation
Development Investment Co., said today, according to IRNA. Falah
said the contract with Antonov has yet to be completed.  UN Sanctions  Iran is under four rounds of United Nations Security
Council sanctions because of its nuclear program, which the U.S.
and its allies say is a cover for developing weapons. The U.S.
stepped up measures against Iran last year, targeting foreign
suppliers of  aviation fuel  and other refined-oil products.  The Antonov-158, a bigger version of the  Antonov-148 , can
carry as many as 99 passengers. The aircraft has low operating
costs, making it appropriate for Iran’s domestic and regional
routes, IRNA said.  Iran and Ukraine already jointly build Iran-140s, which can
hold 52 passengers and are used inside the Persian Gulf country
for short flights, Manouchehr Manteqi, managing director of the
state-run Aviation Industries Organization said Oct. 4. Iran
built its first Iran-140 passenger plane in 2003 after
purchasing the production license for the Antonov-140 from
Ukraine in 2000, the state-run  Press TV  news channel said
yesterday. The aircraft is also being manufactured by Iran’s
Aircraft Manufacturing Industrial Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 