-- 
Irish Trophy Home Plunges 75% in Price as Property Millionaires Disappear

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-10-07T12:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/irish-trophy-homes-lose-allure-as-property-millions-disappear.html
A six-bedroom Edwardian house on
Ireland’s most expensive street is on the market for one quarter
of the price paid when it was bought six years ago, a sign that
the country’s property crash isn’t sparing high-end properties.  Walford, a house on Shrewsbury Road in Dublin’s affluent
embassy belt, previously sold for 58 million euros ($77
million), according to  Savills Plc (SVS) , which is offering the empty
home for 15 million euros. Interested buyers need to submit bids
for the house by Oct. 27 with a 1 million-euro bank draft.  Prices for some of Ireland’s trophy homes fell at least as
much as the rest of the country’s slumping market after the
real-estate collapse drained the fortunes of property-boom
millionaires. Thorndene, another house on Shrewsbury Road in
Dublin’s Ballsbridge, is on the market for 8 million euros, down
from an asking price of 14 million euros in 2009.  Prime property prices rose faster than the rest of the
market during Ireland’s boom “because there was a lot of people
chasing too few properties, which gave them a spike,” said Wade
Wise of Beirne & Wise, who has been selling Irish high -end
homes for 12 years. “Come the crash, they’ve fallen further.”  In property markets including London and Paris, luxury  home
prices  fell less following the financial crisis and recovered
more quickly than the broader market on tight supply and
investment from abroad. Prices in London neighborhoods such as
Knightsbridge and St. John’s Wood exceed their pre-recession
peaks.  Worse Than Average  While prices in Dublin have fallen more than 50 percent on
average, top end values are down about 75 percent, Wise said.  “The drivers of the bubble, especially those who came in
later, tend to be among the bigger victims,” said economist
Brian Lucey, an associate finance professor at Trinity College
Dublin. Ireland was “unique” because the newly made millionaires
chose to buy luxury homes in the country rather than abroad.  Luxury home prices during the property boom were
“underpinned by wealth that wasn’t really wealth,” he said.  Investment in  housing  rose to almost 15 percent of
Ireland’s gross domestic product in 2006, up from about 6
percent in 1996, according to the country’s Economic & Social
Research Institute.  A home formerly owned by Derek Quinlan, once one of
Ireland’s richest men, near Shrewsbury Road may be sold to the
Belgian Embassy, said two people with knowledge of the matter.
The  price range  is 2.5 million euros to 2.9 million euros, said
one of the people, who declined to be identified because the
talks aren’t concluded.  Quinlan bought the house in 2006 for 7 million euros, and
spent more refurbishing it, the  Irish Times  reported in March,
without citing anyone.  Damage Done  “In Ireland it always used to be a cycle, but this time we
seem to have done a lot of damage so the natural recovery isn’t
there,” said real-estate developer Paddy Kelly, who owned three
houses on Shrewsbury Road at different times and has now lost
control of some of his assets as prices plunged.  The identity of Walford’s owner hasn’t been disclosed. Iris
Keating an agent at Savills, which is jointly handling the sale
with Irish broker Lisney, said it received instructions to sell
the house from the trust Matsack Nominees Ltd.  While luxury cars crowd the driveways of  Walford’s 
neighbors, the red-brick house is run down after being left
uninhabited for more than six years. Visitors step onto a bare
cement floor just inside the entrance. The walls have been
stripped, wooden floors are exposed and cobwebs hang in some of
the rooms of the house.  ‘Best Road’  After the 75 percent discount, Walford is drawing
expressions of interest from potential buyers, Keating said.  “This is the best road in Dublin,” she said. “We have
had number of genuine inquiries from people who we know to be
serious at this end of the market.”  Telecom billionaire Denis O’Brien owns a home in
Ballsbridge, about 1 kilometer (0.6 miles) south of the city
center. The Belgian embassy is on the street, as is the
residence of the Finnish ambassador. Paddy Kelly is currently
leasing a property on Shrewsbury Road to the Chinese embassy.  Residential  house prices  in Dublin have fallen by 51
percent since the peak of the property boom, according to
Ireland’s statistics office. The government took control of five
of the country’s six biggest lenders, after real-estate loans
soured. In all, Ireland has injected or pledged about 62 billion
euros to shore up the financial system.  Further to Fall  Average house prices may fall as much as 70 percent from
the peak if the government doesn’t take action to ensure lenders
provide mortgages, according to  Ronan Lyons , an economist based
at Oxford University who has written on the Irish property
market.  “There is a huge problem at the moment with the
availability of credit,” Lyons said in an interview. “Banks
are trying to cut down their loan books, not increase them.”  Keating at Savills still expects Walford to sell. She
estimates that 1 million euros needs to be spent renovating the
property.  “There are some people who will compete to have a trophy
residence here even now,” said Keating at Savills, without
naming any of the interested parties. “People at this end of
the market want to keep their business under the radar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  