-- 
It’s Too Hard to Know Who Is Too Big to Fail: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-10-06T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/it-s-too-hard-to-know-who-is-too-big-to-fail-jonathan-weil.html
Two years ago if you had asked
whether the commercial lender  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)  was too big to
fail, the answer would have been an emphatic no. The Treasury
Department had rejected its latest bailout plea. In November
2009, after 101 years in business, CIT filed for bankruptcy.  Ask that same question about CIT today, though, and the
best answer would be: Who knows?  Last month U.S. banking regulators approved new rules that
would  treat  all bank-holding companies with more than $50
billion of assets as systemically important financial
institutions, based on average total assets for their previous
four quarters. For CIT, which exited bankruptcy in December
2009, that figure was $50.7 billion as of June 30.  No one is sure what exactly this new designation means --
except that, on paper at least, it’s more likely now than it was
two years ago that regulators would intervene to stabilize a
collapsing CIT. Somehow, in the government’s eyes, CIT is more
important to the financial system today than it was when it blew
up, even though it has about $20 billion less in assets.  The newfound uncertainty also has a mirror image. Not long
ago it would have been pretty much unthinkable to assert that
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Ally Financial Inc. didn’t
have the U.S. Treasury Department’s full backing. (Ally is the
lender formerly known as GMAC that once was the finance arm of
General Motors Co.) The government bailed them out numerous
times and remains the majority owner of both companies. Yet
lately their bond prices have been plunging.  By the Numbers  AIG’s $800 million of 4.875 percent notes due in September
2016 were trading this week for about 92 cents on the dollar,
down from 99 cents when AIG issued the bonds last month. If
investors were fully confident the government would stand behind
AIG’s debt, they wouldn’t demand a 6.7 percent annual yield,
compared with 0.9 percent for Treasuries of the same duration.
Ally’s $2 billion of 8 percent notes due in November 2031
fetched 85 cents on the dollar, for a 9.7 percent yield, down
from 110 cents in July.  What gives? One possible explanation is that the government
keeps sending mixed signals about its intentions, mainly because
it has no idea what they are. The  Dodd-Frank Act  passed by
Congress last year prohibits equity injections of the sort we
saw under the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program. Yet it
doesn’t end taxpayer-supported bailouts.  Consider the liquidation plan outlined in Dodd-Frank for
dismantling a systemically important bank. The act would let the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. borrow money from the Treasury
to finance a company’s operations for as long as five years,
shielding bondholders and counterparties from immediate losses
as a way to promote calm and head off bank runs. Putting CIT on
the important list would tell creditors they might get special
protections unavailable at most other companies.  Weighing the Backlash  At the same time, the public backlash against government
bailouts of any sort would seem to make them less likely than
three years ago. The odds that Congress would pass TARP II look
slim, as long as Republicans control the  House of
Representatives .  Small wonder, then, that investors have gotten panicky
about the common shares of the biggest U.S. financial companies,
such as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , which trade for far less than what their balance sheets
say their net assets are worth. If AIG doesn’t have an
unswerving federal safety net, maybe those other companies don’t
anymore either. Nobody knows for sure.  Meanwhile, the notion that CIT could pose a genuine threat
to the financial system seems as unrealistic as the idea that
the U.S. might let Bank of America, Citigroup or Morgan Stanley
fail. Ditto for Ally, with its $179 billion of assets, making it
a midget compared with Bank of America, which has $2.3 trillion
of assets. Yet Dodd-Frank tells us no bank is fail-proof
nowadays, assuming Congress doesn’t change its mind, which it
could, like it did in 2008.  For most European governments, the question of whether they
would save their countries’ largest banks in the face of the
region’s debt crisis hinges mostly on whether they have the
wherewithal to do it. There’s little doubt  France  would if it
could, for example. In the U.S., the question is more about
whether the government has the political will.  At the rate the markets are going, we may find out the
answers sooner than anyone would like.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 