-- 
ITALY DAYBOOK: Berlusconi Cabinet Meets After Moody’s Downgrade

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-10-06T05:34:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/italy-daybook-berlusconi-cabinet-meets-after-moody-s-downgrade.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
Cabinet meets for the first time after an Oct. 4 Moody’s
Investor Service cut in Italy’s rating. German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  said last night that Italy has “every chance” of
regaining investor confidence if it keeps cutting debt. “Every
European country will regain confidence -- we’ve seen this in
the case of Portugal -- if the agreed measures are genuinely
implemented,” Merkel told reporters in Brussels.  EQUITIES:
*The main need for European banks from the region’s regulators
is help with financing to prevent the debt crisis from
worsening, said UniCredit SpA (UCG IM) Chief Executive Officer
 Federico Ghizzoni  in an interview. Separately, Moody’s
downgraded UniCredit to align it with Italy’s sovereign rating.  GOVERNMENT:
*Representatives of the  Economy Ministry ’s finance department
and of the association of listed companies Assonime speak at
2.30 p.m. and 3.30 p.m. respectively before the Senate Finance
Committee in Rome.  FINANCE:
*Banking association ABI managing director Giovanni Sabatini,
World Bank and International Monetary Fund representative Biagio
Bossone, employers’ association Confindustria managing director
Giampaolo Galli, fund managers’ association Assogestioni
President Domenico Siniscalco attend Credit Day conference on
“Financial Structure, Contribute for the Economic Growth” at
9:45 a.m. in Rome.
*Standard & Poor’s Italy Managing Director Maria Pierdicchi,
 Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI)  Chairman Massimo Ponzellini, Bank
of Italy’s Deputy Director General Ignazio Visco attend
conference organized by the Adam Smith Society on the outlook
for the Italian and international banking system at 4:30 p.m. in
Milan.  MARKETS:
*The benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  rose 3.94 percent to 14,805.48.
*The yield spread on 10-year Italian bonds and similar German
securities narrowed 8.5 basis points to 368.6 basis points.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 