-- 
Ivory Coast Keeps Cocoa Export Tax Below 22%, Document Shows

-- B y   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-10-06T15:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/ivory-coast-keeps-cocoa-export-tax-below-22-document-shows.html
Export taxes on cocoa beans from
 Ivory Coast , the world’s biggest producer of the chocolate
ingredient, won’t exceed 22 percent of the international price
this season, meeting a commitment to the  International Monetary
Fund , according to a finance ministry document.  In the 2008-9 season taxes averaged 25.3 percent of
international prices, the IMF said in a  document  posted on its
website in November last year. While the country met the
commitment in the season just ended, it had a change in
government earlier this year.  The rate meets a demand by the International Monetary Fund
and the World Bank to reform the Ivorian cocoa and coffee
industries in order to comply with the terms of its Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries’ debt-relief program. Last year, the
fixed duty on  cocoa beans  was scrapped and replaced with a levy
that varies with prices as part of the reforms that will make
the country eligible for $3 billion in debt relief from the
Washington-based lenders.  The document from the Abidjan-based ministry is dated Oct.
3 and applies to the 2011-12 harvest season, which began on Oct.
1. It was obtained by Bloomberg and hasn’t been publicly
released. Norbert Komenan, an adviser to Finance Minister,
Charles Koffi Diby, declined to comment when called today.  The main export tax has been maintained at 14.6 percent.
There are a number of other charges. Cocoa traded at $2,648 a
metric ton in  New York  as of 11:03 a.m. local time.  Disputed Election  Discussions of the reform strategy with the  World Bank  are
expected to resume in coming months, the IMF said on its website
in July, two months after  Alassane Ouattara  was sworn in as
president following a violent five-month political crisis that
was sparked by a disputed November election.  Cocoa and coffee exports were largely halted during that
time, as Ouattara attempted to limit the flow of funds to
 Laurent Gbagbo , who refused to cede power despite losing the
election. Businesses also shut their doors as customers stayed
home and banks closed their branches amid the clashes. As many
as 3,000 people were killed, according to the  International
Criminal Court , which is investigating crimes it says were
committed by supporters of both leaders.  Ivory Coast’s economy may contract 5.8 percent this year
before expanding 8.5 percent in 2012, the ministry said last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan at 
 bmieu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  