-- 
James Murdoch Must Leave News Corp. Board, British Pension Body Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-06T10:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/james-murdoch-should-leave-news-corp-board-pension-body-says.html
News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating
Officer  James Murdoch  should leave the board of the media
company in the wake of a hacking scandal at its U.K. newspaper
unit, according to a group of British pension funds.  Murdoch’s “continued presence on the News Corp board is
causing significant reputational damage to the company and is no
longer in shareholders’ interest,” the Local Authority Pension
Fund Forum said in an e-mailed statement today. The group’s 54
members have assets of 100 billion pounds ($155 billion).  Murdoch, who was compelled to appear in July before a U.K.
Parliamentary committee to explain how much he knew about phone
hacking at the News of the World Sunday tabloid, was recalled to
answer further questions later this year. Former executives at
the U.K. newspaper unit News International have questioned the
evidence Murdoch gave at the time.  Members of the fund forum own less than 1 percent of  News
Corp. (NWSA)  shares, according to a person with knowledge of the matter
who declined to be identified because the information is not
public.  The body today demanded a “separation of powers at the
head of the company and the appointment of a genuinely
independent chair.” It has recommended that members oppose the
election of  Rupert Murdoch , who is News Corp.’s chairman and
chief executive officer.  Arrests, Resignations  News Corp. was forced to shut the News of the World in July
amid allegations that reporters had hacked into the phone of
murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler . The subsequent police
investigation has lead to at least 16 arrests and the
resignation of former News International CEO Rebekah Brooks.  The New-York based company has set up an internal panel to
review phone hacking across its British newspaper titles under
the stewardship of  Joel Klein  and board member  Viet Dinh . The
management and standards committee, which was given the mandate
to conduct internal inquiries, said in August its objective has
been to provide information to police and other government
investigations.  The funds would have preferred “to see a fully independent
process in place,” according to the statement.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  