-- 
Japan’s Trade Minister to Meet Adnoc Chief to Extend Oil Rights

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-10-06T10:20:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/japan-s-trade-minister-to-meet-adnoc-chief-to-extend-oil-rights.html
Japanese Trade Minister  Yukio Edano 
will meet Abu Dhabi National Oil Co.’s Director General Abdullah
Nasser al-Suwaidi on Oct. 9 to discuss the extension of oil
field concessions, including Adma block.  Besides the head of the state-run producer in the  United
Arab Emirates , Edano will meet on the same day in Abu Dhabi with
Salem al Dhaheri, secretary general for the Supreme Petroleum
Council, which decides the country’s oil policy. He will meet
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi on the next day in
 Riyadh , according to the document released by the ministry.  Saudi Arabia  and the U.A.E.,  Japan ’s two largest suppliers
of oil, provide more than 50 percent of the country’s needs,
according to the data compiled by the ministry.  “Visiting the  Middle East  is one of the important missions
of the trade minister,” Kenji Totoki, director for the Middle
East and Africa division at the trade ministry, told reporters
in  Tokyo . “Apart from concession rights, the ministers will
discuss cooperation on renewable energy as they plan to use more
renewable energy at home so that they can export more crude and
oil products.”  The concession right of the Adma Block held by the  Inpex
Corp. (1605) ’s subsidiary Japan Oil Development Co. will expire in 2018,
Tokyo-based company spokesman Keisuke Yano said. The trade
ministry owns almost 19 percent, or the largest share, of Inpex.
The Adma block includes Umm Shaif, Lower Zakum and Upper Zakum
fields, according to Inpex’s  website .  Edano will also meet Crown Prince Sheik Mohammed bin Zayed,
who heads state-owned investor Mubadala Development Co. in  Abu
Dhabi  and Saudi’s Commerce and Industry Minister Abdullah bin Ahmed Zainal Alireza in Riyadh, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  