-- 
Japan Debt Risk Falls as Euro Bank Optimism Spurs Global Rally

-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-10-06T11:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/japan-debt-risk-falls-as-euro-bank-optimism-spurs-global-rally.html
The cost of insuring against a
Japanese sovereign default tumbled from a near record high as
optimism  Europe ’s policy makers will propose measures to support
banks sparked a global credit rally.  Credit-default swaps insuring Japan’s government bonds fell
16 basis points to 138 at 12 p.m. in  London , after reaching a
record-high 155 basis points on Oct. 4, according to CMA. The
price of the contracts is still double that at the beginning of
the year.  The European Commission proposes “coordinated action to
recapitalize banks” and rid them of toxic assets, President
 Jose Barroso  said today. The sovereign debt crisis has spawned
as much as 300 billion euros ($401 billion) of credit risk for
European banks, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
September report.  “The euro zone’s optimism and the capital injection news
that has come out today have impacted on the Japanese CDS
spread,” said  Mana Nakazora , the chief credit analyst at BNP
Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.  Optimism European leaders are getting to grips with a
crisis that has already forced Greece, Ireland and Portugal to
seek international bailouts also helped prompt a rally in
default swaps insuring European bank debt.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps linked to senior
debt of 25 European lenders and insurers fell for a second day,
declining 17.5 basis points to 252, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. A drop signals an improvement in investors’ perceptions of
a borrower’s credit quality.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  