-- 
Japanese Stocks Advance Second Day Amid European Optimism; Sony Declines

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-10-07T07:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/japan-stock-futures-australia-shares-gain-on-optimism-about-europe-crisis.html
Japanese stocks rose for a second day,
trimming a weekly loss on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average, as
action by European officials to contain the debt crisis boosted
confidence in the earnings outlook for  Asia ’s exporters.  Fanuc Corp., a manufacturer of industrial robots that makes
75 percent of its sales overseas, advanced 4.3 percent.  Softbank
Corp. (9984)  jumped 6.5 percent and  KDDI Corp. (9433)  gained on speculation
the two mobile phone carriers will avoid a price war.  Sony Corp. (6758) 
fell 3.7 percent after Nomura Holdings Inc. cut the consumer-
electronics maker’s investment rating.  The Nikkei 225 rose 1 percent to 8,605.62 at the 3 p.m.
trading close in Tokyo, narrowing the gauge’s weekly loss to 1.1
percent. The broader Topix index added 0.6 percent to 741.55
today after the  European Central Bank  took steps to ensure the
region’s banks can borrow money.  “It certainly sounds like policymakers in  Europe  are
understanding the situation with the banking system,” said
Belinda Allen, a senior investment analyst at Colonial First
State Global Asset Management in Sydney, which oversees about
$145 billion. “It looks like they are getting more willing to
recapitalize the banks.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.8 percent
yesterday, capping its biggest three-day rally since August,
after Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said U.S. banks
have become stronger. Stocks also rose after a report showed
claims for U.S. unemployment benefits rose less than forecast
last week. Futures on the  S&P 500  lost 0.2 percent today.  ECB Action  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
yesterday said the ECB will resume purchases of mortgage-backed
securities and reintroduce yearlong loans for banks. In  London ,
the  Bank of England  boosted its asset-purchase program by more
than a third to 275 billion pounds ($425 billion).  “Both the central banks are certainly willing to try to
prevent market dislocation,” Colonial First State’s Allen said.
“That has been positive for risk assets.”  The  Bank of Japan  kept the benchmark overnight interest
rate between zero and 0.1 percent, it said in a statement today.
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his colleagues also left
unchanged the size of the bank’s lending and asset-purchase
programs.  Fanuc, Nissan  Exporters advanced. Robot maker Fanuc rose 4.3 percent to
10,980 yen. Nissan Motor Co., the No. 3 Japanese car
manufacturer, gained 2.2 percent to 701 yen. Mazda Motor Corp.,
which gets about 60 percent of its sales abroad, climbed 2.1
percent to 147 yen.  Japanese banks rose on signs the European Commission is
pushing for a coordinated effort to shield the region’s lenders
from a potential Greek default.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender, advanced 0.6 percent to 328 yen.
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , the No. 2 lender, rose 0.6
percent to 2,081 yen.  “We are determined to do everything necessary to ensure
that Europe’s banks are able to play their essential role in
lending,” the commission’s president,  Jose Barroso , told
reporters in Brussels yesterday. “Close coordination at the
European level is essential.”  The Topix has lost about 18 percent this year amid concern
U.S. growth is sputtering and Europe’s debt crisis will damage
the banking system, damping demand in two of Japan’s biggest
export markets. The decline has cut the price of shares on the
index to 0.9 times estimated book value, near the lowest since
March 2009.  Softbank, KDDI  Softbank jumped 6.5 percent to 2,456 yen and KDDI rose 1.4
percent to 568,000 yen. KDDI, which will compete with Softbank
in offering Apple Inc.’s iPhone in  Japan , will charge 13 percent
more for unlimited wireless data downloads than its smaller
rival.  KDDI “has started out by avoiding price competition,”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report today. “This should
prevent a sharp narrowing of revenue growth potential.”  Sony slid 3.7 percent to 1,415 yen today after Nomura cut
its rating to “neutral” from “buy,” saying the company will
have difficulty cutting costs at its television business.  Separately, Sony is closer to an agreement to buy Ericsson
AB’s stake in their mobile-phone venture, according to a Wall
Street Journal report, citing people familiar with the matter.
The talks between the two companies may still fail, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  