-- 
JICA to Ask Underwriter SMBC Nikko About Insider-Trading Probe

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-10-06T08:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/jica-to-ask-underwriter-smbc-nikko-about-insider-trading-probe.html
Japan  International Cooperation
Agency, a government body providing development assistance, said
it asked SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., the lead underwriter for
its bond sale, to explain its insider-trading probe.  JICA , as the agency is known, will invite bankers from SMBC
Nikko as early as this week to account for the investigation by
Japan’s securities watchdog over possible insider-trading
violation, said Yoshifumi Omura, director of capital markets
division at the Tokyo-based body. The decision on whether to
exclude the brokerage as an underwriter for its 20 billion yen
($261 million) bond sale in December will be made based on the
findings, he said.  “We are now examining the situation,” Omura said today in
an interview in  Tokyo . “We are not making any decisions until
we conduct some hearings.”  JICA has hired SMBC Nikko,  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  and
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. to underwrite the
planned bond sale for individual investors.  SMBC Nikko is being investigated by Japan’s  Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission  for a possible insider trading
violation by an executive, the brokerage said in an e-mailed
statement. The executive allegedly told an acquaintance that
management of Enoteca Co., a Japanese wine importer, was
preparing to buy the company’s shares through a tender offer,
the Asahi newspaper reported earlier today, without saying where
it got the information. The acquaintance traded the stock before
the  management buyout  was announced, the newspaper said.  Nissan Financial Services Co., a financial unit of Nissan
Motor Co., today dropped SMBC Nikko from a planned bond sale,
according to a statement from Mitsubishi UFJ  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  The
statement didn’t elaborate on the reason for the exclusion.
Mitsubishi UFJ, Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will
still manage the next sale, the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  