-- 
Jobs Waged Eight-Year Health Fight After Rare Cancer Diagnosis

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/jobs-s-death-follows-eight-year-health-fight-after-rare-cancer.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder  Steve Jobs ’s
death yesterday at age 56 follows years of health struggles that
began in 2003, when he was diagnosed with a rare form of
pancreatic cancer.  Jobs had a  neuroendocrine tumor , which is less aggressive
than some other types of pancreatic malignancies. He eventually
resigned as chief executive officer on Aug. 24, saying he could
“no longer meet my duties and expectations.”  Neuroendocrine tumors can grow slowly and be treated
successfully with early removal. Those that spread to other
organs, such as the liver, can be life-threatening. Without
specifying a reason, Jobs had a  liver transplant  in 2009, a
treatment that can prolong the lives of patients with his type
of cancer.  Not all doctors endorse the approach. No more than 60
percent of patients who had transplants for this purpose
survived five years after surgery, according to an analysis
published in the World Journal of Gastroenterology in 2005. The
author, David Metz, is associate chief of gastroenterology at
the University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine in
Philadelphia. He has said that his data was of varying quality
and that survival odds may be better today.  Jobs had been on medical leave since Jan. 17. It was his
third leave since 2004, when he first announced he had a tumor
removed. Both he and Apple closely guarded his medical
information.  Complications  A patient who had a liver transplant after a neuroendocrine
tumor might suffer from a number of complications,  Simon Lo ,
director of endoscopy at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in  Los
Angeles , said after Jobs resigned in August.  Among the possibilities was a return of the original
cancer, leading to pain, fatigue, and disruption of digestion,
Lo said then.  Transplant patients also take immune-suppressing
drugs that can raise the risk of infections and new cancers, Lo
had said.  Two new drugs won U.S. clearance as neuroendocrine tumor
treatments this year:  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Sutent and Novartis AG’s
Afinitor. Doctors in  Europe  are also using new radiation
treatments for the disease.  Neuroendocrine tumors are uncommon, with new cases
occurring in no more than five people in every 100,000 each
year, according to Rodney Hicks, professor of medicine and
radiology at the University of  Melbourne . Doctors are still
trying to understand these rare tumors, which in August Hicks
said range from benign to very aggressive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  