-- 
KB Home, Partners Settle Fight Over Las Vegas Project

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-06T21:32:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/kb-home-partner-settles-fight-over-bankrupt-las-vegas-project.html
Builders KB Home,  Beazer Homes USA
Inc. (BZH)  and  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  settled a court fight with their
partner in a Las Vegas-area development that may make it easier
for the $1.2 billion project to exit bankruptcy.  Under the proposal, units of the builders, along with
Pardee Homes of  Nevada , will pay $35.5 million to Focus South
Group LLC and its affiliates, according to filings yesterday in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Las Vegas . The home builders and Focus
were partners in the 1,940-acre commercial and residential
Inspirada development, which was forced into  bankruptcy court  in
Las Vegas last year after the recession and feuding among the
partners halted building.  Focus agreed to drop its legal claims in the bankruptcy
case and support a reorganization plan under which  KB Home (KBH) ,
Beazer, Toll Brothers and Pardee would retain ownership of the
project, according to court papers.  “If the settlement is approved by the court and the plan
is confirmed, the disputes and litigation among every major
constituency in this case, with one exception, will have been
resolved,” the trustee overseeing the bankrupt development said
in court papers.  Focus Group will also be paid $5 million by the holding
company for Inspirada, South Edge LLC, and be entitled to $5
million from a development-related bank account, the trustee,
Cynthia Nelson, said in court papers.  Mismanaging the Project  JPMorgan Chase Bank NA forced South Edge into bankruptcy in
December, accusing the builders of mismanaging the project and
of trying to escape liability for a $585 million loan. The
builders and JPMorgan, acting as agent for the lenders on the
project, settled their fight earlier this year. Under that
proposal, lenders will be paid $330 million to $340 million of
the $367 million they are owed, according to court records.  Focus had opposed that settlement, which is the centerpiece
of the reorganization plan for development. Under the latest
settlement, Focus will drop its opposition.  The Focus deal will leave only one opponent to Inspirada’s
exit from bankruptcy,  Meritage Homes  of Nevada, one of the eight
original partners in the development.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce A. Markell is scheduled to
consider approving the reorganization plan at a hearing later
this month.  KB Home, Beazer and Toll Brothers all rose today in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. KB Home rose almost 4
percent to $6.32, Beazer climbed almost 8 percent to $1.52 and
Toll Brothers was up about 1.5 percent at $15.27.  The case is in re South Edge LLC, 10-32968, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Steven Church} in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  