-- 
Kenya, Uganda Taking Decisive Steps on Inflation, IMF Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-06T13:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/kenya-uganda-took-decisive-steps-by-raising-rates-imf-says.html
Kenya  and Uganda’s central banks took
“decisive” action, boosting  interest rates  to a record this
week to combat inflation and rescue their currencies, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  “We consider it very important to take strong measures to
address” rising prices, Ragnar Gudmundsson, the IMF’s
representative in Kenya, said in a phone interview from Nairobi
today.  The central banks in Kenya and Uganda ramped up interest
rates by 4 percentage points each this week to bolster their
currencies, both of which have dropped by a fifth against the
dollar this year, the biggest declines of more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The worst regional drought in
60 years boosted prices in the two East African nations, pushing
inflation to 28.3 percent in  Uganda  and 17.3 percent in Kenya in
September.  “These moves are in the right direction,” Gudmundsson
said. “Decisive measures to tighten monetary policy and to
address interest rates upward, as required, are necessary and
welcome.”  Kenya’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by central bank
Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, yesterday increased the key lending
rate to 11 percent, while Uganda lifted its rate to 20 percent
the day before.  Currency Gains  Kenya’s shilling snapped three days of losses after the
rate decision, gaining as much as 1 percent to 100.95 against
the dollar yesterday. The currency was at 102.28 as of 3:03 p.m.
in Nairobi today, while Uganda’s shilling was 0.2 percent
stronger at 2,860 per dollar.  Fitch Ratings  said today the rate increases “are the first
tangible demonstration” that the two countries are tackling
inflation and the action should help with “stabilizing the
currency” and curbing price pressures. Kenya’s debt is rated
B+, four levels below investment grade, by Fitch, while Uganda
has a rating of B.  “Inflation in the two African nations is being driven by
global food and fuel prices, the regional drought and a
weakening currency,” Fitch said. “Both countries are
experiencing balance of payments pressures as a result of strong
economic growth and high oil and food import prices.”  Economy Contracts  While higher interest rates may undermine economic growth,
controlling inflation is a bigger priority, Gudmundsson said.
Kenya’s economy contracted a seasonally adjusted 4.6 percent in
the second quarter, compared with a 2 percent expansion in three
months earlier, the country’s statistics agency said on Sept.
29.  Inflation pressure is spreading in the economy.  Safaricom
Ltd. (SAFCOM) ,  East Africa ’s largest mobile phone operator, this month
raised its calling rates for the first time in 11 years, while
Total SA’s Kenyan unit said 2011 profit will be lower than last
year due to rising prices and the weak currency.  “It’s precisely because there’s second-round effects of
inflation, that has led  core inflation  to exceed 9 percent, that
we consider it very important to take strong measures to
address” inflation, Gudmundsson said.  The IMF, which approved about $509 million in loans to
Kenya for balance of payments support, will conduct its second
assessment of the economy from Oct. 13 to Oct. 31. Kenya has
asked the Washington-based IMF to release additional funds from
the three-year loan program to help deal with the weakening
shilling, President Mwai Kibaki said on Sept. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  