-- 
Keynes and Hayek, the Great Debate (Part 1): Nicholas Wapshott

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   W a p s h o t t
-- 
2011-10-06T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/keynes-and-hayek-s-great-debate-part-1-commentary-by-nicholas-wapshott.html
The greatest debate in the history of
economics began with a simple request for a book. In the early
weeks of 1927, Friedrich Hayek, a young Viennese economist,
wrote to John  Maynard Keynes  at King’s College, Cambridge, in
 England , asking for an economic textbook written 50 years
before: Francis Ysidro Edgeworth’s exotically titled
“Mathematical Psychics.” Keynes replied with a single line on a
plain postcard: “I am sorry to say that my stock of
’Mathematical Psychics’ is exhausted.”  Why did Hayek, an unknown economist with little experience,
approach, of all people, Keynes, perhaps the best-known
economist in the world? For Keynes, Hayek’s request was just
another item in his bulging postbag. Cambridge’s economics
prodigy retained no record of Hayek’s request, even though he
was so conscious of the contribution he was making to posterity
through his daring approach to the study of political economy
that he had taken to hoarding each scribbled note and every last
letter. His posthumously published papers, even when edited,
fill dozens of volumes.  Hayek, meanwhile, seemed fully aware of the significance of
his request. He treasured Keynes’s bald reply and preserved it
for the next 65 years as a personal memento and professional
trophy. The postcard sits today in the Hayek archive at the
Hoover Institution on the Stanford University campus in
 California  -- tangible evidence that Hayek had instigated the
first contact in what would become an intense duel over the role
of government in society and the fate of the world economy.  Scarce Resources  Edgeworth interested Hayek because one of the subjects he
explored at length was a topic that would come to engage both
Keynes and Hayek: how scarce resources can best maximize the
“capacity for pleasure.” The forbiddingly titled “Mathematical
Psychics: An Essay on the Application of Mathematics to the
Moral Sciences,” published in 1881, was Edgeworth’s best-known
work. It anticipated a great number of the debates that would
entangle economists over the next century, including notions of
“perfect competition,” “game theory” and, most important for the
impending battle between Keynes and Hayek, the belief that an
economy will reach a state of “equilibrium” with every able-
bodied adult fully employed. Edgeworth was also an early
expounder of theories about money and the monetary system, which
by 1927 both Keynes and Hayek had already addressed at length.  Slender Pretext  There was a pretext, albeit slender, that might have
prompted Hayek to reach out to Keynes: Keynes had succeeded
Edgeworth as editor of the Economic Journal in 1911. But why
Hayek should expect Keynes to possess what Keynes jokingly
refers to as “my stock of ‘Mathematical Psychics,’” as if he
maintained a secret hoard of Edgeworth’s forbidden works, is
hard to fathom.  Though Edgeworth was little remembered even among U.K.
economists, “Mathematical Psychics” was commonly available.
While a profound division existed between the British school of
economics, centered around the teachings of Keynes’s mentor,
Alfred Marshall at Cambridge and the continental variety, which
focused on the theories of  capital investment  (the money
invested in a business) expounded in Vienna by Hayek’s mentor,
Ludwig von Mises, there was a good deal of contact, and a fair
degree of misunderstanding, between the two camps.  Mercantilist Tradition  Marshall’s economics was based on a common-sense
understanding of the subject and how business worked in
practice, emanating from the mercantilist tradition that had
made Britain the most successful commercial nation in history.
The notions of the “Austrian School” were more theoretical and
mechanistic, deriving from an intellectual, rather than a
practical, understanding of how business might work.  The Austrians mostly read English and were conversant with,
if not persuaded by, the English tradition; the English, on the
whole, couldn’t read German and largely ignored the works of
Austrian and German theorists. But such was the bond between
academics that national borders meant little. The trading of
books and journals continued throughout the horrors of World War
I, even when scholars found themselves on opposite sides of
trench-dug borders. The philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, a
friend of Keynes’s at Cambridge and a distant cousin of Hayek’s,
wrote to Keynes while serving in the Austrian army on the
Italian front, asking for a new volume by the Cambridge
philosopher Bertrand Russell: “Could you possibly send it to me
and let me pay for it after the war?” Keynes duly obliged.  Famous Worldwide  Even if Hayek couldn’t find a copy of “Mathematical
Psychics” in the University of Vienna’s extensive library, it
was a stretch to imagine that his next port of call should be
the world-renowned Keynes. Keynes was not merely a fellow of
King’s College, Cambridge, teaching economics to undergraduates.
At age 42, he was famous worldwide because of his role as a
British Treasury negotiator at the Paris Peace Conference, the
precursor to the Treaty of Versailles, which brought the
cataclysm of World War I to an end. By revealing to the wider
public the intense xenophobia and nationalistic spite that had
guided the Paris deliberations, Keynes had become a celebrated
figure not only in Britain but also in  Europe  generally,
particularly in the defeated nations of Austria and Germany.  Precocious Understanding  Keynes’s precocious understanding of economics and public
finance was so considerable that when Britain declared war on
Germany in 1914, he was recruited to negotiate an enormous loan
from American creditors. The borrowing was vast not only because
it funded Britain’s worldwide war effort, in defense of an
empire that covered half the globe, but also because American
bankers didn’t trust the French and Italians to meet their
repayments, leaving Britain to indemnify its allies. Keynes’s
efforts were so ingenious, and his charm so effective in cutting
through bureaucracy, that when the war ended, Keynes joined the
team to advise on how to make the Germans pay for causing so
much death and devastation.  The war was the most destructive in history up to that
time. At its root, the struggle between the Central Powers of
 Germany , Austria-Hungary, Turkey and  Bulgaria  versus the Allies,
made up of the U.K.,  France ,  Russia  and, eventually, the U.S.,
was over territory and world trade. The conflict marked the end
of a chivalrous age and the dawn of the modern era. Cavalry and
bayonet charges slowly gave way to tank battles, chemical-
weapons attacks and aerial bombardment.  Four Terrible Years  After four terrible years, the Germans were starved into
submission, and by the armistice in 1918 almost 10 million in
uniform on both sides lay dead, a further 8 million were
“missing,” more than 21 million had been wounded, and about 7
million civilians had perished. A generation of young Europeans
had been slaughtered or maimed.  As Hayek recalled, Keynes was “something of a hero to us
Central Europeans” owing to his courageous condemnation of
British, French and American leaders for levying crippling
reparations on those in the remnants of the defeated alliance.
His damning account of the Paris talks, “The Economic
Consequences of the Peace,” was published just months after the
Versailles treaty was signed, and became an instant worldwide
sensation. Keynes’s predictions that the burdensome reparations
would lead to political instability and extremist politics, and
that they might spark another world war, would turn out to be
chillingly prescient.  (Nicholas Wapshott, a former senior editor at the Times of
 London  and the New York Sun, is the author of “ Ronald Reagan  and
 Margaret Thatcher : A Political Marriage.” This is the first in a
four-part series excerpted from his new book, “Keynes Hayek:
The Clash That Defined Modern Economics,” to be published Oct.
11 by W.W. Norton.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nicholas Wapshott at  wapshott@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  