-- 
NATO Chief Rasmussen Says ‘End Is in Sight’ for Alliance’s Libya Operation

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-10-06T15:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/nato-chief-rasmussen-says-end-is-in-sight-for-alliance-s-libya-operation.html
NATO is near to concluding its
mission in  Libya  as transition forces stamp out the remaining
resistance of  Muammar Qaddafi , alliance Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said.  “It’s clear that the end is in sight,” Rasmussen told
reporters today after a meeting of defense ministers of the 28-
member North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Brussels. Loyalist
forces in Libya “are fighting for a lost cause. The threat to
civilians is fading away. The recent positive developments in
Libya are irreversible,” he said.  NATO is winding down its six-month air campaign over Libya
as National Transitional Council forces tighten their control
over the country, even as Qaddafi remains at large after the
toppling of his 42-year rule. Interim government forces are
closing in on loyalists in Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte on the
Mediterranean coast and in Bani Walid, backed by air strikes
from NATO warplanes.  Alliance defense ministers discussed the conditions that
must be met in Libya before NATO ends the mission. They were
joined by U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , attending his
first meeting with NATO counterparts.  Panetta said three factors would determine when the mission
ends: resolving the conflicts in Sirte and Bani Walid, whether
Qaddafi retains power over loyalist forces and the NTC’s ability
to maintain security. Panetta is due to meet NATO military
commanders at the mission’s headquarters in Naples,  Italy , later
today.  “The decisions there will depend a great deal on the
recommendations of our commanders,” Panetta said.  Focus on Economy  The NTC has been working to stabilize the Libyan economy
and establish authority over factions that rebelled against
Qaddafi. The formation of an interim Cabinet has been postponed
several times since NTC forces took the capital Tripoli in
late August.  Libya aims to raise crude oil output to more than 500,000
barrels a day by the end of this month, Nuri Berruien, the
chairman of state-run National Oil Corp., said this week. He
said the country’s goal of restoring crude production to 1.7
million barrels a day within 15 months is a “conservative
figure.”  NATO has flown more than 25,000 missions over Libya since
it took over the mission on March 30. Yesterday’s strikes
included eight targets in Bani Walid, the alliance said today.  “We’re determined to pursue our operation as long as
threats persist, but to end it as soon as conditions permit, so
we stand ready to terminate the mission when political and
military conditions are fulfilled,” Rasmussen said. That time
“will come soon.”  UN Lead  Rasmussen reiterated he doesn’t foresee a major NATO role
in Libya once the operation is terminated and that it would be
for the  United Nations  to take the lead. NATO would be open to
requests for security assistance from Libya’s new government,
the alliance chief said, adding that reports of a humanitarian
crisis in Sirte and Bani Walid are “a matter of concern.”  Panetta said that “if there’s a request, if there are
needs that can be met, all of us in NATO would have to give that
serious consideration.”  Rasmussen expressed caution about the new authority’s
progress in Libya, citing threats to security.  “I’m not naive,” Rasmussen said. “Of course we might see
extremist groups try to take advantage and exploit the situation
in Libya. The more important is that a transition to a stable
and sustainable democracy takes place as soon as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Brussels at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 