-- 
Naturex Chief Spurns Offers With Plan to Double Sales By 2015

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-10-06T10:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/naturex-chief-spurns-offers-with-plan-to-double-sales-by-2015.html
Naturex (NRX)  SA Chief Executive Officer
Jacques Dikansky said he’s rebuffed takeover approaches as the
French maker of natural flavors and color extracts is capable of
doubling sales in three to four years by going it alone.  “It happens often, they’re ready to be generous,” said
Dikansky, without identifying the suitors. “We’ve always had
the autonomy of an independent company. It’s better to go on
like that for a good number of years.”  Naturex, based in Avignon, may have sales “in the
ballpark” of 500 million euros ($668 million) in three to four
years, said Dikansky, who controls a holding company that owns
13 percent of Naturex. The company has been cited as a possible
target for flavor and fragrance maker  Symrise AG (SY1)  by Berenberg
analyst Jaideep Pandya.  Dikansky sees Naturex as a consolidator rather than a
target. Naturex is selling 49.3 million euros of new shares to
fund acquisitions that will broaden its product range and give
it access to new clients in  Europe , the U.S. and emerging
markets. Five or six acquisition targets may materialize in the
next 12 months, which would bring about 50 million euros of
additional sales, Dikansky said in an interview yesterday.  “We have very good organic growth prospects ahead of us,
and acquisitions projects,” said the CEO. “We may finalize two
or three deals by the end of the year.”  Adding to cosmetics ingredients is one area of interest, he
said.  Given that acquisition prices in the industry average about
1.5 times revenue, Naturex may spend about 75 million euros on
these purchases, the CEO said. The company’s net debt-to-equity
ratio should remain around 60 percent, where it stood at the end
of 2010. [bn:WBTKR=NRX:SM]   Naturex shares [] were up 2.4 percent to 47.22 euros at 11:18
a.m. in Paris, taking this year’s gain to 16 percent.  The company, which had revenue of 226 million euros in
2010, is predicting like-for-like growth of at least 10 percent
in 2011. The company’s sales “aren’t really affected by the
crisis” because U.S. and European consumers are increasingly
buying natural products, Dikansky said.  “The difficult economic and financial situation may create
a slight slowdown because our customers are slowing product
launches. Our strong development in emerging markets is picking
up the baton,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  