-- 
NBA Debt Rating Put on Fitch Watch List as Labor Dispute Threatens Season

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T19:47:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/nba-debt-rating-put-on-fitch-watch-list-as-labor-dispute-threatens-season.html
The  National Basketball Association ’s
credit rating may be cut if the season is canceled over a labor
dispute with players,  Fitch Ratings  said.  The firm, which rates about $2.3 billion in leaguewide
debt, watch-listed its BBB+ ratings on the NBA’s $957 million
revolving credit facility and its $1.34 billion in senior notes
due through 2020, saying there’s “a strong likelihood” that
the ongoing lockout will result in missed games.  “If the season is canceled, downward rating action may be
warranted,” Fitch said in a report.  The NBA locked its players out on July 1 when the two sides
were unable to agree on a new collective bargaining agreement.  Following failed negotiations with the National Basketball
Players Association two days ago, NBA Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver announced the cancellation of the entire preseason and
said the NBA would wipe out the first two weeks of the regular
season if an agreement in principle wasn’t reached by Oct. 10.
The season is scheduled to start on Nov. 1.  The two sides are negotiating over how to split money from
a league that had about $4.3 billion in revenue last season. NBA
Commissioner  David Stern  has said the league’s 30 teams
collectively lost $300 million during that period.  Fitch also placed a negative watch on the BBB+ rating of
$234 million in bonds backing  Los Angeles ’s Staples Center, the
BBB- rating of $46.7 million in bonds paying for Denver’s Pepsi
Center and various private ratings on about $500 million in
other NBA arena debt.  NBA arenas have reserve funds that will pay debt service
for at least one year, Fitch said, and arenas with other anchor
tenants and strong local economies may not experience
significant financial impacts from lost games.  “Other arenas that have fewer other events, weaker local
economic conditions and less ability to generate other revenues
will likely experience greater financial pressure,” the firm
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .
Mason Levinson in New York at =617-5697 or
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 