-- 
New Hope Proves Exception to Coal Deals Returning Dust: Real M&A

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-10-06T02:21:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/new-hope-in-play-proving-exception-to-coal-deals-returning-dust-real-m-a.html
After every coal-mining deal this
year left the buyers with losses, Australia’s  New Hope  Corp. is
still managing to attract multiple takeover offers that would
lead to a record payoff.  New Hope surged to an all-time high yesterday after getting
proposals to acquire the thermal coal producer from unidentified
bidders. The company may be worth A$5.8 billion ($5.6 billion),
Bell Potter Securities Ltd. said, implying a takeover at 27
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
would top the record price paid by  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) ,
which plunged 66 percent since agreeing to buy Massey Energy Co.  While coal-mining takeovers this year have contributed to
declines of at least 35 percent for acquirers as slowing
economic growth in the U.S. and Europe depressed prices for coal
used in steelmaking, New Hope is profiting as demand from power
producers in  China  increases. New Hope, which also owns a port
used to export coal, may attract interest from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and  Rio Tinto  Group, according to Ord Minnett Ltd., as well as
energy suppliers in  Japan , which is facing a power shortage
after the worst nuclear disaster in a quarter century.  “This deal is more attractive than the other coal deals
that we’ve seen this year,” Rick de los Reyes, who manages $800
million at T. Rowe Price Group Inc.’s Global Metals and Mining
Fund in Baltimore, said in a telephone interview. “The fact
that Australia is close to China, that China went from being a
net exporter to a net importer of thermal coal and that New Hope
has that port capacity, that’s huge.”  Shareholder Value  New Hope declined to comment, according to an e-mailed
statement. Based in Ipswich in  Australia ’s northeastern state of
Queensland, New Hope owns the Acland mine that supplies thermal
coal, used in  power plants  to generate electricity.  The company advanced 15 percent to a record A$6.10 a share
yesterday after it said in a statement that it started a formal
process for potential bidders.  New Hope, which said it had already received a number of
preliminary proposals, will invite selected groups to submit
offers to the board. It will “determine whether a proposal for
New Hope is available at a price, and on terms, that are in the
best interests of all its shareholders,” the  company said .  Chairman Robert Millner declined to identify the bidders in
a telephone interview yesterday and said that New Hope isn’t
currently in talks with any of them.  Coal Acquisitions  The mining company, which has no debt and A$1.67 billion in
cash, may be worth A$5.8 billion or more, Angus Aitken, a broker
at Bell Potter in Sydney, said in an e-mailed comment.  That would give New Hope an enterprise value, or the sum of
its equity and debt minus cash of A$4.18 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That equals about 27 times the company’s
A$155 million in Ebitda, the data show.  A takeover at that price would surpass the 25.2 times
Ebitda that  Alpha Natural  agreed to spend for Massey in the
richest deal in the coal-mining industry for targets worth more
than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Since the Massey takeover was announced in January,
Abingdon, Virginia-based Alpha Natural has lost two-thirds of
its value as the biggest loser in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, the benchmark gauge for American common equity.  The deal contributed to almost all of Alpha Natural’s 67
percent drop this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Overall, the six buyers involved in the four coal-mining
acquisitions worth more than $1 billion in 2011 have on average
lost about half their market value this year.  China Demand  While companies such as Alpha Natural and Peabody Energy
Corp. have declined as concern over slowdowns in the U.S. and
 Europe  pushed down prices for steelmaking coal from a record,
Credit Suisse Group AG estimates that the cost to buy thermal
coal will increase in the next two years.  Helped by rising demand in China and  India  as the world’s
fastest-growing major economies produce more electricity,
thermal coal may rise as high as $138 a metric ton by 2013,
Credit Suisse said in a report on Oct. 4. The benchmark Asian
price for thermal coal was $122.25 a metric ton in the week
ended Sept. 30, according to IHS McCloskey, a Petersfield,
England-based data provider. Prices reached a peak of $130.85 a
ton in March, the data show.  “Whoever’s planning on buying New Hope, they’re basically
trying to buy assets in their backyard to feed China,”  Sachin Shah , a Jersey City, New Jersey-based special situations and
merger arbitrage strategist for Tullett Prebon Plc, said in a
telephone interview.  Port Ownership  That may help make New Hope, which owns a port that can
ship coal to  Asia , more attractive than other coal companies
acquired this year, according to T. Rowe’s de los Reyes.  Coal mining companies that use shared ports such as the one
in Newcastle, Australia, the biggest export harbor for thermal
coal, have faced delays as ships are forced to wait offshore to
access loading facilities when demand increases. More than 95
percent of shipping volume in Australia is handled in 20 of the
nation’s more than 60 ports, according to the National Transport
Commission’s most recent  report  from December 2010.  “Companies are looking at New Hope to build capacity, to
control capacity, so they can export to what they’re perceiving
as a future United States -- China,” Bill O’Grady, chief market
strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis ,
which oversees $1.3 billion, said in a telephone interview.  The quality of New Hope’s assets and its plans to double
production at the Acland mine to 10 million metric tons may
entice Japanese power producers, as well as Melbourne-based BHP
and Rio Tinto of  London , Peter Arden, senior equity analyst at
Ord Minnett in  Melbourne , said in a telephone interview.  Potential Buyers  New Hope, 11 percent owned by Tokyo-based  Mitsubishi
Materials Corp. (5711) , controls the Acland mine that may be worth A$3
billion, he said.  Samantha Stevens, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman for  BHP
Billiton , declined to comment. Karen Halbert, a Melbourne-based
spokeswoman for Rio Tinto, said the company doesn’t comment on
market speculation.  Japan was hit by rolling blackouts after a magnitude-9
earthquake and subsequent tsunami on March 11 knocked out power
and disabled back-up generators at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima plant, leading to explosions and radiation leaks.
Then-Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called for the nation to end its
reliance on atomic energy and imposed the first mandatory power
savings since the 1970s. Nuclear energy provided about 30
percent of Japan’s electricity before the crisis.  Mining companies in China may also be among the potential
buyers of New Hope as the nation tries to secure supplies of the
fuel, Stewart Capital and Platypus Asset Management Ltd. said.  “New Hope is attractive because they have their own
infrastructure, the port, making it highly strategic,” Prasad Patkar, who helps manage $1.1 billion at Platypus Asset in
Sydney, said in a telephone interview. “Coal has very, very,
serious strategic appeal. You could get a variety of buyers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 