-- 
News Corp. Hacking Victims Lose U.K. Ruling Over Police Alert

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T12:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/news-corp-hacking-victims-lose-u-k-ruling-over-police-alert.html
London ’s Metropolitan Police, which
is probing phone hacking at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World
tabloid, won a U.K. court ruling to avoid informing hundreds of
victims about a judicial review of police handling of evidence.  Lawyers for U.K. Labour party lawmaker  Chris Bryant  and
four other public figures had sought to force Scotland Yard to
tell 452 possible phone-hacking victims that they can join the
case. Judge John Laws denied the request at a hearing today in
London.  Many of the victims are “likely already to know about the
proceedings,” Laws said. Some people who were contacted earlier
by police “do not wish to be contacted again” and may not want
the publicity associated with the case, he said.  The judicial review runs parallel to more than 60 civil
lawsuits filed against Rupert Murdoch’s British unit since
evidence in one case revealed phone-hacking was more widespread
than the company admitted. The scandal forced News Corp. to
close the 168-year-old tabloid and drop its bid for full control
of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Bryant and the other claimants in the judicial review,
including former U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  John Prescott , seek
court declaration that the police should have started an
investigation sooner and alerted people whose phones may have
been hacked. Bryant has said police colluded with the News of
the World to mislead lawmakers.  Notes seized from former News of the World private
investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  in 2006 contained the names of as
many as 6,500 people whose phones may have been hacked or were
associated with potential targets. Police didn’t start alerting
the people systematically until this year.  News Corp. faces a trial in January, when the court will
decide how much the company should pay in damages to five
victims in a so-called test case, including actor Jude Law. News
Corp. has agreed to pay about 100,000 pounds ($153,000) to actor
 Sienna Miller  and another 20,000 pounds to sports commentator
Andy Gray.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  