-- 
Nigeria’s Naira Weakens to Lowest on Record Against the Dollar

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-10-06T11:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/nigeria-s-naira-weakens-to-lowest-on-record-against-the-dollar.html
Nigeria ’s naira fell to the weakest
on record in the  interbank market  after the currency declined at
a central-bank dollar auction and Governor Lamido Sanusi said
the naira won’t be defended “at all costs.”  The currency of sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest economy
lost as much as 1.8 percent to 164.425 per dollar and traded
down 1.1 percent to 163.15 by 12:18 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, the weakest since at least 1994, when
Bloomberg began compiling the data.  The marginal rate at yesterday’s auction, which is also
used as the prevailing exchange rate, weakened to 155.40 naira,
the lowest on record. Sanusi made the comment on the currency in
an interview on CNBC Africa television yesterday.  “Sanusi’s latest views somewhat represent a break with
previous comments surrounding the naira and point to the
increased possibility that the central bank is effectively
starting to consider a controlled  currency devaluation ,”
Matthew Pearson, the head of African equity products at Standard
Bank Plc, wrote in an e-mailed research note today.  The central bank has been using foreign-currency reserves
to keep the naira within a 3 percentage-point band above or
below 150 per dollar at its twice-weekly auctions. It broke that
band the first time on Sept. 26.  The West African nation will estimate its revenue using a
crude-oil price of $75 a barrel and an exchange rate of 153
naira per dollar, weaker than the current 150 naira, according
to the government’s budget proposal submitted to lawmakers on
Oct. 4. If the 3 percent range is applied to the new 153 target
rate, the upper band rises to 157.6, which is still above the
present auction rate, Pearson wrote.  To prevent the dollar-naira rate becoming “a one-way and
disorderly bet higher, the central bank will have to further
tighten liquidity conditions and still provide ample foreign-
currency supply at the auctions,” he said.  The central bank sold $400 million at yesterday’s auction,
compared with $685.4 million demanded by lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos on  at
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  