-- 
Rooney’s Father, Eight Men Arrested in Scottish Soccer Game Betting Probe

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-10-06T16:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/nine-arrested-over-suspicious-betting-on-scottish-soccer-game.html
Nine men were arrested today as part
of a probe of suspicious betting patterns in a Scottish Premier
League soccer match. The father of Manchester United striker
 Wayne Rooney  was among those questioned,  Sky Sports  News said.  A spokeswoman for the Merseyside Police Department in the
greater Liverpool area could not confirm the involvement of
Wayne Rooney Sr. Sky Sports reported the 48-year-old was
released on bail after being arrested at his home in West Derby,
Liverpool.  The arrests in Liverpool and Glasgow relate to a match
between Motherwell and Hearts on December 14, 2010, Merseyside
Police said in a  statement  on its website, without providing
further details.  Motherwell midfielder Steve Jennings was arrested at his
home in Glasgow today as part of the probe, the Scottish
Football Association said in a  statement  on its website. The
Liverpool native received a second yellow and was dismissed
after complaining to referee Stevie O’Reilly in the 82nd minute
of Motherwell’s 2-1 loss to Hearts.  “While the investigation involves several other
individuals outwith  Scotland , it is important to stress that the
evidence gathered throughout this thorough period of
investigation has involved only one Scottish match,” SFA Chief
Executive Officer Stewart Regan said in the statement.
“Motherwell F.C. are aware of the situation and will issue a
response in due course. The Scottish F.A. will make no further
comment at this stage.”  None of the arrested men, who range in age from 22 years to
68 years, were identified in Merseyside Police’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 