-- 
Anita Hill, 20 Years On, Seeks Equality: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-10-06T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/no-slut-or-nut-anita-hill-talks-in-20-years-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
(Corrects date and details of a court dismissal in 11th
paragraph)  Anita Hill sits at a tiny conference
table in her office at  Brandeis University , just outside  Boston ,
as I quiz her on the obvious themes. Her  testimony  during
hearings to confirm  Clarence Thomas  to the U.S. Supreme Court?
Admittedly a “terrible” experience, “but I want people to
understand that I survived it.” Attacks on her character? A
good thing for women in the workplace because now “they know
what to expect” should they ever go public about harassment.  Her sex-harassment claim stirred up the dregs of America.
Hill got threats of murder, rape and sodomy on her answering
machine. David Brock, a best-selling  author , declared her to be
“a little bit nutty and a little bit slutty,” only to recant
that and other attacks years later. Yet Hill shows no
bitterness, and exploits no opportunities to take a swipe at any
of the people who turned her harassment complaint into a reason
to assail her.  And today, she has a new cause. In a book released this
week, “Reimagining Equality: Stories of Gender, Race, and
Finding Home,” Hill says women, particularly single heads of
households, face a new setback: Just as they were gaining social
and economic independence by purchasing homes in increasing
numbers, they were upended by the crash in housing prices.  Young women entering the workforce for the first time may
not even know her name, says Joan C. Williams, distinguished
professor of law at the University of California Hastings
College of Law in  San Francisco . “But Anita Hill shaped their
lives in ways they don’t understand.”  Coke Can Incident  It was just shy of 20 years ago, on Oct. 11, 1991, when
Hill riveted American television viewers and set off battles of
the sexes at many a company water cooler. Then a law professor
at the University of  Oklahoma , she had worked for Thomas at the
U.S. Department of Education and the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission. She alleged before the Senate Judiciary
Committee that Thomas had spoken to her about explicit sex
videos he had watched, and once asked in her presence while at
work, “Who has put pubic hair on my Coke?” At the hearings,
and 16 years later in his autobiography, Thomas denied her
accusations.  Let me say upfront that I have concluded over the years
that Hill, not Thomas, was the credible one in this sorry tale.
I base that opinion, above all, on the work of journalists Jane Mayer and Jill Abramson, whose 1994 book, “Strange Justice,”
offered extensive support for Hill’s accusations, including on-
the-record comments from Thomas’s former classmates, who found
Hill’s description of the sexual banter to be in sync with the
man they knew. Mayer writes for the  New Yorker . Abramson last
month became executive editor of the New York Times.  Kathy Arberg, a spokeswoman for the Supreme Court, said
Thomas declined to comment for this article.  Touched a Nerve  You may not agree with my take on what happened between the
man who now sits on the Supreme Court -- ruling this year
against women in a historic sex-discrimination  case , no less,
involving  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  -- and the woman who today
teaches courses including “Race and the Law” on a bucolic New
England campus. But it’s hard to argue against this: Hill’s
testimony touched a nerve with working women in America.  Even Hill was taken aback. “What then came for me was a
surprise, and that is that my testimony started something else.
It started individuals talking about sexual harassment; not only
were they talking about it in ways they had never talked about
it before, but they were talking about it. Just the fact that we
were talking about it and we weren’t carrying around this shame
about ‘Well, we were not tough enough if we admitted it bothered
us.’ That was a change because we were always told ‘Just keep
your mouth shut and just suck it up.’”  Changed Forever  Williams, the law professor, sensed the same historic shift
in attitudes. “There was a common understanding that if you
couldn’t handle harassment, you were kind of a wimp and probably
didn’t deserve the job anyway,” she says. “Then came  Anita
Hill  and all of a sudden there was a whiff of liability, and the
cultural environment changed forever.” I read those words to
Hill. “You know, I hope it changed forever,” she says.  It did. The Civil Rights Act of 1991, which for the first
time gave employees filing a federal lawsuit the right to a  jury
trial  and the chance to win damages for emotional distress, was
signed into law five weeks after Thomas’s confirmation. Hill
initially worried that the raking-over she got from critics
would dissuade women from speaking up, but the opposite
happened. Her testimony, combined with the new law, led to a
surge of complaints, says Elizabeth Grossman, the regional
attorney in the New York district office of the EEOC. (In
August, a claim alleging a pattern of gender discrimination,
part of a lawsuit brought by Grossman’s office against Bloomberg
LP, was dismissed in a New York federal court.) “She brought a
consciousness to many people and different employers in our
society and got people talking about the issues,” Grossman
says.  Constructive as that outcome was, it wasn’t what motivated
Hill to recount so publicly the incidents of a boss who she says
asked her out on dates and talked about “very vivid”
pornography. It was about “whether Thomas, who was being
considered for a lifetime appointment, was fit for the
position,” she told me.  The Coke-can incident allegedly occurred in the offices of
the EEOC, of all places. So the obvious question to Hill was
whether a man who hits on a female employee and dishes talk
about videos of oversize male sex organs had the appropriate
“respect for the law” that a  Supreme Court  appointment calls
for. Would she go through it all again knowing how hard it would
be? “Oh yeah, yes,” she says. “The issues to me are so clear.
This was about the integrity of the court.”  Magnet for Controversy  Despite Hill’s claims, Thomas squeaked by and was confirmed
by a 52-48 Senate vote. He remains a magnet for controversy.
Twenty Democratic House members on Sept. 29 asked the U.S.
Judicial Conference, which oversees federal courts, to
investigate the fact that he did not disclose almost $700,000 of
his wife Virginia Thomas’s income from 2003 to 2007.  In a separate public-relations flare-up a year ago,
Virginia Thomas delivered this contender for world’s weirdest
voice message: On Hill’s phone at Brandeis, she suggested Hill
apologize for “what you did with my husband.”  Much has gone right for women in the workplace since Hill
spoke up. It would be tough to find a large U.S. company today
that didn’t train employees on workplace-harassment issues,
Grossman says. “It can be window dressing,” she says, but done
right, harassment training can help companies decrease turnover
rates, build morale and lower absenteeism. There’s also no
question that women entering the workplace today have less to
fear.  ‘Ugly Out There’  Ironically, or some might say predictably, much has also
gone dreadfully wrong, thanks to court rulings in which Thomas
played a part. “Civil-rights laws are being undermined by the
U.S. Supreme Court,” says Cliff Palefsky, a San Francisco-based
employment lawyer. “It’s really, really ugly out there.”  Two decisions supported by Thomas this year could undo some
of the post-Anita Hill progress by stifling the single-most-
powerful weapon against workplace discrimination: the class-
action lawsuit. The June 20 decision in Wal-Mart v. Dukes
torpedoed a class-action discrimination case that would have
included 1.5 million women. Employees looking to bring large
cases in the future will have a tougher time of it.  And an April 27 ruling in a case called AT&T Mobility v.
Concepcion said consumers who signed the company’s customer
agreement could neither sue individually nor pursue a class-
action suit. The fear is that the Concepcion case opens a door
for employers to require employees to sign agreements that
similarly take away an individual’s right to sue while also
shutting down employees’ ability to join co-workers in a class.  Vulnerable Time  The decisions come at a vulnerable time for women. “I look
at the growing number of women who were in the housing market”
in the previous decade, Hill says. Buying a home was “not only
a statement about their economic independence, but also a
statement about their social independence. Because remember,
single women weren’t supposed to be homeowners; they were
supposed to wait until they were maaaa-rried,” -- she says the
word in a sing-songy voice -- “and then they were supposed to
have the big house and the children, and women, we were
rejecting that, only to get slapped by these, in many cases,
toxic loan instruments.”  The  Consumer Federation of America  expressed concern in a
2006 study that a lopsided share of subprime mortgages was going
to single women. One in five homebuyers in 2003 was a single
female, the study noted, up from one in 10 in 1991. But as women
were stepping up their home purchases, they were being steered
to mortgages with onerous conditions. Black and Latino women
were much more likely to wind up with a subprime mortgage than
were white men with similar incomes.  Old Problems  While women confront these new obstacles, some of them
still make the morning commute to jobs where old problems
continue. Things are better, but “we’re still bringing the same
old sex-harassment cases where the boss is grabbing people’s
breasts and rear ends, and threatening to fire them if they
don’t submit to advances,” Grossman says.  Discouraging? Hill offers some perspective. “I don’t think
we’ve gotten it right. As much progress as we’ve made socially,
I’m not satisfied that it’s over, that the battle is won and
that we can just brush our hands and say ‘lets move on to other
issues,’” Hill says. “It’s been 20 years, but what we are
talking about is changing centuries of behavior.”  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about  Wall Street  and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at  santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  