-- 
Nobel Jury Blows It Again With Obscure Swedish Poet: Commentary

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/nobel-judges-blow-it-again-with-obscure-swedish-poet-hephzibah-anderson.html
Literature’s newest Nobel laureate is
widely read, reviewed and respected. In  Sweden , that is. Despite
having been translated into more than 50 languages, poet  Tomas
Transtromer  is best known internationally as one of those arcane
names that draw perennial bets from Nobel-watchers fond of
mocking the Swedish Academy.  It’s not that the 80-year-old Swede isn’t a good poet. He
may even be a great one. As Brooklyn-based novelist  Teju Cole 
tweeted just hours after the announcement, “To read Transtromer
is to surrender to the far-fetched. It is to wake up in the
middle of the night and listen to what the house is saying.”  Yet his victory does nothing to restore the standing of a
prize whose decisions have increasingly courted accusations of
Eurocentricity, political motivation and anti-Americanism.  Having doubled as a professional psychologist for much of
his life, Transtromer has a slender oeuvre. As Peter Englund,
the academy’s permanent secretary, said at the  Stockholm  press
conference, it could fit into “a not-too-large pocketbook.”  This shouldn’t matter. As many novelists fail to grasp,
quantity has zero bearing on literary quality. Nevertheless, it
seems bound up with the Swedish Academy’s apparent passion for
the esoteric.  Then there’s Transtromer’s Swedish nationality. Though
almost 40 years have passed since the academy last rewarded a
homegrown author, Europeans have long dominated. It’s beginning
to seem provincial.  Isolated, Insular  Back in 2008, Englund’s predecessor, Horace Engdahl,
notoriously accused American literary culture of being “too
isolated, too insular.” A week later, the award went to another
European unknown,  France ’s  Jean Marie Gustave le Clezio .  This was tipped to be poetry’s year, and Transtromer is the
first poet to win since  Wislawa Szymborska  in 1996. However, you
have to peer even further back to find the last U.S. victor,
 Toni Morrison , who won in 1993.  At this point, it’s tempting to ignore the antics of a
secretive few in Stockholm. Yet the fact remains that the  Nobel
Prize  in Literature captures the global gaze like no other
award. In its perverse preference for authors obscure,
politically correct or downright unreadable (all three in the
case of  Elfriede Jelinek ), it not only damages its own
authority, it marginalizes the art it claims to fete.  While prizes can play a part in broadening our horizons,
that is not the Nobel’s job. In anointing greatness, the Swedish
Academy has the opportunity to celebrate the vitality of the
written word and highlight its enduring centrality to life in
the 21st century.  Philip Roth   Of many overlooked authors from Umberto Eco to Ismail
Kadare, Philip Roth’s is the name most frequently invoked.
Despairing fans have cited the Nobel’s goal of rewarding
“outstanding work in an ideal direction” -- whatever that
means -- and used Roth’s relative lack of political engagement
as an excuse for his repeated snubbing. Transtromer’s victory
blows that argument out of the water.  Assuming Roth is condemned to the illustrious ranks of
writers spurned by Stockholm -- including Joyce, Proust and
Nabokov -- here is an alternative suggestion for next year’s
prize: Margaret Atwood. It’s hard to think of another author so
accomplished, original and engaged with our changing world.  She would become only the 13th woman to claim this prize
since it was inaugurated in 1901. Oh, and it probably can’t hurt
that she’s Canadian, not American.  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 