-- 
Swedish Poet Tomas Transtromer Wins Nobel

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-10-06T14:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/nobel-literature-prize-won-by-swedish-poet-translator-tomas-transtromer.html
Tomas Transtromer, a Swedish poet and
translator known for his depiction of nature and his economy of
form, won the 2011  Nobel Prize  in Literature.  He won the prize “because, through his condensed,
translucent images, he gives us fresh access to reality,” the
Swedish Academy said today in  Stockholm .  Transtromer, 80, began writing poetry as a student at
Soedra Latin School. He published his first collection of poems,
“Seventeen Poems” (17 Dikter) in 1954, establishing himself as
a leading voice of his generation by 1966’s “Windows & Stones:
Selected Poems” (Klanger Och Spaar), the academy said.  “It’s very possible to read through Tomas Transtromer’s
production in a single evening,” Peter Englund, permanent
secretary to the Swedish Academy, told reporters in Stockholm
today. “It will be a very special evening.”  Transtromer, who worked as a psychologist with juvenile
offenders, continued to write after a stroke in 1990 left him
with difficulty speaking.  The poet’s reaction was one of “complete disbelief,” his
wife, Monica Transtromer, said in a telephone interview with
national broadcaster SVT today. “It was a nice blend of terror,
surprise and complete happiness.”  Comfortable Surprise  “It’s very bewildering, I’m standing in our apartment on
Soeder, Tomas is sitting down and having a bit of a rest and we
are surrounded by lots of photographers and journalists,”
Monica Transtromer said. “The atmosphere is very comfortable, I
must say. It’s warm and amicable and we don’t feel too stressed
despite the fact that we were terribly surprised.”  Transtromer’s latest poetry collections, including “The
Sorrow Gondola” (Sorgegondolen) in 1996 and 2004’s “The Great
Enigma” (Den Stora Gaatan) have “shifted towards an even
smaller format and a higher degree of concentration,” according
to an official biography posted online by the Swedish academy.  The author has translated the works of poets including the
American Robert Bly, who introduced him in the U.S. in the
1960s, and  Hungary ’s Janos Pilinszky into Swedish.  His lyrical, surreal works explore the natural world,
“falling somewhere between dream and nightmare,” the Griffin
Trust for Excellence in Poetry said on awarding him a Lifetime
Recognition Award in 2007.  “Many have hoped for this a long time,” Swedish Prime
Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said in a statement after the Nobel
announcement. “This focuses additional attention on Swedish
literature abroad, and I hope also that it will encourage more
reading in Sweden.”  Dylan, Adonis  The poet climbed past Syrian poet Adonis and American
songwriter  Bob Dylan  to top bookmaker Ladbrokes’s odds lists
before the prize was disclosed, leading the list with 4/6 odds
in the hours before the announcement. The bookmaker said it
faces “a significant payout.”  “Transtromer is the toast of literary punters Europe-
wide,” spokesman Alex Donohue said in a statement. “His
supporters have definitely had the better of us this morning.”  Last year’s Nobel literature prize went to Mario Vargas Llosa, a Peruvian writer and literary critic whose work has
explored the political corruption and military dictatorships of
 South America . Winners in the last decade have included
Romanian-born novelist Herta Mueller in 2009 and Turkish author
 Orhan Pamuk  in 2006.  The 10 million-krona ($1.4 million) Nobel literature prize
was created in the will of  Alfred Nobel  and first awarded in
1901. Nobel, a Swede who invented dynamite, also set up awards
for achievements in medicine, physics, chemistry and peace.  Greatest Poets  “This is someone who has been in the running for a long
time, he’s been nominated every year since 1993,” Englund said
on live TV. “He’s one of the world’s greatest living poets.”  Bloodaxe Books has been publishing Transtromer for 25
years, including a revised edition of “New Collected Poems”
brought out in April for his 80th birthday.  “His books sell thousands of copies in  Sweden ,” Bloodaxe
said in an e-mailed news release today. “We still have stock of
our latest edition, but have put through an immediate reprint,
and an e-book will be available shortly.”  Information:  http://tinyurl.com/427x9v2   To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  