-- 
Singapore Stocks: Biosensors, Jardine Cycle, Noble, Wilmar

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-10-06T09:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/noble-singapore-post-tiger-airways-singapore-stocks-preview.html
Singapore’s Straits Times Index
advanced 2.9 percent to 2,603.12 at the close. Thirteen stocks
rose for each that fell in the index of 30 companies.  The following shares were among the most active in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company names.  Commodity suppliers: The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index, which tracks prices of 19 commodities ranging from copper
to corn, rose 1.9 percent in  New York  yesterday, snapping three
days of losses.  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  , a Hong Kong-based commodities
supplier, jumped 8.2 percent to S$1.38.  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) 
, a Singapore-based supplier of agricultural
commodities, gained 2.3 percent to S$2.26.  Biosensors International Group Ltd. (BIG)  , a maker of
drug-coated stents used to treat blocked arteries, increased 4.9
percent to S$1.18. DBS Group Holdings Ltd. raised its rating on
the stock to “buy” from “hold,” saying contributions from
recently-acquired JW Medical Systems will boost the company’s
earnings. The brokerage lifted its share-price forecast to
S$1.71 from S$1.40.  Jardine Cycle & Carriage Ltd. (JCNC)  , a motor
distributor that gets about 89 percent of its sales from
 Indonesia , surged 5.3 percent to S$39.98. Its unit PT Astra
International plans to spend $1.5 billion on  capital
expenditures  next year to help finance business expansion,
Kontan reported, citing Director Gunawan Geniusahardja.  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  , Singapore’s third-
biggest lender by market value, rose 3.5 percent to S$16.60. The
company said it plans to double cross-border business lending
within the next three years and has set up a Foreign Direct
Investment advisory unit to service mid-sized foreign companies
expanding into Singapore and  Asia .  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  , the world’s biggest
palm oil processor by sales, advanced 4.9 percent to S$4.67. The
stock slumped 16 percent in the past three days on concern sugar
prices will continue to drop amid increased industry production.
The “selldown is overdone” since sugar only contributes
between 5 percent and 10 percent of the company’s operating
profit, UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 