-- 
Norway Spending Restraint Tempered by Europe’s Deepening Crisis

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-10-06T10:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/norway-s-2012-budget-will-be-tight-johnsen-warns.html
Norway  will raise spending from its
oil fund next year, without breaching a self-imposed cap, as the
government responds to a deepening European debt crisis.  The world’s seventh-largest crude exporter will use 3.9
percent of its oil fund in 2012 to plug deficits, or 122 billion
kroner ($21 billion), the  Finance Ministry  said today. That’s up
from 3.5 percent this year, when spending was cut below a 4
percent spending rule of Norway’s $526 billion wealth fund for
the first time since 2008.  The government, which described the budget as “tight,”
expects spending to boost the economy by 0.3 percent point next
year. The stimulus may add to pressure on the central bank,
which is wedged between the risk of a credit-driven housing
bubble at home and lackluster demand from abroad as  Europe 
battles its debt crisis and U.S. growth slows.  “One might claim that the government should have tightened
fiscal policy more than the budget proposal implies,” said
Stein Bruun, a chief economist at SEB AB in Oslo. “However, the
fiscal policy stance is justified by heightened uncertainty to
the global outlook.”  The country’s sovereign-wealth fund has so far shielded
Norway from the worst of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and
credit growth has accelerated this year as the country boasts
Europe’s lowest unemployment rate. Growth in the mainland
economy, which adjusts for income from oil, gas and shipping,
will accelerate to 3.1 percent next year from 2.8 percent this
year, the ministry said.  Period of Turbulence  The proposal takes into account challenges facing exporters
while Europe’s debt crisis also shaped the bill, Finance
Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen told reporters today. The budget
represents growth in spending of 2.1 percent from 2011.  “It’s a budget that is set during a period with much
turbulence and uncertainty in Europe,” Johnsen said. “An
important objective with this budget was to take the export
industry into consideration.”  Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg last month said the
government is committed to a tight budget and said the bill
would spark “loud demands” to allow the central bank to keep
rates low and prevent currency gains that hurt exporters.  Steinar Juel, chief economist at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo,
said the budget “doesn’t fit very well with the rhetoric the
prime minister has had.”  Wage Growth  Wages will grow 4 percent this year and next, up from 3.7
percent in 2010. Unemployment is expected to fall to 3.3 percent
in 2011 and 2012 from 3.6 percent in 2010, according the budget.  Norges Bank in August postponed plans to raise its
benchmark  interest rate  from 2.25 percent and last month
signaled it may not resume tightening until 2012 as policy
makers try to shield exporters from excessive krone gains.  The currency emerged as a haven for investors seeking to
avoid the euro area’s debt woes and after  Switzerland  imposed a
cap on franc appreciation. On Sept. 8, the krone rose to the
highest level against the euro since February 2003. The gains
have hurt exporters such as Norske Skogindustrier ASA. The
world’s third-largest newsprint producer said it will lay off
workers as profits succumb to krone appreciation.  The krone weakened 0.1 percent to 7.8223 against the euro
by 12:27 p.m. and fell 0.1 percent to the dollar to 5.8592.  Overall economic growth, including oil and shipping output,
will be 2.4 percent next year, up from 1.7 percent this year.
Total exports will grow 0.4 percent this year and 1 percent next
year, according to today’s budget.  Norway, which is also the world’s the second-largest
natural gas exporter, places most of its energy revenue in a
fund that invests abroad to avoid stoking inflation in the
domestic economy. The  Government Pension Fund Global  is Europe’s
largest equity investor. The government predicted today that the
fund will grow 3.1 trillion kroner by the end of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  