-- 
Manhattan Office Prices Plateau as Slowing Economy Limits Investor Demand

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-10-06T20:12:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/nyc-office-prices-plateau-as-headwinds-come-green-street-says.html
Manhattan  office prices have
plateaued after coming within 18 percent of their mid-2007 peak,
as  Europe ’s debt crisis, bank job cuts and the economic slowdown
limit demand, Green Street Advisors Inc. said.  “Manhattan may face headwinds in coming months,” the
 Newport Beach , California-based research firm wrote today in a
report on its index of office prices in the borough. The
“rebound off the trough may have run its course,” it said.  Investment-quality offices in Manhattan have rebounded
after losing 54 percent of their value in the wake of the 2008
credit crisis, which made loans for property purchases scarce,
according to the report. Property buyers flocked to New York in
the last two years, looking for safety and steady  cash flow  in
the biggest, most expensive U.S. office market.  Office prices were “virtually unchanged” for the four
months through September, Green Street said. Capitalization
rates, a measure of real estate returns, have stalled at about
4.5 percent in midtown Manhattan after reaching 7.9 percent
after the credit meltdown. Cap rates are net operating income
divided by the sales price, so they go down as values rise.  While value gains have stalled, “investor demand remains
healthy, as a broad ‘flight to quality’ may provide stability
for top buildings with secure cash flows,” Green Street said.  ‘Too Frothy’  Demand for high-quality, well-leased properties in coastal
cities like New York became “too frothy” in the last six
months, said Ronald Dickerman, president of Madison
International Realty Investors, a real estate private-equity
firm based in Manhattan. “Everybody’s been chasing the same
deals,” he said.  In the first half of the year, investors were willing to
accept lower yields on the expectation of robust rent increases
that would “make everything okay five years from now,”
Dickerman said in a phone interview. “Now all of a sudden
people are scratching their heads and saying, wait a minute, the
economy is looking much softer than people thought.”  Cutbacks at financial firms may restrain demand for office
properties as the U.S. unemployment rate hovers above 9 percent.
Global financial companies have announced plans to cut more than
120,000 jobs this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries.  Four Landlords  Only the values of Manhattan offices owned by REITs and
other publicly traded real estate companies are used to
calculate Green Street’s index, which includes completed sales
and deals being negotiated. The gauge is dominated by buildings
owned by four companies:  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , Brookfield
Office Properties,  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG)  and  Vornado Realty
Trust. (VNO)   New York overtook  London  as the top commercial-property
investment market for the first time since 2007 after improved
access to financing spurred more U.S. deals, brokerage Cushman &
Wakefield said yesterday. Investment in the New York area grew
166 percent in the 12 months through August from a year earlier.  Manhattan office leasing declined 36 percent in the third
quarter as demand retreated from a 12-year high reached in the
previous three months, Cushman said Oct. 4. A total of 6.4
million square feet (594,600 square meters) of leases were
signed in the three months through September, down from about 10
million in the second quarter, when Conde Nast Publications Inc.
signed a 1 million-square-foot deal at 1 World Trade Center in
lower Manhattan, according to the New York-based brokerage.  Prices for commercial properties in the U.S. were unchanged
last month, Green Street said in a separate report. Values
remain about 9 percent below their August 2007 peak, after
rising 48 percent from the bottom reached in May 2009, according
to the report.  Market momentum “has ebbed as the economy has weakened and
fear has crept into the markets in recent months,” the firm
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  