-- 
NYC’s Assumed Return Rate on Pension Funds ‘Unrealistic,’ Bloomberg Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-10-06T19:50:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/nyc-pension-costs-may-increase-after-lower-returns-mayor-says.html
New York ’s 8 percent assumed rate of
return on its pension investments is so unrealistic that the
city may have to spend even more than the $1 billion it has in
reserve for its  retirement plans , Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  Officials are waiting for chief actuary Robert North to
recommend how much the city can expect to reap on its pension
assets, which were valued at  $120 billion  as of June 30. North
hasn’t issued a recommendation in more than a year. A lower
assumed rate would mean the city would have to contribute more
to shore up its five pension plans.  “We keep talking to the actuary; I would have thought by
now he would have made a decision,” Bloomberg told reporters
during a news conference in  Manhattan  today. “The more you see
returns in the stock market or in the  debt market  being negative
or zero, the more unrealistic an 8 percent assumption is.”  Pension costs have increased to $8.5 billion this year --
including the reserve -- from $1.5 billion in 2002, when
Bloomberg first took office, representing almost 13 percent of
the $66 billion budget for fiscal 2012. Each quarter-point drop
in the assumed rate of return would cost New York at least $350
million to be set aside to pay benefits, said  Marc LaVorgna , a
mayoral spokesman.  The stress on New York City’s budget has been shared by
cities and states around the nation as investment returns
plummet, life expectancies lengthen and governments remain
obligated to pay benefits for public employees.  U.S. public pension funds have 76.1 percent of the assets
required to pay retirement benefits, according to a survey of
215 plans by the Washington-based National  Conference on Public
Employee Retirement Systems  released in June. The plans surveyed
held about $900 billion and covered 7.6 million workers.  Calpers Move  The New York State Retirement System last year  reduced its
assumed rate  to 7.5 percent from 8 percent, upon the
recommendation of its actuary.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
nation’s largest pension fund, retained its assumed 7.75 percent
return rate in March even after the fund’s actuaries recommended
lowering it to 7.5 percent. Calpers then lost $20 billion from
June 30 to Sept. 26, as its value fell to $218.6 billion.  Calpers Chief Investment Officer  Joe Dear  predicted it
would “be tough this year and maybe for the next few years” to
earn the assumed rate as a weak U.S recovery and the deepening
debt crisis in  Europe  weigh on global equities. The  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index of stocks has fallen 8 percent this year.  Waiting Game  Actuaries calculate the assumed rate of return on pension
investments over a prolonged period -- 15 years for Calpers --
to blunt the impact that annual swings may have on the amount of
money the fund charges taxpayers to finance retirement benefits
for government workers.  In an interview today, North said he would finish his study
by the end of November and present his findings in December. He
declined to say what the assumed rate of return would be. Any
change in the rate must be approved by the state Legislature.  In December, North said the new proposal would “likely
result in significantly greater employer costs.”  Bloomberg must present next year’s preliminary budget to
the City Council by February, and the mayor and council must
approve a final spending plan by the end of the 2012 fiscal year
on June 30. The city’s current financial plan contains projected
budget deficits of about $5 billion in each of the next two
years.  “A realistic rate of return would be lower than
7 percent, compounding our problem,” Bloomberg said today. Such
a drop in the expected rate of return would cost the city at
least $1 billion it hasn’t anticipated, LaVorgna said.  “We are staring into the abyss of $5 billion deficits
going forward without more of a problem from the pension
system,” Bloomberg said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York City  Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  