-- 
To Rule the Arctic’s Waves, U.S. Can’t Waive the Rules: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-06T00:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/to-rule-the-arctic-s-waves-u-s-can-t-waive-the-rules-view.html
The melting of Arctic ice as a result
of global warming has set off a race to capitalize on the polar
region’s suddenly accessible resources and expanding navigable
waterways. Yet even as Canada,  Russia  and others stake their
claims to this potential bounty of economic and trade
opportunities, the U.S. is choosing to sit on the sidelines.  Why? Because it won’t sign on to the rules of the game: the
United Nations  Convention on the Law of the Sea . The opponents
justify their obduracy by citing a nonexistent threat to
national sovereignty. The greater threat to the U.S. lies in its
continued failure to ensure it will have a central role on this
new frontier.  The  area covered  by Arctic ice today is about two-thirds
its average size between 1979 and 2000. The Arctic is thought to
hold  22 percent  of the world’s undiscovered, recoverable
reserves of fossil fuels, plus stores of minerals such as lead,
nickel and zinc. Less polar ice means that more of these riches
are accessible for longer periods of the year.  Plus, it is becoming increasingly feasible to ship goods
out of and through the Arctic. The breakup of polar ice creates
the prospect of shipping shortcuts across the top of the globe.
The Northern Sea Route, parallel to Russia’s coast, would cut
sailing time between Europe and  Asia  by as much as 40 percent,
by eliminating the trip through the  Suez Canal . This passage
could trim as much as  20 percent off  the cost of a ship’s
voyage.  Oil and Gas  Countries are lining up to get a piece of this potential
bonanza. Russia has used a submersible to sink its flag on the
seabed of the  North Pole . China, though it doesn’t border the
Arctic, operates an icebreaker to get in on the action. Canada
and a handful of other countries are drafting claims for the
right to drill for oil and gas in Arctic waters far off their
shores. The global economic downturn has slowed the action
somewhat, but it is sure to accelerate again with recovery.  It is the Law of the Sea Convention that will determine who
has the right to benefit from the Arctic’s riches. The treaty --
which has the approval of 160  countries , including all those
bordering the  Arctic Ocean  except the U.S. -- establishes that a
coastal state exercises sovereignty 12 miles out to sea;
controls customs and immigration 24 miles out; owns economic,
research and preservation rights 200 miles out in an Exclusive
Economic Zone; and has the sole right to natural resources on
its continental shelf. A provision exists for resolving
overlapping claims.  Defining Ownership  The U.S. continental shelf off  Alaska  extends more than 600
miles into the Arctic Ocean. American companies have been
reluctant to invest in exploiting this underwater terrain, which
contains vast untapped reserves of oil and natural gas. That’s
because the U.S., as a nonparticipant in the sea convention, has
no standing to defend its ownership of any treasures that are
found there.  Submitted to the Senate both by Presidents  Bill Clinton  and
 George W. Bush , and recommended for Senate approval twice by the
Foreign Relations Committee, the treaty has yet to come to the
Senate floor for a vote. It has repeatedly died because of a
small but vocal opposition that, arguing it undermines American
sovereignty, has made the treaty politically radioactive.
President  Barack Obama  has put little effort into supporting the
measure.  Treaty opponents maintain that it would compromise U.S.
intelligence-gathering efforts by air and sea because another
country could argue it has the right to bar such activities
within 200 miles of its coast.  Sovereignty Limits  This is a nonsensical claim because a state could make that
argument with or without the convention. In fact, the treaty
makes such claims more spurious because it spells out that
sovereignty ends 12 miles from shore. This is one reason the
U.S. military leadership supports U.S. accession to the
convention.  Critics of the treaty  say it would subject U.S. military
operations to a mandatory procedure for resolving disputes with
other signatories, such as  China ’s efforts to keep the U.S.
military out of its Exclusive Economic Zone. Actually, the
convention allows states to opt out of that process when it
comes to military matters.  The visceral rejection of the UN convention by American
opponents such as Republican Senator  James Inhofe  of  Oklahoma  is
rooted in the belief that the U.S., as the world’s only
superpower, should pursue its interests without the encumbrance
of multilateral institutions. Yet in this case, the U.S. cannot
effectively defend its interests by standing alone.  Submitting Claims  In the meantime, the other Arctic coastal states are
already preparing their claims for submission to the Commission
on the Limits of the Continental Shelf, which was created by the
treaty. Russia apparently plans to argue its underwater
footprint entitles it to exploit half the Arctic Ocean. The U.S.
can’t stake its share or even comment on the claims of others
unless it gains a seat at the table by joining the convention.  Signing on to the treaty would also position the U.S. to
help manage the challenges posed by the Arctic’s exploitation.
Even without new claims, existing territorial disputes between
Arctic neighbors could eventually flare into trouble with more
ships plying the waters, companies extracting resources and
militaries inevitably following and flexing their might.  The  Arctic Council  -- which joins the Arctic Ocean states
(the U.S.,  Canada , Russia,  Norway  and  Denmark , of which
Greenland is a part) with Finland, Iceland and  Sweden , and
includes representatives of the region’s indigenous people --
addresses safety and environmental issues. But it doesn’t deal
with security matters. On these issues, the U.S. has a vital
function, to use its power and diplomatic resources to resolve
conflicts quietly and, if possible, before they become hot.  Senate Approval  The legitimacy necessary to play that role can only be
obtained through membership in the sea treaty. One could argue
that winning Senate approval now, with a presidential campaign
season under way, is a lost cause, that hearings would only bait
opponents who would calculate that UN bashing would mobilize
their voters.  But there’s another way to look at this. The president
could use this opportunity to demonstrate his leadership, and
congressional Republicans could use it to demonstrate they can
be reasonable. Given the number of  Senate Democrats  plus the
Republicans who’ve voiced support for the treaty, it’s likely
the convention would win the two-thirds majority necessary for
approval. This is a good moment to remind Americans that it is
still possible for bipartisan cooperation to overcome small
minorities that are vocal, obstructive and wrong.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 