-- 
Obama Says Banks Use Regulations as ‘Excuse’ for Fees

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-10-06T18:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/obama-says-banks-using-regulations-as-excuse-to-charge-more.html
President  Barack Obama  said banks are
using new financial regulations as an “excuse” to impose fees
on consumers, while saying there isn’t anything the government
can do to stop them.  “People have been using financial regulation as an excuse
to charge consumers more,” Obama said at a White House news
conference. He used the issue to urge the Senate to confirm his
nominee to lead the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , saying
that providing the public with more transparency on prices and
practices will put competitive pressure on financial
institutions.  The anti-Wall Street protests that have spread from  New
York City  to  San Francisco  are evidence of public frustration
with the financial system.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, and rivals
including JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Wells Fargo & Co . and SunTrust
Banks Inc., are rolling out new charges for debit-card users as
Dodd-Frank Act rules imposed by the  Federal Reserve  take effect
this month.  The limits may reduce annual revenue at the biggest U.S.
banks by $8 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg Government show.
The fees have drawn criticism from Obama and some Democratic
lawmakers, who are fighting Republican attempts to scale back
Dodd-Frank.  ‘Hidden Fee’  “Basically, the argument they’ve made is, well you know
what, this hidden fee was prohibited so we’ll find another fee
to make up for it,” Obama said. “Now, they have that right,
but it’s not a good practice. It’s not necessarily fair to
consumers.”  Obama stepped back from an answer he gave Oct. 3 in an
interview with ABC News and Yahoo. When asked then whether he
could stop  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America’s $5
debit- card service charge, he said, “You can stop it because
it -- if you -- if you say to the banks, ‘You don’t have some
inherent right just to -- you know, get a certain amount of
profit.’”  Obama said today the government doesn’t have a right to
dictate how much profit a bank makes. Still, he said, the bank
charges demonstrate the need to install his nominee to lead the
financial watchdog agency.  “What the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau could do is
to make sure that consumers understood exactly what they were
getting, exactly what was happening,” the president said.  Senate Action  The nomination of Richard Cordray to oversee the bureau was
approved by the Senate Banking Committee today. The action sets
up a showdown with Republicans vowing to block any nominee for
the post until changes are made in the structure and funding of
the new agency, created by the Dodd-Frank Act.  Vice President  Joe Biden  said earlier today that financial
institutions are “tone-deaf” in adopting new fees.  “The American people know -- they don’t guess, they know -
- the reason the CEO of Bank of America” and leaders of other
financial institutions remain in business “is because they,
that guy making 50,000 bucks bailed him out,” Biden said,
referring to the government rescue of financial institutions in
the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in 2008.  ‘Tone Deaf’  “At a minimum, they are incredibly tone deaf,” Biden
said. “And at a maximum they are not, they are not, paying
their fair share of the bargain here. And middle-class people
are getting killed.”  The president said he has followed reports of the anti-Wall
Street demonstrations. The protests “are giving voice to a more
broad-based frustration about how our financial system works.”  He said the public is dissatisfied that “you’re still
seeing some of the same folks who acted irresponsibly trying to
fight efforts to crack down on abusive practices that got us
into this problem in the first place.”  Still, Obama defended the government rescue of U.S. banks,
saying that “had we seen a financial collapse then, the damage
to the American economy would have been even worse.” He said he
has used “a lot of political capital” to keep banks afloat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  