-- 
Obama to Run Against ‘Do-Nothing’ Congress If Jobs Legislation Fails

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-10-06T16:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/obama-attempts-campaign-course-correction-after-tough-summer-.html
Phil Schiliro, then the White House
congressional liaison, put his boss on notice last year. One
hurdle stood between him and the start of his re-election
campaign: lifting the debt ceiling.  While President  Barack Obama  couldn’t control the European
financial crisis or the Arab Spring, the fight over the nation’s
borrowing limit was forewarned. Yet the White House didn’t
engage immediately; got pulled into fruitless negotiations over
a broader budget deal; and finally had to make major concessions
at the brink of default.  The fight over raising the debt limit is one example of the
administration’s strategic missteps that have contributed to the
record-low approval ratings for Obama and sparked internal White
House dissension.  Administration officials who spoke on the condition of
anonymity said the consequences of the botched debt ceiling
negotiations were so devastating it hemmed them in at every
pass. They also emboldened Republicans bent on fulfilling Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell ’s pledge to make Obama “a one-
term president.”  The president has acknowledged his fallen standing, calling
himself the underdog in the 2012 presidential campaign in an
interview with ABC News Oct. 3. In a press conference today, he
said his adversaries could be at more risk.  ‘Do-Nothing’ Congress  “If Congress does nothing, then it’s not a matter of me
running against them. I think the American people will run them
out of town,” he said. “I would love nothing more than to see
Congress act so aggressively that I can’t campaign against them
as a do-nothing Congress.”  The more aggressive tone is the product of post-debt
ceiling meetings in which Obama assessed the damage, identified
mistakes, and adjusted his messaging and his team to put his
candidacy on a stronger course, according to Senator  Richard Durbin , an  Illinois  Democrat who is close to the White House.  “Their new approach is to speak out for what they believe
in and take it to the American people,” he said.  To that end, the president has embarked on a series of out-
of-town trips, pitching his $447 billion proposal to create jobs
directly to the American people even as Republicans in
Washington -- and some Democrats -- have said they won’t pass
it. He made one recent trip through Illinois, Iowa and
 Minnesota , and another foray scheduled for Oct. 17-19 will take
him to North Carolina and  Virginia , two more important electoral
states.  Swing State Interviews  Obama held a news conference about his jobs plan today, his
first since the summer. He has held two rounds of interviews
with regional reporters from swing states, including Florida,
 North Carolina  and  Ohio , and salted in national television
interviews in an effort to regain control of his own narrative.  “There is no question that we have turned the page on what
was a tough summer and are headed in the right direction,” said
 Dan Pfeiffer , the White House communications director. “Until
we have an actual opponent where we can have a debate about the
future, the president will be judged by the present.”  Obama also is trying to streamline the day-to-day
management inside the West Wing. With Chief of Staff Bill Daley
at the helm and senior adviser  David Plouffe  managing political
strategy and message, it was at times unclear who was in charge
of the process during the debt debate, said people aware of the
internal dynamics who requested anonymity because they aren’t
authorized to speak publicly on the issue.  Staff Changes  Since then, senior adviser  Pete Rouse  has been re-engaged
in handling more of the daily operations, said people familiar
with the internal adjustments who spoke on the basis of
anonymity because they aren’t authorized to discuss personnel
matters.  By an array of measurements, the public’s judgment of
current conditions is a harsh one, and the White House in some
cases has contributed to its own problems.  Almost 8 in 10 Americans say the country is on the wrong
track in the Bloomberg National Poll published Sept. 14, and
just 9 percent of people say they are confident that the nation
won’t slide back into recession.  The September Labor Department data due Oct. 7 will
probably show that gains in U.S. payrolls were too small to
reduce joblessness and the  unemployment rate  is expected to stay
at 9.1 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Wrong Direction  “We have one of the largest proportions of people saying
the country is going in the wrong direction and that’s usually a
signal that people throw incumbents out,” said Robert Blendon,
a professor of health policy and political analysis at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “A jobs program is not
a job. There is a great deal of cynicism.”  Confidence has eroded at the state level, too. In Ohio,
 Pennsylvania , and  Florida  recent polls found that a majority of
those surveyed said Obama didn’t deserve re-election.  “If we don’t beat him, who are we going to beat?” asked
 Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican. “I can’t
imagine this country continuing the Obama presidency four more
years given the evidence that his policies are failing the
country.”  Not Better Off  In his new messaging, the president doesn’t try to dissuade
the public of its economic plight. Americans aren’t “better off
than they were four years ago,” he said in the Oct. 3  interview 
with ABC News and Yahoo. “They’re not better off than they were
before Lehman collapsed, before the financial crisis, before
this extraordinary recession that we’re going through.”  That approach is raising questions about Obama’s
leadership. Absent his ability to deliver on a better economy,
the president needs to make people feel like things can and will
improve, as President Ronald Reagan did in his 1984 “Morning in
America” re-election ad, said political strategists.  “It’s hard to be a cheerleader,” said Peter Hart, a
Democratic polling expert and president of Peter D. Hart
Research Associates. “It’s certainly not morning in America,
and it is a question of what’s going to make us feel as though
things will be better, things will be more positive.”  Leadership Questions  Complaints about Obama’s stewardship are now coming from
the president’s base. “We’re supportive of the president, but
we’re getting tired,” said Representative Maxine Waters, a
California Democrat and a member of the Congressional Black
Caucus, one of the last liberal bastions to begin voicing
criticism. “We don’t know what the strategy is.”  The hardest hits to absorb may be those the White House
brought on itself.  For instance, administration officials announced the
president’s intention to unveil his jobs plan to a joint session
of Congress before getting a firm agreement from House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican. Boehner objected and the White
House, after initially dismissing the speaker’s concerns, was
forced to cede its position and Obama gave the address a day
later.  By sitting down for an interview with journalist Ron Suskind, Obama gave credibility to the author’s book depicting
the president as an ineffective leader unprepared to deal with
the economic crisis. It quoted former Obama economic adviser
Lawrence Summers as saying, “There’s no adult in charge.”  August Adjustments  According to Durbin, the August meetings “assessed what he
had been through in his efforts, his overtures to Boehner, to
Republicans, and how little he managed to bring home for it.”  Although the economic data is grim, Blendon said Obama
still has an opportunity to turn things around. “It’s not clear
that people are convinced yet that Republican candidates or the
 Republican Party ” would do better, he said.  Obama is going the route of President  Harry Truman , who
rallied voters against a “do-nothing Congress” in 1948.  “If Congress does something, then I can’t run against a
do-nothing Congress,” Obama said today. “There are too many
people hurting in this country for us to do nothing, and the
economy is just too fragile for us to let politics get in the
way of action.”  Harry Truman  Truman’s approval rating was at 36 percent in April of that
year and he began his second term in 1949 at 69 percent,
according to Gallup. Truman won re-election, though, with an
election-year  unemployment rate  that averaged 3.8 percent.  “With Harry Truman, for all of his faults and all of his
shortcomings, voters in 1948 knew exactly who he was and what he
was,” said Hart. “Given all the vagaries of that year, they
came back around to him.”  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
Ronald Reagan, who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984. The administration’s own forecast, matched by
private economists, is for a jobless rate of more than 8 percent
in the last quarter of next year.  To be sure, historical comparisons have limits because
Obama has little precedent on which to model his campaign,
according to H.W. Brands, a historian at the University of Texas
in Austin.  “He’s on foreign territory; no president has ever been in
this position before,” Brands said. “Obama has done as well as
anybody could under the circumstances, but that’s not saying a
whole lot because these are really different circumstances.”  One positive for the president is that he enjoys high
personal favorability ratings. Time may also work in his favor,
especially as the Republican presidential campaign heats up.  “There is such a mood shift that goes on in American
politics,” said presidential historian Robert Dallek. “It’s
like the atmosphere. You can’t touch it, taste it, smell it or
feel it, but it’s there. And it just shifts and these moods are
very mercurial.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  