-- 
Obama Seeks Strategy for Jobs Plan Vote to Give Economy ‘Jolt’

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-10-07T20:07:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/obama-says-employment-plan-can-protect-u-s-economy-from-another-downturn.html
President  Barack Obama  conferred
today with U.S. Senate Democratic leaders on strategy for
holding a vote on a $447 billion jobs plan that he said would
give the economy the “jolt” it needs to spark hiring.  With the recovery being dragged down by the European debt
crisis, Obama argued that the package of tax cuts and spending
is needed to “guard against another downturn.”  “Any senator out there who’s thinking about voting against
this jobs bill, when it comes up for a vote, needs to explain
exactly why they would oppose something that we know would
improve our economic situation at such an urgent time,” Obama
said at a White House news conference yesterday.  He also said he is “comfortable” with a proposal by
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  to impose a surtax of 5.6
percent on people earning at least $1 million to generate about
$450 billion to pay for his plan.  Obama’s proposal faces hurdles in the House, where
Republicans hold the majority and oppose the tax increases in
the plan, and in the Senate, where it will take 60 votes to end
efforts to obstruct it and Democrats have just 53 seats. Some of
those Democrats also are balking at the tax provisions intended
to offset the cost.  Reid scheduled a test vote on bringing up Obama’s plan in
the Senate for the evening of Oct. 11. The nonpartisan
Congressional Budget Office today said the millionaires’ tax
would raise $453 billion.  Sluggish Growth  Sluggish U.S. economic growth and an  unemployment rate 
stuck at about 9 percent will be top issues next year as Obama
faces re-election. Labor Department figures released today
showed payrolls rose by 103,000 last month, more than forecast.
That wasn’t enough to bring down the jobless rate, which held at
9.1 percent.  Participants in Obama’s meeting with Reid of  Nevada , Dick Durbin of  Illinois  and other Democratic leaders discussed how
they might advance the jobs measure if the Senate vote fails,
said a Senate Democratic leadership aide who wasn’t authorized
to speak publicly. Some staff members at the meeting were
directed to suggest how the bill might be broken into pieces if
a fallback plan is needed, said the aide.  “The president is very pleased that the Senate is going to
take it up,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said. The
administration is “absolutely confident that the overwhelming
majority of Democrats will vote for the American Jobs Act.”
Carney gave no details about the discussion.  Challenge to Republicans  In a news conference yesterday largely devoted to warnings
about weakness in the U.S. economy, Obama challenged
congressional Republicans to pass his jobs legislation.  “Congressional Republicans say one of the most important
things we can do is cut taxes,” he said. “Then they should
love this plan.”  Obama proposes to cut payroll taxes for workers and
employers by half, extend jobless benefits, provide aid to
states for schools and emergency workers and boost spending on
public works projects such as roads and bridges. He also would
provide tax breaks for employers to hire the unemployed.  To pay for it, Obama would cap itemized deductions for
individuals earning more than $200,000 a year and couples
earning more than $250,000. The plan would treat carried
interest as ordinary income to raise $18 billion, end oil and
gas subsidies for a savings of $40 billion and repeal
accelerated depreciation on corporate jets to save $3 billion.  Republicans say some of Obama’s measures, such as payroll
tax cuts, are worth considering, though they object to the
spending proposals and oppose raising taxes to pay for them.  Millionaires’ Tax  Obama said he wouldn’t oppose Reid’s plan to pay for the
package with a surtax on those making at least $1 million
annually. The idea has been rejected by Republican lawmakers.  “I’m fine with the approach that they’re taking,” the
president said of Senate Democrats. “We’ve always said that we
would be open to a variety of ways to pay for it.”  Senator Ben Nelson, a Nebraska Democrat, said he would vote
against considering the measure the way it’s being drafted by
Democratic leaders.  “The more we talk about raising taxes to deal with issues
here, the less action there will be on cutting spending,”
Nelson said. “I don’t see how I could support it.”  Weaker Than Expected  Obama said the  U.S. economy  is weaker than was expected at
the start of the year. That’s because of the impact from the
supply disruptions caused by the tsunami in  Japan , higher  oil
prices  stemming from uprisings in the  Middle East  and North
Africa, the “debacle” of the prolonged debate over raising the
debt ceiling and “most prominently” the situation in  Europe ,
he said.  “The biggest headwind the American economy is facing right
now is uncertainty about Europe,” Obama said. Concern about
contagion from a default by  Greece  has put pressure on European
banks, “and all that has put severe strain on the world
financial system.”  He said he hopes that European leaders have “a very clear,
concrete” plan for dealing with it when he meets with them at
the Group of 20 nations summit Nov. 3-4 in Cannes,  France .  Obama said he talks regularly with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy and that European
leaders recognize “the urgency of the situation.”  “I’m confident they want to get this done,” Obama said.  ‘An Excuse’  Obama also addressed his recent criticism of moves by some
financial institutions to impose new fees on consumers, saying
they are using regulations “as an excuse.”  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, and rivals including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , are
rolling out charges for debit-card users as Dodd-Frank Act rules
imposed by the  Federal Reserve  take effect this month.  “Basically, the argument they’ve made is, well you know
what, this hidden fee was prohibited so we’ll find another fee
to make up for it,” Obama said. “Now, they have that right,
but it’s not a good practice. It’s not necessarily fair to
consumers.”  He used the issue to urge the Senate to confirm his nominee
to lead the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , saying that
providing the public with more transparency on prices and
practices will put competitive pressure on financial
institutions.  The anti-Wall Street protests that have spread from  New
York City  to  San Francisco  are evidence of public frustration
with the financial system, he said.  The protests “are giving voice to a more broad-based
frustration about how our financial system works.”  Still, Obama defended the government rescue of U.S. banks,
saying that “had we seen a financial collapse then, the damage
to the American economy would have been even worse.” He said he
has used “a lot of political capital” to keep banks afloat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  