-- 
Mobius Targets Infrastructure as Nigeria Sells Stakes

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-10-06T12:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/mobius-targets-infrastructure-as-nigeria-sells-stakes-1-.html
Mark Mobius  is targeting  Nigeria ’s
roads, bridges and electricity generation as the government of
 Africa ’s most-populous nation brings in private investors to
help develop the country’s infrastructure.  Mobius, who oversees about $34 billion in emerging-market
assets as executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management
Ltd.’s Emerging Markets Group, has $180 million invested in
Nigeria and is looking opening an office in Lagos, he said in an
interview on CNBC Africa in Lagos today.  Nigeria’s government plans to sell 70 percent stakes in 11
power-distribution companies as part of a program to end its
monopoly over the country’s electricity industry, the Bureau of
Public Enterprises said on Sept. 20.  “They have power shortages here in the capital,” Mobius
said. “You see the demand is tremendous. It’s a sign of growth;
it’s a sign of demand and that means tremendous opportunity.”  Templeton Frontier Markets Fund has investments in Nigerian
banks including First Bank of Nigeria Plc and  Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mobius sees more
opportunity in the sector as it continues to consolidate, he
said today in the CNBC interview.  Banks Cheap  Central Bank  of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi in 2009
fired the chief executive officers of eight of the nation’s
lenders, pumped the equivalent of $4 billion into ailing
institutions and set up an entity to buy bad debts. Sanusi, 50,
has reduced the number of banks from as many as 89 in 2005 as he
started a clean-up of the industry.  Nigeria’s 10 largest banks trade at an average price-to-
book ratio of 0.95, down from 1.31 as of December 2010.  “The opportunity is bigger than most markets because of
valuations,” Mobius said.  Frontier markets including Nigeria were not as affected by
the debt crisis in the U.S. and  Europe  because of strong
domestic consumption, Mobius said.  South African companies expanding into the continent will
also be considered for further investment, Mobius said. These
include Johannesburg-based  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
mobile-phone operator, which earns 44 percent of its revenue
from West and Central Africa, including Nigeria.  “We were disappointed by South African companies that were
not willing to go north, but now they are changing,” Mobius
said. “We will be looking at companies like MTN.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  