-- 
Moderate Brazil Rate Cuts Fit 2012 CPI Goal, Tombini Says

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-10-06T21:04:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/moderate-brazil-rate-cuts-fit-2012-cpi-goal-tombini-says-1-.html
Brazil’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said “moderate” cuts in  interest rates  will
help shield the economy from the European debt crisis and won’t
prevent inflation from slowing to 4.5 percent next year.  “Looking ahead, given current conditions, moderate
adjustments in interest rates are consistent with inflation
converging to the center of its target in December 2012,”
Tombini said at an event in Brasilia.  Traders pared bets today that the central bank will
accelerate the pace of cuts after slashing the benchmark rate by
50 basis points to 12 percent on Aug. 31. The yield on the
contract maturing in January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo 
today, rose 14 basis points to 10.36 percent at 5:01 p.m. New
York time.  Tombini’s use of the word “moderate” points to a rate cut
of 50 basis points, rather than the 75 basis-point cut that some
traders are betting on, said  Andre Perfeito , an economist with
Gradual Investimentos in Sao Paulo.  Estado do S. Paulo reported Oct. 2 that President  Dilma Rousseff  wants the Selic rate to fall to 9 percent next year,
citing three government officials that it didn’t identify.  ‘Getting Worse’  “The bets on 75 basis points or even 100 basis points are
driven by two main reasons: the belief that the situation in
 Europe  is getting worse, and this talk about the monetary stance
that Dilma Rousseff wanted next year,” Perfeito said.  Consumer prices rose 7.33 percent in the year through mid-
September, exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s
target range for a fifth straight month. Tombini pledged to slow
inflation to 4.5 percent by the end of next year.  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said there is no case for speeding up the pace
of rate cuts without evidence that the Brazilian economy is
really being hit by the problems in Europe.  Brazil’s economy showed clear signs of slowing in August
and will grow 3.5 percent this year, Tombini said. Given slower
domestic growth and the impact of the global crisis, policy
makers decided to cut rates in August, he said.  Brazil hasn’t abandoned its policy of accumulating foreign
reserves, and the central bank will resume its dollar purchases
when market conditions permit, Tombini said. He added that the
central bank is ready to intervene in  currency markets  when
movements in the real are not consistent with the dollar’s
global trend.  Brazil has $349 billion in international reserves, up 21
percent from the start of the year.  The real appreciated 2.8 percent to 1.7811 per  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 