-- 
Oil-Sands CO2 to Match Conventional in Decade, Suncor CEO Says

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-10-06T01:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/oil-sands-co2-to-match-conventional-in-decade-suncor-ceo-says.html
Carbon-dioxide emissions per barrel
of oil produced from Alberta’s  oil sands  will probably fall to
levels of conventional drilling in as little as a decade,  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU) ’s Chief Executive Officer Rick George said.  “With these new technologies, I wouldn’t be at all
surprised if we can actually get to conventional kind of levels
in the next 10 to 15 years,” George said last night at an
industry event in Calgary. “It’s not tomorrow. But I wouldn’t
underestimate this industry’s resolve or ability to drive
change.”  Oil-sands crude results in emissions from production and
consumption in vehicles that are about 20 percent higher than
the average emissions of conventional oil production in the
U.S., according to the Natural Resources Defense Council. Total
emissions from the oil sands will likely increase eightfold from
1990 levels by 2020,  Canada ’s Pembina Institute says.  Canada holds the world’s third-largest crude reserves,
behind Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, according to the  Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers , which represents oil and gas
companies. Those deposits are spurring investments that will be
worth C$20 billion ($19.2 billion) annually, George said.  The industry is looking for ways to reduce the amount of
energy, including natural gas, that is consumed to process
bitumen and turn it into oil. Some companies are using chemicals
and solvents to help reduce carbon emissions.  Companies including  Total SA (FP)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  have
invested in projects to separate bitumen, a thick form of oil,
from sandy deposits in  Alberta . Output from oil-sands projects
is expected to more than double to 3.5 million barrels in 2025,
from 1.4 million last year, according to the industry
association.  Suncor rose C$2.07, or 8.1 percent, to C$27.50 on the
Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday. The stock has lost 28 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  