-- 
Oil-Tanker Demand Poised to Match Supply by Winter 2012, Owner Teekay Says

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-10-06T16:48:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/oil-tanker-demand-poised-to-match-supply-by-winter-2012-owner-teekay-says.html
Demand for  oil tankers  will match
supply by the Northern Hemisphere’s next winter, lifting charter
rates for the vessels, according to  Teekay Corp. (TK) , the largest
U.S.-listed owner of the ships.  “The tanker market is bottoming,” Chief Executive Officer
Peter Evensen said in an interview at a conference in  London 
today, adding that the smaller-sized oil tankers which dominate
Teekay’s fleet will recover before larger carriers. “We see a
recovery in the winter of 2012 going into 2013, when demand
catches up with supply.”  The global fleet of aframax tankers, which haul 600,000
barrels of crude, will expand 1.6 percent in 2013, compared with
7.5 percent growth for larger suezmaxes, he said. The combined
capacity of supertankers that can haul 2 million barrels of oil,
known in the industry as very large crude carriers, will rise by
6 percent, the CEO forecast.  A world excess of tankers might be curbed by further slowing
vessel speeds, Evensen said. Dropping to 12 knots from 14 knots
saved as much as 25 metric tons of  fuel oil  daily, he said. Each
ton costs as much as $700, according to Evensen.  Lack of Financing  Construction of new ships is being delayed because owners
are struggling to get finance to pay for them, he said. Teekay,
based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , is the largest operator in the six-
company Bloomberg Tanker Index, with a market value of $1.56
billion.  Charter rates for VLCCs loading West African crude for U.S.
Gulf Coast ports jumped the most since January 2010 today,
according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London. Costs measured in
industry-standard Worldscale terms advanced 23 percent to 62.32
points.  Delays in passing through the Turkish Straits are driving
up charter rates for smaller tankers that carry crude from  Black
Sea  ports to export markets, said Ben Goggin, a broker at SSY
Futures Ltd., a unit of the world’s second-largest shipbroker.
That is shrinking supply of larger supertankers and causing
freight rates to rise, he said.  The straits connect the Black Sea and the Aegean Sea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  